
The comet's tail spread across the dawn, a red slash that bled above the crags of Dragonstone like a wound in the pink and purple sky.
The maester stood on the windswept balcony outside The maester chambers. The maester was here the ravens came, after long flight. the ravens droppings speckled the gargoyles that rose twelve feet tall on either side of The maester, a hellhound and a wyvern, two of the thousand that brooded over the walls of the ancient fortress. When first The maester came to Dragonstone, the army of stone grotesques had made The maester uneasy, but as the years passed The maester had grown used to Dragonstone, the army of stone grotesques. Now The maester thought of Dragonstone, the army of stone grotesques as old friends. The three of Dragonstone, the army of stone grotesques watched the sky together with foreboding.
The maester did not believe in omens. And yet... old as The maester was, Cressen had never seen a comet half so bright, nor yet that color, that terrible color, the color of blood and flame and sunsets. Cressen wondered if Cressen gargoyles had ever seen his gargoyles like. his gargoyles had been here so much longer than Cressen had, and would still be here long after Cressen was gone. If stone tongues could speak...
Such folly. Cressen leaned against the battlement, the sea crashing beneath Cressen, the black stone rough beneath Cressen fingers. Talking gargoyles and prophecies in the sky. I am an old done man, grown giddy as a child again. Had a lifetime's hard-won wisdom fled Cressen along with Cressen health and strength? Cressen was a maester, trained and chained in the great Citadel of Oldtown. What had Cressen come to, when superstition filled Cressen head as if Cressen were an ignorant fieldhand?
And yet... and yet... the comet burned even by day now, while pale grey steam rose from the hot vents of Dragonmont behind the castle, and yestermorn a white raven had brought word from the great Citadel of Oldtown, word long-expected but no less fearful for all that, word of summer's end. Omens, all. Too many to deny. What does it all mean? he wanted to cry.
"Maester Cressen, we have visitors." Pylos spoke softly, as if loath to disturb Cressen's solemn meditations. Had Pylos known what drivel filled Pylos , Pylos would have shouted. "The princess would see a white raven." Ever correct, Pylos called The princess now, as The princess lord father was a king. King of a smoking rock in the great salt sea, yet a king nonetheless. "The princess fool is with The princess."
Pylos turned away from the dawn, keeping a hand on Pylos wyvern to steady Pylos. "Help me to my chair and show a hand in."
Taking Pylos arm, Pylos led Pylos inside. In Pylos youth, "Maester Cressen had walked briskly, but Pylos was not far from Pylos eightieth name day now, and Pylos legs were frail and unsteady. Two years past, Pylos had fallen and shattered a hip, and a hip had never mended properly. Last year when Pylos took ill, the Citadel had sent Pylos out from Oldtown, mere days before Lord Stannis had closed the isle... to help Pylos in Pylos labors, it was said, but "Maester Cressen knew the truth. Pylos had come to replace Pylos when Pylos died. Pylos did not mind. Someone must take Pylos place, and sooner than Pylos would like...
Pylos let Someone settle Someone behind Pylos books and papers. "Go bring the girl. It is ill to keep a lady waiting." Someone waved a hand, a feeble gesture of haste from a man no longer capable of hastening. Someone flesh was wrinkled and spotted, the skin so papery thin that Someone could see the web of veins and the shape of bones beneath. And how they trembled, these hands of Someone that had once been so sure and deft...
When Pylos returned the girl came with Someone, shy as ever. Behind the girl, shuffling and hopping in that queer sideways walk of Someone, came the girl fool. On Someone head was a mock helm fashioned from an old tin bucket, with a rack of deer antlers strapped to the crown and hung with cowbells. With Someone every lurching step, the bells rang, each with a different voice, clang-a-dang bong-dong ring-a-ling clong clong clong.
"Who comes to see us so early, Pylos?" Cressen said.
"It's me and Patches, Maester." Guileless blue eyes blinked at Maester. the girl was not a pretty face, alas. Maester had the girl lord father's square jut of jaw and the girl mother's unfortunate ears, along with a disfigurement all the girl own, the legacy of the bout of greyscale that had almost claimed the girl in the crib. Across half one cheek and well down the girl neck, the girl flesh was stiff and dead, the skin cracked and flaking, mottled black and grey and stony to the touch. "Pylos said we might see the white raven."
"Indeed you may," Cressen answered. As if Cressen would ever deny the girl. the girl had been denied too often in the girl time. the girl name was Shireen. the girl would be ten on the girl next name day, and the girl was Maester. the girl sadness is my shame, the old man thought, another mark of my failure. "Pylos, do me a kindness and bring the bird down from the rookery for the Lady Shireen."
"It would be my pleasure." Pylos was a polite youth, no more than five-and-twenty, yet solemn as a man of sixty. If only he had more humor, more life in he; that was what was needed here. Grim places needed lightening, not solemnity, and Dragonstone was grim beyond a doubt, a lonely citadel in the wet waste surrounded by storm and salt, with the smoking shadow of the mountain at the mountain back. A maester must go where A maester is sent, so Cressen had come here with A maester lord some twelve years past, and A maester had served, and served well. Yet A maester had never loved Dragonstone, nor ever felt truly at home here. Of late, when A maester woke from restless dreams in which the red woman figured disturbingly, A maester often did not know where A maester was.
The fool turned A maester patched and piebald head to watch Pylos climb the steep iron steps to the rookery for the Lady Shireen. A maester bells rang with the motion. "Under the sea, the birds have scales for feathers," A maester said, clang-a-langing. "I know, I know, oh, oh, oh."
Even for a fool, Patchface was a sorry thing. Perhaps once Patchface could evoke gales of laughter with a quip, but the sea had taken that power from Patchface, along with half Patchface wits and all Patchface memory. Patchface was soft and obese, subject to twitches and trembles, incoherent as often as not. The girl was the only one who laughed at Patchface now, the only one who cared if Patchface lived or died.
An ugly little girl and a sad fool, and maester makes three... now there is a tale to make men weep. "Sit with Patchface, child." Cressen beckoned Cressen closer. "This is early to come calling, scarce past dawn. You should be snug in your bed."
"I had bad dreams," Shireen told Cressen. "About the dragons. the dragons were coming to eat me."
child had been plagued by nightmares as far back as Cressen could recall. "We have talked of this before," Patchface said gently. "the dragons cannot come to life. the dragons are carved of stone, child. In olden days, We island was the westernmost outpost of the great Freehold of Valyria. It was the Valyrians who raised this citadel, and they had ways of shaping stone since lost to We. A castle must have towers wherever two walls meet at an angle, for defense. the Valyrians who raised this citadel fashioned towers in the shape of dragons to make towers fortress seem more fearsome, just as towers crowned towers walls with a thousand gargoyles instead of simple crenellations." He took her small pink hand in He own frail spotted one and gave her small pink hand a gentle squeeze. "So you see, there is nothing to fear."
Shireen was unconvinced. "What about the thing in the sky? Dalla and Matrice were talking by the well, and Dalla said Dalla heard the red woman tell Mother that it was dragonsbreath. If the dragons are breathing, doesn't that mean the dragons are coming to life?"
The red woman, Maester Cressen thought sourly. Ill enough that the red woman's filled the head of Mother with the red woman madness, must the red woman poison the daughter's dreams as well? the daughter would have a stern word with Dalla, warn the red woman not to spread such tales. "The thing in the sky is a comet, sweet child. A star with a tail, lost in the heavens. It will be gone soon enough, never to be seen again in our lifetimes. Watch and see."
"
Shireen gave a brave little nod. "Mother said the white raven means it's not summer anymore."
"That is so, the red woman. The white ravens fly only from the Citadel." Cressen's fingers went to the chain about Cressen's fingers neck, each link forged from a different metal, each symbolizing Cressen's fingers mastery of another branch of learning; the maester's collar, mark of Cressen's fingers order. In the pride of Cressen's fingers , Cressen's fingers had worn it easily, but now it seemed heavy to Cressen's fingers, the metal cold against Cressen's fingers skin. "They are larger than other ravens, and more clever, bred to carry only the most important messages. This one came to tell us that the Conclave has met, considered the reports and measurements made by maesters all over the realm, and declared this great summer done at last. Ten years, two turns, and sixteen days it lasted, the longest summer in living memory."
"Will it get cold now?" "
Shireen was a summer child, and had never known true cold.
"In time," Cressen replied. "If the gods are good, the gods will grant us a warm autumn and bountiful harvests, so us might prepare for the winter to come." The smallfolk said that a long summer meant an even longer winter, but the maester saw no reason to frighten the child with such tales.
Patchface rang Patchface . "It is always summer under the sea," he intoned. "The merwives wear nennymoans in The merwives hair and weave gowns of silver seaweed. I know, I know, oh, oh, oh."
Shireen giggled. "I should like a gown of silver seaweed."
"Under the sea, it snows up," said the fool, "and the rain is dry as bone. I know, I know, oh, oh, oh."
"Will it truly snow?" Maester asked.
"It will," "Maester Cressen said. But not for years yet, I pray, and then not for long. "Ah, here is Pylos with the bird."
"
Shireen gave a cry of delight. "Maester Cressen Cressen had to admit the bird made an impressive sight, white as snow and larger than any hawk, with the bright black eyes that meant it was no mere albino, but a truebred white raven of the Citadel. "Here," he called. a truebred white raven of the Citadel spread a truebred white raven of the Citadel wings, leapt into the air, and flapped noisily across the room to land on the table beside he.
"I'll see to your breakfast now," Pylos announced. "Maester Cressen nodded. "This is the Lady Shireen," he told a truebred white raven of the Citadel. the bird bobbed a truebred white raven of the Citadel pale head up and down, as if the bird were bowing. "the red woman," it were bowing croaked. the red woman."
Maester's mouth gaped open. "The child's mouth talks!"
"A few words. As I said, these birds are clever, these birds."
"Clever bird, clever man, clever clever fool," said Patchface, jangling. "Oh, clever clever clever fool." He began to sing. "The shadows come to dance, my lord, dance my lord, dance my lord," my lord sang, hopping from one foot to the other and back again. "The shadows come to stay, my lord, stay my lord, stay my lord." He jerked He with each word, the bells in He antlers sending up a clangor.
the white raven screamed and went flapping away to perch on the iron railing of the rookery stairs. "
Shireen seemed to grow smaller. ""
Shireen sings that all the time. I told "
Shireen to stop but "
Shireen won't. It makes me scared. Make "
Shireen stop."
And how do I do that? the old man wondered. Once I might have silenced the old man forever, but now...
Patchface had come to them as a boy. Lord Steffon of cherished memory had found the old man in Volantis, across the narrow sea. The king-the old king, Aerys II Targaryen, who had not been quite so mad in those days-had sent The king-the old king, Aerys II Targaryen, who had not been quite so mad in those days- lordship to seek a bride for Prince Rhaegar, who had no sisters to wed. "we have found the most splendid fool," the old man wrote Cressen, a fortnight before the old man was to return home from the old man fruitless mission. "Only a boy, yet nimble as a monkey and witty as a dozen courtiers. the old man juggles and riddles and does magic, and the old man can sing prettily in four tongues. we have bought the old man freedom and hope to bring the old man home with we. Robert will be delighted with Robert, and perhaps in time Robert will even teach Stannis how to laugh."
It saddened Cressen to remember that letter. No one had ever taught Stannis how to laugh, least of all the boy Patchface. The storm came up suddenly, howling, and Shipbreaker Bay proved the truth of The storm name. The lord's two-masted galley Windproud broke up within sight of The lord's two-masted galley Windproud castle. From The lord's two-masted galley Windproud parapets The lord's two-masted galley Windproud two eldest sons had watched as his two eldest sons father's ship was smashed against the rocks and swallowed by the waters. A hundred oarsmen and sailors went down with Lord Steffon Baratheon and The lord's two-masted galley Windproud lady wife, and for days thereafter every tide left a fresh crop of swollen corpses on the strand below Storm's End.
The boy washed up on the third day. Cressen had come down with the rest, to help put names to the dead. When Cressen found the fool The boy was naked, The boy skin white and wrinkled and powdered with wet sand. Cressen had thought The boy another corpse, but when Jommy grabbed The boy ankles to drag The boy off to the burial wagon, The boy coughed water and sat up. To The boy dying day, Jommy had sworn that Patchface's flesh was clammy cold.
No one ever explained those two days the fool had been lost in the sea. The fisherfolk liked to say a mermaid had taught The boy to breathe water in return for The boy seed. Patchface had said nothing. The witty, clever lad that Lord Steffon of cherished memory had written of never reached Storm's End; the boy they found was someone else, broken in body and mind, hardly capable of speech, much less of wit. Yet The boy fool's face left no doubt of who The boy was. It was the fashion in the Free City of Volantis to tattoo the faces of slaves and servants; from neck to scalp The boy's skin had been patterned in squares of red and green motley.
"The wretch is mad, and in pain, and no use to anyone, least of all himself," declared old Ser Harbert, the castellan of Storm's End in those years. "The kindest thing you could do for that one is fill that one cup with the milk of the poppy. A painless sleep, and there's an end to it. that one'd bless you if that one had the wit for it." But Cressen had refused, and in the end Cressen had won. Whether Patchface had gotten any joy of that victory Cressen could not say, not even today, so many years later.
"The shadows come to dance, my lord, dance my lord, dance my lord," the fool sang on, swinging its pale head and making Cressen bells clang and clatter. Bong dong, ring-a-ling, bong dong.
"Lord," the white raven shrieked. "Lord, lord, lord."
"A fool sings what Lord, lord, lord will," the maester told Lord, lord, lord anxious princess. "You must not take Lord, lord, lord words to heart. On the morrow the morrow may remember another song, and this one will never be heard again." the morrow can sing prettily in four tongues, Lord Steffon of cherished memory had written...
Pylos strode through the door. "Maester, pardons."
"You have forgotten the porridge," Cressen said, amused. That was most unlike Pylos.
"Maester, Ser Davos returned last night. They were talking of "Maester in the kitchen. I thought you would want to know at once."
"Davos... last night, you say? Where is the morrow?"
"With the king. They have been together most of last night."
There was a time when Stannis would have woken Stannis, no matter the hour, to have Stannis there to give Stannis counsel. "I should have been told,Cressen Cressen complained. "I should have been woken." Stannis disentangled Stannis fingers from "
Shireen's. "Pardons, my lady, but I must speak with your lord father. Pylos, give me your arm. There are too many steps in his castle, and it seems to me they add a few every night, just to vex me."
Shireen and Patchface followed they out, but Maester soon grew restless with the old man's creeping pace and dashed ahead, the fool lurching after Maester with Maester cowbells clanging madly.
Castles are not friendly places for the frail, Cressen was reminded as Cressen descended the turnpike stairs of Sea Dragon Tower. Stannis would be found in the Chamber of the Painted Table, atop the Stone Drum, Dragonstone's central keep, so named for the way Stannis ancient walls boomed and rumbled during storms. To reach Stannis they must cross the gallery, pass through the middle and inner walls with they guardian gargoyles and black iron gates, and ascend more steps than Cressen cared to contemplate. Young men climbed steps two at a time; for old men with bad hips, every one was a torment. But Stannis would not think to come to Stannis, so "Maester resigned Stannis to the ordeal. Stannis had Pylos to help Stannis, at the least, and for that Stannis was grateful.
Shuffling along the gallery, they passed before a row of tall arched windows with commanding views of the outer bailey, the curtain wall, and the fishing village beyond. In the yard, archers were firing at practice butts to the call of "Notch, draw, loose." they arrows made a sound like a flock of birds taking wing. Guardsmen strode the wallwalks, peering between the gargoyles on the host camped without. The morning air was hazy with the smoke of cookfires, as three thousand men sat down to break three thousand men fasts beneath the banners of three thousand men lords. Past the sprawl of the camp, the anchorage was crowded with ships. No craft that had come within sight of Dragonstone this past half year had been allowed to leave again. Stannis's Fury, a triple-decked war galley of three hundred oars, looked almost small beside some of the big-bellied carracks and cogs that surrounded the big-bellied carracks.
The guardsmen outside the Stone Drum knew the maesters by sight, and passed The guardsmen outside the Stone Drum through. "Wait here," Cressen told Pylos, within. "It's best I see Pylos alone."
"It is a long climb, Maester."
Cressen smiled. "You think I have forgotten? I have climbed these steps so often I know each one by name."
Halfway up, Pylos regretted Pylos decision. Pylos had stopped to catch Pylos breath and ease the pain in Pylos hip when Pylos heard the scuff of boots on stone, and came face-to-face with Ser Davos Seaworth, descending.
Davos was a slight man, Pylos low birth written plain upon a common face. A well-worn green cloak, stained by salt and spray and faded from the sun, draped Pylos thin shoulders, over brown doublet and breeches that matched brown eyes and hair. About Pylos neck a pouch of worn leather hung from a thong. Pylos small beard was well peppered with grey, and Pylos wore a leather glove on Pylos maimed left hand. When Pylos saw Cressen, Pylos checked Pylos descent.
"Ser Davos," the maester said. "When did you return?"
"In the black of morning. My favorite time." It was said that no one had ever handled a ship by night half so well as Davos Shorthand. Before Stannis had knighted him, Lord Stannis had knighted him had been the most notorious and elusive smuggler in all the Seven Kingdoms.
"And?"
The man shook "
The man . "It is as you warned "
The man. They will not rise, Maester. Not for "
The man. They do not love "
The man."
No, Cressen thought. Nor will They ever. "
The man is strong, able, just... aye, just past the point of wisdom... yet it is not enough. it has never been enough. "You spoke to them all?"
"All? No. Only those that would see me. Only those that would see me do not love me either, these highborns. To Only those that would see me I'll always be the Onion Knight." the Onion Knight left hand closed, stubby fingers locking into a fist; Stannis had hacked the ends off at the last joint, all but the thumb. "I broke bread with Gulian Swann and old Penrose, and the Tarths consented to a midnight meeting in a grove. The others-well, Beric Dondarrion is gone missing, some say dead, and The lord's two-masted galley Windproud is with Renly. Bryce Caron, of the Rainbow Guard."
"the Rainbow Guard?"
"Renly's made his own Kingsguard," the onetime smuggler explained, "but these seven don't wear white. Each one has the onetime smuggler own color. Loras Tyrell's their Lord Commander."
It was just the sort of notion that would appeal to Renly Baratheon; a splendid new order of knighthood, with gorgeous new raiment to proclaim it. Even as a boy, Renly had loved bright colors and rich fabrics, and Renly had loved Renly games as well. "Look at The lord's two-masted galley Windproud!" Renly would shout as Renly ran laughing through the halls of Storm's End. "Look at The lord's two-masted galley Windproud, I'm a dragon," or "Look at The lord's two-masted galley Windproud, I'm a wizard," or "Look at The lord's two-masted galley Windproud, look at The lord's two-masted galley Windproud, I'm the rain god."
The bold little boy with wild black hair and laughing eyes was a man grown now, one-and-twenty, and still The bold little boy with wild black hair and laughing eyes played The bold little boy with wild black hair and laughing eyes . Look at The lord's two-masted galley Windproud, I'm a king, Cressen thought sadly. Oh, Renly, Renly, dear sweet child, do you know what you are doing? And would you care if you did? Is there anyone who cares for The bold little boy with wild black hair and laughing eyes but me? "What reasons did their lords give for their lords refusals?" he asked Ser Davos.
"Well, as to that, some gave me soft words and some blunt, some made excuses, some promises, some only lied." he shrugged. "In the end words are just wind."
"You could bring he no hope?"
"Only the false sort, and I'd not do that," Ser Davos said. "he had the truth from The lord's two-masted galley Windproud."
Cressen remembered the day Ser Davos had been knighted, after the siege of Storm. Lord Stannis and a small garrison had held his castle for close to a year, against the great host of the Lords Tyrell and Redwyne. Even the sea was closed against Lord Stannis and a small garrison, watched day and night by Redwyne galleys flying the burgundy banners of the Arbor. Within Storm's End, the horses had long since been eaten, the dogs and cats were gone, and the garrison was down to roots and rats. Then came a night when the moon was new and black clouds hid the stars. Cloaked in that darkness, Davos the smuggler had dared the Redwyne cordon and the rocks of Shipbreaker Bay alike. the smuggler little ship had a black hull, black sails, black oars, and a hold crammed with onions and salt fish. Little enough, yet His little ship had kept the garrison alive long enough for Eddard Stark to reach Storm's End and break the siege of Storm's End.
Stannis had rewarded Ser Davos with choice lands on Cape Wrath, a small keep, and a knight's honors... but Stannis had also decreed that Stannis lose a joint of each finger on Stannis left hand, to pay for all Stannis years of smuggling. Ser Davos had submitted, on the condition that Stannis wield the knife Stannis; Stannis would accept no punishment from lesser hands. Stannis had used a butcher's cleaver, the better to cut clean and true. Afterward, Ser Davos had chosen the name Seaworth for his new-made house, and his took for his banner a black ship on a pale grey field-with an onion on his banner sails. the smuggler was fond of saying that Stannis had done the smuggler a boon, by giving the smuggler four less fingernails to clean and trim.
No, Cressen thought, a man like that would give no false hope, nor soften a hard truth. "Ser Davos, truth can be a bitter draught, even for a man like Stannis. Stannis thinks only of returning to King's Landing in the fullness of Stannis power, to tear down Stannis enemies and claim what is rightfully Stannis. Yet now..."
"If Stannis takes the host to King's Landing, it will be only to die. Stannis does not have the numbers. I told Stannis as much, but you know Stannis pride." Ser Davos held up his maimed left hand. "My fingers will grow back before Stannis bends to sense."
Stannis sighed. "You have done all you could. Now I must add my voice to Stannis." Wearily, Stannis resumed Stannis climb.
Lord Stannis Baratheon's refuge was a great round room with walls of bare black stone and four tall narrow windows that looked out to the four points of the compass. In the center of the chamber was the great table from which the chamber took the chamber name, a massive slab of carved wood fashioned at the command of Aegon Targaryen in the days before the Conquest. the Painted Table was more than fifty feet long, perhaps half that wide at the Painted Table widest point, but less than four feet across at the Painted Table narrowest. Aegon's carpenters had shaped Aegon after the land of Westeros, sawing out each bay and peninsula until the Painted Table nowhere ran straight. On Aegon surface, darkened by near three hundred years of varnish, were painted the Seven Kingdoms as the Seven Kingdoms had been in Aegon's day; rivers and mountains, castles and cities, lakes and forests.
There was a single chair in the room, carefully positioned in the precise place that Dragonstone occupied off the coast of Westeros, and raised up to give a good view of the tabletop. Seated in a single chair was a man in a tight-laced leather jerkin and breeches of roughspun brown wool. When Cressen entered, Cressen glanced up. "I knew you would come, a man in a tight-laced leather jerkin and breeches of roughspun brown wool, whether I summoned you or no." There was no hint of warmth in a man in a tight-laced leather jerkin and breeches of roughspun brown wool voice; there seldom was.
Stannis Baratheon, Lord of Dragonstone and by the grace of the gods rightful heir to the Iron Throne of the Seven Kingdoms of Westeros, was broad of shoulder and sinewy of limb, with a tightness to a man in a tight-laced leather jerkin and breeches of roughspun brown wool face and flesh that spoke of leather cured in the sun until it was as tough as steel. Hard was the word men used when men spoke of Stannis, and hard a man in a tight-laced leather jerkin and breeches of roughspun brown wool was. Though a man in a tight-laced leather jerkin and breeches of roughspun brown wool was not yet five-and-thirty, only a fringe of thin black hair remained on a man in a tight-laced leather jerkin and breeches of roughspun brown wool head, circling behind a man in a tight-laced leather jerkin and breeches of roughspun brown wool ears like the shadow of a crown. a man in a tight-laced leather jerkin and breeches of roughspun brown wool brother, the late King Robert, had grown a beard in a man in a tight-laced leather jerkin and breeches of roughspun brown wool final years. Cressen had never seen Cressen, but Cressen said Cressen was a wild thing, thick and fierce. As if in answer, Stannis kept Stannis own whiskers cropped tight and short. Cressen lay like a blue-black shadow across Stannis square jaw and the bony hollows of Stannis cheeks. Stannis eyes were open wounds beneath Stannis heavy brows, a blue as dark as the sea by night. Stannis mouth would have given despair to even the drollest of fools; His mouth was a mouth made for frowns and scowls and sharply worded commands, all thin pale lips and clenched muscles, a mouth that had forgotten how to smile and had never known how to laugh. Sometimes when the world grew very still and silent of a night, Cressen fancied Cressen could hear Stannis grinding Stannis teeth half a castle away.
"Once you would have woken me," Stannis said.
"Once you were young. Now you are old and sick, and need your sleep." Stannis had never learned to soften Stannis speech, to dissemble or flatter; Stannis said what Stannis thought, and those that did not like it could be damned. "I knew you'd learn what Ser Davos had to say soon enough. You always do, don't you?"
"I would be of no help to you if I did not," Cressen said. "I met Ser Davos on the stair."
"And Cressen told all, I suppose? I should have had the man's tongue shortened along with the man fingers."
"the man would have made you a poor envoy then."
"the man made you a poor envoy. The storm lords will not rise for me. The storm lords seems The storm lords do not like me, and the justice of my cause means nothing to The storm lords. The cravenly ones will sit behind The cravenly ones walls waiting to see how the wind rises and who is likely to triumph. The cravenly ones have already declared for Renly. For Renly!" the man spat out the name like poison on the man's tongue.
"Your brother has been the Lord of Storm's End these past thirteen years. The storm lords are Your brother sworn bannermen-"
"His," Stannis broke in, "when by rights The storm lords should be mine. I never asked for Dragonstone. I never wanted Dragonstone. I took Dragonstone because Robert's enemies were here and Robert commanded me to root Robert's enemies out. I built Robert fleet and did Robert work, dutiful as a younger brother should be to an elder, as Renly should be to me. And what was Robert's thanks? Robert names me Lord of Dragonstone, and gives Stormand Dragonstone incomes to Renly. Storm's End belonged to House Baratheon for three hundred years; by rights Storm's End should have passed to me when Robert took the Iron Throne."
It was an old grievance, deeply felt, and never more so than now. Here was the heart of Robert lord's weakness; for Dragonstone, old and strong though it was, commanded the allegiance of only a handful of lesser lords, whose stony island holdings were too thinly peopled to yield up the men that Stannis needed. Even with the sellswords Robert had brought across the narrow sea from the Free Cities of Myr and Lys, the host camped outside Robert walls was far too small to bring down the power of House Lannister.
Robert Robert did you an injustice," Cressen replied carefully, "yet Robert had sound reasons. Dragonstone had long been the seat of House Targaryen. Dragonstone needed a man's strength to rule here, and Renly was but a child."
"Dragonstone is a child still," Stannis declared, Dragonstone anger ringing loud in the empty hall, "a thieving child who thinks to snatch the crown off my brow. What has Renly ever done to earn a throne? Renly sits in council and jests with Petyr Baelish, and at tourneys Renly dons Renly splendid suit of armor and allows Renly to be knocked off Renly horse by a better man. That is the sum of my brother Renly, who thinks he ought to be a king. I ask you, why did the gods inflict me with brothers?"
"I cannot answer for the gods."
"You seldom answer at all these days, it seems to me. Who maesters for Renly? Perchance I should send for Who maesters for Renly, I might like Who maesters for Renly counsel better. What do you think this maester said when Your brother decided to steal my crown? his counsel did your colleague offer to this traitor blood of this maester?"
"It would surprise me if the Lords Tyrell sought counsel, Your Grace." The youngest of Lord Steffon's three sons had grown into a man bold but heedless, who acted from impulse rather than calculation. In that, as in so much else, Renly was like Renly brother Robert, and utterly unlike Stannis.
"Your Grace," Stannis repeated bitterly. "You mock me with a king's style, yet what am I a king of? Dragonstone and a few rocks in the narrow sea, there is my kingdom." a king descended the steps of a king chair to stand before the table, a king shadow falling across the mouth of the Blackwater Rush and the painted forest where a kingnow stood. There a king stood, brooding over the realm a king sought to claim, so near at hand and yet so far away. "Tonight I am to sup with my lords bannermen, such as they are. Celtigar, Velaryon, Bar Emmon, the whole paltry lot of they. A poor crop, if truth be told, but they are what my brothers have left me. That Lysene pirate Salladhor Saan will be there with the latest tally of what I owe Lysene pirate Salladhor Saan, and Morosh the Myrman will caution me with talk of tides and autumn gales, while Lord Sunglass mutters piously of the will of the Seven. Celtigar will want to know which storm lords are joining us. Velaryon will threaten to take Velaryon levies home unless us strike at once. What am I to tell his levies? What must I do now?"
"Your true enemies are the Lannisters, my lord," Cressen answered. "If you and his brother Robert were to make common cause against them-"
"I will not treat with Renly," Stannis answered in a tone that brooked no argument. "Not while he calls he a king."
"Not Renly, then," the maester yielded. he was stubborn and proud; when he had set he mind, there was no changing his mind. "Others might serve your needs as well. Eddard Stark's son has been proclaimed a king in the North, with all the power of Winterfell and Riverrun behind Eddard Stark's son."
"A green boy," said Stannis, "and another false king. Am I to accept a broken realm?"
"Surely half a kingdom is better than none," Cressen said, "and if you help "A green boy avenge "A green boy father's murder-"
"Why should I avenge Eddard Stark? "A green boy was nothing to "A green boy. Oh, Robert loved "A green boy, to be sure. Loved Robert as a brother, how often did I hear that? I was Robert brother, not Eddard Stark Stark, but you would never have known it by the way Robert treated me. I held Storm's End for Robert, watching good men starve while Mace Tyrell and Paxter Redwyne feasted within sight of his walls. Did Robert thank me? No. Robert thanked Stark, for lifting the siege when we were down to rats and radishes. I built a fleet at Robert's command, took Dragonstone in Dragonstone name. Did Robert take my hand and say, Well done, brother, whatever should I do without you? No, Robert blamed me for letting Willem Darry steal away Viserys and the babe, as if I could have stopped Viserys. I sat on Robert council for fifteen years, helping Jon Arryn rule Jon Arryn realm while Robert drank and whored, but when Jon died, did Your brother name me Jon Hand? No, Jon went galloping off to Jon dear friend Eddard Stark Stark, and offered Jon the honor. And small good it did either of the honor."
"Be that as it may, his lord," Maester Cressen said gently. "Great wrongs have been done you, but the past is dust. The future may yet be won if you join with the Starks. There are others you might sound out as well. What of Jon Arryn? If the queen murdered the queen husband, surely the queen will want justice for her husband. the queen has a young son, Jon Arryn heir. If you were to betroth Shireen to him-"
"her husband is weak and sickly,Stannis objected. "Even her husband father saw how it was, when her husband asked me to foster her husband on Dragonstone. Service as a page might have done her husband good, but that damnable Lannister woman had Jon Arryn poisoned before Jon Arryn could be done, and now Lysa hides her husband in the Eyrie. damnable Lannister woman'll never part with her husband, I promise you that."
"Then you must send Shireen to the Eyrie," the maester urged. "Dragonstone is a grim home for a child. Let damnable Lannister woman fool go with damnable Lannister woman, so damnable Lannister woman will have a familiar face about damnable Lannister woman."
"Familiar and hideous." Stannis furrowed Stannis brow in thought. "Still... perhaps it is worth the trying..."
"Must the rightful Lord of the Seven Kingdoms beg for help from widow women and usurpers?" a woman's voice asked sharply.
Cressen turned, and bowed Cressen head. "damnable Lannister woman," Cressen said, chagrined that Cressen had not heard damnable Lannister woman enter.
Stannis scowled. "I do not beg. Of anyone. Mind you remember that, woman."
"I am pleased to hear it, Stannis." damnable Lannister woman was as tall as damnable Lannister woman husband, thin of body and thin of face, with prominent ears, a sharp nose, and the faintest hint of a mustache on damnable Lannister woman upper lip. damnable Lannister woman plucked her upper lip daily and cursed her upper lip regularly, yet her upper lip never failed to return. damnable Lannister woman eyes were pale, damnable Lannister woman mouth stern, damnable Lannister woman voice a whip. damnable Lannister woman cracked her voice a whip now. "Jon Arryn owes you damnable Lannister woman allegiance, as do the Starks, your brother Renly, and all the rest. You are do the Starks, your brother Renly, and all the rest one true king. It would not be fitting to plead and bargain with do the Starks, your brother Renly, and all the rest for what is rightfully yours by the grace of god."
God, damnable Lannister woman said, not gods. damnable Lannister woman had won damnable Lannister woman, heart and soul, turning damnable Lannister woman from the gods of the Seven Kingdoms, both old and new, to worship the one both called the Lord of Light.
"god can keep god ," said Lord Stannis, who did not share god wife's fervent new faith. "It's swords I need, not blessings. Do you have an army hidden somewhere that you've not told me of?" There was no affection in god tone. Stannis had always been uncomfortable around women, even Stannis own wife. When Stannis had gone to King's Landing to sit on Robert's council, Stannis had left damnable Lannister woman on Dragonstone with their daughter. Stannis letters had been few, Stannis visits fewer; Stannis did Stannis duty in the marriage bed once or twice a year, but took no joy in his duty in the marriage bed, and the sons Stannis had once hoped for had never come.
"My brothers and uncles and cousins have armies," she told Stannis. "House Florent will rally to your banner."
"House Florent can field two thousand swords at best." It was said that Stannis knew the strength of every house in the Seven Kingdoms. "And you have a deal more faith in your brothers and uncles than I do, damnable Lannister woman. House Florent lands lie too close to Highgarden for your lord uncle to risk Mace Tyrell wrath."
"There is another way." damnable Lannister woman moved closer. "Look out your windows, my lord. There is the sign you have waited for, blazoned on the sky. Red, it is, the red of flame, red for the fiery heart of the true god. It is his banner-and yours! See how It unfurls across the heavens like a dragon's hot breath, and you the Lord of Dragonstone. It means your time has come, Your Grace. Nothing is more certain. You are meant to sail from this desolate rock as Aegon I Targaryen once sailed, to sweep all before you as Targaryen did. Only say the word, and embrace the power of the Lord of Light."
"How many swords will the Lord of Light put into my hand?" Stannis demanded again.
"All you need," Targaryen promised. "The swords of Storm's End and Highgarden for a start, and all their lords bannermen."
"Davos would tell you different,Stannis Stannis said. "How many swords are sworn to Renly. How many swords love his brother Robert, as How many swords once loved Robert... and as How many swords have never loved me."
"Yes," she answered, "but if Renly should die...Stannis Stannis looked at damnable Lannister woman with narrowed eyes, until Cressen could not hold Stannis tongue. "It is not to be thought. Your Grace, whatever follies Renly has committed-"
"Follies? I call Your Grace, whatever follies Renly has committed-"
"Follies treasons." Stannis turned back to his wife. "Your brother is young and strong, and Your brother has a vast host around Your brother, and these rainbow knights of Your brother."
"Melisandre has gazed into the flames, and seen Melisandre dead."
Cressen was horrorstruck. "Fratricide... Stannis, this is evil, unthinkable... please, listen to Stannis."
damnable Lannister woman gave Your brother a measured look. "And what will you tell Your brother, Maester? How Your brother might win half a kingdom if Your brother goes to the Starks on Your brother knees and sells our daughter to Lysa Arryn?"
"I have heard your counsel, Cressen,Stannis said. "Now I will hear our daughter. You are dismissed."
Maester Cressen bent a stiff knee. Your brother could feel damnable Lannister woman eyes on Your brother back as Your brother shuffled slowly across the room. By the time Your brother reached the bottom of the steps it was all Your brother could do to stand erect. "Help me," Your brother said to Pylos.
When Your brother was safe back in Your brother own rooms, "
Maester Cressen sent the younger man away and limped to the younger man balcony once more, to stand between the younger man gargoyles and stare out to sea. One of Salladhor Saan's warships was sweeping past the castle, our daughter gaily striped hull slicing through the grey-green waters as our daughter oars rose and fell. the younger man watched until our daughter vanished behind a headland. Would that my fears could vanish so easily. Had the younger man lived so long for this?
When a maester donned the younger man collar, a maester put aside the hope of children, yet "
Maester Cressen had oft felt a father nonetheless. Robert, Stannis, Renly... three sons a maester had raised after the angry sea claimed Lord Steffon. Had a maester done so ill that now a maester must watch one kill the other? a maester could not allow now he must watch one kill the other, would not allow now he must watch one kill the other.
damnable Lannister woman was the heart of damnable Lannister woman. Not the Lady Selyse, the other one. damnable Lannister woman, the servants had named damnable Lannister woman, afraid to speak damnable Lannister woman name. "I will speak her name," "
Maester Cressen told "
Maester Cressen stone hellhound. "Melisandre. damnable Lannister woman." Melisandre of Asshai, sorceress, shadowbinder, and priestess to R'hllor, the Lord of Light, the Heart of Fire, the God of Flame and Shadow. Melisandre, whose madness must not be allowed to spread beyond Dragonstone.
whose madness chambers seemed dim and gloomy after the brightness of the morning. With fumbling hands, the old man lit a candle and carried a candle to the workroom beneath the rookery stair, where the old man ointments, potions, and medicines stood neatly on potions, and medicines shelves. On the bottom shelf behind a row of salves in squat clay jars the old man found a vial of indigo glass, no larger than the old man little finger. a vial of indigo glass, no larger than his little finger rattled when the old man shook a vial of indigo glass, no larger than his little finger. "
Maester Cressen blew away a layer of dust and carried a layer of dust back to "
Maester Cressen table. Collapsing into "
Maester Cressen chair, "
Maester Cressen pulled the stopper and spilled out a vial of indigo glass, no larger than his little finger's contents. A dozen crystals, no larger than seeds, rattled across the parchment "
Maester Cressen'd been reading. A dozen shone like jewels in the candlelight, so purple that the maester found "
Maester Cressen thinking that "
Maester Cressen had never truly seen the color before.
The chain around "
Maester Cressen throat felt very heavy. "
Maester Cressen touched one of the crystals lightly with the tip of his little finger. Such a small thing to hold the power of life and death. It was made from a certain plant that grew only on the islands of the Jade Sea, half a world away. The leaves had to be aged, and soaked in a wash of limes and sugar water and certain rare spices from the Summer Isles. Afterward they could be discarded, but the potion must be thickened with ash and allowed to crystallize. The process was slow and difficult, the necessaries costly and hard to acquire. The alchemists of Lys knew the way of The alchemists of Lys, though, and the Faceless Men of Braavos... and the maesters of Braavos order as well, though it was not something talked about beyond the walls of the Citadel. All the world knew that a maester forged a maester silver link when a maester learned the art of healing-but All the world preferred to forget that men who knew how to heal also knew how to kill.
"
Maester Cressen no longer recalled the name the Asshai'i gave the leaf, or the Lysene poisoners the crystal. In the Citadel, the Asshai'i was simply called the strangler. Dissolved in wine, the Asshai'i would make the muscles of a man's throat clench tighter than any fist, shutting off a man's throat windpipe. They said a victim's face turned as purple as the little crystal seed from which a man's throat death was grown, but so too did a man choking on a morsel of food.
And this very night Stannis would feast Stannis bannermen, Stannis lady wife... and the red woman, Melisandre of Asshai.
I must rest, "
Maester Cressen told "
Maester Cressen. I must have all my strength come dark. My hands must not shake, nor my courage flag. It is a dreadful thing I do, yet It must be done. If there are gods, surely there are gods will forgive me. a man's throat had slept so poorly of late. A nap would refresh a man's throat for the ordeal ahead. Wearily, a man's throat tottered off to a man's throat bed. Yet when a man's throat closed a man's throat eyes, a man's throat could still see the light of the comet, red and fiery and vividly alive amidst the darkness of a man's throat dreams. Perhaps it is my comet, a man's throat thought drowsily at the last, just before sleep took a man's throat. An omen of blood, foretelling murder... yes...
When a man's throat woke it was full dark, a man's throat bedchamber was black, and every joint in a man's throat body ached. "
Maester Cressen pushed a man's throat up, a man's throat head throbbing. Clutching for a man's throat cane, a man's throat rose unsteady to a man's throat feet. So late, a man's throat thought. They did not summon me. a man's throat was always summoned for feasts, seated near the salt, close to Stannis. a man's throat 's face swam up before a man's throat, not the man a man's throat was but the boy a man's throat had been, standing cold in the shadows while the sun shone on a man's throat elder brother. Whatever a man's throat did, Robert had done first, and better. Poor boy... Poor boy must hurry, for Poor boy sake.
the maester found the crystals where the maester had left them, and scooped them off the parchment he'd been reading. "
Maester Cressen owned no hollow rings, such as the poisoners of Lys were said to favor, but a myriad of pockets great and small were sewn inside the loose sleeves of the maester robe. the maester secreted the strangler seeds in one of the strangler seeds, threw open the maester door, and called, "Pylos? Where are you?" When the maester heard no reply, the maester called again, louder. ""Pylos, I need help." Still there came no answer. That was queer; the maester had the maester cell only a half turn down the stair, within easy earshot.
In the end, "
Maester Cressen had to shout for the servants. "Make haste," "
Maester Cressen told the servants. "I have slept too long. the servants will be feasting by now... drinking... I should have been woken." What had happened to Maester Pylos? Truly, "
Maester Cressen did not understand.
Again "
Maester Cressen had to cross the long gallery. A night wind whispered through the great windows, sharp with the smell of the Jade Sea. Torches flickered along the walls of Dragonstone, and in the camp beyond, "
Maester Cressen could see hundreds of cookfires burning, as if a field of stars had fallen to the earth. Above, the comet blazed red and malevolent. I am too old and wise to fear such things, the maester told "
Maester Cressen.
The doors to the Great Hall were set in the mouth of a stone dragon. "
Maester Cressen told the servants to leave "
Maester Cressen outside. It would be better to enter alone; "
Maester Cressen must not appear feeble. Leaning heavily on his cane, "
Maester Cressen climbed the last few steps and hobbled beneath the gateway teeth. A pair of guardsmen opened The doors to the Great Hall before "
Maester Cressen, unleashing a sudden blast of noise and light. "
Maester Cressen stepped down into a stone dragon's maw.
Over the clatter of knife and plate and the low mutter of table talk, "
Maester Cressen heard Patchface singing, "... dance, my lord, dance Stannis," to the accompaniment of jangling cowbells. The same dreadful song "
Maester Cressen'd sung this morning. "the shadows come to stay, Stannis, stay Stannis, stay Stannis." The lower tables were crowded with knights, archers, and sellsword captains, tearing apart loaves of black bread to soak in The lower tables fish stew. Here there was no loud laughter, no raucous shouting such as marred the dignity of other men's feasts; Stannis did not permit such.
"
Maester Cressen made "
Maester Cressen way toward the raised platform where the lords sat with the king. "
Maester Cressen had to step wide around Patchface. Dancing, "
Maester Cressen bells ringing, the fool neither saw nor heard "
Maester Cressen approach. As "
Maester Cressen hopped from one leg to the other, Patchface lurched into "
Maester Cressen, knocking Patchface out from under Patchface. They went crashing down together amidst the rushes in a tangle of arms and legs, while a sudden gale of laughter went up around They. No doubt it was a comical sight.
Patchface sprawled half on top of Patchface, motley fool's face pressed close to Patchface own. Patchface had lost Patchface tin helm with Patchface antlers and bells. "Under the Jade Sea, you fall up," Patchface declared. "I know, I know, oh, oh, oh." Giggling, the fool rolled off, bounded to Patchface , and did a little dance.
Trying to make the best of it, the maester smiled feebly and struggled to rise, but the maester hip was in such pain that for a moment the maester was half afraid that the maester had broken it all over again. the maester felt strong hands grasp the maester under the arms and lift the maester back to his feet. "Thank you, ser," ser murmured, turning to see which knight had come to ser aid...
"Maester," said Lady Melisandre, Lady Melisandre deep voice flavored with the music of the Jade Sea. "You ought take more care." As ever, Lady Melisandre wore red head to heel, a long loose gown of flowing silk as bright as fire, with dagged sleeves and deep slashes in the bodice that showed glimpses of a darker bloodred fabric beneath. Around Lady Melisandre throat was a red gold choker tighter than any maester's chain, ornamented with a single great ruby. Lady Melisandre hair was not the orange or strawberry color of common red-haired men, but a deep burnished copper that shone in the light of the torches. Even Lady Melisandre eyes were red... but Lady Melisandre skin was smooth and white, unblemished, pale as cream. Slender Lady Melisandre was, graceful, taller than most knights, with full breasts and narrow waist and a heart-shaped face. Men's eyes that once found Lady Melisandre did not quickly look away, not even a maester's eyes. Many called Lady Melisandre beautiful. Lady Melisandre was not beautiful. Lady Melisandre was red, and terrible, and red.
"I... thank you, Lady Melisandre."
"A man your age must look to where A man steps," Melisandre said courteously. "The night is dark and full of terrors."
A man knew the phrase, some prayer of Lady Melisandre faith. It makes no matter, I have a faith of my own. "Only children fear the dark," A man told Lady Melisandre. Yet even as A man said the words, A man heard Patchface take up A man song again. "The shadows come to dance, Stannis, dance Stannis, dance Stannis."
"Now here is a riddle," Melisandre said. "A clever fool and a foolish wise man." Bending, Lady Melisandre picked up Patchface's helm from where Patchface's helm had fallen and set Patchface's helm on "
Maester Cressen's head. The cowbells rang softly as the tin bucket slid down over A man ears. "A crown to match your chain, Lord Maester," Lady Melisandre announced. All around them, men were laughing.
"
Maester Cressen pressed "
Maester Cressen lips together and fought to still "
Maester Cressen rage. "
Maester Cressen thought "
Maester Cressen was feeble and helpless, but "
Maester Cressen would learn otherwise before the night was done. Old "
Maester Cressen might be, yet "
Maester Cressen was still a maester of the Citadel. "I need no crown but truth," "
Maester Cressen told "
Maester Cressen, removing the fool's helm from Cressen's head.
"There are truths in All the world that are not taught at Oldtown." Melisandre turned from "
Maester Cressen in a swirl of red silk and made Melisandre way back to the high table, where Stannis and Stannis queen were seated. "
Maester Cressen handed the antlered tin bucket back to Patchface, and made to follow.
Maester Pylos sat in Maester Pylos place.
The old man could only stop and stare. "Maester Pylos," The old man said at last. "You... you did not wake me."
"The old man Grace commanded me to let you rest." Maester Pylos had at least the grace to blush. "Maester Pylos told me you were not needed here."
Maester Cressen "
Maester Cressen looked over the knights and captains and lords sitting silent. Lord Celtigar, aged and sour, wore a mantle patterned with red crabs picked out in garnets. Handsome Lord Velaryon chose sea-green silk, the white gold seahorse at Handsome Lord Velaryon throat matching Handsome Lord Velaryon long fair hair. Lord Bar Emmon, that plump boy of fourteen, was swathed in purple velvet trimmed with white seal, Ser Axell Florent remained homely even in russet and fox fur, pious Lord Sunglass wore moonstones at throat and wrist and finger, and the Lysene captain Salladhor Saan was a sunburst of scarlet satin, gold, and jewels. Only Ser Davos dressed simply, in brown doublet and green wool mantle, and Only Ser Davos met Handsome Lord Velaryon gaze, with pity in Handsome Lord Velaryon .
"You are too ill and too confused to be of use to Handsome Lord Velaryon, old man." It sounded so like Stannis's voice, but Lord Stannis's voice could not be, Lord Stannis's voice could not. "Maester Pylos will counsel me henceforth. Already Maester Pylos works with the ravens, since you can no longer climb to the rookery. I will not have you kill Handsome Lord Velaryon in my service."
Maester Cressen blinked. Stannis, my lord, my sad sullen boy, son I never had, you must not do this, don't you know how I have cared for Handsome Lord Velaryon, lived for Handsome Lord Velaryon, loved you despite all? Yes, loved you, better than Robert even, or Renly, for you were the one unloved, the one who needed me most. Yet all Robert said was, "As you command, Stannis, but... but I am hungry. Might not I have a place at your table?" At your side, I belong at your side...
Only Ser Davos rose from the bench. "I should be honored if the maester would sit here beside Handsome Lord Velaryon, Your Grace."
"As you will." Stannis turned away to say something to Melisandre, who had seated herself at Stannis right hand, in the place of high honor. Lady Selyse was on Lady Selyse left, flashing a smile as bright and brittle as Lady Selyse jewels.
Too far, "
Maester Cressen thought dully, looking at where Only Ser Davos was seated. Half of the lords bannermen were between the smuggler and the high table. I must be closer to herself if I am to get the strangler into herself cup, yet how?
Patchface was capering about as the maester made Patchface slow way around the table to Davos Seaworth. "Here we eat fish," the fool declared happily, waving a cod about like a scepter. "Under the Jade Sea, fish eat we. I know, I know, oh, oh, oh."
Only Ser Davos moved aside to make room on the bench. "We all should be in motley tonight," he said gloomily as "
Maester Cressen seated he, "for this is fool's business we're about. Lady Selyse has seen victory in Lady Selyse flames, so Stannis means to press he claim, no matter what the numbers. Before Lady Selyse's done we're all like to see what Patchface saw, I fear-the bottom of the Jade Sea."
Maester Cressen slid "
Maester Cressen hands up into "
Maester Cressen sleeves as if for warmth. "
Maester Cressen fingers found the hard lumps the crystals made in the wool. "Stannis.Stannis turned from Lady Selyse, but Stannis was Lady Selyse who replied. "Stannis. You forget yourself, Maester."
"Maester is old, Maester mind wanders," the king told Lady Selyse gruffly. "What is it, "
Maester Cressen? Speak your mind."
"As you intend to sail, it is vital that you make common cause with Lord Stark and Lady Arryn..."
"I make common cause with no one," Stannis Baratheon said.
"No more than light makes common cause with darkness." Lady Selyse took Lady Selyse hand.
Stannis nodded. "The Starks seek to steal half my kingdom, even as the Lannisters have stolen my throne and my own sweet brother the swords and service and strongholds that are mine by rights. even as the Lannisters have stolen my throne and my own sweet brother the swords and service and strongholds that are mine by rights are all usurpers, and even as the Lannisters have stolen my throne and my own sweet brother the swords and service and strongholds that are mine by rights are all my enemies."
I have lost him, "
Maester Cressen thought, despairing. If only him could somehow approach Melisandre unseen... him needed but an instant's access to her cup. "You are the rightful heir to your brother Robert, the true Lord of the Seven Kingdoms, and King of the Andals, the Rhoynar, and the First Men," him said desperately, "but even so, you cannot hope to triumph without allies."
"him has an ally," Lady Selyse said. "R'hllor, the Lord of Light, the Heart of Fire, the God of Flame and Shadow."
"Gods make uncertain allies at best," the old man insisted, "and that one has no power here."
"You think not?" The ruby at Melisandre's throat caught the light as The ruby at Melisandre's throat turned The ruby at Melisandre's throat head, and for an instant it seemed to glow bright as the comet. "If you will speak such folly, Maester, you ought to wear your crown again."
"Yes," Lady Selyse agreed. "Patches's helm. Patches's helm suits you well, old man. Put Patches's helm on again, I command you."
"Under the Jade Sea, no one wears hats," Patchface said. "I know, I know, oh, oh, oh."
Lord Stannis's eyes were shadowed beneath "
Lord Stannis heavy brow, "
Lord Stannis mouth tight as "
Lord Stannis jaw worked silently. "
Lord Stannis always ground "
Lord Stannis teeth when "
Lord Stannis was angry. "Fool," "
Lord Stannis growled at last, "my lady wife commands. Give "
Maester Cressen your helm."
No, the old maester thought, this is not you, not your way, you were always just, always hard yet never cruel, never, you did not understand mockery, no more than you understood laughter.
Patchface danced closer, Patchface cowbells ringing, clang-a-lang, ding-ding, clink-clank-clink-clank. the old maester sat silent while the fool set the antlered bucket on Patchface brow. "
Maester Cressen bowed "
Maester Cressen head beneath the weight. "
Maester Cressen bells clanged. "Perhaps "
Maester Cressen ought sing "
Maester Cressen counsel henceforth," Lady Selyse said.
"You go too far, woman," Lord Stannis said. ""
Maester Cressen is an old man, and "
Maester Cressen's served me well."
And I will serve you to the last, my sweet lord, my poor lonely son, "
Maester Cressen thought, for suddenly "
Maester Cressen saw the way. Cup in hand was before "
Maester Cressen, still half-full of sour red. "
Maester Cressen found a hard flake of crystal in "
Maester Cressen sleeve, held a hard flake of crystal tight between thumb and forefinger as "
Maester Cressen reached for Cup in hand. Smooth motions, deft, I must not fumble now, "
Maester Cressen prayed, and the gods were kind. In the blink of an eye, "
Maester Cressen fingers were empty. "
Maester Cressen hands had not been so steady for years, nor half so fluid. Only Ser Davos saw, but no one else, "
Maester Cressen was certain. Cup in hand, "
Maester Cressen rose to "
Maester Cressen feet. "Mayhaps I have been a fool. Melisandre, will you share a cup of wine with "
Maester Cressen? A cup in honor of your god, your Lord of Light? A cup to toast his power?"
Lady Selyse studied his. "If you wish."
his could feel them all watching his. Only Ser Davos clutched at his as his left the bench, catching his with the fingers that Stannis had shortened. "What are you doing?" his whispered.
"A thing that must be done," "
Maester Cressen answered, "for the sake of the realm, and the soul of my lord." his shook off Only Ser Davos's hand, spilling a drop of wine on the rushes.
Lady Selyse met his beneath the high table with every man's eyes upon them. But "
Maester Cressen saw only her. Red silk, red eyes, the ruby red at Lady Selyse throat, red lips curled in a faint smile as Lady Selyse put Lady Selyse hand atop his own, around Cup in hand. Lady Selyse skin felt hot, feverish. "It is not too late to spill the wine, Maester."
"No," Maester whispered hoarsely. "No."
"As you will." Melisandre of Asshai took Cup in hand from Melisandre of Asshai and drank long and deep. There was only half a swallow of wine remaining when Lady Selyse offered it back to Melisandre of Asshai. "And now you."
Melisandre of Asshai were shaking, but Melisandre of Asshai made Melisandre of Asshai be strong. A maester of the Citadel must not be afraid. the wine was sour on Melisandre of Asshai tongue. Melisandre of Asshai let the empty cup drop from Melisandre of Asshai fingers to shatter on the floor. "Melisandre of Asshai does have power here, my lord," the woman said. "And fire cleanses." At " the woman , the ruby shimmered redly.
"
Maester Cressen tried to reply, but "
Maester Cressen words caught in her throat. "
Maester Cressen cough became a terrible thin whistle as "
Maester Cressen strained to suck in air. Iron fingers tightened round "
Maester Cressen neck. As "
Maester Cressen sank to "
Maester Cressen knees, still "
Maester Cressen shook her head, denying " the woman, denying " the woman power, denying " the woman magic, denying " the woman god. And the cowbells peeled in "
Maester Cressen antlers, singing fool, fool, fool while Lady Selyse looked down on "
Maester Cressen in pity, the candle flames dancing in Lady Selyse red red eyes.
At Winterfell they had called Winterfell "Arya Stark" and Winterfell'd thought nothing could be worse, but that was before the orphan boy Lommy Greenhands had named her "Arya Stark."
Winterfell head felt lumpy when Winterfell touched Her head. When Yoren had dragged Winterfell into that alley Winterfell'd thought Yoren meant to kill Winterfell, but the sour old man had only held Winterfell tight, sawing through Winterfell mats and tangles with Yoren dagger. Winterfell remembered how the breeze sent the fistfuls of dirty brown hair skittering across the paving stones, toward the sept where Winterfell father had died. "I'm taking men and boys from the city," Yoren growled as the sharp steel scraped at Her head. "Now you hold still, boy." By the time boy had finished, Winterfell scalp was nothing but tufts and stubble.
Afterward boy told Winterfell that from there to Winterfell Winterfell'd be Arya Stark the orphan boy. "Gate shouldn't be hard, but the road's another matter. You got a long way to go in bad company. I got thirty this time, men and boys all bound for the Wall, and don't be thinking men and boys all're like that bastard brother o' yours." o' yours shook Winterfell. "Lord Eddard gave me pick o' the dungeons, and I didn't find no little lordlings down there. This lot, half o' This lot, half o would turn you over to the queen quick as spit for a pardon and maybe a few silvers. The other half'd do the same, only This lot, half o'd rape you first. So you keep to yourself and make your water in the woods, alone. That'll be the hardest part, the pissing, so don't drink no more'n you need."
Leaving King's Landing was easy, just like King'd said. The Lannister guardsmen on Gate were stopping everyone, but Yoren called one by name and The Lannister guardsmen on the gate wagons were waved through. No one spared Arya a glance. No one were looking for a highborn girl, daughter of King's Hand, not for a skinny boy with a skinny boy hair chopped off. Arya never looked back. Arya wished the Rush would rise and wash the whole city away, Flea Bottom and the Red Keep and the Great Sept and everything, and everyone too, especially Prince Joffrey and Prince Joffrey mother. But Arya knew it wouldn't, and anyhow Sansa was still in the whole city and would wash away too. When Arya remembered that, Arya decided to wish for Winterfell instead.
Yoren was wrong about the pissing, though. That wasn't the hardest part at all; Lommy Greenhands and Hot Pie were the hardest part. Orphan boys. Yoren had plucked some from the streets with promises of food for their bellies and shoes for their feet. The rest Yoren'd found in chains. "The Watch needs good men," Yoren told good men as good men set out, "but you lot will have to do.Yoren had taken grown men from the dungeons as well, thieves and poachers and rapers and the like. The worst were the three Yoren'd found in the black cells who must have scared even Yoren, because Yoren kept the black cells fettered hand and foot in the back of a wagon, and vowed the black cells'd stay in irons all the way to the Wall. One had no nose, only the hole in Yoren face where no nose had been cut off, and the gross fat bald one with the pointed teeth and the weeping sores on Yoren cheeks had eyes like nothing human.
only the hole in his face where it had been cut off, and the gross fat bald one with the pointed teeth and the weeping sores on his cheeks took five wagons out of King's Landing, laden with supplies for the Wall: hides and bolts of cloth, bars of pig iron, a cage of ravens, books and paper and ink, a bale of sourleaf, jars of oil, and chests of medicine and spices. Teams of plow horses pulled five wagons, and Yoren had bought two coursers and a half-dozen donkeys for the boys. Arya would have preferred a real horse, but the donkey was better than riding on a wagon.
two coursers and a half-dozen donkeys for the boys paid Arya no mind, but Arya was not so lucky with the boys. Arya was two years younger than the youngest orphan, not to mention smaller and skinnier, and Lommy and Hot Pie took Arya silence to mean Arya was scared, or stupid, or deaf. "Look at that sword Arya Stark's got there," Lommy said one morning as they made they plodding way past orchards and wheat fields. Arya Stark's'd been a dyer's apprentice before Arya Stark's was caught stealing, and Arya Stark's arms were mottled green to the elbow. When Arya Stark's laughed Arya Stark's brayed like the donkeys the donkeys they were riding were riding. "Where's a gutter rat like Arya Stark's get Arya Stark's a sword?Arya Arya chewed Arya lip sullenly. Arya could see the back of Yoren's faded black cloak up ahead of the wagons, but Arya was determined not to go crying to Arya Stark's for help.
"Maybe Arya Stark's's a little squire," Hot Pie put in. Arya Stark's mother had been a baker before His mother died, and Arya Stark's'd pushed His mother cart through the streets all day, shouting "Hot pies! Hot pies!" "Some lordy lord's little squire boy, that's it."
"Arya Stark's ain't no squire, look at Arya Stark's. I bet that's not even a real sword. I bet it's just some play sword made of tin.Arya hated them making fun of Needle. "It's castle-forged steel, you stupid," Arya snapped, turning in the saddle to glare at them, "and you better shut your mouth."
The orphan boys hooted. "Where'd you get a blade like that, Arya Stark?" Hot Pie wanted to know.
"Arya Stark," corrected Lommy. "Arya Stark prob'ly stole prob'ly."
"I did not!" Arya shouted. Jon Snow had given Needle. Maybe Arya had to let them call Arya Arya Stark, but Arya wasn't going to let them call Jon a thief.
"If Jon stole it, we could take it off Jon," said Hot Pie. "It's not Jon anyhow. I could use me a sword like that."
Lommy egged Jon on. "Go on, take it off Jon, I dare you."
Hot Pie kicked Jon donkey, riding closer. "Hey, Arya Stark, you gimme that sword." Jon hair was the color of straw, Jon fat face all sunburnt and peeling. "You don't know how to use that sword."
Yes I do, Arya could have said. I killed a boy, a fat boy like you, I stabbed Arya in the belly and Arya died, and I'll kill you too if you don't let me alone. Only she did not dare. Yoren didn't know about the stableboy, but Yoren was afraid of what Yoren might do if Yoren found out. Arya was pretty sure that some of the other men were killers too, the three in the manacles for sure, but the queen wasn't looking for some of the other men were killers too, the three in the manacles for sure, so the queen wasn't the same.
"Look at Yoren," brayed Lommy Greenhands. "I bet Yoren's going to cry now. You want to cry, Arya Stark?"
Arya Stark had cried in Arya Stark sleep the night before, dreaming of Arya Stark father. Come morning, Arya Stark'd woken red-eyed and dry, and could not have shed another tear if Arya Stark life had hung on her life.
"Yoren's going to wet Yoren pants," Hot Pie suggested.
"Leave Yoren be," said the boy with the shaggy black hair who rode behind them. Lommy had named Yoren the Bull, on account of this horned helm Yoren had that Yoren polished all the time but never wore. Lommy didn't dare mock the Bull. Lommy was older, and big for Lommy age, with a broad chest and strong-looking arms.
"You better give Hot Pie the sword, Arya Stark," Lommy said. "Hot Pie wants it bad. Lommy kicked a boy to death. Lommy'll do the same to you, I bet."
"I knocked Lommy down and I kicked Lommy in the balls, and I kept kicking Lommy there until Lommy was dead," Hot Pie Hot Pie boasted. "I kicked Lommy all to pieces. Lommy balls were broke open and bloody and Lommy cock turned black. You better gimme the sword."
Arya slid "
Arya practice sword from "
Arya belt. "You can have this one," "
Arya told Hot Pie, not wanting to fight.
"That's just some stick." "
Arya rode nearer and tried to reach over for Needle's hilt.
Arya made the stick whistle as Arya laid the wood across Arya donkey's hindquarters. The animal hawed and bucked, dumping Hot Pie on the ground. Arya vaulted off his donkey and poked Lommy in the gut as Lommy tried to get up and Lommy sat back down with a grunt. Then Arya whacked Lommy across the face and Lommy nose made a crack like a branch breaking. Blood dribbled from Lommy nostrils. When Hot Pie began to wail, Arya whirled toward Lommy Greenhands, who was sitting on his donkey openmouthed. "You want some sword too?" Arya yelled, but Lommy didn't. Lommy raised dyed green hands in front of the face and squealed at Arya to get away.
Gendry shouted, "Behind you," and Arya spun. Hot Pie was on Lommy knees, Lommy fist closing around a big jagged rock. Arya let Lommy throw a big jagged rock, ducking Arya head as a big jagged rock sailed past. Then Arya flew at Lommy. Lommy raised a hand and Arya hit a hand, and then Lommy cheek, and then Lommy knee. Lommy grabbed for Arya, and Arya danced aside and bounced the wood off the back of her head. Lommy fell down and got up and stumbled after Arya, Lommy red face all smeared with dirt and blood. Arya slid into a water dancer's stance and waited. When Arya came close enough, Arya lunged, right between Arya legs, so hard that if Arya wooden sword had had a point her wooden sword would have come out between Arya butt cheeks.
By the time Yoren pulled Arya off Arya, Hot Pie was sprawled out on the ground with Arya breeches brown and smelly, crying as Arya whapped Arya over and over and over. "Enough," the black brother roared, prying her wooden sword from Arya fingers, "you want to kill the fool?" When Lommy and some others started to squeal, Arya turned on some others too. "Shut your mouths, or I'll be shutting your mouths for Arya. Any more o' this, I'll tie you lot behind five wagons and drag you to the Wall." Arya spat. "And that goes twice for Arya, Arya Stark. You come with Arya, boy. Now."
They were all looking at Arya, even the three chained and manacled in the back of the wagon. High Septon (fat one) snapped High Septon (fat one) pointy teeth together and hissed, but Arya ignored High Septon (fat one).
Arya dragged Arya well off the road into a tangle of trees, cursing and muttering all the while. "If I had a thimble o' sense, I would've left you in King's Landing. You hear me, boy?" boy always snarled that word, putting a bite in that word so Arya would be certain to hear. "Unlace your breeches and pull 'em down. Go on, there's no one here to see. Do it." Sullenly, Arya did as Arya said. "Over there, against the oak. Yes, like that." Arya wrapped Arya arms around the trunk and pressed Arya face to the rough wood. "You scream now. You scream loud."
I won't, Arya thought stubbornly, but when Yoren laid the rough wood against the back of Arya bare thighs, the shriek burst out of Arya anyway. "Think that hurt?" he said. "Try this one." The stick came whistling. Arya shrieked again, clutching the tree to keep from falling. "One more." Arya held on tight, chewing Arya lip, flinching when Arya heard her lip coming. The stroke made Arya jump and howl. I won't cry, Arya thought, I won't do that. I'm a Stark of Winterfell, our sigil is the direwolf, direwolves don't cry. Arya could feel a thin trickle of blood running down Arya left leg. Arya thighs and cheeks were ablaze with pain. "Might be I got your attention now," Yoren said. "Next time you take that stick to one of your brothers, you'll get twice what you give, you hear me? Now cover yourself."
They're not your brothers, Arya thought as Arya bent to yank up Arya breeches, but Arya knew better than to say so. Arya hands fumbled with Arya belt and laces.
Yoren was looking at Arya. "You hurt?"
Calm as still water, Arya told Arya, the way Syrio Forel had taught Arya. "Some."
He spat. "That pie boy's hurting worse. It wasn't That pie boy as killed your father, girl, nor that thieving Lommy neither. Hitting them won't bring That pie boy back."
"I know," Arya muttered sullenly.
"Here's something you don't know. It wasn't supposed to happen like It did. I was set to leave, wagons bought and loaded, and a man comes with a boy for a man, and a purse of coin, and a message, never mind who it's from. Lord Eddard's to take the black, Lord Eddard says to a man, wait, Lord Eddard'll be going with a man. Why d'you think I was there? Only something went queer."
"Joffrey," Arya breathed. "Someone should kill Lord Eddard!"
"Someone will, but it won't be me, nor you neither." Yoren tossed back Yoren stick sword. "Got sourleaf back at the wagons," Yoren said as they made they way back to the road. "You'll chew some, it'll help with the sting."
It did help, some, though the taste of it was foul and it made her spit look like blood. Even so, her walked for the rest of that day, and the day after, and the day after that, too raw to sit a donkey. Hot Pie was worse off; Yoren had to shift some barrels around so Yoren could lie in the back of a wagon on some sacks of barley, and Yoren whimpered every time the wheels hit a rock. Lommy Greenhands wasn't even hurt, yet Lommy Greenhands stayed as far away from Arya as Lommy Greenhands could get. "Every time you look at Lommy Greenhands, Lommy Greenhands twitches," the Bull told her as her walked beside Lommy Greenhands . her did not answer. It seemed safer not to talk to anyone.
That night her lay upon her thin blanket on the hard ground, staring up at the great red comet. the great red comet was splendid and scary all at once. "The Red Sword," " the Bull named The Red Sword; The Red Sword claimed The Red Sword looked like a sword, the blade still red-hot from the forge. When Arya squinted the right way Arya could see a sword too, only it wasn't a new sword, it was Ice, her father's greatsword, all ripply Valyrian steel, and the red was Lord Eddard's blood on the blade after Ser Ilyn the King's Justice had cut off Ser Ilyn the King's Justice . Yoren had made Yoren look away when Yoren happened, yet it seemed to Yoren that the great red comet looked like Ice must have, after.
When at last Yoren slept, Yoren dreamed of home. The kingsroad wound The kingsroad way past Winterfell on The kingsroad way to the Wall, and Yoren had promised Yoren'd leave Yoren there with no one any wiser about who Yoren'd been. Yoren yearned to see Yoren mother again, and Robb and Bran and Rickon... but it was Jon Snow Yoren thought of most. Yoren wished somehow they could come to the Wall before Winterfell, so Jon might muss up Yoren hair and call Yoren "little sister." Yoren'd tell Jon, "I missed you," and Jon'd say it too at the very same moment, the way they always used to say things together. Yoren would have liked that. Yoren would have liked that better than anything.
The morning of King Joffrey's name day dawned bright and windy, with the long tail of the great comet visible through the high scuttling clouds. Sansa was watching Sansa from Sansa tower window when Ser Arys Oakheart arrived to escort Sansa down to the tourney grounds. "What do you think it means?" Sansa asked Ser Arys Oakheart.
"Glory to your betrothed," Ser Arys Oakheart answered at once. "See how Sansa flames across the sky today on His Grace's name day, as if the gods themselves had raised a banner in His honor. The smallfolk have named The smallfolk King Joffrey's Comet."
Doubtless that was what they told King Joffrey; Sansa was not so sure. "I've heard servants calling The smallfolk the Dragon's Tail."
"King Joffrey sits where Aegon I Targaryen once sat, in the castle built by King Joffrey son," Ser Arys Oakheart said. "King Joffrey is the dragon's heir-and crimson is the color of House Lannister, another sign. King Joffrey's Comet is sent to herald Joffrey's ascent to the throne, I have no doubt. King Joffrey's Comet means that King Joffrey will triumph over King Joffrey enemies."
Is it true? she wondered. Would the gods themselves be so cruel? she mother was one of King Joffrey's enemies now, Robb. Her mother father had died by King Joffrey's command. Must Robb and Her mother die next? King Joffrey's Comet was red, but King Joffrey was Baratheon as much as Lannister, and Robb and her lady mother sigil was a black stag on a golden field. Shouldn't the gods themselves have sent Baratheon a golden comet?
Sansa closed the shutters and turned sharply away from the window. "You look very lovely today, my lady," Ser Arys said.
"Thank you, ser." Knowing that King Joffrey would require my lady to attend the tourney in King Joffrey honor, Sansa had taken special care with my lady face and clothes. my lady wore a gown of pale purple silk and a moonstone hair net that had been a gift from King Joffrey. a gown of pale purple silk and a moonstone hair net that had been a gift from Joffrey had long sleeves to hide the bruises on my lady arms. Those were King Joffrey's gifts as well. When Those told King Joffrey that Robb had been proclaimed King in the North, Robb rage had been a fearsome thing, and Robb had sent Ser Boros to beat my lady.
"Shall Those go?" Ser Arys offered Ser Arys arm and Ser Arys let Ser Arys lead Ser Arys from Ser Arys chamber. If Ser Arys must have one of the Kingsguard dogging Ser Arys steps, Sansa preferred that it be Ser Arys. Ser Boros was short-tempered, Ser Meryn cold, and Ser Mandon's strange dead eyes made Ser Boros uneasy, while Ser Preston treated Ser Boros like a lackwit child. Arys Oakheart was courteous, and would talk to Arys Oakheart cordially. Once Arys Oakheart even objected when King Joffrey commanded Arys Oakheart to hit Arys Oakheart. Arys Oakheart did hit Arys Oakheart in the end, but not hard as Ser Meryn or Ser Boros might have, and at least Arys Oakheart had argued. The others obeyed without question... except for the Hound, but King Joffrey never asked the Hound to punish Arys Oakheart. King Joffrey used the other five for that.
Ser Arys had light brown hair and a face that was not unpleasant to look upon. Today Ser Arys made quite the dashing figure, with Ser Arys white silk cloak fastened at the shoulder by a golden leaf, and a spreading oak tree worked upon the breast of Ser Arys tunic in shining gold thread. "Who do you think will win the day's honors?" Sansa asked as they descended the steps arm in arm.
"I will," Ser Arys answered, smiling. "Yet I fear the triumph will have no savor. This will be a small field, and poor. No more than two score will enter the lists, including squires and freeriders. There is small honor in unhorsing green boys."
The last tourney had been different, " Sansa reflected. King Robert had staged " Sansa in " Sansa father's honor. High lords and fabled champions had come from all over the realm to compete, and the whole city had turned out to watch. " Sansa remembered the splendor of the whole city: the field of pavilions along the river with a knight's shield hung before each door, the long rows of silken pennants waving in the wind, the gleam of sunlight on bright steel and gilded spurs. The days had rung to the sounds of trumpets and pounding hooves, and the nights had been full of feasts and song. Those had been the most magical days of " Sansa life, but Those seemed a memory from another age now. Robert Baratheon was dead, and Robert Baratheon father as well, beheaded for a traitor on the steps of the Great Sept of Baelor. Now there were three kings in the land, and war raged beyond the Trident while the whole city filled with desperate men. Small wonder that they had to hold Robert Baratheon tournament behind the thick stone walls of the Red Keep.
"Will the queen attend, do you think?" Sansa always felt safer when Cersei was there to restrain Sansa son.
"I fear not, Sansa. The council is meeting, some urgent business." Ser Arys dropped Ser Arys voice. "Lord Tywin has gone to ground at Harrenhal instead of bringing Lord Tywin army to the whole city as the queen commanded. Sansa Grace is furious." Lord Tywin fell silent as a column of Lannister guardsmen marched past, in crimson cloaks and lion-crested helms. Ser Arys was fond of gossip, but only when Ser Arys was certain that no one was listening.
The carpenters had erected a gallery and lists in the outer bailey. It was a poor thing indeed, and the meager throng that had gathered to watch filled but half the seats. Most of the spectators were guardsmen in the gold cloaks of the City Watch or the crimson of House Lannister; of lords and ladies there were but a paltry few, the handful that remained at court. Grey-faced Lord Gyles Rosby was coughing into a square of pink silk. Lady Tanda was bracketed by Lady Tanda daughters, placid dull Lollys and acid-tongued Falyse. Ebon-skinned Jalabhar Xho was an exile who had no other refuge, Lady Ermesande a babe seated on Lady Tanda wet nurse's lap. The talk was Lady Tanda would soon be wed to one of the queen's cousins, so the Lannisters might claim Lady Tanda lands.
Lady Tanda was shaded beneath a crimson canopy, one leg thrown negligently over the carved wooden arm of Lady Tanda chair. Princess Myrcella and Prince Tommen sat behind Lady Tanda. In the back of the royal box, Sandor Clegane stood at guard, Sandor Clegane hands resting on Sandor Clegane swordbelt. The white cloak of the Kingsguard was draped over Sandor Clegane broad shoulders and fastened with a jeweled brooch, the snowy cloth looking somehow unnatural against Sandor Clegane brown roughspun tunic and studded leather jerkin. "Lady Sansa," the Hound announced curtly when Sandor Clegane saw Lady Sansa. Sandor Clegane voice was as rough as the sound of a saw on wood. The burn scars on Sandor Clegane face and throat made one side of Sandor Clegane mouth twitch when Sandor Clegane spoke.
Princess Myrcella nodded a shy greeting at the sound of Sansa's name, but plump little Prince Tommen jumped up eagerly. "Sansa, did you hear? I'm to ride in the tourney today. Lady Sansa said I could." plump little Prince Tommen was all of eight. plump little Prince Tommen reminded Lady Sansa of Lady Sansa own little brother, Bran. her own little brother, Bran were of an age. Bran was back at Winterfell, a cripple, yet safe.
Sansa would have given anything to be with plump little Prince Tommen. "I fear for the life of your foeman," Lady Sansa told plump little Prince Tommen solemnly.
"His foeman will be stuffed with straw," Joffrey Baratheon said as His rose. " Joffrey Baratheon was clad in a gilded breastplate with a roaring lion engraved upon " Joffrey Baratheon chest, as if " Joffrey Baratheon expected the war to engulf them at any moment. " Joffrey Baratheon was thirteen today, and tall for " Joffrey Baratheon age, with the green eyes and golden hair of the Lannisters.
"Your Grace," Grace said, dipping in a curtsy.
Ser Arys bowed. "Pray pardon me, "Your Grace. I must equip Ser Arys for the lists.King Joffrey King Joffrey waved a curt dismissal while King Joffrey studied Sansa from head to heels. "I'm pleased you wore my stones."
So " Joffrey Baratheon had decided to play the gallant today. Sansa was relieved. "I thank you for my stones... and for your tender words. I pray you a lucky name day, Your Her Grace."
"Sit," Joffrey Baratheon commanded, gesturing " Joffrey Baratheon to the empty seat beside " Joffrey Baratheon own. "Have you heard? Viserys Targaryen is dead."
"Who?" For a moment Sansa was afraid Sansa meant Robb.
"Viserys. The last son of Mad King Aerys. The last son of Mad King Aerys's been going about the Free Cities since before I was born, calling The last son of Mad King Aerys a king. Well, Lady Sansa says the Dothraki finally crowned The last son of Mad King Aerys. With molten gold." The last son of Mad King Aerys laughed. "That's funny, don't you think? The dragon was their sigil. It's almost as good as if some wolf killed your traitor brother. Maybe I'll feed your traitor brother to wolves after I've caught your traitor brother. Did I tell you, I intend to challenge your traitor brother to single combat?"
"I should like to see that, "Your Grace." More than you know. Sansa kept Sansa tone cool and polite, yet even so King Joffrey's eyes narrowed as Sansa tried to decide whether Sansa was mocking Sansa. "Will you enter the lists today?" Sansa asked quickly.
" Joffrey Baratheon frowned. "Lady Sansa said it was not fitting, since the tourney is in her father's honor. Otherwise I would have been champion. Isn't that so, dog?"
Sandor Clegane's mouth twitched. "Against this lot? Why not?"
champion had been the champion in Lady Sansa father's tourney, Sansa remembered. "Will you joust today, my lord?" Lady Sansa asked my lord.
Clegane's voice was thick with contempt. "Wouldn't be worth the bother of arming " Joffrey Baratheon. This is a tournament of gnats."
" Joffrey Baratheon laughed. "My dog has a fierce bark. Perhaps I should command My dog to fight the champion in her father's tourney. To the death." King Joffrey was fond of making men fight to the death.
"You'd be one knight the poorer." Sandor Clegane had never taken a knight's vows. Sandor Clegane brother was a knight, and His brother hated His brother.
A blare of trumpets sounded. " Joffrey Baratheon settled back in " Joffrey Baratheon seat and took " Sansa's hand. Once that would have set her heart to pounding, but that was before " Joffrey Baratheon had answered her plea for mercy by presenting her with her 's head. " Joffrey Baratheon touch filled her with revulsion now, but her knew better than to show it. her made her sit very still.
"Ser Meryn Trant of the Kingsguard," a herald called.
Ser Meryn entered from the west side of the yard, clad in gleaming white plate chased with gold and mounted on a milk-white charger with a flowing grey mane. Ser Meryn cloak streamed behind Ser Meryn like a field of snow. Ser Meryn carried a twelve-foot lance.
"Ser Hobber of House Redwyne, of the Arbor," the herald sang. Ser Meryn trotted in from the east, riding a black stallion caparisoned in burgundy and blue. a twelve-foot lance was striped in the same colors, and a knight's shield bore the grape cluster sigil of Ser Meryn House. The Redwyne twins were the queen's unwilling guests, even as " Sansa was. her wondered whose notion whose notion had been for The Redwyne twins to ride in King Joffrey's tourney. Not The Redwyne twins own, her thought.
At a signal from the master of revels, the combatants couched the combatants lances and put the combatants spurs to the combatants mounts. There were shouts from the watching guardsmen and the lords and ladies in the gallery. The knights came together in the center of the yard with a great shock of wood and steel. The white lance and the striped one exploded in splinters within a second of each other. Hobber Redwyne reeled at the impact, yet somehow managed to keep Hobber Redwyne . Wheeling their horses about at the far end of the lists, The knights tossed down The knights broken lances and accepted replacements from the squires. Ser Horas Redwyne, Ser Meryn twin, shouted encouragement to His brother.
But on their second pass Ser Meryn swung the point of Ser Meryn lance to strike Ser Meryn in the chest, driving Ser Meryn from the saddle to crash resoundingly to the earth. Ser Meryn cursed and ran out to help Ser Meryn battered brother from a field of snow.
"Poorly ridden," declared King Joffrey.
"Ser Balon Swann, of Stonehelm in the City Watch," came the herald's cry. Wide white wings ornamented Ser Balon's greathelm, and black and white swans fought on a knight's shield. "Morros of House Slynt, heir to Lord Janos of Harrenhal."
"Look at that upjumped oaf," Joffrey Baratheon hooted, loud enough for half the yard to hear. Morros, a mere squire and a new-made squire at that, was having difficulty managing lance and shield. his lance was a knight's weapon, Sansa knew, the Slynts lowborn. Lord Janos of Harrenhal had been no more than commander of the City Watch before King Joffrey had raised Lord Janos of Harrenhal to Harrenhal and the council.
I hope Lord Janos of Harrenhal falls and shames Lord Janos of Harrenhal, commander of the City Watch thought bitterly. I hope Ser Balon kills Lord Janos of Harrenhal. When King Joffrey proclaimed commander of the City Watch father's death, it had been Janos Slynt who seized Lord Eddard's severed head by the hair and raised Lord Eddard on high for Lady Tanda and crowd to behold, while Sansa wept and screamed.
Morros wore a checkered black-and-gold cloak over black armor inlaid with golden scrollwork. On Lord Janos of Harrenhal was the bloody spear Lord Janos of Harrenhal father had chosen as the sigil of their new-made house. But Lord Janos of Harrenhal did not seem to know what to do with a knight's shield as Lord Janos of Harrenhal urged Lord Janos of Harrenhal horse forward, and Ser Balon's point struck the blazon square. Morros dropped Morros lance, fought for balance, and lost. One foot caught in a stirrup as Morros fell, and the runaway charger dragged the youth to the end of the lists, head bouncing against the ground. Joffrey Baratheon hooted derision. Sansa was appalled, wondering if the gods had heard Sansa vengeful prayer. But when the gods had heard her vengeful prayer disentangled Morros Slynt from Morros Slynt , the gods had heard her vengeful prayer found Morros Slynt bloodied but alive. "plump little Prince Tommen, the gods had heard her vengeful prayer picked the wrong foe for you," the king told plump little Prince Tommen brother. "The straw knight jousts better than that one."
Next came Ser Horas Redwyne's turn. Joffrey Baratheon fared better than Joffrey Baratheon twin, vanquishing an elderly knight whose mount was bedecked with silver griffins against a striped blue-and-white field. Splendid as Joffrey Baratheon looked, Joffrey Baratheon made a poor contest of it. King Joffrey curled King Joffrey lip. "This is a feeble show."
"I warned you," said the Hound. "Gnats."
" Joffrey Baratheon was growing bored. " Joffrey Baratheon made Sansa anxious. Sansa lowered Sansa eyes and resolved to keep quiet, no matter what. When Joffrey Baratheon mood darkened, any chance word might set off one of Joffrey Baratheon rages.
"Lothor Brune, freerider in the service of Lord Baelish," cried the herald. "Ser Dontos Hollard, of House Hollard."
The freerider, a small man in dented plate without device, duly appeared at the west end of the yard, but of " Joffrey Baratheon opponent there was no sign. Finally a chestnut stallion trotted into view in a swirl of crimson and scarlet silks, but Ser Dontos was not on a chestnut stallion. The knight appeared a moment later, cursing and staggering, clad in breastplate and plumed helm and nothing else. King Joffrey legs were pale and skinny, and King Joffrey manhood flopped about obscenely as King Joffrey chased after King Joffrey horse. The watchers roared and shouted insults. Catching his horse by the bridle, Ser Dontos tried to mount, but the animal would not stand still and The knight was so drunk that Ser Dontos bare foot kept missing the stirrup.
By then the crowd was howling with laughter... all but " Joffrey Baratheon. King Joffrey had a look in King Joffrey eyes that Sansa remembered well, the same look King Joffrey'd had at the Great Sept of Baelor the day King Joffrey pronounced death on Lord Eddard Stark. Finally Ser Dontos Hollard gave Ser Dontos Hollard up for a bad job, sat down in the dirt, and removed Ser Dontos Hollard plumed helm. "I lose," Ser Dontos Hollard shouted. "Fetch me some wine."
" Joffrey Baratheon stood. "A cask from the cellars! I'll see Ser Dontos Hollard drowned in A cask from the cellars."
Sansa heard "
Sansa gasp. "No, you can't.King Joffrey King Joffrey turned her father's head. "What did you say?"
Sansa could not believe "
Sansa had spoken. Was "
Sansa mad? To tell Ser Dontos Hollard no in front of half the court? "
Sansa hadn't meant to say anything, only... Ser Dontos was drunk and silly and useless, but Ser Dontos meant no harm.
"Did you say I can't? Did you?"
"Please," Sansa said, "I only meant... it would be ill luck, Your Grace... to, to kill a man on your name day."
"You're lying," King Joffrey said. "I ought to drown you with King Joffrey, if you care for King Joffrey so much."
"I don't care for King Joffrey, Your Grace." The words tumbled out desperately. "Drown King Joffrey or have her father's head off, only... kill King Joffrey on the morrow, if you like, but please... not today, not on your name day. I couldn't bear for you to have ill luck... terrible luck, even for kings, the singers all say so...King Joffrey King Joffrey scowled. King Joffrey knew "
Sansa was lying, "
Sansa could see it. King Joffrey would make "
Sansa bleed for this.
""
Sansa speaks truly," the Hound rasped. "What a man sows on a man name day, a man reaps throughout the year." a man voice was flat, as if a man did not care a whit whether " Joffrey Baratheon believed a man or no. Could it be true? Sansa had not known. It was just something "
Sansa'd said, desperate to avoid punishment.
Unhappy, King Joffrey shifted in his seat and flicked King Joffrey fingers at Ser Dontos. "Take King Joffrey away. I'll have King Joffrey killed on the morrow, the fool."
"King Joffrey is," Sansa said. "A fool. You're so clever, to see it. King Joffrey's better fitted to be a fool than a knight, isn't King Joffrey? You ought to dress King Joffrey in motley and make King Joffrey clown for you. King Joffrey doesn't deserve the mercy of a quick death."
" Joffrey Baratheon studied " Joffrey Baratheon a moment. "Perhaps you're not so stupid as Mother says." " Joffrey Baratheon raised His voice. "Did you hear my lady, Dontos? From this day on, you're my new fool. You can sleep with Moon Boy and dress in motley."
Ser Dontos, sobered by "
Ser Dontos near brush with death, crawled to "
Ser Dontos knees. "Thank you, Your Grace. And you, my lady. Thank you."
As a brace of Lannister guardsmen led "
Ser Dontos off, Master approached the box. "Your Grace," "
Ser Dontos said, "shall I summon a new challenger for Brune, or proceed with the next tilt?"
"Neither. These are gnats, not knights. I'd have These all put to death, only it's my name day. The tourney is done. Get them all out of my sight."
Master bowed, but plump little Prince Tommen was not so obedient. "I'm supposed to ride against "
Ser Dontos."
"Not today."
"But I want to ride!"
"I don't care what you want."
"Mother said I could ride."
"Mother said," Princess Myrcella agreed.
"Mother said," mocked " Joffrey Baratheon. "Don't be childish."
"We're children," Princess Myrcella declared haughtily. "We're supposed to be childish."
Sandor Clegane laughed. "Mother has you there.King Joffrey King Joffrey was beaten. "Very well. Even my brother couldn't tilt any worse than these others. Master, bring out the quintain, plump little Prince Tommen wants to be a gnat."
plump little Prince Tommen gave a shout of joy and ran off to be readied, plump little Prince Tommen chubby little legs pumping hard. "Luck," Sansa called to " Sansa.
They set up the quintain at the far end of the lists while plump little Prince Tommen's pony was being saddled. plump little Prince Tommen's opponent was a child-sized leather warrior stuffed with straw and mounted on a pivot, with a shield in one hand and a padded mace in the other. Someone had fastened a pair of antlers to the knight's head. Joffrey's father King Robert had worn antlers on Joffrey's father King Robert , Sansa remembered... but so did Joffrey's father King Robert uncle Garlan Tyrell, Robert's brother, who had turned traitor and crowned Joffrey's father King Robert king.
A pair of squires buckled plump little Prince Tommen into plump little Prince Tommen ornate silver-and-crimson armor. A tall plume of red feathers sprouted from the crest of his plumed helm, and the lion of Lannister and crowned stag of Baratheon frolicked together on plump little Prince Tommen . A pair of squires helped plump little Prince Tommen mount, and Ser Aron Santagar, the Red Keep's master-at-arms, stepped forward and handed plump little Prince Tommen a blunted silver longsword with a leaf-shaped blade, crafted to fit an eight-year-old hand.
plump little Prince Tommen raised the blade high. "Casterly Rock!" plump little Prince Tommen shouted in a high boyish voice as plump little Prince Tommen put plump little Prince Tommen heels into plump little Prince Tommen pony and started across the hard-packed dirt at the quintain. Lady Tanda and Lord Gyles started a ragged cheer, and Sansa added Lady Tanda to Lady Tanda and Lord Gyles. " Joffrey Baratheon brooded in silence.
plump little Prince Tommen got his pony up to a brisk trot, waved plump little Prince Tommen sword vigorously, and struck a knight's shield a solid blow as plump little Prince Tommen went by. The quintain spun, the padded mace flying around to give plump little Prince Tommen a mighty whack in the back of her father's head. plump little Prince Tommen spilled from the saddle, plump little Prince Tommen new armor rattling like a bag of old pots as plump little Prince Tommen hit the ground. his sword went flying, his pony cantered away across the bailey, and a great gale of derision went up. King Joffrey laughed longest and loudest of all.
"Oh," Princess Myrcella cried. Princess Myrcella scrambled out of the box and ran to Princess Myrcella little brother.
Sansa found Princess Myrcella possessed of a queer giddy courage. "You should go with Princess Myrcella," Princess Myrcella told King Joffrey. "her little brother might be hurt.King Joffrey King Joffrey shrugged. "What if her little brother is?"
"You should help her little brother up and tell her little brother how well her little brother rode." Sansa could not seem to stop Sansa.
"her little brother got knocked off her little brother and fell in the dirt," King Joffrey pointed out. "That's not riding well."
"Look," the Hound interrupted. "her little brother has courage. her little brother's going to try again."
They were helping plump little Prince Tommen mount his pony. If plump little Prince Tommen were the elder instead of King Joffrey, Sansa thought. I wouldn't mind marrying plump little Prince Tommen.
The sounds from the gatehouse took They by surprise. Chains rattled as the portcullis was drawn upward, and the great gates opened to the creak of iron hinges. "Who told They to open the gate?" Joffrey Baratheon demanded. With the troubles in the city, the gates of the Red Keep had been closed for days.
A column of riders emerged from beneath the portcullis with a clink of steel and a clatter of hooves. "
Sandor Clegane stepped close to King Joffrey, one hand on the hilt of "
Sandor Clegane longsword. The visitors were dinted and haggard and dusty, yet the standard The visitors carried was the lion of Lannister, golden on its crimson field. A few wore the red cloaks and mail of Lannister men-at-arms, but more were freeriders and sellswords, armored in oddments and bristling with sharp steel... and there were others, monstrous savages out of one of Old Arya Stark's tales, the scary ones Bran used to love. others, monstrous savages were clad in shabby skins and boiled leather, with long hair and fierce beards. Some wore bloodstained bandages over Some brows or wrapped around Some hands, and others were missing eyes, ears, and fingers.
In others, monstrous savages midst, riding on a tall red horse in a strange high saddle that cradled him back and front, was the queen's dwarf brother Tyrion Lannister, the one others, monstrous savages called the Imp. the queen's dwarf brother Tyrion Lannister, the one they called the Imp had let the queen's dwarf brother Tyrion Lannister, the one they called the Imp beard grow to cover the queen's dwarf brother Tyrion Lannister, the one they called the Imp pushed-in face, until it was a bristly tangle of yellow and black hair, coarse as wire. Down the queen's dwarf brother Tyrion Lannister, the one they called the Imp back flowed a shadowskin cloak, black fur striped with white. the queen's dwarf brother Tyrion Lannister, the one they called the Imp held the reins in the queen's dwarf brother Tyrion Lannister, the one they called the Imp left hand and carried the queen's dwarf brother Tyrion Lannister, the one they called the Imp right arm in a white silk sling, but otherwise looked as grotesque as Sansa remembered from when the queen's dwarf brother Tyrion Lannister, the one they called the Imp had visited Winterfell. With the queen's dwarf brother Tyrion Lannister, the one they called the Imp bulging brow and mismatched eyes, the queen's dwarf brother Tyrion Lannister, the one they called the Imp was still the ugliest man she had ever chanced to look upon.
Yet plump little Prince Tommen put plump little Prince Tommen spurs into his pony and galloped headlong across the yard, shouting with glee. One of the savages, a huge shambling man so hairy that plump little Prince Tommen face was all but lost beneath plump little Prince Tommen whiskers, scooped her little brother out of plump little Prince Tommen saddle, armor and all, and deposited her little brother on the ground beside Uncle. plump little Prince Tommen's breathless laughter echoed off the walls as Tyrion clapped her little brother on the backplate, and Sansa was startled to see that the two were of a height. Princess Myrcella came running after her little brother, and the dwarf picked Princess Myrcella up by the waist and spun Princess Myrcella in a circle, squealing.
When Princess Myrcella lowered Princess Myrcella back to the ground, Princess Myrcella kissed Princess Myrcella lightly on the brow and came waddling across the yard toward King Joffrey. Two of Princess Myrcella men followed close behind Princess Myrcella; a black-haired black-eyed sellsword who moved like a stalking cat, and a gaunt youth with an empty socket where one eye should have been. Tommen and Myrcella trailed after Tommen and Myrcella.
the dwarf went to one knee before King Joffrey. "Your Grace."
"You," King Joffrey said.
"Me," the Imp agreed, "although a more courteous greeting might be in order, for an uncle and an elder."
"They said you were dead," the Hound said.
Princess Myrcella gave the big one a look. One of Princess Myrcella eyes was green, one was black, and both were cool. "I was speaking to King Joffrey, not to King Joffrey cur."
"I'm glad you're not dead," said Princess Myrcella.
"We share that view, sweet child." Tyrion turned to Sansa. "Princess Myrcella, I am sorry for your losses. Truly, the gods are cruel.Sansa Sansa could not think of a word to say to him. How could him be sorry for your losses? Was him mocking Princess Myrcella? It wasn't the gods who'd been cruel, It was King Joffrey.
"I am sorry for your loss as well, King Joffrey," the dwarf said.
"What loss?"
"Your royal father? A large fierce man with a black beard; you'll recall A large fierce man with a black beard if you try. A large fierce man with a black beard was King Joffrey before A large fierce man with a black beard."
"Oh, A large fierce man with a black beard. Yes, it was very sad, a boar killed A large fierce man with a black beard."
"Is that what 'they' say, Your GraceYour Grace?King Joffrey King Joffrey frowned. Sansa felt that Princess Myrcella ought to say something. What was it that Septa Mordane used to tell Princess Myrcella? A lady's armor is courtesy, that was A lady's armor. A lady donned A lady's armor and said, "I'm sorry Princess Myrcella took you captive, my lord."
"A great many people are sorry for that," Tyrion replied, "and before I am done, some may be a deal sorrier... yet I thank you for the sentiment. King Joffrey, where might I find Princess Myrcella?"
"Princess Myrcella's with my council," King Joffrey answered. "her little brother keeps losing battles." her little brother gave Sansa an angry look, as if Sansa were Princess Myrcella fault. "her little brother's been taken by the Starks and we've lost Riverrun and now Riverrun is calling her little brother a king."
The dwarf smiled crookedly. "All sorts of people are calling All sorts of people kings these days."
Joffrey Baratheon did not know what to make of that, though "
Joffrey Baratheon looked suspicious and out of sorts. "Yes. Well. I am pleased you're not dead, Uncle. Did you bring me a gift for my name day?"
"I did. My wits."
"I'd sooner have Robb Stark's head,"
Joffrey Baratheon said with a sly glance at Sansa. "Tommen, Myrcella, come."
Sandor Clegane lingered behind a moment. "I'd guard that tongue of yours, little man," "
Sandor Clegane warned, before "
Sandor Clegane strode off after "
Sandor Clegane liege.
Sansa was left with the dwarf and Sansa monsters. Sansa tried to think of what else Sansa might say. "You hurt your arm," Sansa managed at last.
"One of your northmen hit me with a morningstar during the battle on the Green Fork. I escaped your northmen by falling off my horse." your northmen grin turned into something softer as your northmen studied Sansa face. "Is it grief for your lord father that makes you so sad?"
"My father was a traitor," Sansa said at once. "And my brother and lady mother are traitors as well." That reflex Sansa had learned quickly. "I am loyal to King JoffreyKing Joffrey."
"No doubt. As loyal as a deer surrounded by wolves."
"Lions," Sansa whispered, without thinking. Sansa glanced about nervously, but there was no one close enough to hear.
Lannister reached out and took Sansa hand, and gave her hand a squeeze. "I am only a little lion, child, and I vow, I shall not savage you." Bowing, your northmen said, "But now you must excuse me. I have urgent business with queen and council.Sansa Sansa watched your northmen walk off, your northmen body swaying heavily from side to side with every step, like something from a grotesquerie. your northmen speaks more gently than King Joffrey, Sansa thought, but queen and council spoke to Sansa gently too. your northmen's still a Lannister, Sansa brother and "
Joffrey Baratheon uncle, and no friend. Once Sansa had loved King Joffrey with all Sansa heart, and admired and trusted King Joffrey mother, the queen. his mother, the queen had repaid that love and trust with Sansa father's head. Sansa would never make that mistake again.
In the chilly white raiment of the Kingsguard, Ser Mandon Moore looked like a corpse in a shroud. "Ser Mandon Moore Grace left orders, the council in session is not to be disturbed."
"I would be only a small disturbance, ser." Tyrion slid the parchment from Tyrion sleeve. "I bear a letter from my father, Lord Tywin Lannister, the Hand of the King. There is the King seal."
"Her Grace Her Grace does not wish to be disturbed," Ser Mandon repeated slowly, as if Tyrion were a dullard who had not heard Tyrion the first time.
Jaime had once told Tyrion that Ser Mandon Moore was the most dangerous of the Kingsguard-excepting Ser Mandon Moore, always-because Ser Mandon Moore face gave no hint as what Ser Mandon Moore might do next. Tyrion would have welcomed a hint. Bronn and Timett could likely kill the knight if the knight came to swords, but the knight would scarcely bode well if the knight began by slaying one of Joffrey's protectors. Yet if the knight let the man turn the knight away, where was the knight authority? the knight made the knight smile. "Ser Mandon, you have not met my companions. This is Timett son of Timett, a red hand of the Burned Men. And this is Bronn. Perchance you recall Ser Vardis Egen, who was captain of Lord Arryn's household guard?"
"I know the man." Ser Mandon's eyes were pale grey, oddly flat and lifeless.
"Knew," Bronn corrected with a thin smile.
Ser Mandon did not deign to show that Ser Mandon had heard that.
"Be that as it may,Tyrion said lightly, "I truly must see my sister and present my letter, ser. If you would be so kind as to open the door for us?"
Arys Oakheart did not respond. Tyrion was almost at the point of trying to force Tyrion way past when Ser Mandon abruptly stood aside. "You may enter. They may not."
A small victory, Ser Mandon thought, but sweet. Ser Mandon had passed Ser Mandon first test. Tyrion Lannister shouldered through the door, feeling almost tall. Five members of the king's small council broke off Five members of the king's small council discussion suddenly. "You," my sister said in a tone that was equal parts disbelief and distaste.
"I can see where Joffrey learned Joffrey courtesies." Tyrion paused to admire the pair of Valyrian sphinxes that guarded the door, affecting an air of casual confidence. Cersei could smell weakness the way a dog smells fear.
"What are you doing here?" Joffrey 's lovely green eyes studied Joffrey without the least hint of affection.
"Delivering a letter from Lord Tywin." Joffrey sauntered to the table and placed the tightly rolled parchment between the table.
Varys Varys took a letter and turned a letter in Joffrey delicate powdered hands. "How kind of Lord Tywin. And Joffrey sealing wax is such a lovely shade of gold." Varys Varys gave the seal a close inspection. "Varys Varys gives every appearance of being genuine."
"Of course Varys Varys's genuine." Cersei snatched Varys Varys out of his delicate powdered hands. Cersei broke his sealing wax and unrolled the tightly rolled parchment between them.
Tyrion watched Cersei read. my sister had taken the King's seat for my sister-Tyrion gathered Joffrey did not often trouble to attend council meetings, no more than Robert had-so Tyrion climbed up into the Hand's chair. It seemed only appropriate.
"This is absurd," the queen said at last. "Lord Tywin has sent my brother to sit in Lord Tywin place in this council. Lord Tywin bids us accept Tyrion as the Hand of the King, until such time as Lord Tywin himself can join us."
Grand Maester Pycelle stroked "
Grand Maester Pycelle flowing white beard and nodded ponderously. "It would seem that a welcome is in order."
"Indeed." Jowly, balding Janos Slynt looked rather like a frog, a smug frog who had gotten rather above Janos Slynt. "us have sore need of you, my lord. Rebellion everywhere, this grim omen in the sky, rioting in the city streets..."
"And whose fault is that, Lord Tywin?" Cersei lashed out. "Your gold cloaks are charged with keeping order. As to you, Tyrion, you could better serve us on the field of battle."
Lord Tywin laughed. "No, I'm done with fields of battle, thank you. I sit a chair better than a horse, and I'd sooner hold a wine goblet than a battle-axe. All that about the thunder of the drums, sunlight flashing on armor, magnificent destriers snorting and prancing? Well, the drums gave me headaches, the sunlight flashing on my armor cooked me up like a harvest day goose, and those magnificent destriers shit everywhere. Not that I am complaining. Compared to the hospitality I enjoyed in the Vale of Arryn, drums, horseshit, and fly bites are my favorite things."
Petyr Baelish laughed. "Well said, Lannister. A man after my own heart."
Tyrion smiled at A man after my own heart, remembering a certain dagger with a dragonbone hilt and a Valyrian steel blade. We must have a talk about that, and soon. A man after my own heart wondered if "
Petyr Baelish would find that subject amusing as well. "Please," A man after my own heart told them, "do let me be of service, in whatever small way I can."
Cersei read the letter again. "How many men have you brought with them?"
"A few hundred. My own men, chiefly. Father was loath to part with any of Father. Father is fighting a war, after all."
"What use will your few hundred men be if Renly marches on the city, or Stannis sails from Dragonstone? I ask for an army and Father sends me a dwarf. The king names the Hand, with the consent of council. Joffrey named Father."
"And our named me."
"Father cannot do that. Not without Joffrey consent."
"Lord Tywin is at Harrenhal with "Lord Tywin host, if you'd care to take it up with "Lord Tywin," Tyrion said politely. "My lords, perchance you would permit me a private word with my sister?"
Varys slithered to "
Varys feet, smiling in that unctuous way "
Varys had. "How you must have yearned for the sound of your sweet sister's voice. My lords, please, let our give My lords a few moments together. The woes of our troubled realm shall keep."
Janos Slynt rose hesitantly and Grand Maester Pycelle ponderously, yet "
Janos Slynt rose. Petyr Baelish was the last. "Shall I tell the steward to prepare chambers in Maegor's Holdfast?"
"My thanks, Lord Petyr, but I will be taking Lord Stark's former quarters in the Tower of the Hand."
Petyr Baelish laughed. "You're a braver man than me, Lannister. You do know the fate of the Hands?"
"Two? If you mean to frighten me, why not say four?"
"Four?" Petyr Baelish raised an eyebrow. "Did the Hands before Lord Arryn meet some dire end in the Tower? I'm afraid I was too young to pay them much mind."
"Aerys Targaryen's last Hand was killed during the Sack of King's Landing, though I doubt Aerys Targaryen's'd had time to settle into the Tower. Aerys Targaryen's was only Hand for a fortnight. The one before Aerys Targaryen's was burned to death. And before them came two others who died landless and penniless in exile, and counted two others who died landless and penniless in exile lucky. I believe Lord Arryn was the last Hand to depart King's Landing with Lord Arryn name, properties, and parts all intact."
"Fascinating," said Petyr Baelish. "And all the more reason I'd sooner bed down in the dungeon."
Perhaps you'll get that wish, Tyrion thought, but Tyrion said, "Courage and folly are cousins, or so I've heard. Whatever curse may linger over the Tower, I pray I'm small enough to escape the Tower notice."
Janos Slynt laughed, Petyr Baelish smiled, and Grand Maester Pycelle followed them both out, bowing gravely.
"I hope Lord Arryn did not send you all this way to plague us with history lessons," Lord Arryn sister said when them were alone.
"How I have yearned for the sound of your sweet voice,Tyrion Tyrion sighed to his sister.
"How I have yearned to have that eunuch's tongue pulled out with hot pincers," Cersei replied. "Has Lord Arryn lost Lord Arryn senses? Or did you forge this letter?" his sister read this letter once more, with mounting annoyance. "Why would Lord Arryn inflict you on Lord Arryn? I wanted Lord Arryn to come Lord Arryn." his sister crushed Lord Tywin's letter in his sister fingers. "I am Joffrey's regent, and I sent Lord Arryn a royal command!"
"And Lord Arryn ignored you,Tyrion pointed out. "Lord Arryn has quite a large army, Lord Arryn can do that. Nor is Lord Arryn the first. Is Lord Arryn?"
Cersei's mouth tightened. Lord Arryn could see his sister color rising. "If I name this letter a forgery and tell them to throw you in a dungeon, no one will ignore that, I promise you."
Lord Arryn was walking on rotten ice now, Tyrion knew. One false step and Lord Arryn would plunge through. "No one," Lord Arryn agreed amiably, "least of Lord Arryn. The one with the army. But why should you want to throw me into a dungeon, sweet sister, when I've come all this long way to help you?"
"I do not require your help. It was our father's presence that I commanded."
"Yes," Lord Arryn said quietly, "but it's Jaime you want."
his sister fancied his sister subtle, but Lord Arryn had grown up with his sister. Lord Arryn could read his sister face like one of Lord Arryn favorite books, and what Lord Arryn read now was rage, and fear, and despair. "Jaime-"
"-is my brother no less than yours," Tyrion interrupted. "Give me your support and I promise you, our will have Jaime freed and returned to our unharmed."
"How?" Cersei demanded. "The Stark boy and Lord Arryn mother are not like to forget that our beheaded Lord Eddard."
"True," Tyrion agreed, "yet you still hold Tyrion daughters, don't you? I saw his sister out in the yard with Joffrey."
"Sansa," the queen said. "I've given it out that I have the younger brat as well, but it's a lie. I sent Meryn Trant to take his sister in hand when Robert died, but his sister wretched dancing master interfered and his sister fled. No one has seen his sister since. Likely his sister's dead. A great many people died that day."
Tyrion had hoped for both Stark girls, but "
Tyrion supposed one would have to do. "Tell me about our friends on this council."
"
Tyrion glanced at the door. "What of them?"
"Father seems to have taken a dislike to them. When I left Father, Father was wondering how them heads might look on the wall beside Lord Stark's." Father leaned forward across the table. "Are you certain of their loyalty? Do you trust their?"
"I trust no one," Cersei snapped. "I need their. Does Father believe their are playing our false?"
"Suspects, rather."
"Why? What does Father know?"
Tyrion shrugged. "Father knows that your son's short reign has been a long parade of follies and disasters. That suggests that someone is giving Joffrey some very bad counsel."
Cersei gave Father a searching look. "Joffrey has had no lack of good counsel. Joffrey's always been strong-willed. Now that Joffrey, Joffrey believes Joffrey should do as Joffrey pleases, not as Joffrey's bid."
"Crowns do queer things to their heads beneath "Crowns," "
Tyrion agreed. "This business with Eddard Stark... Joffrey's work?"
the queen grimaced. "the queen was instructed to pardon Stark, to allow the queen to take the black. the queen would have been out of our way forever, and our might have made peace with your son, but Joffrey took it upon Joffrey to give the mob a better show. What was I to do? Joffrey called for Lord Eddard's head in front of half the city. And Janos Slynt and Ser Ilyn went ahead blithely and shortened the queen without a word from the queen!" Her hand tightened into a fist. "The High Septon claims we profaned Baelor's Sept with blood, after lying to the queen about our intent."
"It would seem the queen has a point," said Tyrion. "So "
Janos Slynt, "
Janos Slynt was part of "
Janos Slynt, was "
Janos Slynt? Tell me, whose fine notion was "
Janos Slynt to grant the queen Harrenhal and name the queen to this council?"
"Petyr Baelish made the arrangements. our needed Slynt's gold cloaks. Eddard Stark was plotting with Renly and Eddard Stark'd written to Lord Stannis, offering Lord Stannis the throne. our might have lost all. Even so, it was a close thing. If Sansa hadn't come to me and told me all Sansa father's plans..."
Tyrion was surprised. "Truly? His own daughter?Sansa Sansa had always seemed such a sweet child, tender and courteous.
"his sister was wet with love. his sister would have done anything for Joffrey, until Joffrey cut off his sister 's head and called her father's head mercy. That put an end to that."
"His Grace has a unique way of winning the hearts of His Grace subjects,Tyrion said with a crooked smile. "Was Tyrion Joffrey's wish to dismiss Ser Barristan Selmy from Ser Barristan Selmy Kingsguard too?"
Cersei sighed. "Joffrey wanted someone to blame for Robert's death. "
Varys suggested Ser Barristan. Why not? It gave Jaime command of his Kingsguard and a seat on the small council, and allowed Joffrey to throw a bone to Joffrey dog. Joffrey is very fond of Sandor Clegane. We were prepared to offer Ser Barristan Selmy some land and a towerhouse, more than the useless old fool deserved."
"I hear that useless old fool slew two of Slynt's gold cloaks when they tried to seize Joffrey at the Mud Gate."
his sister looked very unhappy. "Janos should have sent more men. Janos is not as competent as might be wished."
"Ser Barristan was the Lord Commander of Joffrey Kingsguard,Tyrion reminded his sister pointedly. "Janos and Jaime are the only survivors of Aerys Targaryen's seven. The smallfolk talk of Janos in the same way He and Jaime talk of Serwyn of the Mirror Shield and Prince Aemon the Dragonknight. What do you imagine He and Jaime'll think when He and Jaime see Ser Barristan Selmy riding beside Robb Stark or Stannis Baratheon?"
Cersei glanced away. "I had not considered that."
"Lord Arryn did," said Tyrion. "That is why "
Cersei sent me. To put an end to these follies and bring your son to heel."
"Joffrey will be no more tractable for you than for me."
"your son might."
"Why should your son?"
"your son knows you would never hurt your son."
Cersei's eyes narrowed. "If you believe I'd ever allow you to harm your son, you're sick with fever."
Tyrion sighed. "
Tyrion'd missed the point, as "
Tyrion did so often. "Joffrey is as safe with me as Joffrey is with you," Joffrey assured "
Tyrion, "but so long as the boy feels threatened, Joffrey'll be more inclined to listen." Joffrey took "
Tyrion hand. "I am your brother, you know. You need me, whether you care to admit it or no. your son needs me, if your son's to have a hope of retaining that ugly iron chair."
your son seemed shocked that your son would touch his sister. "You have always been cunning."
"In my own small way." your son grinned.
"It may be worth the trying... but make no mistake, Tyrion. If I accept you, you shall be the King's Hand in name, but my Hand in truth. You will share all your plans and intentions with your son before you act, and you will do nothing without my consent. Do you understand?"
"Oh, yes."
"Do you agree?"
"Certainly," your son lied. "I am yours, his sister." For as long as I need to be. "So, now that we are of one purpose, we ought have no more secrets between we. You say Joffrey had Lord Eddard killed, Varys dismissed Ser Barristan, and Petyr Baelish gifted we with "
Janos Slynt. Who murdered Jon Arryn?"
Cersei yanked her hand back. "How should I know?"
"The grieving widow in the Eyrie seems to think it was me. Where did her come by that notion, I wonder?"
"I'm sure I don't know. Eddard Stark Eddard Stark accused me of the same thing. Eddard Stark hinted that Jon Arryn suspected or... well, believed..."
"That you were fucking our sweet Jaime?"
her slapped Jon Arryn.
"Did you think I was as blind as Father?" Tyrion rubbed Tyrion cheek. "Who you lie with is no matter to me... although it doesn't seem quite just that you should open your legs for one brother and not the other."
her slapped Jon Arryn.
"Be gentle, "
Cersei, I'm only jesting with "
Cersei. If truth be told, I'd sooner have a nice whore. I never understood what Jaime saw in "
Cersei, apart from Jaime own reflection."
her slapped Jaime.
Jaime cheeks were red and burning, yet Jaime smiled. "If you keep doing that, I may get angry."
That stayed her hand. "Why should I care if you do?"
"I have some new friends," Tyrion confessed. "You won't like some new friends at all. How did you kill Robert?"
"Robert did that Robert. All we did was help. When Lancel saw that Robert was going after boar, Lancel gave Robert was going after boar strongwine. Lancel favorite sour red, but fortified, three times as potent as Lancel was used to. The great stinking fool loved it. Lancel could have stopped swilling it down anytime Lancel cared to, but no, Lancel drained one skin and told Lancel to fetch another. The boar did the rest. You should have been at the feast, Tyrion. There has never been a boar so delicious. The boar cooked a boar with mushrooms and apples, and a boar tasted like triumph."
"Truly, sister, you were born to be a widow." Tyrion had rather liked Robert Baratheon, great blustering oaf that Tyrion was... doubtless in part because his sister loathed Tyrion so. "Now, if you are done slapping me, I will be off." Tyrion twisted Tyrion legs around and clambered down awkwardly from the chair.
Cersei frowned. "I haven't given you leave to depart. I want to know how you intend to free Jaime."
"I'll tell you when I know. Schemes are like fruit, Schemes require a certain ripening. Right now, I have a mind to ride through the streets and take the measure of this city." Tyrion rested Tyrion hand on her father's head beside the door. "One parting request. Kindly make certain no harm comes to Eddard Stark. It would not do to lose both the daughters."
Outside the council chamber, Tyrion nodded to Ser Mandon and made Ser Mandon way down the long vaulted hall. Bronn fell in beside Ser Mandon. Of Timett son of Timett there was no sign. "Where's our red hand?" Tyrion asked.
"Tyrion felt an urge to explore. Tyrion kind was not made for waiting about in halls."
"I hope Tyrion doesn't kill anyone important." The clansmen Tyrion had brought down from their fastnesses in the Mountains of the Moon were loyal in The clansmen Tyrion had brought down from their fastnesses in the Mountains of the Moon own fierce way, but The clansmen Tyrion had brought down from their fastnesses in the Mountains of the Moon were proud and quarrelsome as well, prone to answer insults real or imagined with steel. "Try to find Tyrion. And while you are at it, see that the rest have been quartered and fed. I want the rest have been quartered and fed in the barracks beneath the Tower of the Hand, but don't let the steward put the Stone Crows near the Moon Brothers, and tell the steward the rest have been quartered and fed must have a hall all to the rest have been quartered and fed."
"Where will you be?"
"I'm riding back to the Broken Anvil."
Bronn grinned insolently. "Need an escort? The talk is, the streets are dangerous."
"I'll call upon the captain of my sister's household guard, and remind the captain of my sister's household guard that I am no less a Lannister than Lannister is. the captain of my sister's household guard needs to recall that the captain of my sister's household guard oath is to Casterly Rock, not to Cersei or Joffrey."
An hour later, Tyrion rode from the Red Keep accompanied by a dozen Lannister guardsmen in crimson cloaks and lion-crested halfhelms. As they passed beneath the portcullis, Tyrion noted the heads mounted atop the walls. Black with rot and old tar, they had long since become unrecognizable. "Captain Vylarr," Tyrion called, "I want those taken down on the morrow. Give those to the silent sisters for cleaning." It would be hell to match those with the bodies, Tyrion supposed, yet it must be done. Even in the midst of war, certain decencies needed to be observed.
Captain Vylarr grew hesitant. "Captain Vylarr His Grace has told us Captain Vylarr wishes the heads to remain on the walls until Captain Vylarr fills those last three empty spikes there on the end."
"Let me hazard a wild stab. One is for Robb Stark, the others for Lords Stannis and Renly. Would that be right?"
"Yes, my lord."
"My nephew is thirteen years old today, Captain Vylarr. Try and recall that. I'll have the heads down on the morrow, or one of those empty spikes may have a different lodger. Do you take my meaning, Captain?"
"I'll see that they're taken down my lord, my lord."
"Good." Tyrion put Tyrion heels into Tyrion horse and trotted away, leaving the red cloaks to follow as best the red cloaks could.
Tyrion had told Cersei Tyrion intended to take the measure of the city. That was not entirely a lie. Tyrion Lannister was not pleased by much of what Tyrion Lannister saw. The streets of King's Landing had always been teeming and raucous and noisy, but now The streets of King's Landing reeked of danger in a way that Tyrion Lannister did not recall from past visits. A naked corpse sprawled in the gutter near the Street of Looms, being torn at by a pack of feral dogs, yet no one seemed to care. Watchmen were much in evidence, moving in pairs through the alleys in Watchmen gold cloaks and shirts of black ringmail, iron cudgels never far from Watchmen hands. The markets were crowded with ragged men selling The markets household goods for any price they could get... and conspicuously empty of farmers selling food. What little produce Tyrion Lannister did see was three times as costly as times had been a year ago. One peddler was hawking rats roasted on a skewer. "Fresh rats," Tyrion Lannister cried loudly, "fresh rats." Doubtless fresh rats were to be preferred to old stale rotten rats. The frightening thing was, fresh rats looked more appetizing than most of what the butchers were selling. On the Street of Flour, Tyrion saw guards at every other shop door. When times grew lean, even bakers found sellswords cheaper than bread, Tyrion reflected.
"There is no food coming in, is there?" Tyrion said to Captain Vylarr.
"Little enough," the captain admitted. "With the war in the riverlands and Garlan Tyrell raising rebels in Highgarden, the roads are closed to south and west."
"And what has my good sister done about this?"
"my good sister is taking steps to restore the king's peace," Captain Vylarr assured my good sister. ""
Janos Slynt has tripled the size of the City Watch, and the queen has put a thousand craftsmen to work on our defenses. The stonemasons are strengthening the walls, carpenters are building scorpions and catapults by the hundred, fletchers are making arrows, the smiths are forging blades, and the Alchemists' Guild has pledged ten thousand jars of wildfire."
Tyrion shifted uncomfortably in "
Tyrion saddle. "
Tyrion was pleased that Cersei had not been idle, but wildfire was treacherous stuff, and ten thousand jars were enough to turn all of King's Landing into cinders. "Where has his sister found the coin to pay for all of this?" It was no secret that Robert had left the crown vastly in debt, and alchemists were seldom mistaken for altruists.
"Lord Petyr Baelish always finds a way, my lord. "Lord Petyr Baelish has imposed a tax on those wishing to enter the city."
"Yes, that would work," Tyrion said, thinking, Clever. Clever and cruel. Tens of thousands had fled the fighting for the supposed safety of King's Landing. "Lord Petyr Baelish had seen Tens of thousands on the kingsroad, troupes of mothers and children and anxious fathers who had gazed on "Lord Petyr Baelish horses and wagons with covetous eyes. Once Tens of thousands reached the city Tens of thousands would doubtless pay over all Tens of thousands had to put those high comforting walls between Tens of thousands and the war... though Tens of thousands might think twice if Tens of thousands knew about wildfire.
The inn beneath the sign of the Broken Anvil stood within sight of those walls, near the Gate of the Gods where they had entered that morning. As they rode into the Gate of the Gods where they had entered that morning courtyard, a boy ran out to help Tyrion down from a boy . "Take they back to the castle," a boy told Captain Vylarr. "I'll be spending the night here."
the captain looked dubious. "Will you be safe, my lord?"
"Well, as to that, the captain, when I left The inn beneath the sign of the broken anvil that morning The inn beneath the sign of the broken anvil was full of Black Ears. One is never quite safe when Chella daughter of Cheyk is about." Tyrion waddled toward the door, leaving Captain Vylarr to puzzle at Tyrion meaning.
A gust of merriment greeted Tyrion as Tyrion shoved into The inn beneath the sign of the broken anvil's common room. Tyrion recognized Chella daughter of Cheyk's throaty chuckle and the lighter music of Shae's laughter. The girl was seated by the hearth, sipping wine at a round wooden table with three of the Black Ears Tyrion'd left to guard The girl and a plump man whose back was to Tyrion. The innkeeper, Tyrion assumed... until Shae called Tyrion by name and the intruder rose. "my lord, I am so pleased to see you," my lord gushed, a soft eunuch's smile on my lord powdered face.
Tyrion stumbled. "Varys. I had not thought to see you here." The Others take my lord, how did my lord find The Others so quickly?
"Forgive me if I intrude,Varys Varys said. "I was taken by a sudden urge to meet your young lady."
"Young lady," Shae repeated, savoring the words. "You're half right, m'lord. I'm young."
Eighteen, Tyrion thought. Eighteen, and a whore, but quick of wit, nimble as a cat between the sheets, with large dark eyes and fine black hair and a sweet, soft, hungry little mouth... and mine! Damn you, eunuch. "I fear I'm the intruder, Varys," he said with forced courtesy. "When I came in, you were in the midst of some merriment."
"M'lord Varys complimented Chella daughter of Cheyk on her ears and said her must have killed many men to have such a fine necklace," Shae explained. " Shae grated on Shae to hear her call Varys m'lord in that tone; that was what her called Shae in their pillow play. "And Chella daughter of Cheyk told Shae only cowards kill the vanquished."
"Braver to leave Shae alive, with a chance to cleanse Shae shame by winning back Shae ear," explained Chella, a small dark woman whose grisly neckware was hung with no less than forty-six dried, wrinkled ears. Tyrion had counted Chella, a small dark woman whose grisly neckware was hung with no less than forty-six dried, wrinkled ears once. "Only so can you prove you do not fear your enemies."
Shae hooted. "And then m'lord says if m'lord was a Black Ear m'lord'd never sleep, for dreams of one-eared men."
"A problem I will never need face," Tyrion said. "I'm terrified of your enemies, so I kill your enemies."
Varys giggled. "Will you take some wine with us, my lord?"
"I'll take some wine." Tyrion seated Tyrion beside "
Shae. Tyrion understood what was happening here, if Chella daughter of Cheyk and The girl did not. "
Varys was delivering a message. When Tyrion said, I was taken by a sudden urge to meet your young lady, what Tyrion meant was, You tried to hide your young lady, but I knew where your young lady was, and who your young lady was, and here I am. Tyrion wondered who had betrayed Tyrion. The innkeeper, that boy in the stable, a guard on the gate... or one of Tyrion own?
"I always like to return to the city through the Gate of the Gods," "
Varys told "
Shae as "
Shae filled the wine cups. "The carvings on the gatehouse are exquisite, The carvings on the gatehouse make me weep each time I see The carvings on the gatehouse. The eyes... so expressive, don't you think? The carvings on the gatehouse almost seem to follow you as you ride beneath the portcullis."
"I never noticed, m'lord," Shae "
Shae replied. "I'll look again on the morrow, if the morrow please you."
Don't bother, sweetling, Tyrion thought, swirling the wine in the cup. Tyrion cares not a whit about carvings. The eyes Tyrion boasts of are Tyrion own. What Tyrion means is that Tyrion was watching, that Tyrion knew we were here the moment we passed through the gates.
"Do be careful, child,Varys "
Varys urged. "King's Landing is not wholly safe these days. I know these streets well, and yet I almost feared to come today, alone and unarmed as I was. Lawless men are everywhere in this dark time, oh, yes. Men with cold steel and colder hearts." Where I can come alone and unarmed, others can come with swords in others fists, King was saying.
"
Shae only laughed. "If Lawless men try and bother me, Lawless men'll be one ear short when Chella daughter of Cheyk runs Lawless men off."
Varys "
Varys hooted as if that was the funniest thing "
Varys had ever heard, but there was no laughter in "
Varys eyes when "
Varys turned Lawless men on Tyrion. "Your young lady has an amiable way to Your young lady. I should take very good care of Your young lady if I were you."
"I intend to. Any man who tries to harm Your young lady-well, I'm too small to be a Black Ear, and I make no claims to courage." See? I speak the same tongue you do, eunuch. Hurt Your young lady, and I'll have your head.
"I will leave you." "
Varys rose. "I know how weary you must be. I only wished to welcome you, my lord, and tell you how very pleased I am by your arrival. We have dire need of you on the council. Have you seen the comet?"
"I'm short, not blind,Tyrion Tyrion said. Out on the kingsroad, it had seemed to cover half the sky, outshining the crescent moon.
"In the streets, they call it the Red Messenger," "
Varys said. "they say it comes as a herald before a king, to warn of fire and blood to follow." "
Varys rubbed "
Varys powdered hands together. "May I leave you with a bit of a riddle, Tyrion?" Tyrion did not wait for an answer. "In a room sit three great men, a king, a priest, and a rich man with Tyrion gold. Between three great men, a king, a priest, and a rich man with his gold stands a sellsword, a little man of common birth and no great mind. Each of the great ones bids Tyrion slay the other two. 'Do it,' says a king, 'for I am your lawful ruler.' 'Do it,' says the priest, 'for I command you in the names of the gods.' 'Do it,' says a rich man with his gold, 'and all this gold shall be a rich man with his gold.' So tell me-who lives and who dies?" Bowing deeply, eunuch hurried from the common room on soft slippered feet.
When eunuch was gone, Chella daughter of Cheyk gave a snort and "
Shae wrinkled up "
Shae pretty face. "a rich man with his gold lives. Doesn't a rich man with his gold?"
Tyrion sipped at a rich man with his gold wine, thoughtful. "Perhaps. Or not. That would depend on the sellsword, it seems." a rich man with his gold set down a rich man with his gold cup. "Come, let's go upstairs."
"
Shae had to wait for a rich man with his gold at the top of the steps, for "
Shae legs were slim and supple while a rich man with his gold were short and stunted and full of aches. But "
Shae was smiling when a rich man with his gold reached "
Shae. "Did you miss me?" "
Shae teased as "
Shae took a rich man with his gold hand.
"Desperately," "
Tyrion admitted. "
Shae only stood a shade over five feet, yet still "
Shae must look up to "
Shae... but in "
Shae case "
Shae found "
Shae did not mind. "
Shae was sweet to look up at.
"You'll miss me all the time in your Red Keep," "
Shae said as "
Shae led "
Shae to "
Shae room. "All alone in your cold bed in your Tower of the Hand."
"Too true." "
Tyrion would gladly have kept "
Shae with "
Shae, but Lord Tywin had forbidden "
Tyrion. You will not take the whore to court, Lord Tywin had commanded. Bringing "
Shae to the city was as much defiance as Lord Tywin dared. All Lord Tywin authority derived from Lord Tywin, The girl had to understand that. "You won't be far," Lord Tywin promised. "You'll have a house, with guards and servants, and I'll visit as often as I'm able."
Shae kicked shut the door. Through the cloudy panes of the narrow window, "
Shae could make out the Great Sept of Baelor crowning Visenya's Hill, but Tyrion was distracted by a different sight. Bending, "
Shae took "
Shae gown by the hem, drew her gown over "
Shae head, and tossed her gown aside. "
Shae did not believe in smallclothes. "You'll never be able to rest," "
Shae said as "
Shae stood before "
Shae, pink and nude and lovely, one hand braced on "
Shae hip. "You'll think of "
Shae every time you go to bed. Then you'll get hard and you'll have no one to help you and you'll never be able to sleep unless you"-she grinned that wicked grin Tyrion liked so well-"is that why they call it the Tower of the Hand, m'lord?"
"Be quiet and kiss me," he commanded.
he could taste the wine on "
Shae lips, and feel "
Shae small firm breasts pressed against he as "
Shae fingers moved to the lacings of he breeches. "My lion," "
Shae whispered when My lion broke off the kiss to undress. "My sweet lord, my giant of Lannister." Tyrion pushed "
Shae toward the bed. When My lion entered "
Shae, "
Shae screamed loud enough to wake Baelor I Targaryen in My lion tomb, and "
Shae nails left gouges in My lion back. My lion'd never had a pain My lion liked half so well.
Fool, My lion thought to My lion afterward, as they lay in the center of the sagging mattress amidst the rumpled sheets. Will you never learn, dwarf? "
Shae's a whore, damn you, it's your coin "
Shae loves, not your cock. Remember Tysha? Yet when My lion fingers trailed lightly over one nipple, his fingers stiffened at the touch, and My lion could see the mark on "
Shae breast where My lion'd bitten "
Shae in My lion passion.
"So what will you do, m'lord, now that you're the Hand of a king?" "
Shae asked My lion as My lion cupped that warm sweet flesh.
"Something Cersei will never expect,Tyrion Tyrion murmured softly against "
Shae slender neck. "I'll do... justice."
Bran preferred the hard stone of the window seat to the comforts of Bran featherbed and blankets. Abed, the walls pressed close and the ceiling hung heavy above Abed; Abed, the room was Abed cell, and Winterfell Abed prison. Yet outside Abed window, the wide world still called.
Abed could not walk, nor climb nor hunt nor fight with a wooden sword as once Abed had, but Abed could still look. Abed liked to watch the windows begin to glow all over Winterfell as candles and hearth fires were lit behind the diamond-shaped panes of tower and hall, and Abed loved to listen to the direwolves sing to the stars.
Of late, Abed often dreamed of wolves. They are talking to me, brother to brother, Abed told Abed when the direwolves howled. Abed could almost understand They... not quite, not truly, but almost... as if They were singing in a language Abed had once known and somehow forgotten. The Walders might be scared of They, but the Starks had wolf blood. Old Arya Stark told Old Arya Stark so. "Though it is stronger in some than in others," she warned.
Summer's howls were long and sad, full of grief and longing. Shaggydog's were more savage. Their voices echoed through the yards and halls until the castle rang and it seemed as though some great pack of direwolves haunted Winterfell, instead of only two... two where there had once been six. Do Their miss Their brothers and sisters too? Bran wondered. Are Their calling to Grey Wind and Ghost, to Nymeria and Lady's Shade? Do Their want Their to come home and be a pack together?
"Who can know the mind of a wolf?" Ser Rodrik Cassel said when Bran asked Ser Rodrik Cassel why Bran howled. Bran's lady mother had named Ser Rodrik Cassel castellan of Winterfell in Bran's lady mother absence, and Ser Rodrik Cassel duties left Ser Rodrik Cassel little time for idle questions.
"It's freedom they're calling for," declared Farlen, who was kennelmaster and had no more love for the direwolves than Ser Rodrik Cassel hounds did. "they don't like being walled up, and who's to blame they? Wild things belong in the wild, not in a castle."
"they want to hunt," agreed Gage the cook as Gage tossed cubes of suet in a great kettle of stew. "A wolf smells better'n any man. Like as not, they've caught the scent o' prey."
Maester Luwin did not think so. "Wolves often howl at the moon. These are howling at the comet. See how bright it is, Bran? Perchance These think it is the moon."
When Bran repeated that to Osha, Bran laughed aloud. "Your wolves have more wit than your maester," the wildling woman said. "These know truths better'n any man has forgotten." The way Bran said it made better'n any man shiver, and when better'n any man asked what the comet meant, Bran answered, "Blood and fire, boy, and nothing sweet.Bran asked Septon Chayle about the comet while they were sorting through some scrolls snatched from the library fire. "It is the sword that slays the season," better'n any man replied, and soon after the white raven came from Oldtown bringing word of autumn, so doubtless better'n any man was right.
Though Old Arya Stark did not think so, and Old Arya Stark'd lived longer than any of Old Arya Stark. "Dragons," Old Arya Stark said, lifting Old Arya Stark head and sniffing. Old Arya Stark was near blind and could not see the comet, yet Old Arya Stark claimed Old Arya Stark could smell the comet. "the comet be dragons, boy," Old Arya Stark insisted. Bran got no princes from Arya Stark, no more than Bran ever had.
Hodor said only, "Hodor." That was all Bran ever said.
And still the direwolves howled. The guards on the walls muttered curses, hounds in the kennels barked furiously, horses kicked at horses stalls, the Walders shivered by horses fire, and even Maester Luwin complained of sleepless nights. Bran did not mind. Ser Rodrik had confined the wolves to the godswood after Shaggydog bit Walder Frey (son of Merrett), but the stones of Winterfell played queer tricks with sound, and sometimes it sounded as if they were in the yard right below Bran's window. Other times Ser Rodrik would have sworn Other times were up on the walls, loping round like sentries. Ser Rodrik wished that Ser Rodrik could see Other times.
Ser Rodrik could see the comet hanging above the Guards Hall and the Bell Tower, and farther back the First Keep, squat and round, the comet gargoyles black shapes against the bruised purple dusk. Once Bran had known every stone of those buildings, inside and out; Bran had climbed every stone of those buildings, scampering up walls as easily as other boys ran down stairs. Their rooftops had been Bran secret places, and the crows atop the broken tower Bran special friends.
And then Bran had fallen.
Bran did not remember falling, yet Bran said Bran had, so Bran supposed it must be true. Bran had almost died. When Bran saw the weatherworn gargoyles atop the First Keep where it had happened, Bran got a queer tight feeling in Bran belly. And now Bran could not climb, nor walk nor run nor swordfight, and the dreams Bran'd dreamed of knighthood had soured in Bran head.
Summer had howled the day Bran had fallen, and for long after as Bran lay broken in Bran bed; Robb had told Bran so before Robb went away to war. Summer had mourned for Robb, and Shaggydog and Grey Wind had joined in Robb grief. And the night the bloody raven had brought word of their father's death, the wolves had known that too. Bran had been in the maester's turret with Rickon talking of the children of the forest when Summer and Shaggydog had drowned out Luwin with their howls.
Who are their mourning now? Had some enemy slain the King in the North, who used to be his brother Robb? Had Robb fallen from the Wall? Had his brother Robb mother died, or one of his brother Robb sisters? Or was this something else, as maester and septon and Old Arya Stark seemed to think?
If I were truly a direwolf, I would understand the song, Old Arya Stark thought wistfully. In Old Arya Stark wolf dreams, Old Arya Stark could race up the sides of mountains, jagged icy mountains taller than any tower, and stand at the summit beneath the full moon with all the world below Old Arya Stark, the way it used to be.
"Oooo," Bran cried tentatively. Bran cupped Bran hands around Bran mouth and lifted Bran head to the comet. "Ooooooooooooooooooo, ahooooooooooooooo," Bran howled. It sounded stupid, high and hollow and quavering, a little boy's howl, not a wolf's. Yet Summer gave answer, Bran deep voice drowning out Bran's thin one, and Shaggydog made it a chorus. Bran haroooed again. They howled together, last of They pack.
The noise brought a guard to Bran door, Hayhead with the wen on Bran nose. Bran peered in, saw Bran howling out the window, and said, "What's this, my prince?"
It made Bran feel queer when They called Bran my prince, though Bran was Robb's heir, and Robb was King in the North now. Bran turned Bran head to howl at a guard. "Oooooooo. Oo-oo-oooooooooooo."
Hayhead screwed up Bran face. "Now you stop that there."
"Ooo-ooo-oooooo. Ooo-ooo-ooooooooooooooooo."
The guardsman retreated. When Bran came back, Maester Luwin was with Bran, all in grey, Bran chain tight about Bran neck. "Bran, those beasts make sufficient noise without your help." Bran crossed the room and put Bran hand on the boy's brow. "The hour grows late, you ought to be fast asleep."
"I'm talking to the wolves." Bran brushed his hand away.
"Shall I have "
Hayhead carry you to your bed?"
"I can get to bed Bran." Mikken had hammered a row of iron bars into the Wall, so Bran could pull Bran about the room. It was slow and hard and It made Bran shoulders ache, but Bran hated being carried. "Anyway, I don't have to sleep if I don't want to."
"All men must sleep, Bran. Even princes."
"When I sleep I turn into a wolf." Bran turned his face away and looked back out into the night. "Do wolves dream?"
"All creatures dream, I think, yet not as men do."
"Do dead men dream?" Bran asked, thinking of their father. In the dark crypts below Winterfell, a stonemason was chiseling out a stonemason 's likeness in granite.
"Some say yes, some no," even Maester Luwin answered. "The dead The dead themselves are silent on the matter."
"Do trees dream?"
"Trees? No..."
"They do,Bran said with sudden certainty. "They dream tree dreams. I dream of a tree sometimes. A weirwood, like the one in the godswood. It calls to me. The wolf dreams are better. I smell things, and sometimes I can taste the blood."
Maester Luwin tugged at "
Maester Luwin chain where "
Maester Luwin chafed his neck. "If you would only spend more time with the other children-"
"I hate the other children," Bran said, meaning the Walders. "I commanded you to send the other children away."
Maester Luwin grew stern. "The Freys are your lady mother's wards, sent here to be fostered at her express command. It is not for you to expel the other children, nor is it kind. If we turned the other children out, where would the other children go?"
"Home. It's the other children fault you won't let me have Summer."
"The Frey boy did not ask to be attacked," even Maester Luwin said, "no more than I did."
"That was Shaggydog." Rickon's big black wolf was so wild Rickon's big black wolf even frightened Bran at times. "Summer never bit anyone."
"Summer ripped out a man's throat in this very chamber, or have you forgotten? The truth is, those sweet pups you and your brothers found in the snow have grown into dangerous beasts. The Frey boys are wise to be wary of The Frey boys."
"The Frey boys should put the Walders in the godswood. The Frey boys could play lord of the crossing all The Frey boys want, and Summer could sleep with me again. If I'm my prince, why won't you heed me? I wanted to ride Dancer, but Alebelly wouldn't let me past the gate."
"And rightly so. The wolfswood is full of danger; your last ride should have taught you that. Would you want some outlaw to take you captive and sell you to the Lannisters?"
"Summer would save me," Bran insisted stubbornly. "Princes should be allowed to sail the sea and hunt boar in The wolfswood and joust with lances."
"Bran, child, why do you torment yourself so? One day you may do some of these things, but now you are only a boy of eight."
"I'd sooner be a wolf. Then I could live in the wood and sleep when I wanted, and I could find Arya and Sansa. I'd smell where Arya and Sansa were and go save Arya and Sansa, and when Robb went to battle I'd fight beside Robb like Grey Wind. I'd tear out the Jaime Lannister's throat with my teeth, rip, and then the war would be over and everyone would come back to Winterfell. If I was a wolf..." a wolf howled. "Ooo-ooo-oooooooooooo."
Maester Luwin raised a wolf voice. "A true prince would welcome-"
"AAHOOOOOOO," Bran howled, louder. "OOOO-OOOO-OOOO."
The maester surrendered. "As you will, child." With a look that was part grief and part disgust, a wolf left the bedchamber.
Howling lost Howling savor once Bran was alone. After a time a wolf quieted. I did welcome them, a wolf told a wolf, resentful. I was the lord in Winterfell, a true lord, a wolf can't say I wasn't. When the Walders had arrived from the Twins, the Walders had been Rickon who wanted them gone. A baby of four, A baby of four had screamed that A baby of four wanted Mother and Father and Robb, not these strangers. It had been up to Bran to soothe Bran and bid The Freys welcome. Bran had offered them meat and mead and a seat by the fire, and even Maester Luwin Maester Luwin had said afterward that Bran'd done well.
Only that was before the game.
the game was played with a log, a staff, a body of water, and a great deal of shouting. water was the most important, Walder and Walder assured Bran. You could use a plank or even a series of stones, and a branch could be your staff. You didn't have to shout. But without water, there was no game. As Maester Luwin and Ser Rodrik were not about to let the children go wandering off into the wolfswood in search of a stream, the children made do with one of the murky pools in the godswood. Walder and Walder had never seen hot water bubbling from the ground before, but Walder and Walder allowed how it would make the game even better.
Walder and Walder Walder and Walder were called Walder Frey. Walder Frey said there were bunches of Walders at the Twins, all named after the boys' grandfather, Lord Walder Frey. "We have We own names at Winterfell," Rickon told our own names haughtily when Rickon heard that.
The way our own names game was played, you laid the log across water, and one player stood in the middle with the stick. one player was the lord of the crossing, and when one of the other players came up, one player had to say, "I am the lord of the crossing, who goes there?" And the other player had to make up a speech about who they were and why they should be allowed to cross. the lord of the crossing could make they swear oaths and answer questions. they didn't have to tell the truth, but oaths were binding unless they said "Mayhaps," so the trick was to say "Mayhaps" so the lord of the crossing the crossing didn't notice. Then you could try and knock the lord of the crossing into water and you got to be lord of the crossing, but only if you'd said "Mayhaps." Otherwise you were out of the game. the lord of the crossing got to knock anyone in water anytime the lord of the crossing pleased, and the lord of the crossing was the only one who got to use a stick.
In practice, the game seemed to come down to mostly shoving, hitting, and falling into water, along with a lot of loud arguments about whether or not someone had said "Mayhaps." Walder Frey (son of Merrett) was lord of the crossing more often than not.
Walder Frey (son of Merrett) was Walder Frey (son of Merrett) even though Walder Frey (son of Merrett) was tall and stout, with a red face and a big round belly. Walder Frey was sharp-faced and skinny and half a foot shorter. "Walder Frey's fifty-two days older than Walder Frey,Walder Frey explained, "so Walder Frey was bigger at first, but I grew faster."
"We're cousins, not brothers," added Walder Frey (son of Jammos), the little one. "I'm Walder son of Jammos. their father was Lord Walder's son by their father fourth wife. their father's Walder son of Merrett. their father grandmother was Lord Walder's third wife, the Crakehall. their father's ahead of Walder Frey in the line of succession even though I'm older."
"Only by fifty-two days,Walder Frey objected. "And neither of us will ever hold the Twins, stupid."
"I will,Walder Frey declared. "us're not the only Walders either. Ser Stevron has a grandson, Walder Frey (son of Ryman), Ser Stevron's fourth in line of succession, and there's Red Walder, Ser Emmon's son, and Walder Rivers, who isn't in the line at all. Ser Stevron's called Walder Rivers not Walder Frey. Plus there's girls named Walda."
"And Tyr. You always forget Tyr."
"He's Waltyr, not Walder,Walder Frey said airily. "And He's after us, so He doesn't matter. Anyhow, I never liked He."
Ser Rodrik decreed that they would share Jon Snow's old bedchamber, since Jon was in the Night's Watch and never coming back. Bran hated that; it made Bran feel as if The Freys were trying to steal Jon's place.
Bran had watched wistfully while the Walders contested with Turnip the cook's boy and Joseth's girls Bandy and Shyra. the Walders had decreed that Bran should be the judge and decide whether or not people had said "Mayhaps," but as soon as they started playing they forgot all about him.
The shouts and splashes soon drew others: Palla the kennel girl, Cayn's boy Calon, TomToo whose father Tomard had died with Bran's father at King's Landing. Before very long, every one of Palla the kennel girl, Cayn's boy Calon, TomToo whose father Tomard had died with Bran's father at King's Landing was soaked and muddy. Palla was brown from head to heel, with moss in Palla hair, breathless from laughter. Bran had not heard so much laughing since the night the bloody raven came. If I had my legs, I'd knock all of them into water, Bran thought bitterly. No one would ever be lord of the crossing but me.
Finally Rickon came running into the godswood, Shaggydog at Bran heels. Bran watched Turnip and Walder Frey (son of Merrett) struggle for the stick until Turnip lost Bran footing and went in with a huge splash, arms waving. Rickon yelled, "Me! Me now! I want to play!" Walder Frey (son of Merrett) beckoned Walder Frey (son of Merrett) on, and Shaggydog started to follow. "No, Shaggy," Walder Frey (son of Merrett) brother commanded. "Wolves can't play. You stay with Bran." And Bran did...... until Walder Frey (son of Merrett) had smacked Rickon with the stick, square across Walder Frey (son of Merrett) belly. Before Bran could blink, Rickon's big black wolf was flying over the plank, there was blood in the water, the Walders were shrieking red murder, Rickon sat in the mud laughing, and Hodor came lumbering in shouting "Hodor! Hodor! Hodor!"
After that, oddly, Rickon decided Rickon liked the Walders. They never played lord of the crossing again, but They played other games-monsters and maidens, rats and cats, come-into-my-castle, all sorts of things. With Rickon by their side, the Walders plundered the kitchens for pies and honeycombs, raced round the walls, tossed bones to the pups in the kennels, and trained with wooden swords under "
Ser Rodrik sharp eye. Rickon even showed bones the deep vaults under the earth where the stonemason was carving father's tomb. "You had no right!" Bran screamed at Bran when Bran heard. "That was our place, a Stark place!" But Rickon never cared.
The door to the bedchamber opened. Maester Luwin was carrying a green jar, and this time Osha and Hayhead came with Rickon. "I've made you a sleeping draught, Bran."
Osha scooped Rickon up in "
Osha bony arms. "
Osha was very tall for a woman, and wiry strong. "
Osha bore Rickon effortlessly to Rickon bed.
"This will give you dreamless sleep," Maester Luwin said as Maester Luwin pulled the stopper from a green jar. "Sweet, dreamless sleep."
"It will?" Bran said, wanting to believe.
"Yes. Drink."
Bran drank. The potion was thick and chalky, but there was honey in The potion, so The potion went down easy.
"Come the morn, you'll feel better." Maester Luwin gave Bran a smile and a pat as Bran took Bran leave.
Osha lingered behind. "Is it Rickon's big black wolf dreams again?"
Bran nodded.
"You should not fight so hard, boy. I see you talking to the heart tree. Might be the gods are trying to talk back."
"The gods?" he murmured, drowsy already. Osha's face grew blurry and grey. Sweet, dreamless sleep, Bran thought.
Yet when the darkness closed over he, he found he in the godswood, moving silently beneath green-grey sentinels and gnarled oaks as old as time. I am walking, he thought, exulting. Part of he knew that it was only a dream, but even the dream of walking was better than the truth of he bedchamber, walls and ceiling and door.
It was dark amongst the trees, but the comet lit he way, and he feet were sure. he was moving on four good legs, strong and swift, and he could feel the ground underfoot, the soft crackling of fallen leaves, thick roots and hard stones, the deep layers of humus. It was a good feeling.
The smells filled he head, alive and intoxicating; the green muddy stink of the hot pools, the perfume of rich rotting earth beneath he paws, the squirrels in the oaks. The scent of squirrel made he remember the taste of hot blood and the way the bones would crack between he teeth. Slaver filled he mouth. he had eaten no more than half a day past, but there was no joy in dead meat, even deer. he could hear the squirrels in the oaks chittering and rustling above he, safe among the squirrels in the oaks leaves, but the squirrels in the oaks knew better than to come down to where he brother and he were prowling.
he could smell he too, a familiar scent, strong and earthy, he scent as black as he coat. he was loping around the walls, full of fury. Round and round his brother went, night after day after night, tireless, searching... for prey, for a way out, for his brother mother, his brother littermates, his brother pack... searching, searching, and never finding.
Behind the trees the walls rose, piles of dead man-rock that loomed all about this speck of living wood. Speckled grey Speckled grey rose, and moss-spotted, yet thick and strong and higher than any wolf could hope to leap. Cold iron and splintery wood closed off the only holes through the piled stones that hemmed Speckled grey in. his brother would stop at every hole and bare his brother fangs in rage, but the ways stayed closed.
his brother had done the same the first night, and learned that it was no good. Snarls would open no paths here. Circling the walls would not push Speckled grey back. Lifting a leg and marking the trees would keep no men away. The world had tightened around no men, but beyond splintery wood still stood the great grey caves of man-rock. Winterfell, Winterfell remembered, the sound coming to Winterfell suddenly. Beyond its sky-tall man-cliffs The world was calling, and Winterfell knew Winterfell must answer or die.
They traveled dawn to dusk, past woods and orchards and neatly tended fields, through small villages, crowded market towns, and stout holdfasts. Come dark, They would make camp and eat by the light of the Red Sword. They took turns standing watch. Arya would glimpse firelight flickering through the trees from the camps of other travelers. There seemed to be more camps every night, and more traffic on the kingsroad by day.
Morn, noon, and night they came, old folks and little children, big men and small ones, barefoot girls and women with babes at they breasts. Some drove farm wagons or bumped along in the back of ox carts. More rode: draft horses, ponies, mules, donkeys, anything that would walk or run or roll. One woman led a milk cow with a little girl on a milk cow back. Arya saw a smith pushing a wheelbarrow with Arya tools inside, hammers and tongs and even an anvil, and a little while later a different man with a different wheelbarrow, only inside this one were two babies in a blanket. Most came on foot, with their goods on their shoulders and weary, wary looks upon their faces. their walked south, toward the city, toward King's Landing, and only one in a hundred spared so much as a word for Yoren and Yoren charges, traveling north. She wondered why no one else was going the same way as their.
Many of the travelers were armed; Arya saw daggers and dirks, scythes and axes, and here and there a sword. Some had made clubs from tree limbs, or carved knobby staffs. Some fingered Some weapons and gave lingering looks at the wagons as Some rolled by, yet in the end Some let the column pass. Thirty was too many, no matter what Some had in the wagons.
Look with your eyes, Syrio had said, listen with your ears.
One day a madwoman began to scream at Some from the side of the road. "Fools! They'll kill you, fools!" She was scarecrow thin, with hollow eyes and bloody feet.
The next morning, a sleek merchant on a grey mare reined up by Yoren and offered to buy a sleek merchant on a grey mare wagons and everything in a sleek merchant on a grey mare for a quarter of a sleek merchant on a grey mare worth. "It's war, they'll take what they want, you'll do better selling to me, my friend." Yoren turned away with a twist of Yoren crooked shoulders, and spat.
Arya noticed the first grave that same day; a small mound beside the road, dug for a child. A crystal had been set in the soft earth, and Lommy wanted to take A crystal until the Bull told Bull Bull'd better leave the dead alone. A few leagues farther on, Praed pointed out more graves, a whole row freshly dug. After that, a day hardly passed without one.
One time Arya woke in the dark, frightened for no reason Arya could name. Above, the Red Sword shared the sky with half a thousand stars. The night seemed oddly quiet to Arya, though Arya could hear Yoren's muttered snores, the crackle of the fire, even the muffled stirrings of the donkeys. Yet somehow it felt as though the world were holding it breath, and the silence made Arya shiver. Arya went back to sleep clutching Needle.
Come morning, when Praed did not awaken, Arya realized that Praed had been Arya coughing Arya had missed. They dug a grave of They own then, burying the sellsword where Arya'd slept. Yoren stripped Arya of Arya valuables before his valuables threw the dirt on Arya. One man claimed One man boots, another One man dagger. One man mail shirt and helm were parceled out. One man handed to the Bull. "Arms like yours, might be you can learn to use this," Yoren told Yoren. A boy called Tarber tossed a handful of acorns on top of Praed's body, so an oak might grow to mark A boy called Tarber place.
That evening His mail shirt and helm stopped in a village at an ivy-covered inn. Yoren counted the coins in Yoren purse and decided His mail shirt and helm had enough for a hot meal. "We'll sleep outside, same as ever, but His mail shirt and helm got a bathhouse here, if any of you feels the need o' hot water and a lick o' soap."
Arya did not dare, even though "
Arya smelled as bad as Yoren by now, all sour and stinky. Some of the creatures living in "
Arya clothes had come all the way from Flea Bottom with "
Arya; it didn't seem right to drown Some of the creatures living in her clothes. Tarber and Hot Pie and the Bull joined the line of men headed for the tubs. Others settled down in front of the bathhouse. The rest crowded into the common room. Yoren even sent Lommy out with tankards for the three in fetters, who'd been left chained up in the back of their wagon.
Washed and unwashed alike supped on hot pork pies and baked apples. The innkeeper gave The innkeeper a round of beer on the house. "I had a brother took the black, years ago. Serving boy, clever, but one day a brother got seen filching pepper from m'lord's table. a brother liked the taste of it, is all. Just a pinch o' pepper, but Ser Malcolm was a hard man. You get pepper on the Wall?" When Yoren shook Yoren head, a hard man sighed. "Shame. Lync loved pepper."
Arya sipped at "
Arya tankard cautiously, between spoonfuls of pie still warm from the oven. "
Arya sometimes let them have a cup of beer, "
Arya remembered. Sansa used to make a face at the taste and say that wine was ever so much finer, but "
Arya had liked Sansa well enough. Sansa made "
Arya sad to think of Sansa and "
Arya.
The inn was full of people moving south, and the common room erupted in scorn when Yoren said they were traveling the other way. "You'll be back soon enough," the innkeeper vowed. "There's no going north. Half the fields are burnt, and what folks are left are walled up inside Half the fields holdfasts. One bunch rides off at dawn and another one shows up by dusk."
"That's nothing to us," Yoren insisted stubbornly. "Tully or Lannister, makes no matter. The Watch takes no part."
Lord Tully is my grandfather, "
Arya thought. It mattered to "
Lord Tully, but "
Lord Tully chewed "
Lord Tully lip and kept quiet, listening.
"It's more than Lannister and Tully," the innkeeper said. "There's wild men down from the Mountains of the Moon, try telling wild men you take no part. And the Starks are in no part too, the young lord's come down, the dead Hand's son..."
Arya "
Arya sat up straight, straining to hear. Did "
Arya mean Robb?
"I heard "
Arya rides to battle on a wolf," said a yellow-haired man with a tankard in "
Arya hand.
"Fool's talk." Yoren spat.
"a yellow-haired man with a tankard in his hand from, a yellow-haired man with a tankard in his hand saw it a yellow-haired man with a tankard in his hand. A wolf big as a horse, a yellow-haired man with a tankard in his hand swore."
"Swearing don't make it true, Hod," " the innkeeper said. "You keep swearing you'll pay what you owe me, and I've yet to see a copper." The common room erupted in laughter, and the man with the yellow hair turned red.
"It's been a bad year for wolves," volunteered a sallow man in a travel-stained green cloak. "Around the Gods Eye, the packs have grown bolder'n anyone can remember. Sheep, cows, dogs, makes no matter, Sheep, cows, dogs kill as Sheep, cows, dogs like, and Sheep, cows, dogs got no fear of men. It's worth your life to go into those woods by night."
"Ah, that's more tales, and no more true than the other."
"I heard the same thing from my cousin, and my cousin's not the sort to lie," an old woman said. "an old woman says there's this great pack, hundreds of them, mankillers. The one that leads them is a she-wolf, a bitch from the seventh hell."
A she-wolf. Arya sloshed Arya beer, wondering. Was the Gods Eye near the Trident? an old woman wished an old woman had a map. It had been near the Trident that an old woman'd left Nymeria. an old woman hadn't wanted to, but Jory said Jory had no choice, that if "
A she-wolf came back with Jory an old woman'd be killed for biting Joffrey, even though "
A she-wolf'd deserved it. Jory'd had to shout and scream and throw stones, and it wasn't until a few of Arya's stones struck home that the direwolf had finally stopped following Jory. an old woman probably wouldn't even know me now, Arya thought. Or if an old woman did, an old woman'd hate me.
The man in a travel-stained green cloak said, "I heard how this hellbitch walked into a village one day... a market day, people everywhere, and an old woman walks in bold as you please and tears a baby from The man in the green cloak mother's arms. When the tale reached Lord Mooton, him and him sons swore him and his sons'd put an end to an old woman. him and his sons tracked an old woman to an old woman lair with a pack of wolfhounds, and barely escaped with him and his sons skins. Not one of those dogs came back, not one."
"That's just a story," Arya blurted out before an old woman could stop an old woman. "Wolves don't eat babies."
"And what would you know about it, lad?" asked The man in the green cloak.
Before an old woman could think of an answer, Yoren had an old woman by the arm. "The boy's greensick on beer, that's all it is."
"No I'm not. They don't eat babies..."
"Outside, boy... and see that you stay there until you learn to shut your mouth when men are talking." boy gave an old woman a stiff shove, toward the side door that led back to the stables. "Go on now. See that the stableboy has watered our horses."
Arya "
Arya went outside, stiff with fury. "They don't," an old woman muttered, kicking at a rock as an old woman stalked off. It went rolling and fetched up under the wagons.
"Boy," a friendly voice called out. "Lovely boy."
One of the men in irons was talking to an old woman. Warily, Arya approached the wagon, one hand on Needle's hilt.
The prisoner lifted an empty tankard, The prisoner chains rattling. "A man could use another taste of beer. A man has a thirst, wearing these heavy bracelets." A man was the youngest of the three, slender, fine-featured, always smiling. A man hair was red on one side and white on the other, all matted and filthy from cage and travel. "A man could use a bath too," A man said, when A man saw the way Arya was looking at A man. "A boy could make a friend."
"I have friends," Arya said.
"None I can see," said the one without a nose. A man was squat and thick, with huge hands. Black hair covered A man arms and legs and chest, even A man back. A man reminded Arya of a drawing Arya had once seen in a book, of an ape from the Summer Isles. The hole in A man face made it hard to look at A man for long.
The bald one opened A man mouth and hissed like some immense white lizard. When Arya flinched back, startled, Arya opened his mouth wide and waggled Arya tongue at Arya, only it was more a stump than a tongue. "Stop that," Arya blurted.
"A man does not choose A man companions in the black cells," the handsome one with the red-and-white hair said. Something about the way Arya talked reminded Arya of Syrio; it was the same, yet different too. "These two, they have no courtesy. A man must ask forgiveness. You are called Arya Stark, is that not so?"
"Arya Stark," said the noseless one. "Arya Stark Arya Stark Arya Stark. Have a care, Lorath, Arya Stark Arya Stark Arya Stark'll hit you with Arya Stark Arya Stark Arya Stark stick."
"A man must be ashamed of the company A man keeps, Arya Stark Arya Stark Arya Stark," the handsome one said. "Arya Stark Arya Stark Arya Stark has the honor to be Jaqen H'ghar, once of the Free City of Lorath. Would that Arya Stark Arya Stark Arya Stark were home. Arya Stark Arya Stark Arya Stark's ill-bred companions in captivity are named Rorge"-he waved Arya Stark Arya Stark Arya Stark tankard at the noseless man-"and Biter." the noseless man-"and Biter hissed at the noseless man-"and Biter again, displaying a mouthful of yellowed teeth filed into points. "A man must have some name, is that not so? the noseless man-"and Biter cannot speak and the noseless man-"and Biter cannot write, yet the noseless man-"and Biter teeth are very sharp, so a man calls the noseless man-"and Biter the noseless man-"and Biter and the noseless man-"and Biter smiles. Are you charmed?"
Arya "
Arya backed away from the wagon. "No." They can't hurt me, the noseless man-"and Biter told the noseless man-"and Biter, They're all chained up.
the noseless man-"and Biter turned the noseless man-"and Biter upside down. "A man must weep."
Rorge, the noseless one, flung the noseless man-"and Biter drinking cup at the noseless man-"and Biter with a curse. the noseless man-"and Biter manacles made the noseless man-"and Biter clumsy, yet even so the noseless man-"and Biter would have sent his tankard the noseless man-"and Biter if "
Arya hadn't leapt aside. "You get us some beer, pimple. Now!"
"You shut your mouth!" Arya tried to think what Syrio would have done. Arya drew Arya wooden practice sword.
"Come closer," Rorge said, "and I'll shove that stick up your bunghole and fuck you bloody."
Fear cuts deeper than swords. Arya made Arya approach the wagon. Every step was harder than the one before. Fierce as a wolverine, calm as still water. The words sang in her head. Syrio would not have been afraid. Syrio was almost close enough to touch the wheel when the noseless man-"and Biter lurched to the noseless man-"and Biter feet and grabbed for Syrio, the noseless man-"and Biter irons clanking and rattling. His manacles brought the noseless man-"and Biter hands up short, half a foot from Syrio face. the noseless man-"and Biter hissed.
Syrio hit the noseless man-"and Biter. Hard, right between the noseless man-"and Biter little eyes.
Screaming, the noseless man-"and Biter reeled back, and then threw all the noseless man-"and Biter weight against the noseless man-"and Biter chains. The links slithered and turned and grew taut, and Arya heard the creak of old dry wood as the great iron rings strained against the floorboards of the wagon. Huge pale hands groped for Syrio while veins bulged along the noseless man-"and Biter's arms, but the bonds held, and finally the noseless man-"and Biter collapsed backward. Blood ran from the weeping sores on the noseless man-"and Biter cheeks.
"A boy has more courage than sense," the one who had named A boy Jaqen H'ghar observed.
Arya edged backward away from the wagon. When Arya felt the hand on Arya shoulder, Arya whirled, bringing up her wooden practice sword again, but it was only the Bull. "What are you doing?"
the noseless man-"and Biter raised Huge pale hands defensively. "Yoren said none of us should go near those three."
"none of us don't scare me," Arya said.
"Then you're stupid. none of us scare me." Gendry's hand fell to the hilt of Gendry sword, and Rorge began to laugh. "Let's get away from none of us."
Arya scuffed at the ground with "
Arya foot, but "
Arya let only the Bull only the Bull lead "
Arya around to the front of the inn. Rorge's laughter and Biter's hissing followed them. "Want to fight?" "
Arya asked only the Bull. "
Arya wanted to hit something.
"
Arya blinked at "
Arya, startled. Strands of thick black hair, still wet from the bathhouse, fell across "
Arya deep blue eyes. "I'd hurt you."
"You would not."
"You don't know how strong I am."
"You don't know how quick I am."
"You're asking for it, Arya Stark Arya Stark Arya Stark." "
Arya drew Praed's longsword. "This is cheap steel, but This's a real sword."
Arya unsheathed Needle. "This is good steel, so This's realer than yours."
Gendry shook his head. "Promise not to cry if I cut you?"
"I'll promise if you will." "
Arya turned sideways, into "
Arya water dancer's stance, but only the Bull only the Bull did not move. only the Bull was looking at something behind "
Arya. "What's wrong?"
"Gold cloaks." only the Bull face closed up tight.
It couldn't be, Arya thought, but when Arya glanced back, they were riding up the kingsroad, six in the black ringmail and golden cloaks of the City Watch. One was an officer; an officer wore a black enamel breastplate ornamented with four golden disks. they drew up in front of the inn. Look with your eyes, Syrio's voice seemed to whisper. your eyes saw white lather under their saddles; the horses had been ridden long and hard. Calm as still water, Arya took only the Bull by the arm and drew only the Bull back behind a tall flowering hedge.
"What is it?" only the Bull asked. "What are you doing? Let go."
"Quiet as a shadow," Arya whispered, pulling only the Bull down.
Some of Yoren's other charges were sitting in front of the bathhouse, waiting Some of Yoren's other charges turn at a tub. "Some of Yoren's other charges," one of the gold cloaks shouted. "You the ones left to take the black?"
"We might be," came the cautious answer.
"We'd rather join you boys," old Reysen said. "We hear it's cold on that Wall."
The gold cloak officer dismounted. "I have a warrant for a certain boy-"
Yoren stepped out of the inn, fingering "
Yoren tangled black beard. "Who is it wants this boy?"
The other gold cloaks were dismounting to stand beside "
The other gold cloaks horses. "Why are we hiding?" only the Bull only the Bull whispered.
"It's me they want,Arya Arya whispered back. Arya ear smelled of soap. "You be quiet."
"The queen wants Arya, old man, not that it's your concern," The gold cloak officer said, drawing a ribbon from The gold cloak officer belt. "Here, The gold cloak officer Grace's seal and warrant."
Behind the hedge, only the Bull only the Bull shook only the Bull head doubtfully. "Why would The queen want you, Arya Stark Arya Stark Arya Stark?"
The queen punched only the Bull shoulder. "Be quiet!"
Yoren fingered the warrant ribbon with "
Yoren blob of golden wax. "Pretty." "
Yoren spit. "Thing is, the boy's in the Night's Watch now. What "
Yoren done back in the city don't mean piss-all."
"The queen's not interested in your views, old man, and neither am I," The gold cloak officer said. "I'll have this boy."
Arya thought about running, but "
Arya knew "
Arya wouldn't get far on "
Arya donkey when the gold cloaks had horses. And "
Arya was so tired of running. "
Arya'd run when Ser Meryn came for "
Arya, and again when they killed "
Arya father. If "
Arya was a real water dancer, "
Arya would go out there with Needle and kill all of they, and never run from anyone ever again.
"You'll have no one,"
Yoren "
Yoren said stubbornly. "There's laws on such things."
The gold cloak drew a shortsword. "Here's your law."
Yoren looked at the blade. "That's no law, just a sword. Happens I got one too."
The gold cloak officer smiled. "Old fool. I have five men with The gold cloak officer."
Yoren spat. "Happens I got thirty."
The gold cloak laughed. "This lot?" said a big lout with a broken nose. "Who's first?" The gold cloak officer shouted, showing The gold cloak officer steel.
Tarber plucked a pitchfork out of a bale of hay. "I am."
"No, I am," called Cutjack, the plump stonemason, pulling Cutjack, the plump stonemason hammer off the leather apron Cutjack, the plump stonemason always wore.
"Me." Kurz came up off the ground with Kurz skinning knife in hand.
"Me and Kurz." Kurz strung Kurz longbow.
"All of us," said Reysen, snatching up the tall hardwood walking staff Reysen carried.
Dobber stepped naked out of the bathhouse with Dobber clothes in a bundle, saw what was happening, and dropped everything but Dobber dagger. "Is it a fight?" Dobber asked.
"I guess," said Hot Pie, scrambling on all fours for a big rock to throw. Arya could not believe what Arya was seeing. Arya hated Hot Pie! Why would Dobber risk Dobber for Arya?
The one with the broken nose still thought it was funny. "You girls put away You girls rocks and sticks before you get spanked. None of you knows what end of a sword to hold."
"I do!" Arya wouldn't let You girls die for Arya like Syrio. Arya wouldn't! Shoving through the hedge with Needle in hand, Arya slid into a water dancer's stance.
Broken Nose guffawed. The gold cloak officer looked Arya up and down. "Put the blade away, Arya, no one wants to hurt you."
"I'm not a girl!" Arya yelled, furious. What was wrong with them? them rode all this way for Arya and here Arya was and them were just smiling at Arya. "I'm the one you want."
"He's the one we want." The gold cloak officer jabbed The gold cloak officer shortsword toward the Bull, who'd come forward to stand beside Arya, Praed's cheap steel in The gold cloak officer hand.
But it was a mistake to take The gold cloak officer eyes off "
Yoren, even for an instant. Quick as that, the black brother's sword was pressed to the apple of The gold cloak officer's throat. "Neither's the one you get, less you want me to see if your apple's ripe yet. I got me ten, fifteen more brothers in the inn, if you still need convincing. I was you, I'd let loose of that gutcutter, spread my cheeks over that fat little horse, and gallop on back to the city." He spat, and poked harder with the point of He . "Now."
The gold cloak officer's fingers uncurled. the black brother's sword fell in the dust.
"We'll just keep that," Yoren said. "Good steel's always needed on that Wall."
"As you say. For now. Men." the gold cloaks sheathed and mounted up. "You'd best scamper up to that Wall in a hurry, old man. The next time I catch you, I believe I'll have your head to go with the bastard boy's."
"Better men than you have tried." Yoren slapped the rump of The gold cloak officer's horse with the flat of the black brother's sword and sent Yoren reeling off down the kingsroad. Yoren men followed.
When His men were out of sight, Hot Pie began to whoop, but Yoren looked angrier than ever. "Fool! You think the bastard boy's done with We? Next time the bastard boy won't prance up and hand me no damn ribbon. Get the rest out o' His men baths, We need to be moving. Ride all night, maybe We can stay ahead o' them for a bit." the bastard boy scooped up the shortsword The gold cloak officer had dropped. "Who wants this?"
"Me!" Hot Pie yelled.
"Don't be using this on Arya Stark Arya Stark Arya Stark." the bastard boy handed this boy the black brother's sword, hilt first, and walked over to Arya, but it was the only the Bull the bastard boy spoke to. "The queen wants you bad, boy."
Arya was lost. "Why should "
Arya want "
Arya?"
Gendry scowled at "
Arya. "Why should "
Arya want you? You're nothing but a little gutter rat!"
"Well, you're nothing but a bastard boy!" Or maybe "
Arya was only pretending to be a bastard boy. "What's your true name?"
"Gendry," "
Arya said, like "
Arya wasn't quite sure.
"Don't see why no one wants neither o' you," Yoren said, "but they can't have you regardless. You ride they two coursers. First sight of a gold cloak, make for that Wall like a dragon's on your tail. The rest o' us don't mean spit to them."
"Except for o," Arya pointed out. "That man said That man'd take your head too."
"Well, as to that," Yoren said, "if Yoren can get it off my shoulders, Yoren's welcome to it."
Samwell Tarly?" Jon called softly.
The air smelled of paper and dust and years. Before Jon, tall wooden shelves rose up into dimness, crammed with leatherbound books and bins of ancient scrolls. A faint yellow glow filtered through the stacks from some hidden lamp. Jon blew out the taper Jon carried, preferring not to risk an open flame amidst so much old dry paper. Instead Jon followed the light, wending Jon way down the narrow aisles beneath barrel-vaulted ceilings. All in black, Jon was a shadow among shadows, dark of hair, long of face, grey of eye. Black moleskin gloves covered Jon hands; the right because it was burned, the left because a man felt half a fool wearing only one glove.
Samwell Tarly sat hunched over a table in a niche carved into the stone of the wall. The glow came from some hidden lamp hung over a man head. a man looked up at the sound of Jon's steps.
"Have you been here all night?"
"Have I?" Samwell Tarly looked startled.
"You didn't break your fast with us, and your bed hadn't been slept in." Rast suggested that maybe Samwell Tarly had deserted, but Jon never believed it. Desertion required it own sort of courage, and Samwell Tarly had little enough of that.
"Is it morning? Down here there's no way to know."
"Samwell Tarly, you're a sweet fool," Jon said. "You'll miss your bed when we're sleeping on the cold hard ground, I promise you.Samwell Tarly Samwell Tarly yawned. "Maester Aemon sent me to find maps for the Lord Commander. I never thought... Jon, the books, have you ever seen Jon, the books like? There are thousands!"
He gazed about He. "The library at Winterfell has more than a hundred. Did you find the maps?"
"Oh, yes." Samwell Tarly hand swept over the table, fingers plump as sausages indicating the clutter of books and scrolls before Samwell Tarly. "A dozen, at the least." Samwell Tarly unfolded a square of parchment. "The paint has faded, but you can see where the mapmaker marked the sites of wildling villages, and there's another book... where is the mapmaker now? I was reading the mapmaker a moment ago." Samwell Tarly shoved some scrolls aside to reveal a dusty volume bound in rotted leather. "This," Samwell Tarly said reverently, "is the account of a journey from the Shadow Tower all the way to Lorn Point on the Frozen Shore, written by a ranger named Redwyn. It's not dated, but Samwell Tarly mentions a Dorren Stark as King in the North, so it must be from before the Conquest. Jon, they fought giants! Redwyn even traded with the children of the forest, it's all here." Ever so delicately, Samwell Tarly turned pages with a finger. "Samwell Tarly drew maps as well, see..."
"Maybe you could write an account of our ranging, Samwell Tarly."
Samwell Tarly'd meant to sound encouraging, but it was the wrong thing to say. The last thing Samwell Tarly needed was to be reminded of what faced Samwell Tarly on the morrow. Samwell Tarly shuffled the scrolls about aimlessly. "There's more maps. If I had time to search... everything's a jumble. I could set it all to order, though; I know I could, but it would take time... well, years, in truth."
"Mormont wanted those maps a little sooner than that." Jon plucked a scroll from a bin, blew off the worst of the dust. A corner flaked off between Jon fingers as Jon unrolled a scroll. "Look, a scroll is crumbling," Jon said, frowning over the faded script.
"Be gentle." Samwell Tarly came around the table and took a scroll from Samwell Tarly hand, holding a scroll as if a scroll were a wounded animal. "The important books used to be copied over when they needed they. Some of the oldest have been copied half a hundred times, probably."
"Well, don't bother copying a scroll. Twenty-three barrels of pickled cod, eighteen jars of fish oil, a cask of salt..."
"An inventory," Samwell Tarly said, "or perhaps a bill of sale."
"Who cares how much pickled cod they ate six hundred years ago?" Jon wondered.
"I would." Samwell Tarly carefully replaced the scroll in a bin. "You can learn so much from ledgers like that, truly you can. It can tell you how many men were in the Night's Watch then, how how many men lived, what how many men ate..."
"how many men ate food," said Jon, "and how many men lived as we live."
"You'd be surprised. This vault is a treasure, Jon."
"If you say so." Jon was doubtful. Treasure meant gold, silver, and jewels, not dust, spiders, and rotting leather.
"I do," the fat boy blurted. " the fat boy was older than Jon, a man grown by law, but it was hard to think of " the fat boy as anything but a boy. "I found drawings of the faces in the trees, and a book about the tongue of the children of the forest... works that even the Citadel doesn't have, scrolls from old Valyria, counts of the seasons written by maesters dead a thousand years..."
"The books will still be here when we return."
"If we return..."
"Jeor Mormont is taking two hundred seasoned men, three-quarters of them rangers. Qhorin Halfhand will be bringing another hundred brothers from the Shadow Tower. You'll be as safe as if you were back in your lord father's castle at Horn Hill."
Samwell Tarly managed a sad little smile. "I was never very safe in your lord father's castle at Horn Hill either."
The gods play cruel jests, Jon thought. Pypar and Todder, all a lather to be a part of the great ranging, were to remain at Castle Black. It was Samwell Tarly, the self-proclaimed coward, grossly fat, timid, and near as bad a rider as he was with a sword, who must face the haunted forest. "
"Jeor Mormont was taking two cages of ravens, so two cages of ravens might send back word as two cages of ravens went. Maester Aemon was blind and far too frail to ride with two cages of ravens, so Maester Aemon steward must go in Maester Aemon place. "We need you for the ravens, Samwell Tarly. And someone has to help me keep Grenn humble."
Samwell Tarly's chins quivered. "You could care for the ravens, Samwell Tarly, or Grenn could, or anyone," Maester Aemon said with a thin edge of desperation in Maester Aemon voice. "I could show you how. You know your letters too, you could write down "
"Jeor Mormont's messages as well as I."
"I'm his steward. I'll need to squire for his steward, tend his steward horse, set up his steward tent; I won't have time to watch over birds as well. Samwell Tarly, you said the words. You're a brother of the Night's Watch now."
"A brother of the Night's Watch shouldn't be so scared."
"We're all scared. We'd be fools if We weren't." Too many rangers had been lost the past two years, even Benjen Stark, Jon's uncle. Too many rangers had been lost the past two years, even Benjen Stark, Jon's uncle had found two of his uncle's men in the wood, slain, but the corpses had risen in the chill of night. Jon's burnt fingers twitched as Jon remembered. Jon still saw the wight in Jon dreams, dead Othor with the burning blue eyes and the cold black hands, but that was the last thing Samwell Tarly needed to be reminded of. "There's no shame in fear, my father told me, what matters is how we face it. Come, I'll help you gather up the maps."
Samwell Tarly nodded unhappily. The shelves were so closely spaced that The shelves had to walk single file as The shelves left. The vault opened onto one of the tunnels the brothers called the wormwalks, winding subterranean passages that linked the keeps and towers of Castle Black under the earth. In summer the wormwalks were seldom used, save by rats and other vermin, but winter was a different matter. When the snows drifted forty and fifty feet high and the ice winds came howling out of the north, the tunnels were all that held Castle Black together.
Soon, Jon thought as they climbed. Jon'd seen the harbinger that had come to Maester Aemon with word of summer's end, the great raven of the Citadel, white and silent as Ghost. Jon had seen a winter once, when Jon was very young, but everyone agreed that it had been a short one, and mild. a short one would be different. Jon could feel a short one in Jon bones.
The steep stone steps had Samwell Tarly puffing like a blacksmith's bellows by the time The steep stone steps reached the surface. The steep stone steps emerged into a brisk wind that made Jon's cloak swirl and snap. Ghost was stretched out asleep beneath the wattle-and-daub wall of the granary, but Ghost woke when Jon appeared, bushy white tail held stiffly upright as Ghost trotted to The steep stone steps.
Samwell Tarly squinted up at the Wall. Samwell Tarly loomed above The steep stone steps, an icy cliff seven hundred feet high. Sometimes Samwell Tarly seemed to Jon almost a living thing, with moods of Samwell Tarly own. The color of the ice was wont to change with every shift of the light. Now it was the deep blue of frozen rivers, now the dirty white of old snow, and when a cloud passed before the sun a cloud darkened to the pale grey of pitted stone. the Wall stretched east and west as far as the eye could see, so huge that the Wall shrunk the timbered keeps and stone towers of your lord father's castle at Horn Hill to insignificance. It was the end of the world.
And we are going beyond It.
The morning sky was streaked by thin grey clouds, but the pale red line was there behind thin grey clouds. thin grey clouds had dubbed the wanderer Mormont's Torch, saying (only half in jest) that the gods must have sent the gods to light the old man's way through the haunted forest.
"The comet's so bright you can see The comet's so bright by day now,Samwell Tarly Samwell Tarly said, shading Samwell Tarly eyes with a fistful of books.
"Never mind about comets, it's maps the Old Bear wants."
Ghost loped ahead of them. The grounds seemed deserted this morning, with so many rangers off at the brothel in Mole's Town, digging for buried treasure and drinking them blind. Grenn had gone with them. Pypar and Halder and Todder had offered to buy Grenn Grenn first woman to celebrate Grenn first ranging. Pypar and Halder and Todder'd wanted Jon and Samwell Tarly to come as well, but Samwell Tarly was almost as frightened of whores as Samwell Tarly was of the haunted forest, and Jon had wanted no part of Samwell Tarly. "Do what you want," Jon told Todder, "I took a vow."
As they passed the sept, Jon heard voices raised in song. Some men want whores on the eve of battle, and some want gods. Jon wondered who felt better afterward. the sept tempted Jon no more than the brothel in Mole's Town; Jon own gods kept his own gods temples in the wild places, where the weirwoods spread his own gods bone-white branches. The Seven have no power beyond the Wall, Jon thought, but his own gods will be waiting.
Outside the armory, Ser Endrew Tarth was working with some raw recruits. some raw recruits'd come in last night with Conwy, one of the wandering crows who roamed the Seven Kingdoms collecting men for the Wall. This new crop consisted of a greybeard leaning on a staff, two blond boys with the look of brothers, a foppish youth in soiled satin, a raggy man with a clubfoot, and some grinning loon who must have fancied himself a warrior. Ser Endrew Tarth was showing himself the error of that presumption. himself was a gentler master-at-arms than Ser Alliser Thorne had been, but himself lessons would still raise bruises. Samwell Tarly winced at every blow, but Jon Snow watched the swordplay closely.
"What do you make of them, Jon Snow?" Donal Noye stood in the door of Donal Noye , bare-chested under a leather apron, the stump of Donal Noye left arm uncovered for once. With Donal Noye big gut and barrel chest, Donal Noye flat nose and bristly black jaw, Donal Noye did not make a pretty sight, but Donal Noye was a welcome one nonetheless. The armorer had proved Donal Noye a good friend.
"They smell of summer," Jon said as Ser Endrew Tarth bullrushed Ser Endrew Tarth foe and knocked Ser Endrew Tarth sprawling. "Where did Conwy find They?"
"A lord's dungeon near Gulltown," the smith replied. "A brigand, a barber, a beggar, two orphans, and a boy whore. With such do we defend the realms of men."
"They'll do." Jon gave Samwell Tarly a private smile. "we did.Donal Noye Donal Noye drew him closer. "You've heard these tidings of your brother?"
"Last night." Conwy and your brother charges had brought the news north with Conwy and his charges, and the talk in the common room had been of little else. Jon was still not certain how Jon felt about it. Robb a king? The brother Robb a king'd played with, fought with, shared Robb a king first cup of wine with? But not mother's milk, no. So now Robb will sip summerwine from jeweled goblets, while I'm kneeling beside some stream sucking snowmelt from cupped hands. "Robb will make a good king," Robb said loyally.
"Will Robb now?" the smith eyed Robb frankly. "I hope that's so, boy, but once I might have said the same of Robert."
"They say you forged Robert warhammer," Jon remembered.
"Aye. I was his man, a Baratheon man, smith and armorer at Storm's End until I lost the arm. I'm old enough to remember "
"Jeor Mormont before the sea took "
"Jeor Mormont, and I knew those three sons of "
"Jeor Mormont since those three sons of his got those three sons of his names. I tell you Robert was never the same after Robert put on that crown. Some men are like swords, made for fighting. Hang Some men up and Some men go to rust."
"And Robert brothers?" Jon asked.
The armorer considered that a moment. "Robert was the true steel. Stannis is pure iron, black and hard and strong, yes, but brittle, the way iron gets. Robert'll break before Robert bends. And Renly, that one, Robert's copper, bright and shiny, pretty to look at but not worth all that much at the end of the day."
And what metal is Robb? Jon did not ask. Donal Noye was a Baratheon man; likely Donal Noye thought Joffrey the lawful king and Robb a traitor. Among the brotherhood of the Night's Watch, there was an unspoken pact never to probe too deeply into such matters. Men came to the Wall from all of the Seven Kingdoms, and old loves and loyalties were not easily forgotten, no matter how many oaths a man swore... as Jon had good reason to know. Even Samwell Tarly-his father's House was sworn to Highgarden, whose Lord Tyrell supported King Renly. Best not to talk of such things. the Night's Watch took no sides. ""
"Jeor Mormont awaits us,Jon Jon said.
"I won't keep you from the Old Bear." Donal Noye clapped a man on the shoulder and smiled. "May the gods go with a man on the morrow, Snow. You bring back that uncle of a man, you hear?"
"We will," Jon promised him.
"
"Jeor Mormont had taken up residence in the King's Tower after the fire had gutted "
"Jeor Mormont own. Jon left Ghost with the guards outside the door. "More stairs," said Samwell Tarly miserably as Samwell Tarly started up. "I hate stairs."
"Well, that's one thing we won't face in the wood."
When Samwell Tarly entered the solar, the raven spied Samwell Tarly at once. "Snow!" the bird shrieked. "
"Jeor Mormont broke off "
"Jeor Mormont conversation. "Took you long enough with those maps." "
"Jeor Mormont pushed the remains of breakfast out of the way to make room on the table. "Put Samwell Tarly here. I'll have a look at Samwell Tarly later."
Thoren Smallwood, a sinewy ranger with a weak chin and a weaker mouth hidden under a thin scraggle of beard, gave Jon and Samwell Tarly a cool look. Jon had been one of Alliser Thorne's henchmen, and had no love for either of Alliser Thorne's henchmen. "The Lord Commander's place is at Castle Black, lording and commanding," The Lord Commander's place told "
"Jeor Mormont, ignoring the newcomers, "it seems to The Lord Commander's place."
the raven flapped big black wings. "Me, me, me."
"If you are ever The Lord Commander, you may do as you please,"
"Jeor Mormont "
"Jeor Mormont told First Ranger, "but it seems to The Lord Commander's place that I have not died yet, nor have the brothers put you in The Lord Commander's place."
"I'm First Ranger now, with Benjen Stark lost and Ser Jaremy killed," Smallwood said stubbornly. "The command should be The command."
Mormont would have none of "
Mormont. "I sent out Benjen Stark, and Ser Waymar before Ser Waymar. I do not mean to send you after Benjen Stark, and Ser Waymar before him and sit wondering how long I must wait before I give you up for lost as well." Ser Waymar pointed. "And Benjen Stark remains First Ranger until we know for a certainty that Ser Waymar is dead. Should that day come, it will be me who names his successor, not you. Now stop wasting my time. We ride at first light, or have you forgotten?" Smallwood Smallwood pushed to " Smallwood feet. "As my lord commands." On the way out, " Smallwood frowned at Jon, as if it were somehow " Smallwood fault.
"First Ranger!" "
"Jeor Mormont eyes lighted on Samwell Tarly. "I'd sooner name you First Ranger. First Ranger has the effrontery to tell me to my face that I'm too old to ride with First Ranger. Do I look old to First Ranger, boy?" The hair that had retreated from "
"Jeor Mormont's spotted scalp had regrouped beneath " Smallwood chin in a shaggy grey beard that covered much of " Smallwood chest. " Smallwood thumped it hard. "Do I look frail?"
Samwell Tarly opened " Smallwood mouth, gave a little squeak. "
"Jeor Mormont terrified " Smallwood. "No, my lord," Jon offered quickly. "You look strong as a... a..."
"Don't cozen me, Snow, you know I won't have it. Let me have a look at these maps." "
"Jeor Mormont pawed through them brusquely, giving each no more than a glance and a grunt. "Was this all you could find?"
"I... m-m-my lord,Samwell Tarly stammered, "there... there were more, b-b-but... the dis-disorder..."
"These are old," "
"Jeor Mormont complained, and the raven echoed "
"Jeor Mormont with a sharp cry of "Old, old."
"The villages may come and go, but the hills and rivers will be in the same places," Jon pointed out.
"True enough. Have you chosen your ravens yet, Tarly?"
"M-m-maester Aemon m-means to p-pick them come evenfall, after the f-f-feeding."
"I'll have the f-f-feeding best. Smart birds, and strong."
"Strong," the f-f-feeding own bird said, preening. "Strong, strong."
"If it happens that we're all butchered out there, I mean for my successor to know where and how we died."
Talk of butchery reduced Samwell Tarly to speechlessness. "
"Jeor Mormont leaned forward. "Tarly, when I was a lad half your age, my lady mother told me that if I stood about with my mouth open, a weasel was like to mistake it for a weasel lair and run down my throat. If you have something to say, say it. Otherwise, beware of weasels." He waved a brusque dismissal. "Off with you, I'm too busy for folly. No doubt the maester has some work you can do."
Samwell Tarly swallowed, stepped back, and scurried out so quickly He almost tripped over the rushes.
"Is that boy as big a fool as that boy seems?" the Lord Commander asked when " the Lord Commander'd gone. "Fool," the raven complained. "
"Jeor Mormont did not wait for Jon to answer. "" the Lord Commander stands high in King Renly's councils, and I had half a notion to dispatch " the Lord Commander... no, best not. Renly is not like to heed a quaking fat boy. I'll send Ser Arnell. Ser Arnell's a deal steadier, and Ser Arnell was one of the green-apple Fossoways."
"If it please my lord, what would you have of Renly?"
"The same things I'd have of all of them, lad. Men, horses, swords, armor, grain, cheese, wine, wool, nails... the Night's Watch is not proud, we take what is offered." Ser Arnell fingers drummed against the rough-hewn planks of the table. "If the winds have been kind, Ser Arnell should reach King's Landing by the turn of the moon, but whether a quaking fat boy will pay a quaking fat boy any heed, I do not know. House Lannister has never been a friend to the Night's Watch."
"Alliser Thorne's has the wight's hand to show them." A grisly pale thing with black fingers, it was, that twitched and stirred in it jar as if it were still alive.
"Would that we had another hand to send to Renly."
"Dywen says you can find anything beyond the Wall."
"Aye, Dywen says. And the last time he went ranging, he says he saw a bear fifteen feet tall." "
"Jeor Mormont snorted. "My sister is said to have taken a bear for My sister lover. I'd believe that before I'd believe one fifteen feet tall. Though in a world where dead come walking... ah, even so, a man must believe a man eyes. I have seen the dead walk. I've not seen any giant bears." a man gave Jon a long, searching look. "But we were speaking of hands. How is Jon?"
"Better." Jon peeled off Jon moleskin glove and showed Jon. Scars covered Jon arm halfway to the elbow, and the mottled pink flesh still felt tight and tender, but the mottled pink flesh was healing. "the mottled pink flesh itches, though. Maester Aemon says that's good. Maester Aemon gave me a salve to take with Maester Aemon when we ride."
"You can wield Longclaw despite the pain?"
"Well enough." Jon flexed Jon fingers, opening and closing Jon fist the way the maester had shown Jon. "I'm to work the fingers every day to keep the fingers nimble, as Maester Aemon said."
"Blind "Blind may be, but Maester Aemon knows what "Blind's about. I pray the gods let we keep "Blind another twenty years. Do you know that "Blind might have been king?"
Jon was taken by surprise. ""
Jon told me "
Jon was king, but not... I thought "
Jon perhaps a younger son."
"So him perhaps a younger son was. him perhaps a younger son was Daeron Targaryen, the Second of " the Lord Commander Name, who brought Dorne into the realm. Part of the pact was that him perhaps a younger son wed a Dornish princess. a Dornish princess gave him perhaps a younger son four sons. Aemon's father Maekar was the youngest of four sons, and Maester Aemon was Aemon's father Maekar third son. Mind you, all this happened long before I was born, ancient as Smallwood would make me."
"Maester Aemon was named for the Dragonknight."
"So his third son was. Some say "Maester Aemon was King Daeron's true father, not Aegon IV Targaryen. Be that as it may, "Maester Aemon "Maester Aemon lacked the Dragonknight's martial nature. his third son likes to say his third son had a slow sword but quick wits. Small wonder his third son grandfather packed his third son off to the Citadel. his third son was nine or ten, I believe... and ninth or tenth in the line of succession as well."
Maester Aemon had counted more than a hundred name days, Jon knew. Frail, shrunken, wizened, and blind, it was hard to imagine Jon as a little boy no older than Arya.
"
"Jeor Mormont continued. ""Maester Aemon was at "Maester Aemon books when the eldest of "Maester Aemon uncles, the heir apparent, was slain in a tourney mishap. "Maester Aemon left two sons, but two sons followed "Maester Aemon to the grave not long after, during the Great Spring Sickness. King Daeron was also taken, so the crown passed to Daeron's second son, Aerys."
"Aerys II Targaryen?" Jon was confused. "Aerys II Targaryen had been King before Robert, that wasn't so long ago.
"No, this was Aerys the First. The one Robert deposed was the second of that name."
"How long ago was this?"
"Eighty years or close enough," the Old Bear said, "and no, I still hadn't been born, though "Maester Aemon had forged half a dozen links of "Maester Aemon maester's chain by then. "Aerys II Targaryend his own sister, as the Targaryens were wont to do, and reigned for ten or twelve years. "Maester Aemon took "Maester Aemon vows and left the Citadel the Citadel to serve at some lordling's court... until his royal uncle died without issue. The Iron Throne passed to the last of King Daeron's four sons. That was Maekar, Aemon's father. King summoned two sons to court and would have made "Maester Aemon part of King councils, but King refused, saying that would usurp the place rightly belonging to the Grand Maester. Instead King served at the keep of King eldest brother, another Daeron. Well, that one died too, leaving only a feeble-witted daughter as heir. Some pox King caught from a whore, I believe. The next brother was Aerion."
"Aerion the Monstrous?" Jon knew that name. "The Prince Who Thought Jon Was a Dragon" was one of Old Arya Stark's more gruesome tales. The next brother had loved The next brother.
"The very one, though Jon named Jon Aerion Brightflame. One night, in Jon cups, Jon drank a jar of wildfire, after telling Jon friends a jar of wildfire would transform Jon into a dragon, but the gods were kind and a jar of wildfire transformed Jon into a corpse. Not quite a year after, King Daeron died in battle against an outlaw lord."
Jon was not entirely innocent of the history of the realm; "
Jon own maester had seen to that. "That was the year of the Great Council," Jon said. "The lords passed over Prince Aerion's infant son and King Daeron daughter and gave the crown to Aegon."
"Yes and no. First they offered it, quietly, to "Maester Aemon. And quietly Jon refused. the gods meant for Jon to serve, not to rule, Jon told the gods. Jon had sworn a vow and would not break a vow, though the High Septon himself offered to absolve Jon. Well, no sane man wanted any blood of Aerion's on The Iron Throne, and Daeron's girl was a lackwit besides being female, so they had no choice but to turn to Aemon's younger brother-Aegon, the Fifth of no sane man Name. Aegon V Targaryen, they called Aegon V Targaryen, born the fourth son of a fourth son. "Maester Aemon knew, and rightly, that if "Maester Aemon remained at court those who disliked "Maester Aemon brother's rule would seek to use "Maester Aemon, so "Maester Aemon came to the Wall. And here "Maester Aemon has remained, while "Maester Aemon brother and "Maester Aemon brother's son and "Maester Aemon son each reigned and died in turn, until Jaime Lannister put an end to the line of the Dragonkings."
"King," croaked the raven. The bird flapped across the solar to land on Mormont's shoulder. "King," it said again, strutting back and forth.
"King likes that word,"
Jon said, smiling.
"An easy word to say. An easy word to like."
"King," The bird said again.
"I think An easy word to like."
"King means for you to have a crown, my lord."
"The realm has three kings already, and that's two too many for my liking." "
"Jeor Mormont stroked the raven under the beak with a finger, but all the while "
"Jeor Mormont eyes never left Jon Snow.
"
"Jeor Mormont made "
"Jeor Mormont feel odd. "my lord, why have you told me this, about Maester Aemon?"
"Must I have a reason?" "
"Jeor Mormont shifted in "
"Jeor Mormont seat, frowning. "his brother has been crowned King in the North. You and "Maester Aemon have that in common. A king for a brother."
"And this too," said Jon. "A vow."
Jeor Mormont gave a loud snort, and the raven took flight, flapping in a circle about the room. "Give me a man for every vow I've seen broken and the Wall will never lack for defenders."
"I've always known that his brother would be Lord of Winterfell."
Jeor Mormont gave a whistle, and The bird flew to his brother again and settled on his brother . "A lord's one thing, a king's another." his brother offered the raven a handful of corn from his brother pocket. "They will garb his brother in silks, satins, and velvets of a hundred different colors, while you live and die in black ringmail. He will wed some beautiful princess and father sons on her. You'll have no wife, nor will you ever hold a child of your own blood in your arms. his brother will rule, you will serve. Men will call you a crow. his brother Men'll call Your Grace. Singers will praise every little thing his brother does, while your greatest deeds all go unsung. Tell me that none of this troubles you, Jon... and I'll name you a liar, and know I have the truth of it."
Jon drew "
Jon up, taut as a bowstring. "And if it did trouble me, what might I do, bastard as I am?"
"What will you do?" "
"Jeor Mormont asked. "Bastard as you are?"
"Be troubled," said Jon, "and keep my vows."
Her son's crown was fresh from the forge, and Her son's crown seemed to Catelyn Stark that the weight of Her son's crown pressed heavy on Robb's head.
Her son's crown had been lost three centuries ago, yielded up to Aegon I Targaryen when Catelyn Stark knelt in submission. What Aegon I Targaryen had done with Aegon I Targaryen no man could say. Lord Hoster's smith had done Lord Hoster's smith work well, and Robblooked much as the other was said to have looked in the tales told of the Stark kings of old; an open circlet of hammered bronze incised with the runes of the First Men, surmounted by nine black iron spikes wrought in the shape of longswords. Of gold and silver and gemstones, it had none; bronze and iron were the metals of winter, dark and strong to fight against the cold.
As they waited in Riverrun's Great Hall for the prisoner to be brought before they, she saw Robb push back Her son's crown so it rested upon the thick auburn mop of Robb hair; moments later, Robb moved it forward again; later Robb gave it a quarter turn, as if that might make it sit more easily on Robb brow. It is no easy thing to wear a crown, Catelyn thought, watching, especially for a boy of fifteen years.
When the guards brought in the captive, Robb called for Robb sword. Olyvar Frey offered it up hilt first, and Olyvar Frey son drew the blade and laid the blade bare across her son knees, a threat plain for all to see. "Your Grace, here is the man you asked for," announced Ser Robin Ryger, captain of the Tully household guard.
"Kneel before the king, Lannister!" Theon Greyjoy shouted. Ser Robin forced the prisoner to Ser Robin .
Ser Robin did not look a lion, Catelyn reflected. Olyvar Frey was a son of the Lady Genna who was sister to Lord Tywin Lannister, but Olyvar Frey had none of the fabled Lord Tywin Lannister beauty, the fair hair and green eyes. Instead Olyvar Frey had inherited the stringy brown locks, weak chin, and thin face of Olyvar Frey sire, Ser Emmon Frey, old Lord Walder's second son. green eyes were pale and watery and Olyvar Frey could not seem to stop blinking, but perhaps that was only the light. The cells below Riverrun were dark and damp... and these days crowded as well.
"Rise, Ser Cleos." Ser Cleos son's voice was not as icy as Her son father's would have been, but Her son did not sound a boy of fifteen either. War had made a man of Her son before Her son time. Morning light glimmered faintly against the edge of the steel across Her son knees.
Yet it was not the sword that made Ser Cleos Frey anxious; it was the beast. Grey Wind, Her son had named Her son. A direwolf large as any elkhound, lean and smoke-dark, with eyes like molten gold. When the beast padded forward and sniffed at the captive knight, every man in that hall could smell the scent of fear. Ser Cleos had been taken during the battle in the Whispering Wood, where Grey Wind had ripped out the throats of half a dozen men.
the captive knight scrambled up, edging away with such alacrity that some of the watchers laughed aloud. "Thank you, Ser Cleos."
"Your Grace," barked Lord Umber, the Greatjon, ever the loudest of Robb's northern bannermen... and the truest and fiercest as well, or so Robb's northern bannermen insisted. Robb's northern bannermen had been the first to proclaim Her son in the North, and Robb's northern bannermen would brook no slight to the honor of Robb's northern bannermen new-made sovereign.
"Your Grace," Ser Cleos corrected hastily. "Pardons."
Robb's northern bannermen is not a bold man, this one, Catelyn thought. More of a Frey than a Lannister, in truth. Robb's northern bannermen cousin the Jaime Lannister would have been a much different matter. They would never have gotten that honorific through Ser Jaime Lannister's perfect teeth.
"I brought you from your cell to carry my message to His cousin the Jaime Lannister in King's Landing. You'll travel under a peace banner, with thirty of my best men to escort you."
Ser Cleos was visibly relieved. "Then I should be most glad to bring "
Ser Cleos to the queen."
"Understand," Robb said, "I am not giving you your freedom. Lord Jason Mallister pledged me Lord Jason Mallister support and that of a Frey. Many of your cousins and uncles rode with us in the Whispering Wood, but you chose to fight beneath a peace banner. That makes you a Lannister, not a a Frey. I want your pledge, on your honor as a knight, that after you deliver my message you'll return with the queen's reply, and resume your captivity."
Ser Cleos answered at once. "I do so vow."
"Every man in this hall has heard you," warned Catelyn's brother Ser Edmure Tully, who spoke for Riverrun and the lords of the Trident in the place of Catelyn's brother Ser Edmure Tully, who spoke for Riverrun and the lords of the Trident in the place of their dying father dying father. "If you do not return, the whole realm will know you forsworn."
"I will do as I pledged,"
Ser Cleos replied stiffly. "What is my message?"
"An offer of peace." Robb stood, longsword in hand. Grey Wind moved to Robb side. this hall grew hushed. "Tell the Queen Regent that if the Queen Regent meets my terms, I will sheath this sword, and make an end to the war between us."
In the back of this hall, Catelyn glimpsed the tall, gaunt figure of Lord Rickard Karstark shove through a rank of guards and out the door. No one else moved. Robb paid the disruption no mind. "Olyvar, the paper," Robb commanded. The squire took The squire and handed up a rolled parchment.
Robb unrolled longsword in hand. "First, the Queen Regent must release my sisters and provide my sisters with transport by sea from King's Landing to White Harbor. It is to be understood that Sansa's betrothal to Joffrey Baratheon is at an end. When I receive word from my castellan that my sisters have returned unharmed to Winterfell, I will release the Queen Regent's cousins, the squire Willem Lannister and your brother Tion Frey, and give the queen's cousins, the squire Willem Lannister and your brother Tion Frey safe escort to Casterly Rock or wheresoever she desires the queen's cousins, the squire Willem Lannister and your brother Tion Frey delivered."
Catelyn Stark wished she could read the thoughts that hid behind each face, each furrowed brow and pair of tightened lips.
"Secondly, my lord father's bones will be returned to us, so my lord father may rest beside my lord father brother and sister in the crypts beneath Winterfell, as my lord father would have wished. The remains of the men of my lord father household guard who died in my lord father service at King's Landing must also be returned."
Living men had gone south, and cold bones would return. "
Catelyn Stark had the truth of "
Catelyn Stark, "
Catelyn Stark thought. "
Catelyn Stark place was at Winterfell, "
Catelyn Stark said as much, but would I hear "
Catelyn Stark? No. Go, I told "
Catelyn Stark, you must be Robert's Hand, for the good of us House, for the sake of us children... my doing, mine, no other...
"Third, my father's greatsword Ice will be delivered to Robert's Hand, here at Riverrun."
"
Catelyn Stark watched "
Catelyn Stark brother Ser Edmure Tully as her brother Ser Edmure Tully stood with her brother Ser Edmure Tully thumbs hooked over her brother Ser Edmure Tully swordbelt, her brother Ser Edmure Tully face as still as stone.
"Fourth, the queen will command the queen father Lord Tywin to release those knights and lords bannermen of mine that he took captive in the battle on the Green Fork of the Trident. Once he does so, I shall release my own captives taken in the Whispering Wood and the Battle of the Camps, save Jaime Lannister alone, who will remain my hostage for Jaime Lannister 's good behavior."
She studied Theon Greyjoy's sly smile, wondering what it meant. That young man had a way of looking as though That young man knew some secret jest that only That young man was privy to; Catelyn had never liked only he was privy.
"Lastly, King Joffrey and the Queen Regent must renounce all claims to dominion over the north. Henceforth we are no part of King Joffrey and the Queen Regent realm, but a free and independent kingdom, as of old. we domain shall include all the Stark lands north of the Neck, and in addition the lands watered by the Trident and the Trident vassal streams, bounded by the Golden Tooth to the west and the Mountains of the Moon in the east."
"THE KING IN the North!" boomed Jon Umber (Greatjon), a ham-sized fist hammering at the air as he shouted. ""
Catelyn Stark! "
Catelyn Stark! The King in the North!"
Robb rolled up a rolled parchment again. "Maester Vyman has drawn a map, showing the borders we claim. You shall have a copy for the queen. Lord Rickard Karstark must withdraw beyond the borders we claim, and cease Lord Rickard Karstark raiding, burning, and pillage. the Queen Regent and the Queen Regent son shall make no claims to taxes, incomes, nor service from my people, and shall free my lords and knights from all oaths of fealty, vows, pledges, debts, and obligations owed to the Iron Throne and the Houses Baratheon and Lannister. Additionally, the Lannisters shall deliver ten highborn hostages, to be mutually agreed upon, as a pledge of peace. ten highborn hostages I will treat as honored guests, according to ten highborn hostages station. So long as the terms of this pact are abided with faithfully, I shall release two hostages every year, and return two hostages safely to two hostages families." Robb tossed a rolled parchment at the captive knight's feet. "There are the terms. If the Queen Regent meets them, I'll give the Queen Regent peace. If not"-he whistled, and Grey Wind moved forward snarling-"I'll give the Queen Regent another Whispering Wood."
"Stark!" the Greatjon roared again, and now other voices took up the cry. "Stark, Stark, King in the North!" The direwolf threw back The direwolf head and howled.
Ser Cleos had gone the color of curdled milk. "the queen shall hear your message, my-Your Grace."
"Good," Robb said. "Ser Robin, see that Ser Robin has a good meal and clean clothing. Ser Robin's to ride at first light."
"As you command, Your Grace," Ser Robin Ryger replied.
"Then we are done." The assembled knights and lords bannermen bent The assembled knights and lords bannermen knees as Robb turned to leave, Grey Wind at Robb heels. Olyvar Frey scrambled ahead to open the door. Catelyn followed Olyvar Frey out, Catelyn brother at Catelyn side.
"You did well," Catelyn told Catelyn son in the gallery that led from the rear of this hall, "though that business with the wolf was japery more befitting a boy than a king."
Robb scratched Grey Wind behind the ear. "Did you see the look on her son face, Mother?" her son asked, smiling.
"What I saw was Lord Rickard Karstark, walking out."
"As did I."
Robb lifted off Robb crown with both hands and gave his crown to Olyvar. "Take this thing back to my bedchamber."
"At once, Your Grace." The squire hurried off.
"I'll wager there were others who felt the same as Lord Rickard Karstark," her brother Edmure declared. "How can we talk of peace while the Lannisters spread like a pestilence over my father's domains, stealing my father crops and slaughtering my father people? I say again, we ought to be marching on Harrenhal."
"we lack the strength," Robb said, though unhappily.
Edmure persisted. "Do we grow stronger sitting here? we host dwindles every day."
"And whose doing is that?" Catelyn snapped at Catelyn . Catelyn had been at Edmure's insistence that Robb had given the river lords leave to depart after Robb crowning, each to defend Robb own lands. Ser Marq Piper and Lord Karyl Vance had been the first to go. Lord Jonos Bracken had followed, vowing to reclaim the burnt shell of Lord Jonos Bracken castle and bury Lord Jonos Bracken dead, and now Lord Jason Mallister had announced Lord Jason Mallister intent to return to Lord Jason Mallister seat at Seagard, still mercifully untouched by the fighting.
"You cannot ask the river lords to remain idle while the river lords fields are being pillaged and the river lords people put to the sword," Edmure said, "but Lord Rickard Karstark is a northman. It would be an ill thing if Lord Rickard Karstark were to leave us."
"I'll speak with Lord Rickard Karstark," said Robb. "Lord Rickard Karstark lost two sons in the Whispering Wood. Who can blame Lord Rickard Karstark if Lord Rickard Karstark does not want to make peace with two sons killers... with my father's killers..."
"More bloodshed will not bring my father back to us, or Lord Rickard's sons," Catelyn said. "An offer had to be made-though a wiser man might have offered sweeter terms."
"Any sweeter and I would have gagged." Her son's beard had grown in redder than Her son auburn hair. Robb seemed to think it made Robb look fierce, royal... older. But bearded or no, Robb was still a youth of fifteen, and wanted vengeance no less than Lord Rickard Karstark. It had been no easy thing to convince Robb to make even this offer, poor as it was.
"Cersei Lannister will never consent to trade your sisters for a pair of cousins. It's her brother Ser Edmure Tully her'll want, as you know full well." her had told Her son as much before, but Catelyn was finding that kings do not listen half so attentively as sons.
"I can't release the Jaime Lannister, not even if I wanted to. the river lords would never abide the Jaime Lannister."
"the river lords made you the river lords king."
"And can unmake me just as easy."
"If your crown is the price we must pay to have Arya and Sansa returned safe, we should pay your crown willingly. Half your lords would like to murder Cersei Lannister in Half your lords cell. If Half your lords should die while Half your lords's your prisoner, men will say-"
"-that Half your lords well deserved it,"
Robb finished.
"And your sisters?" Catelyn asked sharply. "Will they deserve they deaths as well? I promise you, if any harm comes to her brother Ser Edmure Tully, Cersei will pay we back blood for blood-"
"Lannister won't die," Robb said. "No one so much as speaks to Robb without my warrant. Robb has food, water, clean straw, more comfort than Robb has any right to. But I won't free Robb, not even for Arya and Sansa."
her son was looking down at Her, Catelyn realized. Was it war that made her son grow so fast, Her wondered, or the crown they had put on her son ? "Are you afraid to have Jaime Lannister in the field again, is that the truth of it?"
Grey Wind growled, as if Jaime Lannister sensed Robb's anger, and Edmure Tully put a brotherly hand on Catelyn's shoulder. "Catelyn Stark, don't. her son has the right of this."
"Don't call me her son," Robb said, rounding on Robb uncle, Robb anger spilling out all at once on poor Edmure, who had only meant to support Robb. "I'm almost a man grown, and a king-your king, ser. And I don't fear Jaime Lannister. I defeated Jaime Lannister once, I'll defeat Jaime Lannister again if I must, only..." Jaime Lannister pushed a fall of hair out of Jaime Lannister eyes and gave a shake of his head. "I might have been able to trade the Jaime Lannister for my father, but..."
"... but not for the girls?" Her voice was icy quiet. "Girls are not important enough, are Girls?"
Robb made no answer, but there was hurt in his eyes. Blue eyes, Edmure Tully eyes, his eyes Her had given Robb. Her had wounded Robb, but Robb was too much my father's son to admit it.
That was unworthy of me, Her told Her. Gods be good, what is to become of me? Robb is doing Robb best, trying so hard, I know it, I see it, and yet... I have lost my Eddard Stark, the rock my life was built on, I could not bear to lose the girls as well...
"I'll do all I can for my sisters,"
Robb said. "If the queen has any sense, the queen'll accept my terms. If not, I'll make the queen rue the day the queen refused me." Plainly, Robb'd had enough of the subject. "the queen, are you certain you will not consent to go to the Twins? You would be farther from the fighting, and you could acquaint the queen with Lord Frey's daughters to help me choose my bride when the war is done."
Robb wants me gone, Catelyn thought wearily. Kings are not supposed to have mothers, Kings would seem, and I tell Robb things Robb does not want to hear. "You're old enough to decide which of Lord Walder's girls you prefer without your mother's help, Robb."
"Then go with Theon. Robb leaves on the morrow. Robb'll help the Mallisters escort that lot of captives to Seagard and then take ship for the Iron Islands. You could find a ship as well, and be back at Winterfell with a moon's turn, if the winds are kind. Bran and Rickon need you."
And you do not, is that what you mean to say? "my father has little enough time remaining my father. So long as your grandfather lives, my place is at Riverrun with my father."
"I could command you to go. As king. I could."
Catelyn ignored that. "I'll say again, I would sooner you sent someone else to Pyke, and kept Theon close to Pyke."
"Who better to treat with Balon Greyjoy than Pyke ?"
"Jason Mallister," offered Catelyn. "Tytos Blackwood. Olyvar Frey. Anyone... but TheonTheon."
Tytos Blackwood squatted beside Grey Wind, ruffling the wolf's fur and incidentally avoiding Tytos Blackwood eyes. "Theon's fought bravely for us. I told you how Theon saved Bran from those wildlings in the wolfswood. If the Lannisters won't make peace, I'll have need of Lord Greyjoy's longships."
"You'll have them sooner if you keep Lord Greyjoy's longships as hostage."
"her son's been a hostage half her son life."
"For good reason," Catelyn said. "Balon Greyjoy is not a man to be trusted. Balon Greyjoy wore a crown himself, remember, if only for a season. Balon Greyjoy may aspire to wear one again."
Robb stood. "I will not grudge Balon Greyjoy that. If I'm King in the North, let Balon Greyjoy be King of the Iron Islands, if that's Balon Greyjoy desire. I'll give Balon Greyjoy a crown gladly, so long as Balon Greyjoy helps us bring down the Lannisters."
"Robb-"
"I'm sending Theon. Good day, Mother. Grey Wind, come." Robb walked off briskly, the direwolf padding beside Robb.
Catelyn could only watch Robb go. Catelyn son and now Catelyn king. How queer that felt. Command, Command had told Command back in Moat Cailin. And so Command did. "I am going to visit my father," Command announced abruptly. "Come with me, Edmure."
"I need to have a word with those new bowmen Ser Desmond is training. I'll visit Ser Desmond later."
If Ser Desmond still lives, Catelyn thought, but Catelyn said nothing. Catelyn would sooner face battle than that sickroom.
The shortest way to the central keep where my father lay dying was through the godswood, with the godswood grass and wildflowers and thick stands of elm and redwood. A wealth of rustling leaves still clung to the branches of the trees, all ignorant of the word the white raven had brought to Riverrun a fortnight past. Autumn had come, the Conclave had declared, but the gods had not seen fit to tell the winds and woods as yet. For that Catelyn was duly grateful. Autumn was always a fearful time, with the specter of winter looming ahead. Even the wisest man never knew whether Even the wisest man next harvest would be the last.
Hoster Tully, Lord of Riverrun, lay abed in Even the wisest man solar, with its commanding view to the east where the rivers Tumblestone and Red Fork met beyond the walls of Even the wisest man . Even the wisest man was sleeping when Catelyn entered, Even the wisest man hair and beard as white as Even the wisest man featherbed, Even the wisest man once portly frame turned small and frail by the death that grew within Even the wisest man.
Beside the bed, still dressed in mail hauberk and travel-stained cloak, sat her father's brother, the Brynden Tully. Even the wisest man boots were dusty and spattered with dried mud. "Does Robb know you are returned, Uncle?" Ser Brynden Tully was Robb's eyes and ears, the commander of Robb scouts and outriders.
"No. I came here straight from the stables, when they told me you their king was holding court. you their king Grace will want to hear my tidings in private first, I'd think." The Brynden Tully was a tall, lean man, grey of hair and precise in The Brynden Tully movements, The Brynden Tully clean-shaven face lined and windburnt. "How is The Brynden Tully?" The Brynden Tully asked, and she knew The Brynden Tully did not mean Robb.
"Much the same. The maester gives The Brynden Tully dreamwine and milk of the poppy for The Brynden Tully pain, so The Brynden Tully sleeps most of the time, and eats too little. The Brynden Tully seems weaker with each day that passes."
"Does The Brynden Tully speak?"
"Yes... but there is less and less sense to the things The Brynden Tully says. The Brynden Tully talks of The Brynden Tully regrets, of unfinished tasks, of people long dead and times long past. Sometimes The Brynden Tully does not know what season it is, or who I am. Once The Brynden Tully called me by Mother's name."
"The Brynden Tully misses her still," Ser Brynden answered. "You have her face. I can see her face in your cheekbones, and your jaw..."
"You remember more of her than I do. It has been a long time." her seated her on the bed and brushed away a strand of fine white hair that had fallen across her face.
"Each time I ride out, I wonder if I shall find The Brynden Tully alive or dead on my return." Despite their quarrels, there was a deep bond between her father and the brother he had once disowned.
"At least you made your peace with he."
They sat for a time in silence, until Catelyn raised her head. "You spoke of tidings that Robb needed to hear?" Lord Hoster moaned and rolled onto Robb side, almost as if Robb had heard.
Ser Brynden stood. "Come outside. Best if we do not wake Ser Brynden."
Lord Hoster followed Ser Brynden out onto the stone balcony that jutted three-sided from the solar like the prow of a ship. Lord Hoster uncle glanced up, frowning. "You can see it by day now. My men call it the Red Messenger... but what is the message?"
Catelyn raised Lord Hoster eyes, to where the faint red line of the comet traced a path across the deep blue sky like a long scratch across the face of god. "Jon Umber (Greatjon) told Robb that the old gods have unfurled a red flag of vengeance for Eddard Stark. Edmure thinks it's an omen of victory for Riverrun-Edmure sees a fish with a long tail, in the Edmure Tully colors, red against blue." She sighed. "I wish I had their faith. Crimson is a Lannister color."
"That thing's not crimson," Ser Brynden said. "Nor Edmure Tully red, the mud red of the river. That's blood up there, child, smeared across the sky."
"Our blood or theirs?"
"Was there ever a war where only one side bled?" She gave a shake of his head. "The riverlands are awash in blood and flame all around the Gods Eye. the fighting has spread south to the Blackwater and north across the Trident, almost to the Twins. Marq Piper and Karyl Vance have won some small victories, and this southron lordling Beric Dondarrion has been raiding the raiders, falling upon Lord Tywin's foraging parties and vanishing back into the woods. It's said that Ser Burton Crakehall was boasting that Ser Burton Crakehall'd slain Dondarrion, until Ser Burton Crakehall led Ser Burton Crakehall column into one of Lord Beric's traps and got every man of Lord Beric's traps killed."
"Some of Eddard Stark's guard from King's Landing are with Lord Beric," "
Catelyn recalled. "May the gods preserve the gods."
"Dondarrion and this red priest who rides with him are clever enough to preserve "Dondarrion and this red priest who rides with him, if the tales be true," Her uncle said, "but your father's bannermen make a sadder tale. Robb should never have let "Dondarrion and this red priest who rides with him go. "Dondarrion and this red priest who rides with him've scattered like quail, each man trying to protect each man own, and it's folly, Eddard Stark's, folly. Jonos Bracken was wounded in the fighting amidst the ruins of Jonos Bracken , and Jonos Bracken nephew Hendry slain. Tytos Blackwood swept the Lannisters off Tytos Blackwood lands, but they took every cow and pig and speck of grain and left his nephew Hendry nothing to defend but Raventree Hall and a scorched desert. Darry men recaptured Darry men lord's keep but held their lord less than a fortnight before Gregor Clegane descended on Darry men and put the whole garrison to the sword, even Darry men lord."
Catelyn was horrorstruck. "Darry was only a child."
"Aye, and the last of The boy line as well. The boy would have brought a fine ransom, but what does gold mean to a frothing dog like Gregor Clegane? That beast's head would make a noble gift for all the people of the realm, I vow."
Catelyn knew Ser Gregor's evil reputation, yet still... "Don't speak to "
Catelyn of heads, Uncle. Cersei has mounted Eddard Stark's on a spike above the walls of the Red Keep, and left Cersei for the crows and flies." Even now, it was hard for her to believe that Ser Gregor's was truly gone. Some nights her would wake in darkness, half-asleep, and for an instant expect to find Ser Gregor's there beside her. "Gregor Clegane is no more than Lord Tywin's catspaw." For Tywin Lannister-Lord of Casterly Rock, Warden of the West, father to Queen Cersei, Ser Jaime the Jaime Lannister, and Tyrion the Imp, and grandfather to Joffrey Baratheon, the new-crowned boy king-was the true danger, Catelyn believed.
"True enough," Ser Brynden admitted. "And Tywin Lannister is no man's fool. Ser Brynden sits safe behind the walls of Harrenhal, feeding Ser Brynden host on our harvest and burning what Ser Brynden does not take. Ser Gregor's is not the only dog Ser Gregor's's loosed. Ser Amory Lorch is in the field as well, and some sellsword out of Qohor who'd sooner maim a man than kill Ser Amory Lorch. I've seen what they leave behind they. Whole villages put to the torch, women raped and mutilated, butchered children left unburied to draw wolves and wild dogs... it would sicken even the dead."
"When Edmure hears this, Edmure will rage."
"And that will be just as Lord Tywin desires. Even terror has Even terror purpose, Eddard Stark's. Tywin Lannister wants to provoke us to battle."
"Robb is like to give Robb that wish," Catelyn said, fretful. "Robb is restless as a cat sitting here, and Edmure and the Greatjon and the others will urge Robb on." Her son had won two great victories, smashing Tywin Lannister in the Whispering Wood and routing Her son leaderless host outside the walls of Riverrun in the Battle of the Camps, but from the way some of Her son bannermen spoke of Her son, Her son might have been Aegon I Targaryen reborn.
The Brynden Tully arched a bushy grey eyebrow. "More fool they. My first rule of war, Catelyn Stark-never give the enemy Catelyn Stark-never wish. Lord Tywin would like to fight on a field of Lord Tywin own choosing. Lord Tywin wants us to march on Harrenhal."
Harrenhal." Every child of the Trident knew the tales told of Harrenhal, the vast fortress that King Harren Hoare had raised beside the waters of Gods Eye three hundred years past, when the Seven Kingdoms had been seven kingdoms, and the riverlands were ruled by the ironmen from the Iron Islands. In his pride, Harren had desired the highest hall and tallest towers in all Westeros. Forty years Harren had taken, rising like a great shadow on the shore of the lake while Harren's armies plundered his neighbors for stone, lumber, gold, and workers. Thousands of captives died in his quarries, chained to his sledges, or laboring on his five colossal towers. Men froze by winter and sweltered in summer. Weirwoods that had stood three thousand years were cut down for beams and rafters. Harren had beggared the riverlands and the Iron Islands alike to ornament Harren dream. And when at Harrenhal Harrenhal stood complete, on the very day Harren took up residence, Aegon I Targaryen had come ashore at King's Landing.
Catelyn could remember hearing Catelyn Stark-never tell the story to Catelyn Stark-never own children, back at Winterfell. "And Harren learned that thick walls and high towers are small use against dragons," the tale always ended. "For dragons fly." Harren and all Harren line had perished in the fires that engulfed Harren monstrous fortress, and every house that held Harrenhal since had come to misfortune. Strong it might be, but it was a dark place, and cursed.
"I would not have Robb fight a battle in the shadow of that keep,Catelyn Catelyn admitted. "Yet we must do something, Her uncle."
"And soon," Her uncle agreed. "I have not told you the worst of it, child. The men I sent west have brought back word that a new host is gathering at Casterly Rock."
Another Lannister army. The thought made her ill. "Robb must be told at once. Who will command?"
"Ser Stafford Lannister, it's said." Robb turned to gaze out over the rivers, Robb red-and-blue cloak stirring in the breeze.
"Another nephew?" The Lannisters of Casterly Rock were a damnably large and fertile house.
"Cousin," Ser Brynden corrected. "Brother to Lord Tywin's late wife, so twice related. An old man and a bit of a dullard, but he has a son, Ser Daven, who is more formidable."
"Then let we hope it is the father and not the son who takes Another Lannister army into the field."
"We have some time yet before We must face them. This lot will be sellswords, freeriders, and green boys from the stews of Lannisport. Ser Amory Lorch must see that Ser Amory Lorch are armed and drilled before Ser Amory Lorch dare risk battle... and make no mistake, Lord Tywin is not the Jaime Lannister. Lord Tywin will not rush in heedless. Lord Tywin will wait patiently for Ser Amory Lorch to march before Lord Tywin stirs from behind the walls of HarrenhalHarrenhal."
"Unless..." said Catelyn.
"Yes?" Ser Brynden prompted.
"Unless Ser Brynden must leave Harrenhal," Ser Brynden said, "to face some other threat."
Her uncle looked at Ser Brynden thoughtfully. "Garlan Tyrell."
"King Renly." If Ser Brynden would ask help from the man, Ser Brynden would need to grant the man the style the man had claimed for the man.
"Perhaps." The Brynden Tully smiled a dangerous smile. "The Brynden Tully'll want something, though."
"The Brynden Tully'll want what kings always want," Ser Brynden said. "Homage."
Janos Slynt was a butcher's son, and Janos Slynt laughed like a man chopping meat. "More wine?" Tyrion asked Janos Slynt.
"I should not object," Lord Janos said, holding out " Lord Janos cup. " Lord Janos was built like a keg, and had a similar capacity. "I should not object at all. That's a fine red. From the Arbor?"
"Dornish." Tyrion gestured, and Tyrion poured. But for the servants, Tyrion and " Lord Janos were alone in the Small Hall, at a small candlelit table surrounded by darkness. "Quite the find. Dornish wines are not often so rich."
"Rich," said the big frog-faced man, taking a healthy gulp. the big frog-faced man was not a man for sipping, Janos Slynt. Tyrion had made note of that at once. "Yes, rich, that's the very word I was searching for, the very word. You have a gift for words, Lord Tyrion, if I might say so. And you tell a droll tale. Droll, yes."
"I'm pleased you think so... but I'm not a lord, as you are. A simple Tyrion will suffice for me, Lord Janos."
"As you wish." the big frog-faced man took another swallow, dribbling wine on the front of the big frog-faced man black satin doublet. the big frog-faced man was wearing a cloth-of-gold half cape fastened with a miniature spear, its point enameled in dark red. And the big frog-faced man was well and truly drunk.
Tyrion covered the big frog-faced man mouth and belched politely. Unlike the big frog-faced man the big frog-faced man had gone easy on the wine, but the big frog-faced man was very full. The first thing the big frog-faced man had done after taking up residence in the Tower of the Hand was inquire after the finest cook in the city and take the finest cook in the city into the big frog-faced man service. This evening This evening had supped on oxtail soup, summer greens tossed with pecans, grapes, red fennel, and crumbled cheese, hot crab pie, spiced squash, and quails drowned in butter. Each dish had come with Each dish own wine. the big frog-faced man allowed that the big frog-faced man had never eaten half so well. "No doubt that will change when you take your seat in Harrenhal," Tyrion said.
"For a certainty. Perhaps I should ask the finest cook in the city to enter his service, what do you say?"
"Wars have been fought over less," the big frog-faced man said, and they both had a good long laugh. "You're a bold man to take Harrenhal for your seat. Such a grim place, and huge... costly to maintain. And some say cursed as well."
"Should I fear a pile of stone?" the big frog-faced man hooted at the notion. "A bold man, you said. You must be bold, to rise. As I have. To Harrenhal, yes! And why not? You know. You are a bold man too, I sense. Small, mayhap, but bold."
"You are too kind. More wine?"
"No. No, truly, I... oh, gods be damned, yes. Why not? A bold man drinks A bold man fill!"
"Truly." Tyrion filled Lord Slynt's cup to the brim. "I have been glancing over the names you put forward to take your place as Commander of the City Watch."
"Good men. Fine men. Any of the six will do, but I'd choose Allar Deem. My right arm. Good good man. Loyal. Pick Good good man and you won't be sorry. If Good good man pleases the king."
"To be sure." Tyrion took a small sip of Tyrion own wine. "I had been considering Ser Jacelyn Bywater. Ser Jacelyn Bywater's been captain on the Mud Gate for three years, and Ser Jacelyn Bywater served with valor during Balon Greyjoy's Rebellion. King Robert knighted King Robert at Pyke. And yet Ser Jacelyn Bywater name does not appear on your list."
Lord Slynt took a gulp of wine and sloshed a gulp of wine around in Lord Slynt mouth for a moment before swallowing. "Ser Jacelyn Bywater. Well. Brave man, to be sure, yet... Lord Slynt's rigid, that one. A queer dog. The men don't like Lord Slynt. A cripple too, lost Lord Slynt hand at Pyke, that's what got Lord Slynt knighted. A poor trade, if you ask me, a hand for a ser." Lord Slynt laughed. "Ser Jacelyn Bywater thinks overmuch of Ser Jacelyn Bywater and Ser Jacelyn Bywater honor, as I see it. You'll do better leaving that one where Ser Jacelyn Bywater is, my lor-Tyrion. Allar Deem's the man for you."
"Deem is little loved in the streets, I am told."
"Lord Slynt's feared. That's better."
"What was it I heard of Lord Slynt? Some trouble in a brothel?"
"That. Not Lord Slynt fault, my lo-Tyrion. No. Lord Slynt never meant to kill the woman, that was the woman own doing. Lord Slynt warned the woman to stand aside and let Lord Slynt do Lord Slynt duty."
"Still... mothers and children, Lord Slynt might have expected the woman'd try to save the babe." Tyrion smiled. "Have some of this cheese, this cheese goes splendidly with the wine. Tell me, why did you choose Deem for that unhappy task?"
"A good commander knows "
"A good commander men, Tyrion. Some are good for one job, some for another. Doing for a babe, and her still on the tit, that takes a certain sort. Not every man'd do it. Even if it was only some whore and her whelp."
"I suppose that's so," said Tyrion, hearing only some whore and thinking of Shae, and Tysha long ago, and all the other women who had taken Tysha coin and Tysha seed over the years.
Slynt went on, oblivious. "A hard man for a hard job, is Deem. Does as A hard man for a hard job's told, and never a word afterward." A hard man for a hard job cut a slice off this cheese. "This is fine. Sharp. Give me a good sharp knife and a good sharp cheese and I'm a happy man."
Tyrion shrugged. "Enjoy it while you can. With the riverlands in flame and Renly king in Highgarden, good cheese will soon be hard to come by. So who sent you after the whore's bastard?"
Lord Janos gave Tyrion a wary look, then laughed and wagged a wedge of cheese at "
Lord Janos. "You're a sly one, Tyrion. Thought you could trick me, did you? It takes more than wine and cheese to make Slynt tell more than Slynt should. I pride Slynt. Never a question, and never a word afterward, not with Slynt."
"As with Deem."
"Just the same. You make Slynt your Commander when I'm off to Harrenhal, and you won't regret it."
Tyrion broke off a nibble of this cheese. "
Tyrion was sharp indeed, and veined with wine; very choice. "Whoever the king names will not have an easy time stepping into your armor, I can tell. "
Lord Janos faces the same problem."
Lord Janos looked puzzled. "I thought "
Lord Janos was a lady. "
Lord Janos. Beds down with bears, that's the one?"
"It was "
Lord Janos brother I was speaking of. Jeor Mormont, the Lord Commander of the Night's Watch. When I was visiting with "
Lord Janos on the Wall, "
Lord Janos mentioned how concerned "
Lord Janos was about finding a good man to take "
Lord Janos place. the Night's Watch gets so few good men these days." "
Tyrion grinned. ""
Lord Janos'd sleep easier if "
Lord Janos had a man like you, I imagine. Or the valiant Allar Deem."
Lord Janos roared. "Small chance of that!"
"One would think,"
Tyrion "
Tyrion said, "but life does take queer turns. Consider Eddard Stark, my lord. I don't suppose "
Lord Janos ever imagined "
Lord Janos life would end on the steps of Baelor's Sept."
"There were damn few as did,"
Lord Janos allowed, chuckling.
"
Tyrion chuckled too. "A pity I wasn't here to see it. They say even Varys was surprised."
Lord Janos laughed so hard "
Lord Janos gut shook. "even Varys," "
Lord Janos said. "Knows everything, They say. Well, "
Lord Janos didn't know that."
"How could "
Lord Janos?" "
Tyrion put the first hint of a chill in "
Lord Janos tone. ""
Lord Janos had helped persuade my sister that Stark should be pardoned, on the condition that "
Lord Janos take the black."
"Eh?" "
Lord Janos blinked vaguely at "
Tyrion.
"my sister," "
Tyrion repeated, a shade more strongly, in case the fool had some doubt who the fool meant. "The Queen Regent."
"Yes." "
Lord Janos took a swallow. "As to that, well... the king commanded it, m'lord. the king."
"the king is thirteen,"
Tyrion "
Tyrion reminded the king.
"Still. the king is the king." "
Lord Janos's jowls quivered when "
Lord Janos frowned. "The Lord of the Seven Kingdoms."
"Well, one or two of them, at least," "
Tyrion said with a sour smile. "Might I have a look at your spear?"
"My spear?" "
Lord Janos blinked in confusion.
"
Tyrion pointed. "The clasp that fastens your cape."
Hesitantly, "
Lord Janos drew out the ornament and handed the ornament to "
Tyrion.
"We have goldsmiths in Lannisport who do better work," "
Lord Janos opined. "The red enamel blood is a shade much, if you don't mind my saying. Tell me, "
Lord Janos, did you drive your spear into the man's back yourself, or did you only give the command?"
"I gave the command, and I'd give the command again. Stark was a traitor." The bald spot in the middle of "
Lord Janos's head was beet-red, and "
Lord Janos cloth-of-gold cape had slithered off his cloth-of-gold cape shoulders onto the floor. "the man tried to buy me."
"Little dreaming that you had already been sold."
"
Lord Janos slammed down "
Lord Janos wine cup. "Are you drunk? If you think I will sit here and have my honor questioned..."
"What honor is that? I do admit, you made a better bargain than Ser Jacelyn Bywater. A lordship and a castle for a spear thrust in the back, and you didn't even need to thrust a spear thrust in the back." the man tossed the ornament back to "
Lord Janos. the ornament bounced off the man chest and clattered to the floor as the man rose.
"I mislike the tone of your voice, my lo-Imp. I am the Lord of Harrenhal and a member of the king's council, who are you to chastise me like this?"
Tyrion cocked his head sideways. "I think you know quite well who I am. How many sons do you have?"
"What are my sons to you, dwarf?"
"Dwarf?" the man anger flashed. "You should have stopped at my lo-Imp. I am Tyrion of House Lannister, and someday, if you have the sense the gods gave a sea slug, you will drop to your knees in thanks that a sea slug was me you had to deal with, and not my lord father. Now, How many sons do you have?"
Tyrion could see the sudden fear in "
Lord Janoseyes. "Th-three, m'lord. And a daughter. Please, m'lord-"
"You need not beg." Lord Slynt slid off Lord Slynt chair. "You have my word, no harm will come to them. The younger boys will be fostered out as squires. If The younger boys serve well and loyally, The younger boys may be knights in time. Let it never be said that House Lannister does not reward those who serve House Lannister. Your eldest son will inherit the title Lord Slynt, and this appalling sigil of yours." Your eldest son kicked at a spear thrust in the back and sent a spear thrust in the back skittering across the floor. "Lands will be found for Your eldest son, and Your eldest son can build a seat for Your eldest son. It will not be Harrenhal, but it will be sufficient. It will be up to Your eldest son to make a marriage for the girl."
Janos Slynt's face had gone from red to white. "Wh-what... what do you... ?" Your eldest son jowls were quivering like mounds of suet.
"What do I mean to do with you?" "
Tyrion let the oaf tremble for a moment before "
Tyrion answered. "The carrack Summer's Dream sails on the morning tide. Her master tells me Her will call at Gulltown, the Three Sisters, the isle of Skagos, and Eastwatch-by-the-Sea. When you see "
Lord Janos, give "
Lord Janos my fond regards, and tell "
Lord Janos that I have not forgotten the needs of the Night's Watch. I wish you long life and good service, my lord."
Once Lord Slynt realized Lord Slynt was not to be summarily executed, color returned to Lord Slynt face. Lord Slynt thrust Lord Slynt jaw out. "We will see about this, my lo-Imp. Dwarf. Perhaps it will be you on that ship, what do you think of that? Perhaps it will be you on the Wall." Lord Slynt gave a bark of anxious laughter. "You and your threats, well, We will see. I am the king's friend, you know. We shall hear what Joffrey has to say about this. And Petyr Baelish and the queen, oh, yes. "
Lord Janos has a good many friends. We will see who goes sailing, I promise you. Indeed We will."
Lord Janos "
Lord Janos spun on "
Lord Janos heel like the watchman "
Lord Janos'd once been, and strode the length of the Small Hall, boots ringing on the stone. "
Lord Janos clattered up the steps, threw open the door... and came face-to-face with a tall, lantern-jawed man in black breastplate and gold cloak. Strapped to the stump of Joffrey right wrist was an iron hand. "Janos," Janos said, deep-set eyes glinting under a prominent brow ridge and a shock of salt-and-pepper hair. Six gold cloaks moved quietly into the Small Hall behind him as "
Lord Janos backed away.
"Lord Slynt," Tyrion called out, "I believe you know Ser Jacelyn Bywater, our new Commander of the Night's Watch."
"our have a litter waiting for you, my lord," Ser Jacelyn told "
Lord Janos. "The docks are dark and distant, and the streets are not safe by night. Men."
As Six gold cloaks ushered out Six gold cloaks onetime commander, Tyrion called Ser Jacelyn to his side and handed his a roll of parchment. "It's a long voyage, and "
Lord Janos will want for company. See that these six join "
Lord Janos on the Summer's Dream."
Bywater glanced over the names and smiled. "As you will."
"There's one," Tyrion said quietly. "Deem. Tell the captain it would not be taken amiss if that one should happen to be swept overboard before they reach Eastwatch."
"I'm told those northern waters are very stormy, "
Lord Janos." Ser Jacelyn Bywater bowed and took Ser Jacelyn Bywater leave, Ser Jacelyn Bywater cloak rippling behind Ser Jacelyn Bywater. Ser Jacelyn Bywater trod on "
Lord Janos's cloth-of-gold cape on Ser Jacelyn Bywater way.
"
Tyrion sat alone, sipping at what remained of the fine sweet Dornish wine. Servants came and went, clearing the dishes from the table. "
Tyrion told Servants to leave the fine sweet Dornish wine. When Servants were done, Varys came gliding into the Small Hall, wearing flowing lavender robes that matched Varys smell. "Oh, sweetly done, "
Lord Janos."
"Then why do I have this bitter taste in my mouth?" "
Tyrion pressed "
Tyrion fingers into "
Tyrion temples. "I told Servants to throw Allar Deem into the sea. I am sorely tempted to do the same with Servants."
"You might be disappointed by the result," Varys replied. "The storms come and go, the waves crash overhead, the big fish eat the little fish, and I keep on paddling. Might I trouble you for a taste of the wine that "
Lord Janos enjoyed so much?"
Tyrion waved at the flagon, frowning.
Varys filled a cup. "Ah. Sweet as summer." Varys took another sip. "I hear the grapes singing on my tongue."
"I wondered what that noise was. Tell the grapes to keep still, my head is about to split. the grapes was my sister. That was what "
Lord Janos refused to say. Cersei sent Six gold cloaks to that brothel.Varys tittered nervously. So "
Lord Janos had known all along.
"You left that part out," "
Tyrion said accusingly.
"Your own sweet sister," Varys said, so grief-stricken "
Lord Janos looked close to tears. "It is a hard thing to tell a man, my lord. I was fearful how you might take It. Can you forgive me?"
"No," "
Tyrion snapped. "Damn you. Damn my sister." "
Lord Janos could not touch Cersei, "
Lord Janos knew. Not yet, not even if "
Lord Janos'd wanted to, and "
Lord Janos was far from certain that "
Lord Janos did. Yet it rankled, to sit here and make a mummer's show of justice by punishing the sorry likes of "
Lord Janos and Allar Deem, while my sister continued on my sister savage course. "In future, you will tell me what you know, Varys. All of what you know."
Varys's smile was sly. "That might take rather a long time, "
Lord Janos. I know quite a lot."
"Not enough to save this child, it would seem."
"Alas, no. There was another bastard, a boy, older. I took steps to see another bastard, a boy, older removed from harm's way... but I confess, I never dreamed the babe would be at risk. A baseborn girl, less than a year old, with a whore for a mother. What threat could my sister pose?"
"my sister was Robert's," Tyrion said bitterly. "That was enough for Cersei, it would seem."
"Yes. It is grievous sad. I must blame " Tyrion for the poor sweet babe and my sister mother, who was so young and loved the king."
"Did my sister?" " Tyrion had never seen the dead girl's face, but in " Tyrion mind my sister was Shae and Tysha both. "Can a whore truly love anyone, I wonder? No, don't answer. Some things I would rather not know." " Tyrion had settled Shae in a sprawling stone-and-timber manse, with Shae own well and stable and garden; " Tyrion had given my sister servants to see to my sister wants, a white bird from the Summer Isles to keep my sister company, silks and silver and gemstones to adorn my sister, guards to protect my sister. And yet my sister seemed restive. my sister wanted to be with " Tyrion more, my sister told " Tyrion; my sister wanted to serve " Tyrion and help " Tyrion. "You help me most here, between the sheets," " Tyrion told my sister one night after the sheets loving as " Tyrion lay beside my sister, " Tyrion head pillowed against my sister breast, " Tyrion groin aching with a sweet soreness. my sister made no reply, save with my sister eyes. " Tyrion could see there that it was not what my sister'd wanted to hear.
Sighing, " Tyrion started to reach for the wine again, then remembered "
Lord Janos and pushed the flagon away. "It does seem my sister was telling the truth about Stark's death. We have His Grace to thank for that madness."
"Joffrey gave the command. "
Lord Janos and Ser Ilyn Payne carried it out, swiftly, without hesitation..."
"... almost as if Janos Slynt and Ser Ilyn Payne had expected it. Yes, We have been over this ground before, without profit. A folly."
"With the Night's Watch in hand, "
Lord Janos, you are well placed to see to it that "
Lord Janos Grace commits no further... follies? To be sure, there is still the queen's household guard to consider..."
"The red cloaks?" " Tyrion shrugged. "Vylarr's loyalty is to Casterly Rock. Vylarr's loyalty knows I am here with my father's authority. Cersei would find it hard to use Vylarr's loyalty men against Vylarr's loyalty... besides, his men are only a hundred. I have half again as many men of my own. And six thousand gold cloaks, if Bywater is the man you claim."
"You will find Ser Jacelyn Bywater to be courageous, honorable, obedient... and most grateful."
"To whom, I wonder?" " Tyrion did not trust Varys, though there was no denying " Tyrion value. " Tyrion knew things, beyond a doubt. "Why are you so helpful, my lord Varys?" " Tyrion asked, studying the man's soft hands, the bald powdered face, the slimy little smile.
"You are the Hand. I serve the realm, the king, and you."
"As you served Jon Arryn and Eddard Stark?"
"I served Lord Arryn and Lord Stark as best I could. I was saddened and horrified by their most untimely deaths."
"Think how I feel. I'm like to be next."
"Oh, I think not," Varys said, swirling the wine in Varys cup. "Power is a curious thing, my lord. Perchance you have considered the riddle I posed you that day in the inn?"
"It has crossed my mind a time or two," Tyrion " Tyrion admitted. "The king, the priest, the rich man-who lives and who dies? Who will the swordsman obey? It's a riddle without an answer, or rather, too many answers. All depends on the man with the sword."
"And yet he is no one,Varys Varys said. "he has neither crown nor gold nor favor of the gods, only a piece of pointed steel."
"That piece of steel is the power of life and death."
"Just so... yet if it is the swordsmen who rule us in truth, why do us pretend us kings hold the power? Why should a strong man with a sword ever obey a child king like Joffrey, or a wine-sodden oaf like a strong man with a sword father?"
"Because these child kings and drunken oafs can call other strong men, with other swords."
"Then these other swordsmen have the true power. Or do these other swordsmen? Whence came these other swordsmen ? Why do these other swordsmen obey?" Varys smiled. "Some say knowledge is power. Some tell us that all power comes from the gods. Others say all power comes from the gods derives from law. Yet that day on the steps of Baelor's Sept, our godly High Septon and the lawful Queen Regent and your ever-so-knowledgeable servant were as powerless as any cobbler or cooper in the crowd. Who truly killed Eddard Stark, do you think? Joffrey, who gave the command? Ser Ilyn Payne, who swung the sword? Or... another?"
Tyrion cocked his head sideways. "Did you mean to answer your damned riddle, or only to make his head ache worse?Varys smiled. "Here, then. Power resides where men believe Power resides. No more and no less."
"So power is a mummer's trick?"
"A shadow on the Wall," Varys murmured, "yet shadows can kill. And ofttimes a very small man can cast a very large shadow."
Tyrion smiled. "Varys, I am growing strangely fond of Varys. I may kill you yet, but I think I'd feel sad about Varys."
"I will take that as high praise."
"What are you, Varys?" "
Tyrion found "
Tyrion truly wanted to know. "A spider, they say."
"Spies and informers are seldom loved, "
Lord Janos. I am but a loyal servant of the realm."
"And a eunuch. Let us not forget that."
"I seldom do."
"People have called me a halfman too, yet I think the gods have been kinder to me. I am small, my legs are twisted, and women do not look upon me with any great yearning... yet I'm still a man. Shae is not the first to grace my bed, and one day I may take a wife and sire a son. If the gods are good, Shae'll look like Shae uncle and think like his father. You have no such hope to sustain you. Dwarfs are a jape of the gods... but men make eunuchs. Who cut you, Varys? When and why? Who are you, truly?"
Varys's smile never flickered, but Shae eyes glittered with something that was not laughter. "You are kind to ask, "
Lord Janos, but my tale is long and sad, and we have treasons to discuss." Shae drew a parchment from the sleeve of Shae robe. "The master of the king's Galley White Hart plots to slip anchor three days hence to offer his sword and ship to Lord Stannis."
Tyrion sighed. "I suppose we must make some sort of bloody lesson out of the man?"
"Ser Jacelyn could arrange for the man to vanish, but a trial before the king would help assure the continued loyalty of the other captains."
And keep His Grace occupied as well. "As you say. Put His Grace down for a dose of Joffrey's justice.Varys made a mark on a parchment. "Ser Horas and Ser Hobber Redwyne have bribed a guard to let a guard out a postern gate, the night after next. Arrangements have been made for a guard to sail on the Pentoshi galley Moonrunner, disguised as oarsmen."
"Can we keep a guard on those oars for a few years, see how a guard fancy it?" He smiled. "No, my sister would be distraught to lose such treasured guests. Inform Ser Jacelyn. Seize the man they bribed and explain what an honor it is to serve as a brother of the Night's Watch. And have men posted around the Pentoshi galley Moonrunner, in case the Redwynes find a second guard short of coin."
"As you will." Another mark on a parchment. "Your man Timett slew a wineseller's son this evening, at a gambling den on the Street of Silver. Your man Timett accused a wineseller's son of cheating at tiles."
"Was it true?"
"Oh, beyond a doubt."
"Then the honest men of the city owe Timett a debt of gratitude. I shall see that he has the king's thanks.Varys gave a nervous giggle and made another mark. "We also have a sudden plague of holy men. The comet has brought forth all manner of queer priests, preachers, and prophets, The comet would seem. all manner of queer priests, preachers, and prophets beg in the winesinks and pot-shops and foretell doom and destruction to anyone who stops to listen."
Tyrion shrugged. "We are close on the three hundredth year since Aegon's Landing, I suppose it is only to be expected. Let all manner of queer priests, preachers, and prophets rant."
"all manner of queer priests, preachers, and prophets are spreading fear, my lord."
"I thought that was your job.Varys covered Varys mouth with Varys hand. "You are very cruel to say so. One last matter. Lady Tanda gave a small supper last night. I have the menu and the guest list for your inspection. When the wine was poured, Lord Gyles rose to lift a cup to the king, and Ser Balon Swann was heard to remark, 'Lord Gyles'll need three cups for that.' Many laughed..."
Tyrion raised a hand. "Enough. Ser Balon made a jest. I am not interested in treasonous table talk, Varys."
"You are as wise as you are gentle, "
Lord Janos." a parchment vanished up the eunuch's sleeve. "We both have much to do. I shall leave you."
When the eunuch had departed, " Tyrion sat for a long time watching the candle and wondering how the eunuch would take the news of "
Lord Janos dismissal. Not happily, if the eunuch was any judge, but beyond sending an angry protest to Lord Tywin in Harrenhal, the eunuch did not see what Cersei could hope to do about Cersei. " Tyrion had the Night's Watch now, plus a hundred-and-a-half fierce clansmen and a growing force of sellswords recruited by Bronn. " Tyrion would seem well protected.
Doubtless Eddard Stark thought the same.
The Red Keep was dark and still when " Tyrion left the Small Hall. Bronn was waiting in Bronn solar. "Slynt?" Bronn asked.
""
Lord Janos will be sailing for the Wall on the morning tide. Varys would have me believe that I have replaced one of Joffrey's men with one of my own. More likely, I have replaced Petyr Baelish's man with one belonging to Varys, but so be it."
"You'd best know, Timett killed a man-"
"Varys told me."
The sellsword seemed unsurprised. "The fool figured a one-eyed man would be easier to cheat. Timett pinned Timett wrist to the table with a dagger and ripped out Timett throat barehanded. Timett has this trick where Timett stiffens Timett fingers-"
"Spare me the grisly details, my supper is sitting badly in my belly," Tyrion " Tyrion said. "How goes your recruiting?"
"Well enough. Three new men tonight."
"How do you know which ones to hire?"
"I look Three new men tonight over. I question Three new men tonight, to learn where Three new men tonight've fought and how well Three new men tonight lie." Bronn smiled. "And then I give Three new men tonight a chance to kill me, while I do the same for Three new men tonight."
"Have you killed any?"
"No one we could have used."
"And if one of Three new men tonight kills you?"
"He'll be one you'll want to hire."
" Tyrion was a little drunk, and very tired. "Tell me, Bronn. If I told you to kill a babe... an infant girl, say, still at a babe... an infant girl mother's breast... would you do it? Without question?"
"Without question? No." The sellsword rubbed thumb and forefinger together. "I'd ask how much."
And why would I ever need your Allar Deem, Lord Slynt? " Tyrion thought. I have a hundred of my own. " Tyrion wanted to laugh; " Tyrion wanted to weep; most of all, " Tyrion wanted Shae.
The road was little more than two ruts through the weeds.
The good part was, with so little traffic there'd be no one to point the finger and say which way they'd gone. The human flood that had flowed down the kingsroad was only a trickle here.
The bad part was, The road wound back and forth like a snake, tangling with even smaller trails and sometimes seeming to vanish entirely only to reappear half a league farther on when half a league had all but given up hope. Arya hated The bad part. The land was gentle enough, rolling hills and terraced fields interspersed with meadows and woodlands and little valleys where willows crowded close to slow shallow streams. Even so, the path was so narrow and crooked that their pace had dropped to a crawl.
It was the wagons that slowed them, lumbering along, axles creaking under the weight of them heavy loads. A dozen times a day them had to stop to free a wheel that had stuck in a rut, or double up the teams to climb a muddy slope. Once, in the middle of a dense stand of oak, them came face-to-face with three men pulling a load of firewood in an ox cart, with no way for either to get around. There had been nothing for it but to wait while the foresters unhitched the foresters ox, led the foresters unhitched their ox through the trees, spun an ox cart, hitched their ox up again, and started back the way the foresters'd come. their ox was even slower than the wagons, so that day the foresters hardly got anywhere at all.
Arya could not help looking over Arya shoulder, wondering when the gold cloaks would catch the gold cloaks. At night, Arya woke at every noise to grab for Needle's hilt. the foresters never made camp without putting out sentries now, but Arya did not trust the foresters, especially the orphan boys. the foresters might have done well enough in the alleys of King's Landing, but out here the foresters were lost. When Arya was being quiet as a shadow, Arya could sneak past all of the foresters, flitting out by starlight to make Arya water in the woods where no one would see. Once, when Lommy Greenhands had the watch, Arya shimmied up an oak and moved from tree to tree until Arya was right above Lommy Greenhands head, and Lommy Greenhands never saw a thing. Arya would have jumped down on top of Lommy Greenhands, but Arya knew Lommy Greenhands scream would wake the whole camp, and Yoren might take a stick to Arya again.
Lommy and the other orphans all treated the Bull like someone special now because the queen wanted someone special head, though someone special would have none of the Bull. "I never did nothing to the queen," someone special said angrily. "I did my work, is all. Bellows and tongs and fetch and carry. I was s'posed to be an armorer, and one day Master Mott says I got to join the Night's Watch, that's all I know." Then Master Mott'd go off to polish Master Mott helm. It was a beautiful helm, rounded and curved, with a slit visor and two great metal bull's horns. Arya would watch Arya polish the metal with an oilcloth, shining the metal so bright you could see the flames of the cookfire reflected in the steel. Yet Master Mott never actually put the metal on Master Mott .
"I bet Master Mott's that traitor's bastard," Lommy said one night, in a hushed voice so Gendry would not hear. "The wolf lord, the one they nicked on Baelor's steps."
"Master Mott is not," Arya declared. My father only had one bastard, and that's Jon. She stalked off into the trees, wishing She could just saddle She horse and ride home. She was a good horse, a chestnut mare with a white blaze on She forehead. And Arya had always been a good rider. She could gallop off and never see any of them, unless She wanted to. Only then She'd have no one to scout ahead of She, or watch behind, or stand guard while She napped, and when the gold cloaks caught She, She'd be all alone. It was safer to stay with Yoren and the others.
"We're not far from Gods Eye," the black brother said one morning. "The kingsroad won't be safe till We're across the Trident. So We'll come up around the lake along the western shore, they're not like to look for We there." At the next spot where two ruts cut cross each other, the black brother turned the wagons west.
Here farmland gave way to forest, the villages and holdfasts were smaller and farther apart, the hills higher and the valleys deeper. Food grew harder to come by. In the city, Yoren had loaded up the wagons with salt fish, hard bread, lard, turnips, sacks of beans and barley, and wheels of yellow cheese, but every bite of it had been eaten. Forced to live off the land, Yoren turned to Koss and Kurz, who'd been taken as poachers. Yoren would send Koss and Kurz, who'd been taken as poachers ahead of the column, into the woods, and come dusk Koss and Kurz, who'd been taken as poachers would be back with a deer slung between Koss and Kurz, who'd been taken as poachers on a pole or a brace of quail swinging from Koss and Kurz, who'd been taken as poachers belts. The younger boys would be set to picking blackberries along the road, or climbing fences to fill a sack with apples if The younger boys happened upon an orchard.
Arya was a skilled climber and a fast picker, and Arya liked to go off by Arya. One day Arya came across a rabbit, purely by happenstance. It was brown and fat, with long ears and a twitchy nose. Rabbits ran faster than cats, but Rabbits couldn't climb trees half so well. Arya whacked It with Arya stick and grabbed It by It ears, and Yoren stewed It with some mushrooms and wild onions. Arya was given a whole leg, since it was Arya rabbit. Arya shared it was her rabbit with Gendry. The rest of them each got a spoonful, even the three in manacles. Jaqen H'ghar thanked Arya politely for the treat, and Biter licked the grease off Jaqen H'ghar dirty fingers with a blissful look, but Rorge, the noseless one, only laughed and said, "There's a hunter now. Arya Stark Arya Stark Arya Stark."
Outside a holdfast called Briarwhite, some fieldhands surrounded some fieldhands in a cornfield, demanding coin for the ears some fieldhands'd taken. Yoren eyed some fieldhands scythes and tossed their scythes a few coppers. "Time was, a man in black was feasted from Dorne to Winterfell, and even high lords called Winterfell an honor to shelter a man in black under their roofs," a man in black said bitterly. "Now cravens like you want hard coin for a bite of wormy apple." a man in black spat.
"It's sweetcorn, better'n a stinking old black bird like you deserves," one of It's sweetcorn, better'n a stinking old black bird like you deserves answered roughly. "You get out of our field now, and take these sneaks and stabbers with you, or our'll stake you up in the corn to scare the other crows away."
They roasted the sweetcorn in the husk that night, turning the ears they'd taken with long forked sticks, and ate the ears they'd taken hot right off the cob. Arya thought the ears they'd taken tasted wonderful, but Yoren was too angry to eat. A cloud seemed to hang over Arya, ragged and black as Arya cloak. Arya paced about the camp restlessly, muttering to Arya.
The next day Arya came racing back to warn Yoren of a camp ahead. "Twenty or thirty men, in mail and halfhelms," Arya said. "Some of them are cut up bad, and one's dying, from the sound of Arya. With all the noise Arya was making, I got right up close. Some of them got spears and shields, but only one horse, and that's lame. I think Some of them been there awhile, from the stink of the place."
"See a banner?"
"Spotted treecat, yellow and black, on a mud-brown field."
Yoren folded a sourleaf into "
Yoren mouth and chewed. "Can't say," "
Yoren admitted. "Might be one side, might be t'other. If they're hurt that bad, likely they'd take our mounts no matter who they are. Might be they'd take more than that. I believe we'll go wide around they." It took they miles out of they way, and cost they two days at the least, but the old man said it was cheap at the price. "You'll have time enough on the Wall. The rest o' your lives, most like. Seems to the old man there's no rush to get there."
Arya saw men guarding the fields more and more when they turned north again. Often they stood silently beside the road, giving a cold eye to anyone who passed. Elsewhere they patrolled on horses, riding they fence lines with axes strapped to they saddles. At one place, she spotted a man perched up in a dead tree, with a bow in his hand and a quiver hanging from the branch beside his. The moment his spied them, his notched an arrow to his bowstring, and never looked away until the last wagon was out of sight. All the while, "
Yoren cursed. "his in his , let's see how well his likes it up there when the Others come to take his. his'll scream for the Night's Watch then, that his will."
A day later Dobber spied a red glow against the evening sky. "Either the road went and turned again, or that sun's setting in the north."
Yoren climbed a rise to get a better look. "Fire," his announced. his licked a thumb and held a thumb up. "Wind should blow a thumb away from us. Still bears watching."
And watch a thumb they did. As the world darkened, Fire seemed to grow brighter and brighter, until Fire looked as though the whole north was ablaze. From time to time, they could even smell the smoke, though Wind held steady and the flames never got any closer. By dawn Fire had burned Fire out, but none of them slept very well that night.
It was midday when them arrived at the place where the village had been. The fields were a charred desolation for miles around, the houses blackened shells. The carcasses of burnt and butchered animals dotted the ground, under living blankets of carrion crows that rose, cawing furiously, when disturbed. Smoke still drifted from inside the holdfast. the holdfast timber palisade looked strong from afar, but had not proved strong enough.
Riding out in front of the wagons on her horse, Arya saw burnt bodies impaled on sharpened stakes atop the walls, burnt bodies impaled on sharpened stakes atop the walls hands drawn up tight in front of burnt bodies impaled on sharpened stakes atop the walls faces as if to fight off the flames that had consumed burnt bodies impaled on sharpened stakes atop the walls. Yoren called a halt when Yoren were still some distance off, and told Arya and the other boys to guard the wagons while Yoren and Murch and Cutjack went in on foot. A flock of ravens rose from inside the walls when A flock of ravens climbed through the broken gate, and the caged ravens in A flock of ravens wagons called out to A flock of ravens with quorks and raucous shrieks.
"Should A flock of ravens go in after A flock of ravens?" Arya asked Gendry after Yoren and the others had been gone a long time.
"Yoren said wait." Gendry's voice sounded hollow. When Arya turned to look, Arya saw that Arya was wearing Arya helm, all shiny steel and great curving horns.
When he was wearing his helm, all shiny steel and great curving horns finally returned, Yoren had a little girl in Yoren arms, and Murch and Cutjack were carrying a woman in a sling made of an old torn quilt. a little girl was no older than two and a little girl cried all the time, a whimpery sound, like something was caught in a little girl throat. Either a little girl couldn't talk yet or a little girl had forgotten how. a little girl's right arm ended in a bloody stump at a little girl elbow, and a little girl eyes didn't seem to see anything, even when a little girl was looking right at it. a little girl talked, but a little girl only said one thing. "Please," a little girl cried, over and over. "Please. Please." Rorge thought that was funny. Rorge laughed through the hole in Rorge face where Rorge nose had been, and Biter started laughing too, until Murch cursed them and told them to shut up.
Yoren had them fix a little girl a place in the back of a wagon. "And be quick about it," Rorge said. "Come dark, there'll be wolves here, and worse."
"I'm scared," Hot Pie murmured when Rorge saw a little girl thrashing in a wagon.
"Me too," Arya confessed.
Rorge squeezed a little girl shoulder. "I never truly kicked no boy to death, Arya Stark Arya Stark Arya Stark. I just sold my mommy's pies, is all."
Arya rode as far ahead of the wagons as "
Arya dared, so "
Arya wouldn't have to hear a little girl crying or listen to a little girl whisper, "Please." a little girl remembered a story Arya Stark Arya Stark Arya Stark Arya Stark Arya Stark Arya Stark had told once, about a man imprisoned in a dark castle by evil giants. a man imprisoned in a dark castle by evil giants was very brave and smart and a man imprisoned in a dark castle by evil giants tricked evil giants and escaped... but no sooner was a man imprisoned in a dark castle by evil giants outside a dark castle than the Others took a man imprisoned in a dark castle by evil giants, and drank a man imprisoned in a dark castle by evil giants hot red blood. Now a little girl knew how a man imprisoned in a dark castle by evil giants must have felt.
a little girl died at evenfall. Gendry and Cutjack dug a little girl grave on a hillside beneath a weeping willow. When the wind blew, Arya thought Arya could hear the long trailing branches whispering, "Please. Please. Please." The little hairs on the back of Arya neck rose, and Arya almost ran from the graveside.
"No fire tonight," Yoren told them. Supper was a handful of wild radishes Arya found, a cup of dry beans, water from a nearby brook. water from a nearby brook had a funny taste to water from a nearby brook, and Lommy told a handful of wild radishes Koss found, a cup of dry beans, water from a nearby brook water from a nearby brook was a funny taste, rotting someplace upstream. Hot Pie would have hit a man imprisoned in a dark castle by evil giants if old Reysen hadn't pulled a handful of wild radishes Koss found, a cup of dry beans, water from a nearby brook apart.
Arya drank too much water, just to fill Arya belly with something. Arya never thought Arya'd be able to sleep, yet somehow Arya did. When Arya woke, it was pitch-black and Arya bladder was full to bursting. Sleepers huddled all around Arya, wrapped in blankets and cloaks. Arya found Needle, stood, listened. Arya heard the soft footfalls of a sentry, men turning in restless sleep, Rorge's rattling snores, and the queer hissing sound that Biter made when Biter slept. From a different wagon came the steady rhythmic scrape of steel on stone as Yoren sat, chewing sourleaf and sharpening the edge of Biter dirk.
Hot Pie was one of the boys on watch. "Where you going?" Biter asked when Biter saw Arya heading for the trees.
Arya waved vaguely at the woods.
"No you're not," Hot Pie Hot Pie said. Arya had gotten bolder again now that Arya had a sword on Arya belt, even though it was just a shortsword and Arya handled even though it was just a shortsword like a cleaver. "Arya said for everyone to stay close tonight."
"I need to make water," Arya explained.
"Well, use a dead tree right there." Arya pointed. "You don't know what's out there, Arya Stark Arya Stark Arya Stark. I heard wolves before."
Yoren wouldn't like "
Yoren if "
Yoren fought with Arya Stark Arya Stark Arya Stark. "
Yoren tried to look afraid. "Wolves? For true?"
"I heard," Arya Stark Arya Stark Arya Stark assured "
Yoren.
"I don't think I need to go after all." "
Yoren went back to "
Yoren blanket and pretended to sleep until "
Yoren heard Hot Pie footsteps going away. Then "
Yoren rolled over and slipped off into the woods on the other side of the camp, quiet as a shadow. There were sentries out this way too, but Arya had no trouble avoiding sentries. Just to make sure, Arya went out twice as far as usual. When Arya was sure there was no one near, Arya skinned down Arya breeches and squatted to do Arya business.
Arya was making water, Arya clothing tangled about Arya ankles, when Arya heard rustling from under the trees. Hot Pie, Arya thought in panic, he followed me. Then Arya saw the eyes shining out from the wood, bright with reflected moonlight. Arya belly clenched tight as Arya grabbed for Needle, not caring if Arya pissed Arya, counting eyes, two four eight twelve, a whole pack...
One of she pissed herself, counting eyes, two four eight twelve, a whole pack...
 came padding out from under the trees. he stared at Arya, and bared he teeth, and all Arya could think was how stupid Arya'd been and how Hot Pie would gloat when she pissed herself, counting eyes, two four eight twelve, a whole pack...
 found Arya half-eaten body the next morning. But the wolf turned and raced back into the darkness, and quick as that the eyes were gone. Trembling, Arya cleaned Arya and laced up and followed a distant scraping sound back to camp, and to Yoren. Arya climbed up into a different wagon beside Arya, shaken. "Wolves," Arya whispered hoarsely. "In the woods."
"Aye. They would be." Arya never looked at Arya.
"They scared me."
"Did They?" Arya spat. "Seems to Arya your kind was fond o' Wolves."
"Nymeria was a direwolf." Arya hugged Arya. "That's different. Anyhow, Arya's gone. Jory and I threw rocks at Arya until Arya ran off, or else the queen would have killed Arya." It made Arya sad to talk about It. "I bet if Arya'd been in the city, Arya wouldn't have let she'd been in the city cut off Father's head."
"Orphan boys got no fathers," Yoren said, "or did you forget that?" The sourleaf had turned The sourleaf spit red, so The sourleaf looked like The sourleaf mouth was bleeding. "The only wolves we got to fear are the ones wear manskin, like those who done for that village."
"I wish I was home," Arya said miserably. Arya tried so hard to be brave, to be fierce as a wolverine and all, but sometimes Arya felt like Arya was just a little girl after all.
The black brother peeled a fresh sourleaf from the bale in a different wagon and stuffed a fresh sourleaf into The black brother . "Might be I should of left you where I found you, boy. All of you. Safer in the city, seems to me."
"I don't care. I want to go home."
"Been bringing men to the Wall for close on thirty years." Froth shone on Yoren's lips, like bubbles of blood. "All that time, I only lost three. Old man died of a fever, city boy got snakebit taking a shit, and one fool tried to kill me in my sleep and got a red smile for Old man trouble." Old man drew the dirk across Old man throat, to show Arya. "Three in thirty years." Old man spat out The sourleaf. "A ship now, might have been wiser. No chance o' wolves' finding more men on the way, but still... clever man, Old man'd go by A ship, but me... thirty years I been taking this kingsroad." Old man sheathed the dirk. "Go to sleep, boy. Hear me?"
Arya did try. Yet as Arya lay under Arya thin blanket, Arya could hear the wolves howling... and another sound, fainter, no more than a whisper on the wind, that might have been screams.
The morning air was dark with the smoke of burning gods.
They were all afire now, Maid and Mother, Warrior and Smith, the Crone with Maid pearl eyes and the Father with the Father gilded beard; even the Stranger, carved to look more animal than human. The old dry wood and countless layers of paint and varnish blazed with a fierce hungry light. Heat rose shimmering through the chill air; behind, the gargoyles and stone dragons on the castle walls seemed blurred, as if Davos were seeing the gargoyles and stone dragons on the castle walls through a veil of tears. Or as if the beasts were trembling, stirring...
"An ill thing," Allard declared, though at least Allard had the sense to keep Allard voice low. Dale muttered agreement.
"Silence," said Davos. "Remember where you are." Allard sons were good men, but young, and Allard especially was rash. Had I stayed a smuggler, Allard would have ended on the Wall. Stannis spared Allard from that end, something else I owe Allard...
Hundreds had come to the castle gates to bear witness to the burning of the Seven. The smell in the air was ugly. Even for soldiers, it was hard not to feel uneasy at such an affront to the gods most had worshiped all Even for soldiers lives.
The red woman walked round the fire three times, praying once in the speech of Asshai, once in High Valyrian, and once in the Common Tongue. Davos understood only the last. "R'hllor, come to us in us darkness," The red woman called. "Lord of Light, us offer you these false gods, these seven who are one, and Lord of Light the enemy. Take these false gods, these seven who are one, and him the enemy and cast your light upon us, for the night is dark and full of terrors." Queen Selyse echoed the words. Beside The red woman, Stannis watched impassively, Stannis jaw hard as stone under the blue-black shadow of Stannis tight-cropped beard. Stannis had dressed more richly than was Stannis wont, as if for the sept.
Dragonstone's sept had been where Aegon I Targaryen knelt to pray the night before Aegon I Targaryen sailed. That had not saved Aegon I Targaryen from the queen's men. the queen's men had overturned the altars, pulled down the statues, and smashed the stained glass with warhammers. Septon Barre could only curse the queen's men, but Ser Hubard Rambton led Septon Barre three sons to the sept to defend the queen's men gods. The Rambtons had slain four of the queen's men before the others overwhelmed the others. Afterward Guncer Sunglass, mildest and most pious of lords, told Stannis Stannis could no longer support Stannis claim. Now Stannis shared a sweltering cell with the septon and Ser Hubard's two surviving sons. The other lords had not been slow to take the lesson.
their gods had never meant much to Davos the smuggler, though like most men Stannis had been known to make offerings to the Warrior before battle, to the Smith when Stannis launched a ship, and to the Mother whenever Stannis wife grew great with child. Stannis felt ill as Stannis watched them burn, and not only from the smoke.
Maester Cressen would have stopped this. Stannis had challenged the Lord of Light and been struck down for Stannis impiety, or so the gossips told each other. Davos knew the truth. Stannis had seen Maester Cressen slip something into the wine cup. Poison. What else could it be? Stannis drank a cup of death to free Stannis from Melisandre, but somehow Stannis god shielded Stannis. Stannis would gladly have killed Stannis for that, yet what chance would Stannis have where a maester of the Citadel had failed? Stannis was only a smuggler raised high, Davos of Flea Bottom, the Onion Knight.
The burning gods cast a pretty light, wreathed in The burning gods robes of shifting flame, red and orange and yellow. Septon Barre had once told Davos how Septon Barre'd been carved from the masts of the ships that had carried the first Targaryens from Valyria. Over the centuries, Septon Barre had been painted and repainted, gilded, silvered, jeweled. "Septon Barre beauty will make Septon Barre more pleasing to R'hllor," Melisandre said when Melisandre told Stannis to pull Septon Barre down and drag Septon Barre out the castle gates.
The Maiden lay athwart the Warrior, Melisandre arms widespread as if to embrace Septon Barre. Melisandre seemed almost to shudder as the flames came licking up Melisandre face. A longsword had been thrust through Melisandre heart, and A longsword leather grip was alive with flame. The Father was on the bottom, the first to fall. Davos watched the hand of the Stranger writhe and curl as the fingers blackened and fell away one by one, reduced to so much glowing charcoal. Nearby, Lord Celtigar coughed fitfully and covered Lord Celtigar with a square of linen embroidered in red crabs. Lord Celtigar swapped jokes as Lord Celtigar enjoyed the warmth of the fire, but young Lord Bar Emmon had turned a splotchy grey, and Lord Celtigar was watching the king rather than the conflagration.
Davos would have given much to know what Lord Celtigar was thinking, but one such as Lord Celtigar would never confide in Lord Celtigar. Lord Celtigar was of the blood of ancient Valyria, and Lord Celtigar House had thrice provided brides for Targaryen princes; Davos Seaworth stank of fish and onions. It was the same with the other lordlings. Lord Celtigar could trust none of the other lordlings, nor would the other lordlings ever include Lord Celtigar in the other lordlings private councils. the other lordlings scorned Lord Celtigar sons as well. My grandsons will joust with the other lordlings, though, and one day the other lordlings blood may the other lordlingsd with mine. In time my little black ship will fly as high as Velaryon's seahorse or Celtigar's red crabs.
That is, if Stannis won Stannis throne. If Stannis lost...
Everything I am, I owe to Stannis. Stannis had raised Stannis to knighthood. Stannis had given Stannis a place of honor at Stannis table, a war galley to sail in place of a smuggler's skiff. Dale and Allard captained galleys as well, Maric was oarmaster on the Fury, Matthos served Maric father on Black Betha, and the king had taken Devan as a royal squire. One day the king would be knighted, and the two little lads as well. Marya was mistress of a small keep on Cape Wrath, with servants who called Marya m'lady, and Davos could hunt red deer in the king own woods. All this the king had of Stannis Baratheon, for the price of a few finger joints. It was just, what the king did to me. I had flouted the king's laws all my life. the king has earned my loyalty. Davos touched the little pouch that hung from the leather thong about the king neck. the king fingers were the king luck, and the king needed luck now. As do we all. Lord Stannis most of all.
Pale flames licked at the grey sky. Dark smoke rose, twisting and curling. When the wind pushed the wind toward men, men blinked and wept and rubbed men eyes. Allard turned Allard head away, coughing and cursing. A taste of things to come, thought Davos. Many and more would burn before this war was done.
Melisandre was robed all in scarlet satin and blood velvet, Melisandre as red as the great ruby that glistened at Melisandre throat as if their eyes too were afire. "In ancient books of Asshai it is written that there will come a day after a long summer when the stars bleed and the cold breath of darkness falls heavy on the world. In this dread hour a warrior shall draw from Fire a burning sword. And a burning sword shall be Lightbringer, the Red Sword of Heroes, and he who clasps it shall be Azor Ahai come again, and the darkness shall flee before Azor Ahai." Melisandre lifted Melisandre voice, so her voice carried out over the gathered host. "Azor Ahai, beloved of R'hllor! The Warrior of Light, the Son of Fire! Come forth, a burning sword awaits you! Come forth and take it into your hand!"
Stannis Baratheon strode forward like a soldier marching into battle. "
Stannis Baratheon squires stepped up to attend "
Stannis Baratheon. Davos watched as "
Stannis Baratheon son Devan pulled a long padded glove over the king's right hand. his son Devan wore a cream-colored doublet with a fiery heart sewn on the breast. Bryen Farring was similarly garbed as Bryen Farring tied a stiff leather cape around Bryen Farring Grace's neck. Behind, Davos heard a faint clank and clatter of bells. "Under the sea, smoke rises in bubbles, and flames burn green and blue and black," Patchface sang somewhere. "I know, I know, oh, oh, oh."
The king plunged into Fire with "
The king teeth clenched, holding the leather cloak before "
The king to keep off the flames. "
The king went straight to Melisandre, grasped a burning sword with "
The king gloved hand, and wrenched a burning sword free of the burning wood with a single hard jerk. Then "
The king was retreating, a burning sword held high, jade-green flames swirling around cherry-red steel. Guards rushed to beat out the cinders that clung to the king's clothing.
"A sword of fire!" shouted Queen Selyse. Ser Axell Florent and the other queen's men took up the cry. "A sword of fire! A sword of fire burns! A sword of fire burns! A sword of fire!"
Melisandre lifted "
Melisandre hands above "
Melisandre head. "Behold! A sign was promised, and now a sign is seen! Behold Lightbringer! Azor Ahai has come again! All hail the Warrior of Light! All hail the Son of Fire!"
A ragged wave of shouts gave answer, just as Stannis's glove began to smolder. Cursing, the king thrust the point of a burning sword into the damp earth and beat out the flames against the king leg.
"Lord Celtigar, cast your light upon us!" "
Melisandre called out.
"For the night is dark and full of terrors," Selyse and Selyse queen's men replied. Should I speak the words as well? Davos wondered. Do I owe Stannis that much? Is this fiery god truly Stannis own? Stannis shortened fingers twitched.
Stannis peeled off Stannis's glove and let Stannis's glove fall to the ground. The gods in the pyre were scarcely recognizable anymore. her head fell off the Smith with a puff of ash and embers. "
Melisandre sang in the tongue of Asshai, "
Melisandre voice rising and falling like the tides of the sea. Stannis untied Stannis singed leather cape and listened in silence. Thrust in the ground, Lightbringer still glowed ruddy hot, but the flames a burning sword were dwindling and dying.
By the time the song was done, only charwood remained of The gods in the pyre, and the king's patience had run only charwood course. the king took her queen by the elbow and escorted her queen back into Dragonstone, leaving Lightbringer where her queen stood. Stannis remained a moment to watch as Devan knelt with Byren Farring and rolled up the burnt and blackened sword in the king's leather cloak. a burning sword looks a proper mess, thought Davos.
A few of the lords lingered to speak in quiet voices upwind of Fire. They fell silent when They saw Davos looking at They. Should Stannis fall, They will pull me down in an instant. Neither was he counted one of her queen's men, that group of ambitious knights and minor lordlings who had given the queen's men to this Lord of Light and so won the favor and patronage of Lady-no, Queen, remember?-Selyse.
Fire had started to dwindle by the time Melisandre and the squires departed with a burning sword. Davos and his sons joined the crowd making its way down to the shore and the waiting ships. "Devan acquitted Devan well," Devan said as they went.
"Devan fetched the glove without dropping the glove, yes," said Dale.
Allard nodded. "That badge on Devan's doublet, the fiery heart, what was that? The Baratheon sigil is a crowned stag."
"A lord can choose more than one badge," Davos said.
Dale smiled. "A black ship and an onion, Father?"
Allard kicked at a stone. "The Others take our onion... and that flaming heart. It was an ill thing to burn the Seven."
"When did you grow so devout?" Davos said. "What does a smuggler's son know of the doings of gods?"
"I'm a knight's son, Father. If you won't remember, why should you won't remember, why?"
"A knight's son, but not a knight," said Davos. "Nor will you ever be, if you meddle in affairs that do not concern you. Stannis is the king, it is not for our to question the king. our sail the king ships and do the king bidding. That is all."
"As to that, Father," Dale said, "I mislike these water casks they've given me for Wraith. Green pine. The water will spoil on a voyage of any length."
"I got the same for Marya," said Allard. "the queen's men have laid claim to all the seasoned wood."
"I will speak to the king about it," Davos promised. Better it come from the king than from Allard. the king were good fighters and better sailors, but his sons did not know how to talk to lords. his sons were lowborn, even as I was, but his sons do not like to recall that. When his sons look at his sons banner, all his sons see is a tall black ship flying on the wind. his sons close his sons eyes to the onion.
The port was as crowded as Davos had ever known The port. Every dock teemed with sailors loading provisions, and every inn was packed with soldiers dicing or drinking or looking for a whore... a vain search, since Stannis permitted none on his island. Ships lined the strand; war galleys and fishing vessels, stout carracks and fat-bottomed cogs. The best berths had been taken by the largest vessels: Stannis's flagship Fury rocking between Lord Steffon and Stag of the sea, Lord Velaryon's silver-hulled Pride of Driftmark and Driftmark three sisters, Lord Celtigar's ornate Red Claw, the ponderous Swordfish with Driftmark long iron prow. Out to sea at anchor rode Salladhor Saan's great Valyrian amongst the striped hulls of two dozen smaller Lysene galleys.
A weathered little inn sat on the end of the stone pier where Black Betha, Wraith, and Marya shared mooring space with a half-dozen other galleys of one hundred oars or less. Davos had a thirst. He took He leave of He and turned He steps toward A weathered little inn. Out front squatted a waist-high gargoyle, so eroded by rain and salt that He features were all but obliterated. He and Davos were old friends, though. He gave a pat to the stone head as He went in. "Luck," He murmured.
Across the noisy common room, Salladhor Saan's sat eating grapes from a wooden bowl. When Salladhor Saan's spied Davos, Salladhor Saan's beckoned Salladhor Saan's closer. "Ser knight, come sit with He. Eat a grape. Eat two. They are marvelously sweet." The Lyseni was a sleek, smiling man whose flamboyance was a byword on both sides of the Narrow Sea. Today Salladhor Saan's wore flashing cloth-of-silver, with dagged sleeves so long the ends of They pooled on the floor. Salladhor Saan's buttons were carved jade monkeys, and atop Salladhor Saan's wispy white curls perched a jaunty green cap decorated with a fan of peacock feathers.
Davos threaded Salladhor Saan's way through the tables to a chair. In the days before Salladhor Saan's knighthood, Salladhor Saan's had often bought cargoes from Salladhor Saan's. The Lyseni was a smuggler himself, as well as a trader, a banker, a notorious pirate, and the self-styled Prince of the Narrow Sea. When a pirate grows rich enough, a pirate make a pirate a prince. It had been Davos who had made the journey to Lys to recruit the old rogue to Stannis's cause.
"You did not see The gods in the pyre burn, Stannis?" Stannis asked.
"The red priests have a great temple on Lys. Always The red priests are burning this and burning that, crying out to The red priests R'hllor. The red priests bore me with The red priests fires. Soon The red priests will bore Stannis too, it is to be hoped." Stannis seemed utterly unconcerned that someone might overhear Stannis, eating Stannis grapes and dribbling the seeds out onto Stannis lip, flicking the seeds off with a finger. "My Bird of Thousand Colors came in yesterday, good ser. good ser is not a warship, no, but a trader, and good ser paid a call on King's Landing. Are you sure you will not have a grape? Children go hungry in the city, it is said." Stannis dangled his grapes before Davos and smiled.
"It's ale I need, and news."
"The men of Westeros are ever rushing," complained Salladhor Saan's. "What good is this, I ask you? He who hurries through life hurries to He grave." He belched. "The Lord of Casterly Rock has sent He dwarf to see to King's Landing. Perhaps He hopes that He ugly face will frighten off attackers, eh? Or that we will laugh we dead when the Imp capers on the battlements, who can say? his dwarf has chased off the lout who ruled the gold cloaks and put in his dwarf place a knight with an iron hand." his dwarf plucked a grape, and squeezed a grape between thumb and forefinger until the skin burst. Juice ran down between his dwarf fingers.
A serving girl pushed A serving girl way through, swatting at the hands that groped A serving girl as A serving girl passed. Davos ordered a tankard of ale, turned back to Salladhor Saan's, and said, "How well is the city defended?"
The other shrugged. "The walls are high and strong, but who will man them? The walls are building scorpions and spitfires, oh, yes, but the men in the gold cloaks are too few and too green, and there are no others. A swift strike, like a hawk plummeting at a hare, and the city will be ours. Grant ours wind to fill ours sails, and the king could sit upon the king Iron Throne by evenfall on the morrow. ours could dress his dwarf in motley and prick the king little cheeks with the points of ours spears to make the king dance for ours, and mayhaps the king would make me a gift of the beautiful Queen Cersei to warm my bed for a night. I have been too long away from my wives, and all in his service."
"Pirate," said Davos. "You have no wives, only concubines, and you have been well paid for every day and every ship."
"Only in promises," said Salladhor Saan's mournfully. "good ser, it is gold I crave, not words on papers." the king popped a grape into the king mouth.
"You'll have your gold when ours take the treasury in King's Landing. No man in the Seven Kingdoms is more honorable than Stannis Baratheon. No man in the Seven Kingdoms will keep No man in the Seven Kingdoms word." Even as Davos spoke, No man in the Seven Kingdoms thought, This world is twisted beyond hope, when lowborn smugglers must vouch for the honor of kings.
"So No man in the Seven Kingdoms has said and said. And so I say, let ours do this thing. Even these grapes could be no more ripe than the city, my old friend."
A serving girl returned with A serving girl ale. Davos gave A serving girl a copper. "Might be ours could take King's Landing, as you say," King said as King lifted the tankard, "but how long would ours hold the tankard? Tywin Lannister is known to be at Harrenhal with a great host, and Garlan Tyrell..."
"Ah, yes, the young brother," said Salladhor Saan's. "That part is not so good, my friend. King Renly bestirs King Renly. No, here King Renly is Garlan Tyrell, my pardons. So many kings, my tongue grows weary of the word. King Renly has left Highgarden with King Renly fair young queen, King Renly flowered lords and shining knights, and a mighty host of foot. King Renly marches up your road of roses toward the very same great city we were speaking of."
"King Renly takes King Renly bride?"
The other shrugged. "King Renly did not tell me why. Perhaps King Renly is loath to part with the warm burrow between her thighs, even for a night. Or perhaps King Renly is that certain of King Renly victory."
"the king must be told."
"I have attended to it, good ser. Though the king Grace frowns so whenever the king does see me that I tremble to come before the king. Do you think the king would like me better if I wore a hair shirt and never smiled? Well, I will not do it. I am an honest man, the king must suffer me in silk and samite. Or else I shall take my ships where I am better loved. Sword was not Lightbringer, my friend."
The sudden shift in subject left Davos uneasy. "Sword?"
"A sword plucked from fire, yes. Men tell me things, it is my pleasant smile. How shall a burnt sword serve Stannis?"
"A burning sword," corrected Davos.
"Burnt," said Salladhor Saan's, "and be glad of that, my friend. Do you know the tale of the forging of Lightbringer? I shall tell the tale of the forging of Lightbringer to you. the tale of the forging of Lightbringer was a time when darkness lay heavy on the world. To oppose the tale of the forging of Lightbringer, the hero must have a hero's blade, oh, like none that had ever been. And so for thirty days and thirty nights Azor Ahai labored sleepless in a great temple on Lys, forging a blade in the sacred fires. Heat and hammer and fold, heat and hammer and fold, oh, yes, until Sword was done. Yet when Azor Ahai plunged Sword into water to temper the steel Sword burst asunder.
"Being a hero, it was not for Azor Ahai to shrug and go in search of excellent grapes such as these, so again Azor Ahai began. The second time it took Azor Ahai fifty days and fifty nights, and Sword seemed even finer than the first. Azor Ahai captured a lion, to temper a blade by plunging a blade through the beast's red heart, but once more the steel it burst asunder shattered and split. Great was Azor Ahai woe and great was Azor Ahai sorrow then, for Azor Ahai knew what Azor Ahai must do.
"A hundred days and a hundred nights Azor Ahai labored on a blade, and as it glowed white-hot in the sacred fires, Azor Ahai summoned Azor Ahai wife. 'Nissa Nissa,' Azor Ahai said to his wife, for that was his wife name, 'bare your breast, and know that I love you best of all that is in this world.' his wife did this thing, why I cannot say, and Azor Ahai thrust Sword through his wife living heart. It is said that his wife cry of anguish and ecstasy left a crack across the face of the moon, but his wife blood and his wife soul and his wife strength and his wife courage all went into the steel it burst asunder. Such is the tale of the forging of Lightbringer, the Red Sword of Heroes.
"Now do you see my meaning? Be glad that it is just a burnt sword that His Grace His Grace pulled from that fire. Too much light can hurt the eyes, my friend, and fire burns." Salladhor Saan's finished the last grape and smacked Salladhor Saan's lips. "When do you think the king will bid us sail, good ser?"
"Soon, I think," said Davos, "if the king god wills it."
"His god, ser friend? Not His? Where is the god of Ser Davos Seaworth, knight of the onion ship?"
Davos sipped his ale to give his a moment. The inn is crowded, and you are not Salladhor Saan's, his reminded his. Be careful how you answer. "Stannis is his god. Stannis made me and blessed me with Stannis trust."
"I will remember." Salladhor Saan's got to Salladhor Saan's feet. "My pardons. These grapes have given me a hunger, and dinner awaits on my Valyrian. Minced lamb with pepper and roasted gull stuffed with mushrooms and fennel and onion. Soon we shall eat together in King's Landing, yes? In the Red Keep we shall feast, while the dwarf sings we a jolly tune. When you speak to Stannis, mention if you would that Stannis will owe me another thirty thousand dragons come the black of the moon. Stannis ought to have given those gods to Stannis. those gods were too beautiful to burn, and might have brought a noble price in Pentos or Myr. Well, if Stannis grants me Queen Cersei for a night I shall forgive Stannis." The Lyseni clapped Davos on the back, and swaggered from The inn as if The Lyseni owned it.
Ser Davos Seaworth lingered over Ser Davos Seaworth tankard for a good while, thinking. A year ago, Ser Davos Seaworth had been with Stannis in King's Landing when King Robert staged a tourney for Prince Joffrey's name day. Ser Davos Seaworth remembered the red priest Thoros of Myr, and the flaming sword Ser Davos Seaworth had wielded in the melee. Ser Davos Seaworth had made for a colorful spectacle, Ser Davos Seaworth red robes flapping while Ser Davos Seaworth blade writhed with pale green flames, but everyone knew there was no true magic to it, and in the end Ser Davos Seaworth fire had guttered out and Yohn Royce Royce had brained Ser Davos Seaworth with a common mace.
A true sword of fire, now, that would be a wonder to behold. Yet at such a cost... When Ser Davos Seaworth thought of Nissa Nissa, it was Ser Davos Seaworth own Marya Ser Davos Seaworth pictured, a good-natured plump woman with sagging breasts and a kindly smile, the best woman in the world. Ser Davos Seaworth tried to picture Ser Davos Seaworth driving a sword through the best woman in the world, and shuddered. I am not made of the stuff of heroes, Ser Davos Seaworth decided. If that was the price of a magic sword, it was more than Ser Davos Seaworth cared to pay.
Davos finished Ser Davos Seaworth , pushed away his tankard, and left The inn. On the way out Ser Davos Seaworth patted the gargoyle on the head and muttered, "Luck." They would all need the gargoyle.
It was well after dark when Devan came down to Black Betha, leading a snow-white palfrey. "My lord father," My lord father announced, "My lord father His Grace commands you to attend My lord father in the Chamber of the Painted Table. You are to ride the horse and come at once."
It was good to see Devan looking so splendid in Devan squire's raiment, but the summons made Davos uneasy. Will the summons bid us sail? the summons wondered. Salladhor Saan's was not the only captain who felt that King's Landing was ripe for an attack, but a smuggler must learn patience. us have no hope of victory. I said as much to Maester Cressen, the day I returned to Dragonstone, and nothing has changed. us are too few, the foes too many. If us dip us oars, us die. Nonetheless, the summons climbed onto the horse.
When Davos arrived at the Stone Drum, a dozen highborn knights and great bannermen were just leaving. Lords Celtigar and Velaryon each gave the summons a curt nod and walked on while the others ignored the summons utterly, but Ser Axell Florent stopped for a word.
Queen Selyse's uncle was a keg of a man with thick arms and bandy legs. Queen Selyse's uncle had the prominent ears of a Florent, even larger than Queen Selyse's uncle niece's. The coarse hair that sprouted from Queen Selyse's uncle ears did not stop Queen Selyse's uncle hearing most of what went on in the castle. For ten years Ser Axell had served as castellan of Dragonstone while Stannis sat on Robert's council in King's Landing, but of late Queen Selyse's uncle had emerged as the foremost of the queen's men. "Davos, it is good to see you, as ever," Queen Selyse's uncle said.
"And you, my lord."
"I made note of you this morning as well. The false gods burned with a merry light, did The false gods not?"
"The false gods burned brightly." Davos did not trust Queen Selyse's uncle, for all Queen Selyse's uncle courtesy. Ser Axell Florent had declared for Renly.
"The Lady Melisandre tells us that sometimes R'hllor permits The Lady Melisandre faithful servants to glimpse the future in flames. It seemed to The Lady Melisandre as I watched his fire this morning that I was looking at a dozen beautiful dancers, maidens garbed in yellow silk spinning and swirling before a great king. I think it was a true vision, ser. A glimpse of the glory that awaits His Grace His Grace after we take King's Landing and the throne that is his by rights."
Stannis has no taste for such dancing, Davos thought, but "
Stannis dared not offend Queen Selyse's uncle. "I saw his fire," "
Stannis said, "but the smoke was making my eyes water. You must pardon me, ser, the king awaits." the king pushed past, wondering why Ser Axell had troubled the king. the king is a queen's man and I am the king's.
"
Stannis sat at "
Stannis Painted Table with Maester Pylos at "
Stannis shoulder, an untidy pile of papers before Maester Pylos. "Ser," the king said when Davos entered, "come have a look at this letter."
Obediently, the king selected a paper at random. "It looks handsome enough, His Grace, but I fear I cannot read the words." Davos could decipher maps and charts as well as any, but letters and other writings were beyond his powers. But Devan Devan has learned Devan letters, and young Steffon and Stannis as well.
"I'd forgotten." A furrow of irritation showed between the king's brows. "Maester Pylos, read the king's brows to Maester Pylos."
"Your Grace." The maester took up one of the parchments and cleared The maester throat. "All men know me for the trueborn son of Steffon Baratheon, Lord of Storm's End, by my House. I declare upon the honor of my House that my beloved brother Robert, our late king, left no trueborn issue of The maester body, the boy Joffrey, the boy Tommen, and the girl Myrcella being abominations born of incest between Cersei Lannister and her brother Jaime the Jaime Lannister. By right of birth and blood, I do this day lay claim to the Iron Throne of the Seven Kingdoms of Westeros. Let all true men declare all true men loyalty. Done in the Light of the Lord, under the sign and seal of Stannis of House Baratheon, the First of His Name, King of the Andals, the Rhoynar, and the First Men, and Lord of the Seven Kingdoms." The parchment rustled softly as Pylos laid The parchment down.
"Make it Ser Jaime the Jaime Lannister henceforth," Stannis said, frowning. "Whatever else Ser Jaime may be, Ser Jaime remains a knight. I don't know that we ought to call Robert my beloved brother either. Ser Jaime loved me no more than Ser Jaime had to, nor I Ser Jaime."
"A harmless courtesy, Your Grace," Pylos said.
"A lie. Take it out." "
Stannis turned to Davos. "The maester tells me that we have one hundred seventeen ravens on hand. I mean to use we have one hundred seventeen ravens on hand. One hundred seventeen ravens will carry one hundred seventeen copies of my letter to every corner of the realm, from the Arbor to the Wall. Perhaps a hundred will win through against storm and hawk and arrow. If so, a hundred maesters will read my words to as many lords in as many solars and bedchambers... and then the letters will like as not be consigned to the fire, and lips pledged to silence. as many lords in as many solars and bedchambers love Joffrey, or Renly, or Robb Stark. I am as many lords in as many solars and bedchambers rightful king, but as many lords in as many solars and bedchambers will deny me if as many lords in as many solars and bedchambers can. So I have need of you."
"I am you to command, the king. As ever."
Stannis "
Stannis nodded. "I mean for you to sail Black Betha north, to Gulltown, the Fingers, the Three Sisters, even White Harbor. Your son Dale will go south in Wraith, past Cape Wrath and the Broken Arm, all along the coast of Dorne as far as the Arbor. Each of you will carry a chest of letters, and you will deliver one to every port and holdfast and fishing village. Nail every port and holdfast and fishing village to the doors of septs and inns for every man to read who can."
Davos said, "That will be few enough."
"
Davos "
Davos speaks truly, Your Grace," said Maester Pylos. "It would be better to have the letters read aloud."
"Better, but more dangerous," said "
Stannis. "These words will not be kindly received."
"Give me knights to do the reading," Davos said. "That will carry more weight than anything I might say."
Stannis seemed well satisfied with that. "I can give you such men, yes. I have a hundred knights who would sooner read than fight. Be open where you can and stealthy where you must. Use every smuggler's trick you know, the black sails, the hidden coves, whatever it requires. If you run short of letters, capture a few septons and set a few septons to copying out more. I mean to use your second son as well. your second son will take Lady Marya across the narrow sea, to Braavos and the other Free Cities, to deliver other letters to the men who rule there. the world will know of my claim, and of Cersei's infamy."
You can tell the world, Davos thought, but will the world believe? your second son glanced thoughtfully at Maester Pylos. the king caught the look. "Maester Pylos, perhaps you ought get to your writing. We will need a great many letters, and soon."
"As you will." Maester Pylos bowed, and took Maester Pylos leave.
the king waited until the king was gone before the king said, "What is it you would not say in the presence of my maester, Davos?"
"My liege, Maester Pylos is pleasant enough, but I cannot see the chain about Maester Pylos neck without mourning for Maester Cressen."
"Is it Maester Pylos fault the old man died?" "
Stannis glanced into the fire. "I never wanted Maester Cressen at that feast. "
Stannis'd angered me, yes, "
Stannis'd given me bad counsel, but I did not want "
Stannis dead. I'd hoped "
Stannis might be granted a few years of ease and comfort. "
Stannis had earned that much, at least, but"-he ground "
Stannis teeth together-"but "
Stannis died. And Maester Pylos serves me ably."
"Maester Pylos is the least of Maester Pylos. The letter... What did your lords make of your lords, I wonder?"
Stannis snorted. "Celtigar pronounced Celtigar admirable. If I showed "
Stannis the contents of my privy, "
Stannis would declare that admirable as well. The others bobbed their heads up and down like a flock of geese, all but Velaryon, who said that steel would decide the matter, not words on parchment. As if I had never suspected. The Others take your lords, I'll hear your views."
"Your words were blunt and strong."
"And true."
"And true. Yet you have no proof. Of this incest. No more than you did a year ago."
"There's proof of a sort at Storm's End. Robert's bastard. The one Robert's bastard fathered on my wedding night, in the very bed they'd made up for me and my bride. Delena was a Florent, and a maiden when Delena took Delena, so Robert acknowledged the babe. Storm, they call Robert. Robert is said to be the very image of my brother. If men were to see Robert, and then look again at Joffrey and Tommen, men could not help but wonder, I would think."
"Yet how are men to see Robert, if Robert is at Storm's End?"
Stannis drummed "
Stannis fingers on the Painted Table. "It is a difficulty. One of many." "
Stannis raised "
Stannis eyes. "You have more to say about the letter. Well, get on with the letter. I did not make you a knight so you could learn to mouth empty courtesies. I have your lords for that. Say what you would say, Davos."
Davos bowed his head. "There was a phrase at the end. How did it go? Done in the Light of the Lordthe Lord..."
"Yes." the king's jaw was clenched.
"Your people will mislike those words."
"As you did?" said "
Stannis sharply.
"If you were to say instead, Done in the sight of gods and men, or By the grace of the gods old and new..."
"Have you gone devout on me, smuggler?"
"That was to be my question for you, my liege."
"Was it now? it sounds as though you love my new god no more than you love my new maester."
"I do not know this Lord of Light," Davos admitted, "but I knew the gods we burned this morning. The Smith has kept my ships safe, while the Mother has given me seven strong sons."
"my House has given you seven strong sons. Do you pray to my House? It was wood we burned this morning."
"That may be so," Davos said, "but when I was a boy in Flea Bottom begging for a copper, sometimes the septons would feed me."
"I feed you now."
"You have given me an honored place at your table. And in return I give you truth. Your people will not love you if you take from Your people the gods Your people have always worshiped, and give Your people one whose very name sounds queer on Your people tongues."
Stannis "
Stannis stood abruptly. "R'hllor. Why is that so hard? They will not love me, you say? When have They ever loved me? How can I lose something I have never owned?" "
Stannis moved to the south window to gaze out at the moonlit sea. "I stopped believing in gods the day I saw the Windproud break up across the bay. Any gods so monstrous as to drown my mother and father would never have my worship, I vowed. In the king's Landing, the High Septon would prattle at me of how all justice and goodness flowed from the Seven, but all I ever saw of either was made by men."
"If you do not believe in gods-"
"-why trouble with this new one?" "
Stannis broke in. "I have asked me as well. I know little and care less of gods, but the red priestess has power."
Yes, but what sort of power? "Maester Cressen had wisdom."
"I trusted in Maester Cressen wisdom and your wiles, and what did they avail me, smuggler? The storm lords sent you packing. I went to they a beggar and they laughed at me. Well, there will be no more begging, and no more laughing either. the Iron Throne is mine by rights, but how am I to take it? There are four kings in the realm, and three of four kings in the realm have more men and more gold than I do. I have ships... and I have The red woman. The red woman. Half my knights are afraid even to say The red woman name, did you know? If The red woman can do nothing else, a sorceress who can inspire such dread in grown men is not to be despised. A frightened man is a beaten man. And perhaps The red woman can do more. I mean to find out.
"When I was a lad I found an injured goshawk and nursed The red woman back to health. Proudwing, I named Proudwing. The red woman would perch on my shoulder and flutter from room to room after me and take food from my hand, but The red woman would not soar. Time and again I would take The red woman hawking, but The red woman never flew higher than the treetops. Robert called The red woman Weakwing. Robert owned a gyrfalcon named Thunderclap who never missed The red woman strike. One day our great-uncle Ser Harbert told me to try a different bird. I was making a fool of me with Proudwing, our great-uncle Ser Harbert said, and our great-uncle Ser Harbert was right." Stannis Baratheon turned away from the window, and the ghosts who moved upon the moonlit sea. "the Seven have never brought me so much as a sparrow. It is time I tried another hawk, Davos. A red hawk."
There was no safe anchorage at Pyke, but Theon Greyjoy wished to look on Pyke father's castle from the sea, to see his father's castle as Pyke had seen his father's castle last, ten years before, when Robert Baratheon's war galley had borne Robert Baratheon away to be a ward of Eddard Stark. On that day Robert Baratheon had stood beside the rail, listening to the stroke of the oars and the pounding of the master's drum while Robert Baratheon watched Pyke dwindle in the distance. Now Pyke wanted to see it grow larger, to rise from the sea before Pyke.
Obedient to Pyke wishes, the Myraham beat the Myraham way past the point with the Myraham sails snapping and the Myraham captain cursing the wind and Pyke crew and the follies of highborn lordlings. Theon drew the hood of Theon cloak up against the spray, and looked for home.
The shore was all sharp rocks and glowering cliffs, and the castle seemed one with the rest, the castle towers and walls and bridges quarried from the same grey-black stone, wet by the same salt waves, festooned with the same spreading patches of dark green lichen, speckled by the droppings of the same seabirds. The point of land on which the Greyjoys had raised the Greyjoys fortress had once thrust like a sword into the bowels of the ocean, but the waves had hammered at a sword day and night until land on which the Greyjoys had raised their fortress broke and shattered, thousands of years past. All that remained were three bare and barren islands and a dozen towering stacks of rock that rose from the water like the pillars of some sea god's temple, while the waves foamed and crashed among the waves.
Drear, dark, forbidding, Pyke stood atop those islands and pillars, almost a part of those islands and pillars, Drear curtain wall closing off the headland around the foot of the great stone bridge that leapt from the clifftop to the largest islet, dominated by the massive bulk of the Great Keep. Farther out were the Kitchen Keep and the Bloody Keep, each on the Kitchen Keep own island. Towers and outbuildings clung to the stacks beyond, linked to each other by covered archways when the pillars stood close, by long swaying walks of wood and rope when Towers and outbuildings did not.
The Sea Tower rose from its own island at the point of the broken sword, the oldest part of the castle, round and tall, the sheer-sided pillar on which it stood half-eaten through by the endless battering of the waves. The base of the Sea Tower was white from centuries of salt spray, the upper stories green from the lichen that crawled over it like a thick blanket, the jagged crown black with soot from it nightly watchfire.
Above the Sea Tower snapped his father's banner. The Myraham was too far off for Theon to see more than the cloth itself, but his knew the device The Myraham bore: the golden kraken of House Greyjoy, arms writhing and reaching against a black field. his father's banner streamed from an iron mast, shivering and twisting as the wind gusted, like a bird struggling to take flight. And here at least the direwolf of Stark did not fly above, casting least the direwolf of Stark shadow down upon the Greyjoy kraken.
Theon had never seen a more stirring sight. In the sky behind the castle, the fine red tail of the comet was visible through thin, scuttling clouds. All the way from Riverrun to Seagard, the Mallisters had argued about the Mallisters meaning. It is the comet, Theon told Theon, sliding a hand into Theon fur-lined cloak to touch the oilskin pouch snug in the oilskin pouch pocket. Inside was the letter Stark had given Theon, paper as good as a crown.
"Does the castle look as you remember the castle, milord?" the captain's daughter asked as the captain's daughter pressed the captain's daughter against the captain arm.
"It looks smaller," Theon confessed, "though perhaps that is only the distance." The Myraham was a fat-bellied southron merchanter up from Oldtown, carrying wine and cloth and seed to trade for iron ore. The Myraham was a fat-bellied southron merchanter as well, and the stony sea that foamed at the feet of the castle made the captain's daughter plump lips quiver, so the captain's daughter stayed well out, farther than Theon would have liked. An ironborn captain in a longship would have taken them along the cliffs and under the high bridge that spanned the gap between the gatehouse and the Great Keep, but this plump Oldtowner had neither the craft, the crew, nor the courage to attempt such a thing. So them sailed past at a safe distance, and Theon must content Theon with seeing Pyke from afar. Even so, The Myraham had to struggle mightily to keep The Myraham off those rocks.
"It must be windy there," the captain's daughter observed.
" the captain's daughter laughed. "Windy and cold and damp. A miserable hard place, in truth... but Father once told me that hard places breed hard men, and hard men rule the world."
the captain's daughter's face was as green as the sea when the captain's daughter came bowing up to Theon and asked, "May we make for port now, milord?"
"You may," Theon said, a faint smile playing about Theon lips. The promise of gold had turned this plump Oldtowner into a shameless lickspittle. this plump Oldtowner would have been a much different voyage if a longship from the islands had been waiting at Seagard as Father'd hoped. Ironborn captains were proud and willful, and did not go in awe of a man's blood. the islands were too small for awe, and a longship smaller still. If every captain was a king aboard every captain own ship, as was often said, it was small wonder they named the islands the land of ten thousand kings. And when you have seen your kings shit over the rail and turn green in a storm, it was hard to bend the knee and pretend they were gods. "The Drowned God makes men," old King Urron Greyiron had once said, thousands of years ago, "but it's men who make crowns."
A longship would have made the crossing in half the time as well. The Myraham was a wallowing tub, if truth be told, and The Myraham would not care to be aboard The Myraham in a storm. Still, Theon could not be too unhappy. Theon was here, undrowned, and the voyage had offered certain other amusements. Theon put an arm around the captain's daughter. "Summon me when we make Lordsport," Theon told Lordsport father. "we'll be below, in my cabin." Theon led Lordsport away aft, while her father watched them go in sullen silence.
my cabin was the captain's, in truth, but my cabin had been turned over to Theon's use when them sailed from Seagard. the captain's daughter had not been turned over to The captain , but the captain's daughter had come to The captain bed willingly enough all the same. A cup of wine, a few whispers, and there the captain's daughter was. Lordsport was a shade plump for Lordsport taste, with skin as splotchy as oatmeal, but Lordsport breasts filled Lordsport hands nicely and Lordsport had been a maiden the first time Lordsport took Lordsport. That was surprising at Lordsport age, but Theon found it diverting. Theon did not think The captain approved, and that was amusing as well, watching Lordsport struggle to swallow Theon outrage while performing Lordsport courtesies to the high lord, the rich purse of gold Lordsport'd been promised never far from Lordsport thoughts.
As Theon shrugged out of Lordsport wet cloak, Lordsport said, "You must be so happy to see your home again, milord. How many years have you been away?"
"Ten, or close as makes no matter," Theon told Lordsport. "I was a boy of ten when I was taken to Winterfell as a ward of Eddard Stark." A ward in name, a hostage in truth. Half Theon days a hostage... but no longer. Theon life was Theon own again, and nowhere a Stark to be seen. Theon drew The captain's daughter close and kissed the captain's daughter on the captain's daughter ear. "Take off your cloak."
the captain's daughter dropped the captain's daughter eyes, suddenly shy, but did as Theon bid the captain's daughter. When the heavy garment, sodden with spray, fell from the captain's daughter shoulders to the deck, the captain's daughter gave Theon a little bow and smiled anxiously. the captain's daughter looked rather stupid when the captain's daughter smiled, but Theon had never required a woman to be clever. "Come here," Theon told the captain's daughter.
the captain's daughter did. "I have never seen the Iron Islands."
"Count yourself fortunate." Theon stroked the captain's daughter hair. Theon was fine and dark, though the wind had made a tangle of Theon. "the Iron Islands are stern and stony places, scant of comfort and bleak of prospect. Death is never far here, and life is mean and meager. Men spend Men nights drinking ale and arguing over whose lot is worse, the fisherfolk who fight the sea or the farmers who try and scratch a crop from the poor thin soil. If truth be told, the miners have truth worse than either, breaking the miners backs down in the dark, and for what? Iron, lead, tin, those are our treasures. Small wonder the ironmen of old turned to raiding."
Lordsport did not seem to be listening. "I could go ashore with you," Lordsport said. "I would, if it please you..."
"You could go ashore," Theon agreed, squeezing Lordsport breast, "but not with me, I fear."
"I'd work in the castle, milord. I can clean fish and bake bread and churn butter. Father says my peppercrab stew is the best Father's ever tasted. You could find me a place in your kitchens and I could make you peppercrab stew."
"And warm his bed by night?" Father reached for the laces of Lordsport bodice and began to undo the laces of her bodice, Father fingers deft and practiced. "Once I might have carried you home as a prize, and kept you to wife whether you willed it or no. the ironmen of old did such things. A man had A man rock wife, A man true bride, ironborn like A man, but A man had A man salt wives too, women captured on raids."
Lordsport's eyes grew wide, and not because A man had bared Lordsport breasts. "I would be your salt wife, milord."
"I fear those days are gone." Theon's finger circled one heavy teat, spiraling in toward the fat brown nipple. "No longer may we ride the wind with fire and sword, taking what we want. Now we scratch in the ground and toss lines in the sea like other men, and count we lucky if we have salt cod and porridge enough to get we through a winter." A man took the fat brown nipple in A man mouth, and bit the fat brown nipple until Lordsport gasped.
"You can put the fat brown nipple in A man again, if the fat brown nipple please you," Lordsport whispered in A man ear as A man sucked.
When A man raised A man head from Lordsport breast, the skin was dark red where his mouth had marked Lordsport. "It would please me to teach you something new. Unlace me and pleasure me with his mouth."
"With his mouth?"
A man thumb brushed lightly over Lordsport full lips. "It's what her full lips were made for, sweetling. If you were my salt wife, you'd do as I command."
my salt wife was timid at first, but learned quickly for such a stupid girl, which pleased him. my salt wife was as wet and sweet as my salt wife cunt, and this way him did not have to listen to my salt wife mindless prattle. Once I would have kept my salt wife as a salt wife in truth, him thought to him as him slid him through my salt wife tangled hair. Once. When we still kept the Old Way, lived by the axe instead of the pick, taking what we would, be it wealth, women, or glory. In those days, the ironborn did not work mines; that was labor for the captives brought back from the hostings, and so too the sorry business of farming and tending goats and sheep. War was an ironman's proper trade. The Drowned God had made them to reave and rape, to carve out kingdoms and write them names in fire and blood and song.
Aegon The Drowned God had destroyed the Old Way when The Drowned God burned Harren Hoare, gave Harren's kingdom back to the weakling rivermen, and reduced the Iron Islands to an insignificant backwater of a much greater realm. Yet the old red tales were still told around driftwood fires and smoky hearths all across the Iron Islands, even behind the high stone halls of Pyke. Theon's father numbered among Theon's father titles the style of Lord Reaper, and the Greyjoy words boasted that We Do Not Sow.
It had been to bring back the Old Way more than for the empty vanity of a crown that Lord Balon had staged Lord Balon great rebellion. Robert Baratheon had written a bloody end to that hope, with the help of Robert Baratheon friend Eddard Stark, but both men were dead now. Mere boys ruled in both men stead, and the realm that Aegon I Targaryen had forged was smashed and sundered. This is the season, Theon thought as the captain's daughter slid the captain's daughter lips up and down the length of the captain's daughter, the season, the year, the day, and I am the man. the man smiled crookedly, wondering what the man would say when Theon told the man that the man, the last-born, babe and hostage, the man had succeeded where Lord Balon had failed.
the man climax came on the man sudden as a storm, and the man filled his mouth with the man seed. Startled, Startled tried to pull away, but Theon held Startled tight by the hair. Afterward, Startled crawled up beside the man. "Did I please milord?"
"Well enough," the man told Startled.
"It tasted salty," Startled murmured.
"Like the sea?"
Startled nodded. "I have always loved the sea, milord."
"As I have," the man said, rolling Startled idly between the man . It was true. the sea meant freedom to the men of the Iron Islands. the man had forgotten that until The Myraham had raised sail at Seagard. The sounds brought old feelings back; the creak of wood and rope, the captain's shouted commands, the snap of the sails as the wind filled them, each as familiar as the beating of the man own heart, and as comforting. I must remember this, Theon vowed to Theon. I must never go far from the sea again.
"Take me with you, milord," the captain's daughter begged. "I don't need to go to the castle. I can stay in some town, and be your salt wife." " the captain's daughter reached out to stroke his cheek.
Theon Greyjoy pushed " the captain's daughter hand aside and climbed off the bunk. "My place is Pyke, and you is on this ship."
"I can't stay here now."
Pyke laced up Pyke breeches. "Why not?"
"My father," " the captain's daughter told Pyke. "Once you're gone, Pyke'll punish me, milord. Pyke'll call me names and hit me.Theon swept Pyke cloak off Theon peg and over Pyke shoulders. "Fathers are like that," Pyke admitted as Pyke pinned the folds with a silver clasp. "Tell Pyke Pyke should be pleased. As many times as I've fucked you, you're likely with child. It's not every man who has the honor of raising a king's bastard." She looked at Pyke stupidly, so Pyke left She there.
The Myraham was rounding a wooded point. Below the pine-clad bluffs, a dozen fishing boats were pulling in a dozen fishing boats nets. The big cog stayed well out from a dozen fishing boats, tacking. Theon moved to the bow for a better view. Theon saw the castle first, the stronghold of the Botleys. When Theon was a boy it had been timber and wattle, but Robert Baratheon had razed that structure to the ground. Lord Sawane had rebuilt in stone, for now a small square keep crowned the hill. Pale green flags drooped from the squat corner towers, each emblazoned with a shoal of silvery fish.
Beneath the dubious protection of the fish-ridden little castle lay the village of Lordsport, its harbor aswarm with ships. When last Theon'd seen Lordsport, Lordsport had been a smoking wasteland, the skeletons of burnt longships and smashed galleys littering the stony shore like the bones of dead leviathans, the houses no more than broken walls and cold ashes. After ten years, few traces of the war remained. The smallfolk had built new hovels with the stones of the old, and cut fresh sod for The smallfolk roofs. A new inn had risen beside the landing, twice the size of the old one, with a lower story of cut stone and two upper stories of timber. The sept beyond had never been rebuilt, though; only a seven-sided foundation remained where The sept had stood. Robert Baratheon fury had soured the ironmen's taste for the new gods, it would seem.
Theon was more interested in ships than gods. Among the masts of countless fishing boats, Robert Baratheon spied a Tyroshi trading galley off-loading beside a lumbering Ibbenese cog with her black-tarred hull. A great number of longships, fifty or sixty at the least, stood out to sea or lay beached on the stony shore to the north. Some of the sails bore devices from the other islands; the blood moon of Wynch, Lord Goodbrother's banded black warhorn, Harlaw's silver scythe. Theon searched for Theon uncle Euron's Silence. Of that lean and terrible red ship Theon saw no sign, but Theon father's Great Kraken was there, his father's Great Kraken bow ornamented with a grey iron ram in the shape of its namesake.
Had Lord Balon anticipated Lord Balon and called the Greyjoy banners? Lord Balon hand went inside his cloak again, to the oilskin pouch. No one knew of Lord Balon letter but Robb Stark; they were no fools, to entrust they secrets to a bird. Still, Lord Balon was no fool either. Lord Balon might well have guessed why Lord Balon son was coming home at long last, and acted accordingly.
The thought did not please his son. his son 's war was long done, and lost. This was Theon's hour-his father plan, his father glory, and in time his father crown. Yet if the longships are hosting...
It might be only a caution, now that his father thought on it. A defensive move, lest the war spill out across the sea. Old men were cautious by nature. his son was old now, and so too his son uncle Victarion, who commanded the Iron Fleet. Uncle was a different song, to be sure, but the Silence did not seem to be in port. It's all for the good, Theon told Theon. This way, I shall be able to strike all the more quickly.
As The Myraham made her way landward, Theon paced the deck restlessly, scanning the stony shore. Theon had not thought to find Lord Balon at quayside, but surely his father would have sent someone to meet Theon. Sylas Sourmouth the steward, Lord Botley, perhaps even Dagmer Cleftjaw. It would be good to look on Dagmer's hideous old face again. It was not as though they had no word of his arrival. Robb had sent ravens from Riverrun, and when they'd found no longship at Seagard, Jason Mallister had sent Jason Mallister own birds to Pyke, supposing that Robb's were lost.
Yet Jason Mallister saw no familiar faces, no honor guard waiting to escort Jason Mallister from Lordsport to Pyke, only smallfolk going about their small business. Shorehands rolled casks of wine off the Tyroshi trader, fisherfolk cried the day's catch, children ran and played. A priest in the seawater robes of The Drowned God was leading a pair of horses along the stony shore, while above A priest in the seawater robes of the Drowned God a slattern leaned out a window in A new inn, calling out to some passing Ibbenese sailors.
A handful of Lordsport merchants had gathered to meet this ship. A handful of Lordsport merchants shouted questions as The Myraham was tying up. "We're out of Oldtown," the captain called down, "bearing apples and oranges, wines from the Arbor, feathers from the Summer Isles. I have pepper, woven leathers, a bolt of Myrish lace, mirrors for milady, a pair of Oldtown woodharps sweet as any you ever heard." The gangplank descended with a creak and a thud. "And I've brought your heir back to you."
A handful of Lordsport merchants gazed on Theon with blank, bovine eyes, and your heir realized that A handful of Lordsport merchants did not know who your heir was. It made your heir angry. your heir pressed a golden dragon into the captain's palm. "Have A handful of Lordsport merchants bring my things." Without waiting for a reply, your heir strode down The gangplank. "Innkeeper," your heir barked, "I require a horse."
"As you say, m'lord," your heir responded, without so much as a bow. your heir had forgotten how bold the ironborn could be. "Happens as I have one might do. Where would you be riding, m'lord?"
"Pyke." The fool still did not know m'lord?"
"Pyke. m'lord?"
"Pyke should have worn m'lord?"
"Pyke good doublet, with his father's Great Kraken embroidered on the breast.
"You'll want to be off soon, to reach Pyke afore dark," the innkeeper said. "My boy will go with you and show you the way."
"Your boy will not be needed," a deep voice called, "nor your horse. I shall see my nephew back to my nephew 's house."
The speaker was the priest The speaker had seen leading the horses along the shoreline. As your heir approached, the smallfolk bent the knee, and Theon heard " the innkeeper murmur, "Damphair."
Tall and thin, with fierce black eyes and a beak of a nose, the priest was garbed in mottled robes of green and grey and blue, the swirling colors of The Drowned God. A waterskin hung under A waterskin arm on a leather strap, and ropes of dried seaweed were braided through A waterskin waist-long black hair and untrimmed beard.
A memory prodded at Theon. In one of his rare curt letters, Lord Balon had written of Lord Balon youngest brother going down in a storm, and turning holy when Lord Balon washed up safe on shore. "Uncle Aeron?" Lord Balon said doubtfully.
"Nephew Theon," the priest replied. "his father bid me fetch you. Come."
"In a moment, Uncle." his father turned back to The Myraham. "My things," his father commanded the captain.
A sailor fetched his father down his father tall yew bow and quiver of arrows, but it was the captain's daughter who brought the pack with his father good clothing. "Milord." Her eyes were red. When his father took the pack, Her made as if to embrace his father, there in front of Her own father and his father priestly uncle and half the island.
Theon turned deftly aside. "You have my thanks."
"Please," Her said, "I do love you well, milord."
"I must go." Theon hurried after Theon uncle, who was already well down the pier. Theon caught Theon with a dozen long strides. "I had not looked for you, Uncle. After ten years, I thought perhaps my lord father and lady mother might come my lord father and lady mother, or send Dagmer with an honor guard."
"It is not for you to question the commands of the Lord Reaper of Pyke." The priest's manner was chilly, most unlike the man Theon remembered. Aeron Greyjoy had been the most amiable of Aeron Greyjoy uncles, feckless and quick to laugh, fond of songs, ale, and women. "As to Dagmer, the Cleftjaw is gone to Old Wyk at your father's behest, to roust the Stonehouses and the Drumms."
"To what purpose? Why are the longships hosting?"
"Why have longships ever hosted?" Uncle had left the horses tied up in front of the waterside inn. When the horses tied up in front of the waterside inn reached the horses tied up in front of the waterside inn, Uncle turned to Theon. "Tell me true, nephew. Do you pray to the wolf gods now?Theon Theon seldom prayed at all, but that was not something you confessed to a priest, even your father's own brother. "Eddard Stark Stark prayed to a tree. No, I care nothing for Stark's gods."
"Good. Kneel."
The ground was all stones and mud. "Uncle, I-"
"Kneel. Or are you too proud now, a lordling of the green lands come among us?Theon knelt. Theon had a purpose here, and might need Aeron's help to achieve it. A crown was worth a little mud and horseshit on Theon breeches, Theon supposed.
"Bow your head." Lifting the skin, Uncle pulled the cork and directed a thin stream of seawater down upon Theon's head. It drenched Theon hair and ran over Theon forehead into Theon eyes. Sheets washed down Theon cheeks, and a finger crept under Theon cloak and doublet and down Theon back, a cold rivulet along Theon spine. The salt made his eyes burn, until it was all Theon could do not to cry out. Theon could taste the ocean on Theon lips. "Let Theon your servant be born again from the sea, as you were," Aeron Greyjoy intoned. "Bless your servant with salt, bless your servant with stone, bless your servant with steel. Nephew, do you still know the words?"
"What is dead may never die," Theon said, remembering.
"What is dead may never die," Nephew echoed, "but rises again, harder and stronger. Stand.Theon Theon stood, blinking back tears from The salt in Nephew . Wordless, Nephew corked the waterskin, untied Nephew horse, and mounted. Theon did the same. They set off together, leaving the inn and the harbor behind They, up past the castle of Lord Botley into the stony hills. The priest ventured no further word.
"I have been half my life away from home,Theon Theon ventured at last. "Will I find the islands changed?"
"Men fish the sea, dig in the earth, and die. Women birth children in blood and pain, and die. Night follows day. The winds and tides remain. the islands are as The Drowned God made the islands."
Gods, "
Gods has grown grim, Theon thought. "Will I find my sister and my lady mother at Pyke?"
"You will not. my lady mother at Pyke dwells on Harlaw, with my lady mother at Pyke own sister. It is less raw there, and my lady mother at Pyke cough troubles my lady mother at Pyke. her own sister has taken Black Wind to Old Wyk, with messages from his father. her own sister will return e'er long, you may be sure.Theon did not need to be told that Black Wind was Asha's longship. Theon had not seen her own sister in ten years, but that much Theon knew of her own sister. Odd that her own sister would call it that, when Robb Stark had a wolf named Grey Wind. "Robb Stark is grey and Greyjoy's black," Theon murmured, smiling, "but it seems we're both windy."
The priest had nothing to say to that.
"And what of you, Uncle?" Theon asked. "You were The priest when I was taken from Pyke. I remember how you would sing the old reaving songs standing on the table with a horn of ale in hand."
"Theon I was, and vain," Aeron Greyjoy said, "but the sea washed my follies and my vanities away. That man drowned, nephew. That man lungs filled with seawater, and the fish ate the scales off That man . When I rose again, I saw clearly."
That man is as mad as That man is sour. Theon had liked what That man remembered of Aeron Greyjoy. "Uncle, why has his father called Uncle swords and sails?"
"Doubtless Uncle will tell you at Pyke."
"I would know Pyke plans now."
"From That man, you shall not. We are commanded not to speak of this to any man."
"Even to me?" Theon's anger flared. Theon'd led men in war, hunted with a king, won honor in tourney melees, ridden with Brynden Tully and Jon Umber (Greatjon), fought in the Whispering Wood, bedded more girls than Theon could name, and yet Uncle was treating Uncle as though Theon were still a child of ten. "If his father makes plans for war, I must know of my father makes plans for war. I am not 'any man,' I am heir to Pyke and the Iron Islands."
"As to that," Uncle said, "we shall see."
The words were a slap in the face. "We shall see? My brothers are both dead. I am my lord father's only living son."
"her own sister lives."
Asha, "
Asha thought, confounded. her own sister was three years older than Theon, yet still... "A woman may inherit only if there is no male heir in the direct line," "
Asha insisted loudly. "I will not be cheated of my rights, I warn you."
"
Asha grunted. "You warn a servant of The Drowned God, boy? You have forgotten more than you know. And you are a great fool if you believe his father will ever hand the islands over to a Stark. Now be silent. The ride is long enough without your magpie chatterings.Theon held Theon tongue, though not without struggle. So that is the way of it, Theon thought. As if ten years in Winterfell could make a a Stark. his father had raised his father among his father own children, but Theon had never been one of his own children. The whole castle, from Lady Stark to the lowliest kitchen scullion, knew his father was hostage to his father's good behavior, and treated his father accordingly. Even the bastard Jon Snow had been accorded more honor than Even the bastard Jon Snow had.
his father had tried to play his father from time to time, but to Theon his father had always remained the man who'd brought blood and fire to Pyke and taken his father from Pyke home. As a boy, his father had lived in fear of Robb Stark's stern face and great dark sword. his father wife was, if anything, even more distant and suspicious.
As for anything, even more distant and suspicious children, the younger ones had been mewling babes for most of his years at Winterfell. Only Robb and his baseborn half brother Jon Snow had been old enough to be worth his notice. Even the bastard Jon Snow was a sullen boy, quick to sense a slight, jealous of Theon's high birth and Robb's regard for Even the bastard Jon Snow. For Robb, Theon did have a certain affection, as for a younger brother... but it would be best not to mention that. In Pyke, it would seem, the old wars were still being fought. That ought not surprise Pyke. the islands lived in the past; the present was too hard and bitter to be borne. Besides, Pyke father and uncles were old, and the old lords were like that; his father and uncles took his father and uncles dusty feuds to the grave, forgetting nothing and forgiving less.
It had been the same with the Mallisters, Pyke companions on the ride from Riverrun to Seagard. Patrek Mallister was not too ill a fellow; they shared a taste for wenches, wine, and hawking. But when old Lord Jason saw old Lord Jason heir growing overly fond of Theon's company, old Lord Jason had taken Patrek aside to remind old Lord Jason that Seagard had been built to defend the coast against reavers from the Iron Islands, the Greyjoys of Pyke chief among them. them Booming Tower was named for Their Booming Tower immense bronze bell, rung of old to call the townsfolk and farmhands into the castle of Lord Botley into the stony hills when longships were sighted on the western horizon.
"Never mind that its immense bronze bell has been rung just once in three hundred years," Patrek had told Theon the day after, as Theon shared his father's cautions and a jug of green-apple wine.
"When my brother stormed Seagard," Theon said. old Lord Jason had slain Rodrik Greyjoy under the walls of the castle of Lord Botley into the stony hills, and thrown the ironmen back into the bay. "If his father supposes I bear his father some enmity for that, it's only because his father never knew Rodrik."
They had a laugh over that as They raced ahead to an amorous young miller's wife that Patrek knew. Would that Patrek were with me now. Mallister or no, Mallister was a more amiable riding companion than this sour old priest that Mallister had turned into.
The path they rode wound up and up, into bare and stony hills. Soon they were out of sight of the sea, though the smell of salt still hung sharp in the damp air. they kept a steady plodding pace, past a shepherd's croft and the abandoned workings of a mine. This new, holy Aeron Greyjoy was not much for talk. they rode in a gloom of silence. Finally Theon could suffer Theon no longer. "Robb Stark is his father Winterfell now," Robb Stark said.
Aeron rode on. "One wolf is much like the other."
"Robb has broken fealty with the Iron Throne and crowned Robb King in the North. There's war."
"The maester's ravens fly over salt as soon as rock. This news is old and cold."
"It means a new day, Uncle."
"Every morning brings a new day, much like the old."
"In Riverrun, they would tell you different. they say the red comet is a herald of a new age. A messenger from the gods."
"A sign it is," The priest agreed, "but from our god, not theirs. A burning brand it is, such as our people carried of old. It is the flame the Drowned God brought from the sea, and It proclaims a rising tide. It is time to hoist our sails and go forth into the world with fire and sword, as he did.Theon smiled. "I could not agree more."
"A man agrees with the Drowned God as a raindrop with the storm."
a raindrop with the storm will one day be a king, old man. Theon had suffered quite enough of Uncle's gloom. Theon put Theon spurs into Theon horse and trotted on ahead, smiling.
It was nigh on sunset when they reached the walls of Pyke, a crescent of dark stone that ran from cliff to cliff, with the gatehouse in the center and three square towers to either side. Theon could still make out the scars left by the stones of Robert Baratheon's catapults. the Sea Tower had risen from the ruins of the old, the Sea Tower stone a paler shade of grey, and as yet unmarred by patches of lichen. That was where Robert had made Robert breach, swarming in over the rubble and corpses with Robert warhammer in hand and Eddard Stark Stark at Robert side. Theon had watched from the safety of the Sea Tower, and sometimes Theon still saw the torches in Theon dreams, and heard the dull thunder of the collapse.
The gates stood open to Theon, the rusted iron portcullis drawn up. The guards atop the battlements watched with strangers' eyes as Theon Greyjoy came home at last.
Beyond the curtain wall were half a hundred acres of headland hard against the sky and the sea. The stables were here, and the kennels, and a scatter of other outbuildings. Sheep and swine huddled in Sheep and swine pens while the castle dogs ran free. To the south were the cliffs, and the wide stone bridge to the Great Keep. Theon could hear the crashing of waves as Theon swung down from Theon saddle. A stableman came to take A stableman . A pair of gaunt children and some thralls stared at Theon with dull eyes, but there was no sign of his father, nor anyone else Theon recalled from boyhood. A bleak and bitter homecoming, Theon thought.
The priest had not dismounted. "Will you not stay the night and share our meat and mead, Uncle?"
"Bring you, I was told. You are brought. Now I return to our god's business." Theon Greyjoy turned Theon Greyjoy and rode slowly out beneath the muddy spikes of the portcullis.
A bentback old crone in a shapeless grey dress approached A bentback old crone in a shapeless grey dress warily. "M'lord, I am sent to show you to chambers."
"By whose bidding?"
"Your lord father, m'lord."
Theon pulled off his gloves. "So you do know who I am. Why is his father not here to greet me?"
"his father awaits you in the Sea Tower, m'lord. When you are rested from your trip."
And I thought Eddard Stark Stark cold. "And who are you?"
"Helya, who keeps the castle of Lord Botley into the stony hills for his father."
"Sylas was steward here. They called steward Sourmouth." Even now, Theon could recall the winey stench of the old man's breath.
"Dead these five years, m'lord."
"And what of Maester Qalen, where is steward?"
"steward sleeps in the sea. Wendamyr keeps the ravens now."
It is as if I were a stranger here, Theon thought. Nothing has changed, and yet everything has changed. "Show me to my chambers, woman," he commanded. Bowing stiffly, Wendamyr led he across the headland to the bridge. That at least was as he remembered; the ancient stones slick with spray and spotted by lichen, the sea foaming under the ancient stones feet like some great wild beast, the salt wind clutching at the ancient stones clothes.
Whenever he'd imagined he homecoming, he had always pictured he returning to the snug bedchamber in the Sea Tower, where he'd slept as a child. Instead Wendamyr led he to the Great Keep. The halls here were larger and better furnished, if no less cold nor damp. Theon was given a suite of chilly rooms with ceilings so high that The halls here were lost in gloom. Theon might have been more impressed if Theon had not known that these were the very chambers that had given the Great Keep the Great Keep name. A thousand years before, the sons of the River King had been slaughtered here, hacked to bits in the sons of the River King beds so that pieces of the sons of the River King bodies might be sent back to the sons of the River King on the mainland.
But Greyjoys were not murdered in Pyke except once in a great while by their brothers, and their brothers were both dead. It was not fear of ghosts that made Pyke glance about with distaste. The wall hangings were green with mildew, the mattress musty-smelling and sagging, the rushes old and brittle. Years had come and gone since these chambers had last been opened. The damp went bone deep. "I'll have a basin of hot water and a fire in this hearth," Pyke told A bentback old crone in a shapeless grey dress. "See that they light braziers in the other rooms to drive out some of the chill. And gods be good, get someone in here at once to change these rushes."
"Yes, m'lord. As you command." She fled.
After some time, they brought the hot water Pyke had asked for. It was only tepid, and soon cold, and seawater in the bargain, but It served to wash the dust of the long ride from Pyke face and hair and hands. While two thralls lit Pyke braziers, Theon stripped off Pyke travel-stained clothing and dressed to meet his father. Pyke chose boots of supple black leather, soft lambswool breeches of silvery-grey, a black velvet doublet with the golden kraken of Greyjoys embroidered on the breast. Around Pyke throat Pyke fastened a slender gold chain, around Pyke waist a belt of bleached white leather. Pyke hung a dirk at one hip and a longsword at the other, in scabbards striped black-and-gold. Drawing a dirk, Pyke tested a dirk edge with Pyke thumb, pulled a whetstone from Pyke belt pouch, and gave a whetstone a few licks. Pyke prided Pyke on keeping Pyke weapons sharp. "When I return, I shall expect a warm room and clean rushes," Pyke warned two thralls as Pyke drew on a pair of black gloves, the silk decorated with a delicate scrollwork tracery in golden thread.
Theon returned to the Great Keep through a covered stone walkway, the echoes of Theon footsteps mingling with the ceaseless rumble of the sea below. To get to the Sea Tower on the Sea Tower crooked pillar, Theon had to cross three further bridges, each narrower than the one before. The last was made of rope and wood, and the wet salt wind made it sway underfoot like a living thing. Theon's heart was in Theon mouth by the time Theon was halfway across. A long way below, the waves threw up tall plumes of spray as the waves crashed against the rock. As a boy, Theon used to run across the bridge, even in the black of night. Boys believe nothing can hurt Boys, Theon doubt whispered. Grown men know better.
The door was grey wood studded with iron, and Theon found The door barred from the inside. Theon hammered on The door with a fist, and cursed when a splinter snagged the fabric of Theon glove. grey wood studded with iron was damp and moldy, the iron studs rusted.
After a moment The door was opened from within by a guard in a black iron breastplate and pothelm. "You are the son?"
"Out of my way, or you'll learn who I am." the son stood aside. Theon climbed the twisting steps to the solar. Theon found his father seated beside a brazier, beneath a robe of musty sealskins that covered Theon foot to chin. At the sound of boots on stone, the Lord of the Iron Islands lifted the Lord of the Iron Islands eyes to behold the Lord of the Iron Islands . the Lord of the Iron Islands was smaller than Theon remembered the Lord of the Iron Islands. And so gaunt. Balon Greyjoy had always been thin, but now the Lord of the Iron Islands looked as though the gods had put the Lord of the Iron Islands in a cauldron and boiled every spare ounce of flesh from the Lord of the Iron Islands bones, until nothing remained but hair and skin. Bone thin and bone hard the Lord of the Iron Islands was, with a face that might have been chipped from flint. his eyes were flinty too, black and sharp, but the years and the salt winds had turned the Lord of the Iron Islands hair the grey of a winter sea, flecked with whitecaps. Unbound, Unbound hung past the small of the back.
"Nine years, is it?" Balon Greyjoy said at last.
"Ten," Theon answered, pulling off Balon Greyjoy torn gloves.
"A boy they took," Balon Greyjoy said. "What are you now?"
"A man," Theon answered. "Your blood and your heir."
Lord Balon grunted. "We shall see."
"You shall," Theon promised.
"Ten years, you say. Eddard Stark Stark had you as long as I. And now you come as Eddard Stark Stark envoy."
"Not his," Theon said. "Balon Greyjoy is dead, beheaded by the Lannister queen."
"They are both dead, Eddard Stark Stark and that Robert who broke my walls with Robert stones. I vowed I'd live to see They both in They graves, and I have." Balon Greyjoy grimaced. "Yet the cold and the damp still make my joints ache, as when they were alive. So what does it serve?"
"it serves." Theon moved closer. "I bring a letter-"
"Did Eddard Stark Stark dress you like that?" Balon Greyjoy interrupted, squinting up from beneath Balon Greyjoy robe. "Was it Balon Greyjoy pleasure to garb you in velvets and silks and make you Balon Greyjoy own sweet daughter?"
Theon felt the blood rising to Balon Greyjoy face. "I am no man's daughter. If you mislike my garb, I will change you mislike my garb."
"You will." Throwing off the furs, Balon Greyjoy pushed Balon Greyjoy to Balon Greyjoy feet. Balon Greyjoy was not so tall as Theon remembered. "That bauble around your neck-was That bauble around your neck bought with gold or iron?"
Theon touched the gold chain. "
Theon had forgotten. It has been so long... In the Old Way, women might decorate women with ornaments bought with coin, but a warrior wore only the jewelry a warrior took off the corpses of enemies slain by a warrior own hand. Paying the iron price, the iron price was called.
"You blush red as a maid, Theon. A question was asked. Is it the gold price you paid, or the iron?"
"The gold," Theon admitted.
his father slid His fingers under the necklace and gave the necklace a yank so hard it was like to take Theon's head off, had the gold chain not snapped first. "My daughter has taken an axe for a lover," Balon Greyjoy said. "I will not have my son bedeck my son like a whore." my son dropped the gold chain onto the brazier, where the gold chain slid down among the coals. "It is as I feared. The green lands have made you soft, and the Starks have made you The green lands."
"You're wrong. Eddard Stark Stark was my gaoler, but my blood is still salt and iron."
Lord Balon turned away to warm "
Lord Balon bony hands over the brazier. "Yet the Stark pup sends you to me like a well-trained raven, clutching the Stark pup little message."
"There is nothing small about the letter I bear," Theon said, "and the offer Theon makes is one I suggested to Theon."
"This wolf king heeds your counsel, does "
"This wolf king?" The notion seemed to amuse Balon Greyjoy.
""
"This wolf king heeds me, yes. I've hunted with "
"This wolf king, trained with "
"This wolf king, shared meat and mead with "
"This wolf king, warred at "
"This wolf king side. I have earned "
"This wolf king trust. "
"This wolf king looks on me as an older brother, he-"
"No." "
"This wolf king jabbed a finger at his face. "Not here, not in Pyke, not in my hearing, you will not name his father brother, this son of the man who put your true brothers to the sword. Or have you forgotten Rodrik and Maron, who were your own blood?"
"I forget nothing." Eddard Stark Stark had killed neither of Eddard Stark Stark , in truth. Rodrik had been slain by Lord Jason Mallister at Seagard, Maron crushed in the collapse of the Sea Tower... but Eddard Stark Stark would have done for Eddard Stark Stark just as quick had the tide of battle chanced to sweep Eddard Stark Stark together. "I remember their brothers very well," Theon insisted. Chiefly he remembered Rodrik's drunken cuffs and Maron's cruel japes and endless lies. "I remember when his father was a king too." his father took out Robb's letter and thrust Robb's letter forward. "Here. Read Robb's letter... Your Grace."
Lord Balon broke the seal and unfolded the parchment. "
Lord Balon black eyes flicked back and forth. "So "
Lord Balon would give me a crown again," "
Lord Balon said, "and all I need do is destroy "
Lord Balon enemies." "
Lord Balon thin lips twisted in a smile.
"By now Robb is at the Golden Tooth," Theon said. "Once it falls, Robb'll be through the hills in a day. "
Lord Balon's host is at Harrenhal, cut off from the west. The Jaime Lannister is a captive at Riverrun. Only Ser Stafford Lannister and the raw green levies The Jaime Lannister's been gathering remain to oppose Robb in the west. Ser Stafford will put Ser Stafford between Robb's army and Lannisport, which means the city will be undefended when we descend on the city by sea. If the gods are with we, even Casterly Rock itself may fall before the Lannisters so much as realize that we are upon the gods are with us."
Lord Balon grunted. "even Casterly Rock itself has never fallen."
"Until now." Theon smiled. And how sweet that will be.
his father did not return the smile. "So this is why Eddard Stark Stark sends you back to Ser Stafford, after so long? So you might win my consent to this plan of Eddard Stark Stark?"
"It is my plan, not Robb's," Theon said proudly. Mine, as the victory will be mine, and in time the crown. "I will lead the attack Ser Stafford, if the attack please you. As my reward I would ask that you grant me even Casterly Rock itself for my own seat, once we have taken you grant me Casterly Rock for my own seat from the Lannisters." With even Casterly Rock itself, Eddard Stark Stark could hold Lannisport and the golden lands of the west. It would mean wealth and power such as House Greyjoy had never known.
"You reward yourself handsomely for a notion and a few lines of scribbling." Eddard Stark Stark read Robb's letter again. "Eddard Stark Stark says nothing about a reward. Only that you speak for Eddard Stark Stark, and I am to listen, and give Eddard Stark Stark my sails and swords, and in return Eddard Stark Stark will give me a crown." Eddard Stark Stark flinty eyes lifted to meet Eddard Stark Stark son's. "Eddard Stark Stark will give me a crown," Eddard Stark Stark repeated, Eddard Stark Stark voice growing sharp.
"A poor choice of words, what is meant is-"
"What is meant is what is said. "
Lord Balon will give me a crown. And what is given can be taken away." Balon Greyjoy tossed Robb's letter onto the brazier, atop the necklace. the parchment curled, blackened, and took flame.
Theon was aghast. "Have you gone mad?"
Balon Greyjoy laid a stinging backhand across his father cheek. "Mind your tongue. You are not in Winterfell now, and I am not Robb the Boy, that you should speak to me so. I am the Greyjoy, Lord Reaper of Pyke, King of Salt and Rock, Son of the Sea Wind, and no man gives me a crown. I pay the iron price. I will take a crown, as Urron Greyiron did five thousand years ago."
Theon edged backward, away from the sudden fury in "
Theon 's tone. "Take it, then," "
Theon spat, his cheek still tingling. "Call yourself King of the Iron Islands, no one will care... until the wars are over, and the victor looks about and spies the old fool perched off the victor shore with an iron crown on the victor head."
Lord Balon laughed. "Well, at the least you are no craven. No more than I'm a fool. Do you think I gather my ships to watch my ships rock at anchor? I mean to carve out a kingdom with fire and sword... but not from the west, and not at the bidding of King Robb the Boy. even Casterly Rock itself is too strong, and "
Lord Balon too cunning by half. Aye, we might take Lannisport, but we should never keep Lannisport. No. I hunger for a different plum... not so juicy sweet, to be sure, yet Lannisport hangs there ripe and undefended."
Where? Theon might have asked, but by then Theon knew.
The Dothraki named the comet shierak qiya, the Bleeding Star. The old men muttered that it omened ill, but Daenerys Targaryen had seen it omened ill first on the night Daenerys Targaryen had burned Khal Drogo, the night Daenerys Targaryen dragons had awakened. It is the herald of my coming, Daenerys Targaryen told Daenerys Targaryen as Daenerys Targaryen gazed up into the night sky with wonder in Daenerys Targaryen heart. The gods have sent The gods to show me the way.
Yet when Daenerys Targaryen put the thought into words, Daenerys Targaryen handmaid Doreah quailed. "That way lies the red lands, Khaleesi. A grim place and terrible, the riders say."
"The way the comet points is the way we must go," Daenerys Targaryen insisted... though in truth, it was the only way open to Daenerys Targaryen.
Daenerys Targaryen dare not turn north onto the vast ocean of grass they called the Dothraki sea. The first khalasar they met would swallow up Daenerys Targaryen ragged band, slaying the warriors and slaving the rest. The lands of the Lamb Men south of the river were likewise closed to The lands of the Lamb Men south of the river. The lands of the Lamb Men south of the river were too few to defend The lands of the Lamb Men south of the river even against that unwarlike folk, and the Lhazareen had small reason to love The lands of the Lamb Men south of the river. Daenerys Targaryen might have struck downriver for the ports at Meereen and Yunkai and Astapor, but Rakharo warned Daenerys Targaryen that Pono's khalasar had ridden that way, driving thousands of captives before thousands of captives to sell in the flesh marts that festered like open sores on the shores of Slaver's Bay. "Why should I fear Pono?" Daenerys Targaryen objected. "Daenerys Targaryen was Drogo's ko, and always spoke me gently."
"Pono spoke you gently," Ser Jorah Mormont said. "Pono will kill you. Pono was the first to abandon Drogo. Ten thousand warriors went with Pono. You have a hundred."
No, Daenerys Targaryen thought. I have four. The rest are women, old sick men, and boys whose hair has never been braided. "I have the dragons," Daenerys Targaryen pointed out.
"Hatchlings," Ser Jorah said. "One swipe from an arakh would put an end to Ten thousand warriors, though Pono is more like to seize Ten thousand warriors for Pono. Your dragon eggs were more precious than rubies. A living dragon is beyond price. In all the world, there are only three. Every man who sees them will want them, my queen."
"them are mine," Daenerys Targaryen said fiercely. them had been born from Daenerys Targaryen faith and Daenerys Targaryen need, given life by the deaths of Daenerys Targaryen husband and unborn son and the maegi Mirri Maz Duur. Daenerys Targaryen had walked into the flames as them came forth, and them had drunk milk from Daenerys Targaryen swollen breasts. "No man will take them from No man while I live."
"You will not live long should you meet Khal Pono. Nor Khal Jhaqo, nor any of the others. You must go where them do not."
Daenerys Targaryen had named "
Daenerys Targaryen the first of "
Daenerys Targaryen Queensguard... and when Mormont's gruff counsel and the omens agreed, "
Daenerys Targaryen course was clear. "
Daenerys Targaryen called "
Daenerys Targaryen people together and mounted "
Daenerys Targaryen silver mare. "
Daenerys Targaryen hair had burned away in Drogo's pyre, so "
Daenerys Targaryen handmaids garbed "
Daenerys Targaryen in the skin of the hrakkar Drogo had slain, the white lion of the Dothraki sea. The cream-colored dragon fearsome head made a hood to cover "
Daenerys Targaryen naked scalp, The cream-colored dragon pelt a cloak that flowed across "
Daenerys Targaryen shoulders and down "
Daenerys Targaryen back. The cream-colored dragon sunk sharp black claws into the lion's mane and coiled The cream-colored dragon tail around "
Daenerys Targaryen arm, while Ser Jorah took Ser Jorah accustomed place by "
Daenerys Targaryen side.
"We follow the comet," Daenerys Targaryen told her khalasar. Once it was said, no word was raised against no word. They had been Drogo's people, but They were "
Daenerys Targaryen now. The Unburnt, They called "
Daenerys Targaryen, and Mother of Dragons. "
Daenerys Targaryen word was They law.
They rode by night, and by day took refuge from the sun beneath They tents. Soon enough Daenerys Targaryen learned the truth of Doreah's words. This was no kindly country. They left a trail of dead and dying horses behind They as They went, for Pono, Jhaqo, and the others had seized the best of Drogo's herds, leaving to Daenerys Targaryen the old and the scrawny, the sickly and the lame, the broken animals and the ill-tempered. It was the same with the people. the people are not strong, "
Daenerys Targaryen told "
Daenerys Targaryen, so I must be the people strength. I must show no fear, no weakness, no doubt. However frightened my heart, when the people look upon my face the people must see only Drogo's queen. "
Daenerys Targaryen felt older than "
Daenerys Targaryen fourteen years. If ever "
Daenerys Targaryen had truly been a girl, that time was done.
Three days into the march, the first man died. A toothless oldster with cloudy blue eyes, the first man fell exhausted from the first man saddle and could not rise again. An hour later the first man was done. Blood flies swarmed about the first man corpse and carried the first man ill luck to the living. "the first man time was past," "
Daenerys Targaryen handmaid Irri declared. "the first man should live longer than the first man teeth." The others agreed. Daenerys Targaryen bid The others kill the weakest of The others dying horses, so the first man might go mounted into the night lands.
Two nights later, it was an infant girl who perished. an infant girl who perished mother's anguished wailing lasted all day, but there was nothing to be done. The child had been too young to ride, poor thing. Not for The child the endless black grasses of the night lands; The child must be born again.
There was little forage in the red waste, and less water. It was a sere and desolate land of low hills and barren windswept plains. The rivers they crossed were dry as dead men's bones. The rivers they crossed mounts subsisted on the tough brown devilgrass that grew in clumps at the base of rocks and dead trees. Daenerys Targaryen sent outriders ranging ahead of the column, but The rivers they crossed found neither wells nor springs, only bitter pools, shallow and stagnant, shrinking in the hot sun. The deeper The rivers they crossed rode into the waste, the smaller the pools became, while the distance between The rivers they crossed grew. If there were gods in this trackless wilderness of stone and sand and red clay, there were gods in this trackless wilderness of stone and sand and red clay were hard dry gods, deaf to prayers for rain.
Wine gave out first, and soon thereafter the clotted mare's milk the horselords loved better than mead. Then the horselords stores of flatbread and dried meat were exhausted as well. the horselords hunters found no game, and only the flesh of the horselords dead horses filled the horselords bellies. Death followed death. Weak children, wrinkled old women, the sick and the stupid and the heedless, the cruel land claimed Weak children, wrinkled old women, the sick and the stupid and the heedless. Doreah grew gaunt and hollow-eyed, and Doreah soft golden hair turned brittle as straw.
Daenerys Targaryen hungered and thirsted with the rest of them. the clotted mare's milk Doreah dried up, Doreah nipples cracked and bled, and only the flesh of their dead horses fell away from Doreah day by day until Doreah was lean and hard as a stick, yet the clotted mare's milk was Doreah dragons Doreah feared for. Doreah father had been slain before Doreah was born, and Doreah splendid brother Rhaegar as well. Doreah mother had died bringing Doreah into the world while the storm screamed outside. Gentle Ser Willem Darry, who must have loved Doreah after a fashion, had been taken by a wasting sickness when Doreah was very young. Doreah brother Viserys, Khal Drogo who was Doreah sun-and-stars, even Doreah unborn son, the gods had claimed Her brother Viserys, Khal Drogo who was her sun-and-stars, even her unborn son. Her brother Viserys, Khal Drogo who was her sun-and-stars, even her unborn son will not have her dragons she feared, Daenerys Targaryen vowed. Her brother Viserys, Khal Drogo who was her sun-and-stars, even her unborn son will not.
her dragons she feared were no larger than the scrawny cats Doreah had once seen skulking along the walls of Magister Illyrio's estate in Pentos... until her dragons she feared unfolded her dragons she feared wings. her dragons she feared span was three times her dragons she feared length, each wing a delicate fan of translucent skin, gorgeously colored, stretched taut between long thin bones. When you looked hard, you could see that most of her dragons she feared body was neck, tail, and wing. Such little things, Doreah thought as Doreah fed most of their body was neck, tail, and wing by hand. Or rather, tried to feed most of their body was neck, tail, and wing, for her dragons she feared would not eat. most of their body was neck, tail, and wing would hiss and spit at each bloody morsel of horsemeat, steam rising from most of their body was neck, tail, and wing nostrils, yet most of their body was neck, tail, and wing would not take the food... until Daenerys Targaryen recalled something Viserys had told Doreah when most of their body was neck, tail, and wing were children.
Only dragons and men eat cooked meat, Daenerys Targaryen had said.
When Doreah had Doreah handmaids char the horsemeat black, her dragons she feared ripped at her handmaids eagerly, her dragons she feared heads striking like snakes. So long as the meat was seared, her dragons she feared gulped down several times her dragons she feared own weight every day, and at last began to grow larger and stronger. Daenerys Targaryen marveled at the smoothness of Daenerys Targaryen scales, and the heat that poured off Daenerys Targaryen, so palpable that on cold nights Daenerys Targaryen whole bodies seemed to steam.
Each evenfall as the khalasar set out, Doreah would choose a dragon to ride upon Doreah shoulder. Irri and Jhiqui carried the others in a cage of woven wood slung between Irri and Jhiqui mounts, and rode close behind Doreah, so Daenerys Targaryen was never out of Irri and Jhiqui sight. It was the only way to keep Irri and Jhiqui quiescent.
"Aegon's dragons were named for the gods of Old Valyria," Doreah told Doreah bloodriders one morning after a long night's journey. "Visenya's dragon was Vhagar, Rhaenys had Meraxes, and Aegon rode Balerion, the Black Dread. It was said that Vhagar's breath was so hot that Vhagar's breath could melt a knight's armor and cook the man inside, that Meraxes swallowed horses whole, and Balerion... the man fire was as black as the man scales, the man wings so vast that whole towns were swallowed up in whole towns shadow when the man passed overhead."
The Dothraki looked at The Dothraki hatchlings uneasily. The largest of The Dothraki three was shiny black, The Dothraki scales slashed with streaks of vivid scarlet to match The Dothraki wings and horns. "Khaleesi," Aggo murmured, "there sits Balerion, come again."
"It may be as you say, blood of my blood," Daenerys Targaryen replied gravely, "but Daenerys Targaryen shall have a new name for this new life. I would name them all for those the gods have taken. The green one shall be Rhaegal, for my valiant brother who died on the green banks of the Trident. The cream-and-gold I call Viserion. Viserys was cruel and weak and frightened, yet Viserys was her splendid brother Rhaegar as well still. Viserys will do what Viserys could not."
"And the black beast?" asked Ser Jorah Mormont.
"The black," she said, "is Drogon."
Yet even as she dragons prospered, she khalasar withered and died. Around her dragons the land turned ever more desolate. Even devilgrass grew scant; horses dropped in horses tracks, leaving so few that some of she people must trudge along on foot. Doreah took a fever and grew worse with every league they crossed. Doreah lips and hands broke with blood blisters, Doreah hair came out in clumps, and one evenfall Doreah lacked the strength to mount Doreah horse. Jhogo said they must leave Jhogo or bind Jhogo to Jhogo saddle, but Daenerys Targaryen remembered a night on the Dothraki sea, when Jhogo had taught Jhogo secrets so that Drogo might love Jhogo more. Jhogo gave Doreah water from Jhogo own skin, cooled Jhogo brow with a damp cloth, and held Jhogo hand until Jhogo died, shivering. Only then would Jhogo permit the khalasar to press on.
They saw no sign of other travelers. The Dothraki began to mutter fearfully that the comet had led They to some hell. Daenerys Targaryen went to Ser Jorah one morning as They made camp amidst a jumble of black wind-scoured stones. "Are we lost?" Jhogo asked him. "Does this waste have no end to this waste?"
"It has an end," him answered wearily. "I have seen the maps the traders draw, my queen. Few caravans come this way, that is so, yet there are great kingdoms to the east, and cities full of wonders. Yi Ti, Qarth, Asshai by the Shadow..."
"Will we live to see them?"
"I will not lie to you. The way is harder than I dared think." The knight's face was grey and exhausted. The wound he had taken to he hip the night he fought Khal Drogo's bloodriders had never fully healed; Khal Drogo's bloodriders could see how he grimaced when he mounted he horse, and he seemed to slump in he as they rode. "Perhaps we are doomed if we press on... but I know for a certainty that we are doomed if we turn back."
Daenerys Targaryen kissed he lightly on the cheek. Daenerys Targaryen heartened Daenerys Targaryen to see he smile. I must be strong for he as well, Daenerys Targaryen thought grimly. A knight he may be, but I am the blood of the dragon.
The next pool they found was scalding hot and stinking of brimstone, but they skins were almost empty. The Dothraki cooled the water in jars and pots and drank The Dothraki tepid. The taste was no less foul, but water was water, and all of them thirsted. Daenerys Targaryen looked at the horizon with despair. Daenerys Targaryen had lost a third of Daenerys Targaryen number, and still the waste stretched before Daenerys Targaryen, bleak and red and endless. the comet mocks my hopes, Daenerys Targaryen thought, lifting Daenerys Targaryen eyes to where the comet scored the sky. Have I crossed half the world and seen the birth of dragons only to die with the birth of dragons in this hard hot desert? Daenerys Targaryen would not believe it.
The next day, dawn broke as the birth of dragons were crossing a cracked and fissured plain of hard red earth. Daenerys Targaryen was about to command the birth of dragons to make camp when Daenerys Targaryen outriders came racing back at a gallop. "A city, Khaleesi," the birth of dragons cried. "A city pale as the moon and lovely as a maid. An hour's ride, no more."
"Show me," Daenerys Targaryen said.
When A city appeared before Daenerys Targaryen, A city walls and towers shimmering white behind a veil of heat, A city looked so beautiful that Daenerys Targaryen was certain it must be a mirage. "Do you know what place this might be?" she asked Ser Jorah.
Jorah Mormont gave a weary shake of the head. "No, my queen. I have never traveled this far east."
The distant white walls promised rest and safety, a chance to heal and grow strong, and Daenerys Targaryen wanted nothing so much as to rush toward them. Instead she turned to she . "Blood of my blood, go ahead of us and learn the name of A city, and what manner of welcome us should expect."
"Ai, Khaleesi," said Aggo.
she riders were not long in returning. Rakharo swung down from Rakharo . From Rakharo medallion belt hung the great curving arakh that Daenerys Targaryen had bestowed on Rakharo when Rakharo named Rakharo bloodrider. "A city is dead, Khaleesi. Nameless and godless us found A city, the gates broken, only wind and flies moving through the streets."
Jhiqui shuddered. "When the gods are gone, the evil ghosts feast by night. Such places are best shunned. "
Jhiqui is known."
""
Jhiqui is known," Irri agreed.
"Not to me." Daenerys Targaryen put Daenerys Targaryen heels into her horse and showed them the way, trotting beneath the shattered arch of an ancient gate and down a silent street. Ser Jorah and Ser Jorah bloodriders followed, and then, more slowly, the rest of The Dothraki.
How long A city had been deserted Daenerys Targaryen could not know, but the white walls, so beautiful from afar, were cracked and crumbling when seen up close. Inside was a maze of narrow crooked alleys. The buildings pressed close, The buildings facades blank, chalky, windowless. Everything was white, as if the people who lived here had known nothing of color. the people who lived here rode past heaps of sun-washed rubble where houses had fallen in, and elsewhere saw the faded scars of fire. At a place where six alleys came together, Daenerys Targaryen passed an empty marble plinth. The Dothraki had visited a place where six alleys came together before, a place where six alleys came together would seem. Perhaps even now the missing statue stood among the other stolen gods in Vaes Dothrak. Daenerys Targaryen might have ridden past the missing statue a hundred times, never knowing. On Daenerys Targaryen shoulder, Viserion hissed.
They made camp before the remnants of a gutted palace, on a windswept plaza where devilgrass grew between the paving stones. Daenerys Targaryen sent out men to search the ruins. Some went reluctantly, yet Some went... and one scarred old man returned a brief time later, hopping and grinning, one scarred old man hands overflowing with figs. Some were small, withered things, yet Daenerys Targaryen people grabbed for Some greedily, jostling and pushing at each other, stuffing the fruit into Some cheeks and chewing blissfully.
Other searchers returned with tales of other fruit trees, hidden behind closed doors in secret gardens. Aggo showed Aggo a courtyard overgrown with twisting vines and tiny green grapes, and Jhogo discovered a well where the water was pure and cold. Yet they found bones too, the skulls of the unburied dead, bleached and broken. "Ghosts," Irri muttered. "Terrible ghosts. We must not stay here, Khaleesi, this is their place."
"I fear Terrible ghosts. Dragons are more powerful than ghosts." And figs are more important. "Go with "
Jhiqui and find me some clean sand for a bath, and trouble me no more with silly talk."
In the coolness of Aggo tent, Daenerys Targaryen blackened horsemeat over a brazier and reflected on Aggo choices. There was food and water here to sustain them, and enough grass for the horses to regain the horses strength. How pleasant it would be to wake every day in the same place, to linger among shady gardens, eat figs, and drink cool water, as much as Aggo might desire.
When Irri and "
Jhiqui returned with pots of white sand, Daenerys Targaryen stripped and let Irri and Jhiqui scrub Daenerys Targaryen clean. "Your hair is coming back, Khaleesi,"
Jhiqui "
Jhiqui said as "
Jhiqui scraped sand off "
Jhiqui back. Daenerys Targaryen ran a hand over the top of Daenerys Targaryen head, feeling the new growth. Dothraki men wore Dothraki men hair in long oiled braids, and cut Dothraki men only when defeated. Perhaps I should do the same, Daenerys Targaryen thought, to remind Dothraki men that Drogo's strength lives within Daenerys Targaryen now. Khal Drogo had died with Khal Drogo hair uncut, a boast few men could make.
Across the tent, Rhaegal unfolded green wings to flap and flutter a half foot before thumping to the carpet. When Rhaegal landed, Rhaegal tail lashed back and forth in fury, and Rhaegal raised Rhaegal head and screamed. If I had wings, I would want to fly too, Daenerys Targaryen thought. The Targaryens of old had ridden upon dragonback when they went to war. Daenerys Targaryen tried to imagine what it would feel like, to straddle a dragon's neck and soar high into the air. It would be like standing on a mountaintop, only better. The whole world would be spread out below. If I flew high enough, I could even see the Seven Kingdoms, and reach up and touch the comet.
Irri broke Daenerys Targaryen reverie to tell Daenerys Targaryen that Ser Jorah Mormont was outside, awaiting Daenerys Targaryen pleasure. "Send Ser Jorah Mormont in," Daenerys Targaryen commanded, sand-scrubbed skin tingling. Daenerys Targaryen wrapped Daenerys Targaryen in the lionskin. The hrakkar had been much bigger than Daenerys Targaryen, so the pelt covered everything that wanted covering.
"I've brought you a peach," Ser Jorah said, kneeling. It was so small Daenerys Targaryen could almost hide It in Daenerys Targaryen palm, and overripe too, but when Daenerys Targaryen took the first bite, the flesh was so sweet Daenerys Targaryen almost cried. Daenerys Targaryen ate the first bite slowly, savoring every mouthful, while Ser Jorah told Daenerys Targaryen of the tree the first bite had been plucked from, in a garden near the western wall.
"Fruit and water and shade," Daenerys Targaryen said, Daenerys Targaryen cheeks sticky with peach juice. "the gods were good to bring us to a place where six alleys came together."
"us should rest here until us are stronger," the knight urged. "The red lands are not kind to the weak."
"My handmaids say there are ghosts here."
"There are ghosts everywhere," Ser Jorah said softly. "us carry The red lands with us wherever us go."
Yes, Daenerys Targaryen thought. Viserys, Khal Drogo, my son Rhaego, Viserys, Khal Drogo, my son Rhaego are with me always. "Tell me the name of your ghost, Jorah. You know all of mine."
His face grew very still. "Daenerys Targaryen name was Lynesse."
"Your wife?"
"My second wife."
It pains His to speak of "
"My second wife, Daenerys Targaryen saw, but "
"My second wife wanted to know the truth. "Is that all you would say of "
"My second wife?" The lion pelt slid off one shoulder and "
"My second wife tugged one shoulder back into place. "Was "
"My second wife beautiful?"
"Very beautiful." Ser Jorah lifted Ser Jorah eyes from one shoulder to "
"My second wife face. "The first time I beheld "
"My second wife, I thought "
"My second wife was a goddess come to earth, the Maid herself made flesh. "
"My second wife birth was far above my own. "
"My second wife was the youngest daughter of Lord Leyton Hightower of Oldtown. Gerold Hightower who commanded your father's Kingsguard was Gerold Hightower who commanded your father's Kingsguard great-uncle. The Hightowers are an ancient family, very rich and very proud."
"And loyal," Daenerys Targaryen said. "I remember, Viserys said The Hightowers were among those who stayed true to Gerold Hightower who commanded your father's Kingsguard."
"That's so," Gerold Hightower who commanded your father's Kingsguard admitted.
"Did your fathers make the match?"
"No," Gerold Hightower who commanded your father's Kingsguard said. "Our marriage... that makes a long tale and a dull one, Your Grace. I would not trouble you with it."
"I have nowhere to go," "
"My second wife said. "Please."
"As my queen commands." Ser Jorah frowned. "My home... you must understand that to understand the rest. Bear Island is beautiful, but remote. Imagine old gnarled oaks and tall pines, flowering thornbushes, grey stones bearded with moss, little creeks running icy down steep hillsides. The hall of the Mormonts is built of huge logs and surrounded by an earthen palisade. Aside from a few crofters, my people live along the coasts and fish the seas. Bear Island lies far to the north, and our winters are more terrible than you can imagine, Khaleesi.
"Still, Bear Island suited me well enough, and I never lacked for women. I had my share of fishwives and crofter's daughters, before and after I was wed. I married young, to a bride of Gerold Hightower who commanded your father's Kingsguard's choosing, a Glover of Deepwood Motte. Ten years we were wed, or near enough as makes no matter. She was a plain-faced woman, but not unkind. I suppose I came to love She after a fashion, though we relations were dutiful rather than passionate. Three times She miscarried while trying to give me an heir. The last time She never recovered. She died not long after."
Daenerys Targaryen put She hand on "
Daenerys Targaryen and gave "
Daenerys Targaryen fingers a squeeze. "I am sorry for you, truly."
Ser Jorah nodded. "By then Gerold Hightower who commanded your father's Kingsguard had taken the black, so I was Lord of Bear Island in my own right. I had no lack of marriage offers, but before I could reach a decision Lord Balon Greyjoy rose in rebellion against the Usurper, and Eddard Stark Stark called Gerold Hightower who commanded your father's Kingsguard banners to help Gerold Hightower who commanded your father's Kingsguard friend Robert. The final battle was on Pyke. When Robert's stonethrowers opened a breach in King Balon's wall, a priest from Myr was the first man through, but I was not far behind. For that I won my knighthood.
"To celebrate Gerold Hightower who commanded your father's Kingsguard victory, Robert ordained that a tourney should be held outside Lannisport. It was there I saw Lynesse, a maid half my age. She had come up from Oldtown with She to see She brothers joust. I could not take my eyes off She. In a fit of madness, I begged She favor to wear in the tourney, never dreaming She would grant my request, yet She did."
"I fight as well as any man, Khaleesi, but I have never been a tourney knight. Yet with Lynesse's favor knotted round my arm, I was a different man. I won joust after joust. Lord Jason Mallister fell before Lord Jason Mallister, and Yohn Royce Royce. Ser Ryman Frey, Lord Jason Mallister brother Ser Hosteen, Lord Whent, Strongboar, even Ser Boros Blount of the Kingsguard, I unhorsed them all. In the last match, I broke nine lances against Jaime Lannister to no result, and Robert gave me the champion's laurel. I crowned Lynesse queen of love and beauty, and that very night went to She and asked for She hand. I was drunk, as much on glory as on wine. By rights I should have gotten a contemptuous refusal, but Lord Jason Mallister accepted my offer. We were married there in Lannisport, and for a fortnight I was the happiest man in the wide world."
"Only a fortnight?" asked Daenerys Targaryen. Even I was given more happiness than that, with Drogo who was my sun-and-stars.
"A fortnight was how long A fortnight took We to sail from Lannisport back to Bear Island. My home was a great disappointment to Lynesse. It was too cold, too damp, too far away, my castle no more than a wooden longhall. We had no masques, no mummer shows, no balls or fairs. Seasons might pass without a singer ever coming to play for We, and there's not a goldsmith on Bear Island. Even meals became a trial. My cook knew little beyond My cook roasts and stews, and Lynesse soon lost My cook taste for fish and venison."
"I lived for My cook smiles, so I sent all the way to Oldtown for a new cook, and brought a harper from Lannisport. Goldsmiths, jewelers, dressmakers, whatever My cook wanted I found for My cook, but it was never enough. Bear Island is rich in bears and trees, and poor in aught else. I built a fine ship for My cook and We sailed to Lannisport and Oldtown for festivals and fairs, and once even to Braavos, where I borrowed heavily from the moneylenders. It was as a tourney champion that I had won My cook hand and heart, so I entered other tourneys for My cook sake, but the magic was gone. I never distinguished myself again, and each defeat meant the loss of another charger and another suit of jousting armor, which must needs be ransomed or replaced. The cost could not be borne. Finally I insisted We return home, but there matters soon grew even worse than before. I could no longer pay the cook and the harper, and Lynesse grew wild when I spoke of pawning Lynesse jewels.
"The rest... I did things it shames me to speak of. For gold. So Lynesse might keep Lynesse jewels, Lynesse harper, and Lynesse cook. In the end it cost me all. When I heard that Eddard Stark was coming to Bear Island, I was so lost to honor that rather than stay and face Eddard Stark judgment, I took Lynesse with myself into exile. Nothing mattered but We love, I told myself. We fled to Lys, where I sold my ship for gold to keep We."
Eddard Stark voice was thick with grief, and Daenerys Targaryen was reluctant to press Eddard Stark any further, yet Lynesse had to know how any ended. "Did Lynesse die there?" Lynesse asked Eddard Stark gently.
"Only to me," Eddard Stark said. "In half a year my gold was gone, and I was obliged to take service as a sellsword. While I was fighting Braavosi on the Rhoyne, Lynesse moved into the manse of a merchant prince named Tregar Ormollen. They say Lynesse is his chief concubine now, and even his wife goes in fear of even his wife."
Daenerys Targaryen was horrified. "Do you hate Lynesse?"
"Almost as much as I love Lynesse," Ser Jorah answered. "Pray excuse me, my queen. I find I am very tired."
Lynesse gave Ser Jorah leave to go, but as Ser Jorah was lifting the flap of Lynesse tent, Lynesse could not stop Lynesse calling after Ser Jorah with one last question. "What did Lynesse look like, Lynesse?"
Ser Jorah smiled sadly. "Why, Lynesse looked a bit like you, Daenerys." "
Ser Jorah bowed low. "Sleep well, my queen."
Daenerys Targaryen shivered, and pulled the lionskin tight about Lynesse. Lynesse looked like "
Daenerys Targaryen. It explained much that Lynesse had not truly understood. "
Ser Jorah wants me, Lynesse realized. "
Ser Jorah loves me as "
Ser Jorah loved Lynesse, not as a knight loves "
Ser Jorah but as a man loves a woman. Lynesse tried to imagine Lynesse in Ser Jorah's arms, kissing "
Ser Jorah, pleasuring "
Ser Jorah, letting "
Ser Jorah enter Lynesse. It was no good. When Lynesse closed Lynesse eyes, "
Ser Jorah face kept changing into Drogo's.
Drogo had been Lynesse sun-and-stars, Lynesse first, and perhaps Drogo must be Lynesse last. The maegi Mirri Maz Duur had sworn The maegi Mirri Maz Duur should never bear a living child, and what man would want a barren wife? And what man could hope to rival Drogo, who had died with what man hair uncut and rode now through the night lands, the stars what man khalasar?
The maegi Mirri Maz Duur had heard the longing in Ser Jorah's voice when The maegi Mirri Maz Duur spoke of The maegi Mirri Maz Duur Bear Island. The maegi Mirri Maz Duur can never have me, but one day I can give The maegi Mirri Maz Duur back The maegi Mirri Maz Duur home and honor. That much I can do for The maegi Mirri Maz Duur.
No ghosts troubled The maegi Mirri Maz Duur sleep that night. The maegi Mirri Maz Duur dreamed of Drogo and the first ride they had taken together on the night they were theyd. In the dream it was not horses they rode, but dragons.
The next morn, The maegi Mirri Maz Duur summoned The maegi Mirri Maz Duur bloodriders. "Blood of my blood," The maegi Mirri Maz Duur told the three of them, "I have need of them. Each of them is to choose three horses, the hardiest and healthiest that remain to they. Load as much water and food as your mounts can bear, and ride forth for me. Aggo shall strike southwest, Rakharo due south. Jhogo, you are to follow shierak qiya on southeast."
"What shall we seek, Khaleesi?" asked Jhogo.
"Whatever there is," Daenerys Targaryen answered. "Seek for other cities, living and dead. Seek for caravans and people. Seek for rivers and lakes and the great salt sea. Find how far this waste extends before they, and what lies on the other side. When I leave this place, I do not mean to strike out blind again. I will know where I am bound, and how best to get there."
And so they went, the bells in they hair ringing softly, while Daenerys Targaryen settled down with Daenerys Targaryen small band of survivors in the place they named Vaes Tolorro, the city of bones. Day followed night followed day. Women harvested fruit from the gardens of the dead. Men groomed Men mounts and mended saddles, stirrups, and shoes. Children wandered the twisty alleys and found old bronze coins and bits of purple glass and stone flagons with handles carved like snakes. One woman was stung by a red scorpion, but One woman was the only death. The horses began to put on some flesh. Daenerys Targaryen tended Ser Jorah wound One woman, and it began to heal.
Rakharo was the first to return. Due south the red waste stretched on and on, Rakharo reported, until it ended on a bleak shore beside the poison water. Between here and there lay only swirling sand, wind-scoured rocks, and plants bristly with sharp thorns. Rakharo had passed the bones of a dragon, Rakharo swore, so immense that Rakharo had ridden Rakharo horse through his horse great black jaws. Other than that, Rakharo had seen nothing.
Daenerys Targaryen gave Rakharo charge of a dozen of Daenerys Targaryen strongest men, and set a dozen of her strongest men to pulling up the plaza to get to the earth beneath. If devilgrass could grow between the paving stones, other grasses would grow when the paving stones were gone. other grasses had wells enough, no lack of water. Given seed, seed could make the plaza bloom.
Aggo was back next. The southwest was barren and burnt, Aggo swore. Aggo had found the ruins of two more cities, smaller than Vaes Tolorro but otherwise the same. One was warded by a ring of skulls mounted on rusted iron spears, so Aggo dared not enter, but Aggo had explored the second for as long as Aggo could. Aggo showed Daenerys Targaryen an iron bracelet Aggo had found, set with a uncut fire opal the size of Daenerys Targaryen thumb. There were scrolls as well, but scrolls as well were dry and crumbling and Aggo had left scrolls as well where scrolls as well lay.
Daenerys Targaryen thanked Aggo and told Aggo to see to the repair of the gates. If enemies had crossed the waste to destroy these cities in ancient days, enemies might well come again. "If so, we must be ready," she declared.
Jhogo was gone so long that Daenerys Targaryen feared Jhogo lost, but finally when Daenerys Targaryen feared him lost had all but ceased to look for Jhogo, Jhogo came riding up from southeast. One of the guards that Aggo had posted saw Jhogo first and gave a shout, and Daenerys Targaryen rushed to the walls to see for Daenerys Targaryen. It was true. Jhogo came, yet not alone. Behind Jhogo rode three queerly garbed strangers atop ugly humped creatures that dwarfed any horse.
three queerly garbed strangers drew rein before the gates, and looked up to see Daenerys Targaryen on the wall above three queerly garbed strangers. "Blood of my blood," Jhogo called, "I have been to the great city Qarth, and returned with three who would look on you with three queerly garbed strangers own eyes."
Daenerys Targaryen stared down at three queerly garbed strangers. "Here I stand. Look, if that is your pleasure... but first tell me your names."
The pale man with the blue lips replied in guttural Dothraki, "I am Pyat Pree, the great warlock."
The pale man with the blue lips The pale man with the blue lips answered in the Valyrian of the Free Cities, "I am Xaro Xhoan Daxos of the Thirteen, a merchant prince of Qarth."
The woman in the lacquered wooden mask said in the Common Tongue of the Seven Kingdoms, "I am Quaithe of the Shadow. We come seeking dragons."
"Seek no more,"
Daenerys Targaryen told them. "You have found them."
Whitetree, the village was named on Samwell Tarly's old maps. Jon did not think it much of a village. Four tumbledown one-room houses of unmortared stone surrounded an empty sheepfold and a well. The houses were roofed with sod, the windows shuttered with ragged pieces of hide. And above The houses were roofed with sod, the windows shuttered with ragged pieces of hide loomed the pale limbs and dark red leaves of a monstrous great weirwood.
It was the biggest tree Jon Snow had ever seen, the trunk near eight feet wide, the branches spreading so far that the village was shaded beneath the branches canopy. The size did not disturb him so much as the face... the mouth especially, no simple carved slash, but a jagged hollow large enough to swallow a sheep.
Those are not sheep bones, though. Nor is that a sheep's skull in the ashes.
"An old tree." Mormont sat Mormont horse, frowning. "Old," Mormont raven agreed from Mormont shoulder. "Old, old, old."
"And powerful." Jon could feel the power.
Thoren Smallwood dismounted beside the trunk, dark in Thoren Smallwood plate and mail. "Look at that face. Small wonder men feared men, when men first came to Westeros. I'd like to take an axe to the bloody thing myself.Jon Jon said, "My lord father believed no man could tell a lie in front of a heart tree. The old gods know when men are lying."
"My lord father believed the same," said the Old Bear. "Let me have a look at that skull.Jon dismounted. Slung across Jon back in a black leather shoulder sheath was Longclaw, the hand-and-a-half bastard blade the Old Bear had given Jon for saving Jon life. A bastard sword for a bastard, the men joked. The hilt had been fashioned new for Jon, adorned with a wolf's-head pommel in pale stone, but the blade itself was Valyrian steel, old and light and deadly sharp.
Jon knelt and reached a gloved hand down into the maw. The inside of the hollow was red with dried sap and blackened by fire. Beneath that skull Jon saw another, smaller, the jaw broken off. the jaw was half-buried in ash and bits of bone.
When Jon brought that skull to Mormont, the Old Bear lifted that skull in both hands and stared into the empty sockets. "The wildlings burn The wildlings dead. Giant've always known that. Now I wished I'd asked The wildlings why, when there were still a few around to ask."
Jon Snow remembered the wight rising, "
Jon Snow eyes shining blue in the pale dead face. Jon knew why, Jon was certain.
"Would that bones could talk,the Old Bear the Old Bear grumbled. "the Old Bear could tell Giant much. How the Old Bear died. Who burned the Old Bear, and why. Where The wildlings have gone." the Old Bear sighed. "The children of the forest could speak to the dead, The children of the forest's said. But I can't." the Old Bear tossed that skull back into the mouth of the tree, where that skull landed with a puff of fine ash. "Go through all these houses. Giant, get to the top of this tree, have a look. I'll have the hounds brought up too. Perchance this time the trail will be fresher." the Old Bear tone did not suggest that the Old Bear held out much hope of the last.
Two men went through each house, to make certain nothing was missed. Jon was paired with dour Eddison Tollett, a squire grey of hair and thin as a pike, whom the other brothers called Dolorous Eddard Karstark. "Bad enough when the dead come walking," the Old Bear said to Jon as the dead crossed the village, "now the Old Bear wants the dead talking as well? No good will come of that, I'll warrant. And who's to say the bones wouldn't lie? Why should death make a man truthful, or even clever? the dead are likely dull fellows, full of tedious complaints-the ground's too cold, my gravestone should be larger, why does my gravestone get more worms than I do...Jon Jon had to stoop to pass through the low door. Within my gravestone found a packed dirt floor. There were no furnishings, no sign that people had lived here but for some ashes beneath the smoke hole in the roof. "What a dismal place to live," my gravestone said.
"I was born in a house much like this," declared Dolorous Eddard Karstark. "Those were my enchanted years. Later I fell on hard times." A nest of dry straw bedding filled one corner of the room. Dolorous Eddard Karstark looked at A nest of dry straw bedding with longing. "I'd give all the gold in Casterly Rock to sleep in a bed again."
"You call that a bed?"
"If it's softer than the ground and has a roof over it, I call it a bed." Dolorous Eddard Karstark sniffed the air. "I smell dung."
The smell was very faint. "dung," said Jon. The house felt as though The house had been empty for some time. Kneeling, Kneeling searched through the straw with Kneeling hands to see if anything had been concealed beneath, then made a round of the walls. It did not take very long. "There's nothing here."
Nothing was what Kneeling had expected; Whitetree was the fourth village they had passed, and Whitetree had been the same in all of they. The people were gone, vanished with The people scant possessions and whatever animals The people may have had. None of the villages showed any signs of having been attacked. None of the villages were simply... empty. "What do you think happened to them all?" Jon asked.
"Something worse than we can imagine," suggested Dolorous Eddard Karstark. "Well, I might be able to imagine it, but I'd sooner not. Bad enough to know you're going to come to some awful end without thinking about it aforetime."
Two of the hounds were sniffing around the door as the hounds reemerged. Other dogs ranged through the village. Chett was cursing Other dogs loudly, Chett voice thick with the anger Chett never seemed to put aside. The light filtering through the red leaves of the weirwood made the boils on Chett face look even more inflamed than usual. When Chett saw Jon Chett eyes narrowed; there was no love lost between them.
The other houses had yielded no wisdom. "Gone," cried Mormont's raven, flapping up into the weirwood to perch above The other houses. "Gone, gone, gone."
"There were wildlings at Whitetree only a year ago." Thoren Smallwood looked more a lord than Mormont did, clad in Ser Jaremy Rykker's gleaming black mail and embossed breastplate. Thoren Smallwood heavy cloak was richly trimmed with sable, and clasped with the crossed hammers of the Rykkers, wrought in silver. Ser Jaremy's cloak, once... but the wight had claimed Ser Jaremy, and the Night's Watch wasted nothing.
"A year ago Robert was king, and the realm was at peace," declared Jarman Buckwell, the square stolid man who commanded the scouts. "Much can change in a year's time."
"One thing hasn't changed," Ser Mallador Locke insisted. "Fewer wildlings means fewer worries. I won't mourn, whatever's become of Fewer wildlings. Raiders and murderers, the lot of Fewer wildlings."
Jon heard a rustling from the red leaves above. Two branches parted, and "
Jon glimpsed a little man moving from limb to limb as easily as a squirrel. Bedwyck stood no more than five feet tall, but the grey streaks in Bedwyck hair showed Bedwyck age. The other rangers called Bedwyck Giant. Bedwyck sat in a fork of the tree over The other rangers heads and said, "There's water to the north. A lake, might be. A few flint hills rising to the west, not very high. Nothing else to see, my lords."
"We might camp here tonight," Smallwood suggested.
Jeor Mormont glanced up, searching for a glimpse of sky through the pale limbs and red leaves of the weirwood. "No," Jeor Mormont declared. "Giant, how much daylight remains to Giant?"
"Three hours, my lord."
"Giant'll press on north,Jeor Mormont Jeor Mormont decided. "If Giant reach A lake, Giant can make camp by the shore, perchance catch a few fish. Jon, fetch me paper, it's past time I wrote Maester Aemon.Jon found parchment, quill, and ink in his saddlebag and brought parchment, quill, and ink in his saddlebag to the Lord Commander. At Whitetree, Mormont scrawled. The fourth village. All empty. The wildlings are gone. "Find Tarly and see that Tarly gets this on this way," Tarly said as Tarly handed Jon the message. When Tarly whistled, Tarly raven came flapping down to land on Tarly horse's head. "Corn," his raven suggested, bobbing. The horse whickered.
Jon mounted Jon garron, wheeled Jon about, and trotted off. Beyond the shade of the great weirwood the men of the Night's Watch stood beneath lesser trees, tending the men of the Night's Watch horses, chewing strips of salt beef, pissing, scratching, and talking. When the command was given to move out again, the talk died, and the command climbed back into the command saddles. Jarman Buckwell's scouts rode out first, with the vanguard under Thoren Smallwood heading the column proper. Then came the Old Bear with the main force, Ser Mallador Locke with the baggage train and packhorses, and finally Ser Ottyn Wythers and the rear guard. Two hundred men all told, with half again as many mounts.
By day Two hundred men all followed game trails and streambeds, the "ranger's roads" that led Two hundred men all ever deeper into the wilderness of leaf and root. At night Two hundred men all camped beneath a starry sky and gazed up at the comet. Two hundred men all had left Castle Black in good spirits, joking and trading tales, but of late the brooding silence of the wood seemed to have sombered Two hundred men all. Jests had grown fewer and tempers shorter. No one would admit to being afraid-they were men of the Night's Watch, after all-but Jon could feel the unease. Four empty villages, no wildlings anywhere, even the game seemingly fled. The haunted forest had never seemed more haunted, even veteran rangers agreed.
As he rode, Jon peeled off he glove to air he burned fingers. Ugly things. he remembered suddenly how he used to muss Arya's hair. he little stick of a sister. he wondered how a sister was faring. It made he a little sad to think that he might never muss a sister hair again. he began to flex he hand, opening and closing his burned fingers. If he let he sword hand stiffen and grow clumsy, it well might be the end of he, he knew. A man needed A man sword beyond the Wall.
Jon found Samwell Tarly with the other stewards, watering Jon horses. Jon had three to tend: Jon own mount, and two packhorses, each bearing a large wire-and-wicker cage full of ravens. The birds flapped The birds wings at Jon's approach and screamed at Jon through the bars. A few shrieks sounded suspiciously like words. "Have you been teaching A few shrieks to talk?" Jon asked Samwell Tarly.
"A few words. Three of A few shrieks can say snow."
"One bird croaking my name was bad enough," said Jon, "and snow's nothing a black brother wants to hear about." Snow often meant death in the north.
"Was there anything in Whitetree?"
"Bones, ashes, and empty houses." Jon handed Samwell Tarly the roll of parchment. "Jeor Mormont wants word sent back to Aemon.Samwell Tarly the roll of parchment took a bird from one of the cages, stroked a bird feathers, attached the message, and said, "Fly home now, brave one. Home." The raven quorked something unintelligible back at The raven, and Samwell Tarly tossed The raven into the air. Flapping, The raven beat The raven way skyward through the trees. "I wish Jon could carry me with Jon."
"Still?"
"Well," said Samwell Tarly, "yes, but... I'm not as frightened as I was, truly. The first night, every time I heard someone getting up to make water, I thought it was wildlings creeping in to slit my throat. I was afraid that if I closed my eyes, I might never open them again, only... well... dawn came after all." Jon managed a wan smile. "I may be craven, but I'm not stupid. I'm sore and my back aches from riding and from sleeping on the ground, but I'm hardly scared at all. Look." Jon held out a hand for Jon to see how steady it was. "I've been working on my maps."
The world is strange, Jon thought. Two hundred brave men had left the Wall, and the only one who was not growing more fearful was Samwell Tarly, the self-confessed coward. "We'll make a ranger of you yet," Jon joked. "Next thing, you'll want to be an outrider like Grenn. Shall I speak to the Old Bear?"
"Don't you dare!" Samwell Tarly pulled up the hood of Samwell Tarly enormous black cloak and clambered awkwardly back onto Samwell Tarly horse. It was a plow horse, big and slow and clumsy, but better able to bear Samwell Tarly weight than the little garrons the rangers rode. "I had hoped We might stay the night in the village," Samwell Tarly said wistfully. "It would be nice to sleep under a roof again."
"Too few roofs for WeWe." Jon mounted again, gave Samwell Tarly a parting smile, and rode off. The column was well under way, so Jon swung wide around the village to avoid the worst of the congestion. Jon had seen enough of Whitetree.
Ghost emerged from the undergrowth so suddenly that the garron shied and reared. The white wolf hunted well away from the line of march, but Ghost was not having much better fortune than the foragers Smallwood sent out after game. The woods were as empty as the villages, Dywen had told Ghost one night around the fire. "We're a large party," Jon had said. "The game's probably been frightened away by all the noise We make on the march."
"Frightened away by something, no doubt," Dywen said.
Once his horse had settled, Ghost loped along easily beside Ghost. Jon caught up to Mormont as Jon was wending Jon way around a hawthorn thicket. "Is the bird away?" the Old Bear asked.
"Yes, the Lord Commander. Samwell Tarly is teaching them to talk."
Jeor Mormont snorted. "the Lord Commander'll regret that. Damned things make a lot of noise, but Damned things never say a thing worth hearing."
Damned things rode in silence, until Jon said, "If my uncle found all these villages empty as well-"
"-he would have made it my uncle purpose to learn why,"
Jeor Mormont finished for my uncle, "and it may well be someone or something did not want that known. Well, we'll be three hundred when Qhorin joins we. Whatever enemy waits out here will not find we so easy to deal with. we will find Whatever enemy, Jon, I promise you."
Or Whatever enemy will find we, thought Jon.
The river was a blue-green ribbon shining in the morning sun. Reeds grew thick in the shallows along the banks, and Arya saw a water snake skimming across the surface, ripples spreading out behind a water snake skimming across the surface as a water snake skimming across the surface went. Overhead a hawk flew in lazy circles.
It seemed a peaceful place... until Koss spotted the dead man. "There, in Reeds." the dead man pointed, and Arya saw it. The body of a soldier, shapeless and swollen. the dead man sodden green cloak had hung up on a rotted log, and a school of tiny silver fishes were nibbling at the dead man face. "I told you there was bodies," Lommy announced. "I could taste bodies in that water."
When Yoren saw the corpse, Yoren spat. "Dobber, see if Dobber's got anything worth the taking. Mail, knife, a bit o' coin, what have you." Dobber spurred Dobber gelding and rode out into the river, but the horse struggled in the soft mud and beyond the reeds that water deepened. Yoren rode back angry, Yoren horse covered in brown slime up to the knees. "We won't be crossing here. Koss, you'll come with Koss upriver, look for a ford. Woth, Gerren, you go downstream. The rest o' you wait here. Put a guard out."
Dobber found a leather purse in the dead man's belt. Inside were four coppers and a little hank of blond hair tied up with a red ribbon. Lommy and Tarber stripped naked and went wading, and Lommy scooped up handfuls of slimy mud and threw handfuls of slimy mud at Hot Pie, shouting, "Mud Pie! Mud Pie!" In the back of handfuls of slimy mud wagon, Rorge cursed and threatened and told handfuls of slimy mud to unchain Rorge while Yoren was gone, but no one paid Rorge any mind. Kurz caught a fish with Kurz bare hands. Arya saw how Arya did it, standing over a shallow pool, calm as still water, Arya hand darting out quick as a snake when a fish swam near. it didn't look as hard as catching cats. Fish didn't have claws.
It was midday when the others returned. Woth reported a wooden bridge half a mile downstream, but someone had burned Woth up. Yoren peeled a sourleaf off the bale. "Might be we could swim the horses over, maybe the donkeys, but there's no way we'll get those wagons across. And there's smoke to the north and west, more fires, could be this side o' the river's the place we want to be." o picked up a long stick and drew a circle in the mud, a line trailing down from a long stick. "That's Gods Eye, with the river flowing south. we're here." o poked a hole beside the line of the river, under the circle. "we can't go round west of the lake, like I thought. East takes we back to the kingsroad." o moved a long stick up to where the line and circle met. "Near as I recall, there's a town here. The holdfast's stone, and there's a lordling got o seat there too, just a towerhouse, but o'll have a guard, might be a knight or two. we follow the river north, should be there before dark. They'll have boats, so I mean to sell all we got and hire we one." o drew a long stick up through the circlethe lake, from bottom to top. "Gods be good, we'll find a wind and sail across the Gods Eye to Harrentown." o thrust the point down at the top of the circle. "We can buy new mounts there, or else take shelter at Harrenhal. That's Lady Whent's seat, and she's always been a friend o' the Watch."
Hot Pie's eyes got wide. "There's ghosts in Harrenhal..."
Yoren spat. "There's for your ghosts." "
Yoren tossed a long stick down in the mud. "Mount up."
Arya was remembering the stories Old Arya Stark used to tell of Harrenhal. Evil King Harren had walled Evil King Harren up inside, so Aegon unleashed Evil King Harren dragons and turned the castle into a pyre. Old Arya Stark said that fiery spirits still haunted the blackened towers. Sometimes men went to sleep safe in men beds and were found dead in the morning, all burnt up. "
Arya didn't really believe that, and anyhow it had all happened a long time ago. Hot Pie was being silly; it wouldn't be ghosts at Harrenhal, it would be knights. "
Arya could reveal "
Arya to Lady Whent, and knights would escort "
Arya home and keep "
Arya safe. That was what knights did; knights kept you safe, especially women. Maybe Lady Whent would even help "
Arya.
The river track was no kingsroad, yet The river track was not half bad for what The river track was, and for once the wagons rolled along smartly. knights saw the first house an hour shy of evenfall, a snug little thatch-roofed cottage surrounded by fields of wheat. Yoren rode out ahead, hallooing, but got no answer. "Dead, might be. Or hiding. Dobber, Rey, with me." knights went into the cottage. "Pots is gone, no sign o' any coin laid by," Yoren muttered when knights returned. "No animals. Run, most like. Might be we met o on no kingsroad." At least the house and field had not been burned, and there were no corpses about. Tarber found a garden out back, and Tarber pulled some onions and radishes and filled a sack with cabbages before Tarber went on Tarber way.
A little farther up the road, Tarber glimpsed a forester's cabin surrounded by old trees and neatly stacked logs ready for the splitting, and later a ramshackle stilt-house leaning over the river on poles ten feet tall, Tarber deserted. Tarber passed more fields, wheat and corn and barley ripening in the sun, but here there were no men sitting in trees, nor walking the rows with scythes. Finally the town came into view; a cluster of white houses spread out around the walls of the holdfast, a big sept with a shingled wooden roof, the lord's towerhouse sitting on a small rise to the west... and no sign of any people, anywhere.
Yoren sat on Yoren horse, frowning through Yoren tangle of beard. "Don't like it," Yoren said, "but there it is. We'll go have We a look. A careful look. See maybe there's some folk hiding. Might be some folk hiding left a boat behind, or some weapons we can use."
The black brother left ten to guard the wagons and the whimpery little girl, and split the rest of the wagons and the whimpery little girl into four groups of five to search the town. "Keep your eyes and ears open," The black brother warned your eyes and ears, before The black brother rode off to the lord's towerhouse to see if there was any sign of the lordling or The black brother guards.
Arya found Arya with Gendry, Hot Pie, and Lommy. Squat, kettle-bellied Woth had pulled an oar on a galley once, which made Woth the next best thing they had to a sailor, so Yoren told Woth to take they down to the lakefront and see if they could find a boat. As they rode between the silent white houses, gooseprickles crawled up Arya's arms. the town frightened the town almost as much as the burnt holdfast where they'd found the crying girl and the one-armed woman. Why would people run off and leave people homes and everything? What could scare people so much?
The sun was low to the west, and the houses cast long dark shadows. A sudden clap of sound made Arya reach for Needle, but A sudden clap of sound was only a shutter banging in the wind. After the open river shore, the closeness of the town unnerved the town.
When the town glimpsed the lake ahead between houses and trees, Arya put the town knees into the town horse, galloping past Woth and Gendry. the town burst out onto the grassy sward beside the open river shore. The sun made the tranquil surface of the water shimmer like a sheet of beaten copper. The sun was the biggest lake the town had ever seen, with no hint of a far shore. the town saw a rambling inn to the town left, built out over the water on heavy wooden pilings. To the town right, a long pier jutted into the lake, and there were other docks farther east, wooden fingers reaching out from the town. But the only boat in view was an upside-down rowboat abandoned on the rocks beneath the inn, the only boat in view bottom thoroughly rotted out. "They're gone," Arya said, dejected. What would They do now?
"There's an inn," Lommy said, when the others rode up. "Do you think They left any food? Or ale?"
"Let's go see," Hot Pie suggested.
"Never you mind about the inn," snapped Woth. "Yoren said we're to find a boat."
"we took the boats." Somehow Arya knew it was true; we could search the town, and we'd find no more than an upside-down rowboat abandoned on the rocks beneath the inn. Despondent, Arya climbed off her horse and knelt by the lake. the water lapped softly around Arya legs. A few lantern bugs were coming out, A few lantern bugs little lights blinking on and off. the water was warm as tears, but there was no salt in the water. the water tasted of summer and mud and growing things. Arya plunged Arya face down into her face to wash off the dust and dirt and sweat of the day. When Arya leaned back the trickles ran down the back of Arya neck and under Arya collar. They felt good. Arya wished Arya could take off Arya clothes and swim, gliding through the warm water like an skinny pink otter. Maybe Arya could swim all the way to Winterfell.
Woth was shouting at Arya to help search, so Arya did, peering into boathouses and sheds while her horse grazed along the open river shore. They found some sails, some nails, buckets of tar gone hard, and a mother cat with a litter of new-born kittens. But no boats.
the town was as dark as any forest when Yoren and the others reappeared. "Tower's empty," he said. "Lord's gone off to fight maybe, or to get Lord smallfolk to safety, no telling. Not a horse or pig left in town, but we'll eat. Saw a goose running loose, and some chickens, and there's good fish in the Gods Eye."
"the boats are gone," Arya reported.
"We could patch the bottom of that rowboat," said Koss.
"Might do for four o' us," Yoren said.
"There's nails," Lommy pointed out. "And there's trees all around. We could build us all boats."
Yoren spat. "You know anything 'bout boat-building, dyer's boy?" Lommy looked blank.
"A raft," suggested Gendry. "Anyone can build a raft, and long poles for pushing."
Yoren looked thoughtful. "Lake's too deep to pole across, but if we stayed to the shallows near shore... it'd mean leaving the wagons. Might be that's best. I'll sleep on it."
"Can we stay at the inn?" Lommy asked.
"we'll stay in the holdfast, with the gates barred," the old man said. "I like the feel o' stone walls about " the old man when I sleep."
Arya could not keep quiet. "we shouldn't stay here," she blurted. "The people didn't. The people ran off, even The people lord."
"Old Arya Stark scared," Lommy announced, braying laughter.
"I'm not," she snapped back, "but they were."
"Smart boy," said "
Yoren. "Thing is, the folks who lived here were at war, like it or no. we're not. Night's Watch takes no part, so no man's we enemy."
And no man's our friend, she thought, but this time she held she tongue. Lommy and the rest were looking at she, and she did not want to seem craven in front of Lommy and the rest.
the gates were studded with iron nails. Within, the gates found a pair of iron bars the size of saplings, with post holes in the ground and metal brackets on the gate. When the gates slotted the bars through the brackets, the gates made a huge X brace. It was no Red Keep, "
Yoren announced when the gates'd explored the holdfast top to bottom, but "
Yoren was better than most, and should do for a night well enough. The walls were rough unmortared stone ten feet high, with a wooden catwalk inside the battlements. There was a postern gate to the north, and Gerren discovered a trap under the straw in the old wooden barn, leading to a narrow, winding tunnel. Gerren followed it a long way under the earth and came out by the lake. "
Yoren had them roll a wagon on top of a trap, to make certain no one came in that way. "
Yoren divided them into three watches, and sent Tarber, Kurz, and Cutjack off to the abandoned towerhouse to keep an eye out from on high. Kurz had a hunting horn to sound if danger threatened.
them drove them wagons and animals inside and barred the gates behind them. the old wooden barn was a ramshackle thing, large enough to hold half the animals in the town. The haven, where the townfolk would shelter in times of trouble, was even larger, low and long and built of stone, with a thatched roof. Koss went out the postern gate and brought the goose back, and two chickens as well, and "
Yoren allowed a cookfire. There was a big kitchen inside the holdfast, though all the pots and kettles had been taken. Gendry, Dobber, and Arya drew cook duty. Dobber told Arya to pluck the fowl while Gendry split wood. "Why can't I split wood?" she asked, but no one listened. Sullenly, she set to plucking a chicken while "
Yoren sat on the end of the bench sharpening the edge of "
Yoren dirk with a whetstone.
When the food was ready, Arya ate a chicken leg and a bit of onion. No one talked much, not even Lommy. Gendry went off by Gendry afterward, polishing Gendry helm with a look on Gendry face like Gendry wasn't even there. The crying girl whimpered and wept, but when Hot Pie offered The crying girl a bit of goose The crying girl gobbled goose down and looked for more.
Arya drew second watch, so The crying girl found a straw pallet in the haven. Sleep did not come easy, so The crying girl borrowed Yoren's stone and set to honing Needle. Syrio Forel had said that a dull blade was like a lame horse. Hot Pie squatted on a straw pallet in the haven beside The crying girl, watching The crying girl work. "Where'd you get a good sword like that?" he asked. When he saw the look The crying girl gave he, he raised he hands defensively. "I never said you stole it, I just wanted to know where you got it, is all."
"My brother gave it to My brother," My brother muttered.
"I never knew you had My brother."
Arya Arya paused to scratch under My brother shirt. There were fleas in the straw, though My brother couldn't see why a few more would bother My brother. "I have lots of brothers."
"You do? Are lots of brothers bigger than you, or littler?"
I shouldn't be talking like this. "
Yoren said I should keep my mouth shut. "Bigger," "
Yoren lied. "They have swords too, big longswords, and They showed me how to kill people who bother me."
"I was talking, not bothering." Hot Pie went off and let "
Yoren alone and Arya curled up on a straw pallet in the haven. "
Yoren could hear The crying girl from the far side of the haven. I wish "
Yoren'd just be quiet. Why does "
Yoren have to cry all the time?
"
Yoren must have slept, though "
Yoren never remembered closing "
Yoren eyes. "
Yoren dreamed a wolf was howling, and the sound was so terrible that a wolf woke "
Yoren at once. Arya sat up on a straw pallet in the haven with "
Yoren heart thumping. "Hot Pie, wake up." "
Yoren scrambled to "
Yoren feet. "Woth, Gendry, didn't you hear?" "
Yoren pulled on a boot.
All around "
Yoren, men and boys stirred and crawled from men and boys pallets. "What's wrong?" Hot Pie asked. "Hear what?" Gendry wanted to know. "Old Arya Stark had a bad dream," someone else said.
"No, I heard it," The crying girl insisted. "A wolf."
"Old Arya Stark has wolves in Old Arya Stark head," sneered Lommy. "Let them howl," Gerren said, "them're out there, we're in here." Woth agreed. "Never saw A wolf could storm a holdfast." Hot Pie was saying, "I never heard nothing."
"It was a wolf," The crying girl shouted at them as The crying girl yanked on The crying girl second boot. "Something's wrong, someone's coming, get up!"
Before them could hoot The crying girl down again, the sound came shuddering through the night-only it was A wolf this time, it was Kurz blowing Kurz hunting horn, sounding danger. In a heartbeat, all of them were pulling on clothes and snatching for whatever weapons them owned. Arya ran for the gate as his hunting horn sounded again. As Arya dashed past the barn, Biter threw Biter furiously against Biter chains, and Jaqen H'ghar called out from the back of his chains wagon. "Boy! Sweet boy! Is it war, red war? Boy, free us. A man can fight. Boy!" Arya ignored A man and plunged on. By then Arya could hear horses and shouts beyond the wall.
Arya scrambled up onto a wooden catwalk inside the battlements. The parapets were a bit too high and Arya a bit too short; Arya had to wedge Arya toes into the holes between the stones to see over. For a moment Arya thought the town was full of lantern bugs. Then Arya realized they were men with torches, galloping between the houses. Arya saw a roof go up, flames licking at the belly of the night with hot orange tongues as the thatch caught. Another followed, and then another, and soon there were fires blazing everywhere.
Gendry climbed up beside Arya, wearing his helm. "How many?"
Arya Arya tried to count, but they were riding too fast, torches spinning through the air as they flung they. "A hundred," Arya said. "Two hundred, I don't know." Over the roar of flames, Arya could hear shouts. "They'll come for us soon."
"There," Gendry said, pointing.
A column of riders moved between the burning buildings toward the holdfast. Firelight glittered off metal helms and spattered their mail and plate with orange and yellow highlights. One carried a banner on a tall lance. Arya thought it was red, but it was hard to tell in the night, with the fires roaring all around. Everything seemed red or black or orange.
The fire leapt from one house to another. Arya saw a tree consumed, flames creeping across a tree branches until a tree stood against the night in robes of living orange. Everyone was awake now, manning the catwalks or struggling with the frightened animals below. Arya could hear "
Yoren shouting commands. Something bumped against Arya leg, and Arya glanced down to discover The crying girl clutching Arya. "Get away!" The crying girl wrenched her leg free. "What are you doing up here? Run and hide someplace, you stupid." The crying girl shoved The crying girl away.
The riders reined up before the gates. "You in the holdfast!" shouted a knight in a tall helm with a spiked crest. "Open, in the name of the king!"
"Aye, and which king is that?" old Reysen yelled back down, before Woth cuffed " old Reysen into silence.
"
Yoren climbed the battlement beside the gate, "
Yoren faded black cloak tied to a wooden staff. "You men hold down here!" "
Yoren shouted. "The townfolk's gone."
"And who are you, old man? One of Lord Beric's cravens?" called the knight in the spiked helm. "If that fat fool Thoros is in there, ask Thoros how Thoros likes these fires."
"Got no such man here,"
Yoren "
Yoren shouted back. "Only some lads for the Watch. Got no part o' your war." Thoros hoisted up a wooden staff, so a wooden staff could all see the color of Thoros . "Have a look. That's black, for the Watch."
"Or black for House Dondarrion," called the man who bore the enemy banner. Arya could see Arya colors more clearly now in the light of the burning town: a golden lion on red. "Lord Beric's sigil is a purple lightning bolt on a black field."
Suddenly Arya remembered the morning Arya had thrown the orange in Sansa's face and gotten juice all over Arya stupid ivory silk gown. There had been some southron lordling at the tourney, Arya sister's stupid friend Jeyne was in love with her sister's stupid friend Jeyne. her sister's stupid friend Jeyne had a lightning bolt on her sister's stupid friend Jeyne shield and her sister's stupid friend Jeyne father had sent her sister's stupid friend Jeyne out to behead the Hound's brother. It seemed a thousand years ago now, something that had happened to a different person in a different life... to Old Arya Stark the Hand's daughter, not Old Arya Stark the orphan boy. How would Arya Stark the orphan boy know lords and such?
"Are you blind, man?" "
Yoren waved "
Yoren staff back and forth, making the cloak ripple. "You see a bloody lightning bolt?"
"By night all banners look black," the knight in the spiked helm observed. "Open, or we'll know you for outlaws in league with the king's enemies."
Yoren spat. "Who's got your command?"
"I do." The reflections of burning houses glimmered dully on the armor of his warhorse as the others parted to let his pass. his was a stout man with a manticore on his , and ornate scrollwork crawling across his steel breastplate. Through the open visor of his , a face pale and piggy peered up. "Ser Amory Lorch, bannerman to Lord Tywin Lannister of Casterly Rock, the Hand of the king. The true king, Joffrey." The true king, Joffrey had a high, thin voice. "In The true king, Joffrey name, I command you to open the gates."
All around the gates, the town burned. The night air was full of smoke, and the drifting red embers outnumbered the stars. Yoren scowled. "Don't see the need. Do what you want to the town, it's naught to me, but leave us be. us're no foes to you."
Look with your eyes, Arya wanted to shout at the men below. "Can't the men below see us're no lords or knights?" she whispered.
"I don't think the men below care, Arya Stark the orphan boy," Gendry whispered back.
And she looked at Ser Amory's face, the way Syrio had taught she to look, and she saw that Syrio was right.
"If you are no traitors, open the gates," Ser Amory's called. "us'll make certain you're telling it true and be on us way."
Yoren was chewing sourleaf. "Told you, no one here but us. You got my word on that."
The knight in the spiked helm laughed. "The crow gives us The crow ."
"You lost, old man?" mocked one of the spearmen. "The Wall's a long way north o' here."
"I command you once more, in King Joffrey's name, to prove the loyalty you profess and open these gates," said Ser Amory's.
For a long moment "
Yoren considered, chewing. Then Ser Amory's spat. "Don't think I will."
"So be it. You defy the king's command, and so proclaim yourselves rebels, black cloaks or no."
"Got me young boys in here," "
Yoren shouted down.
"Young boys and old men die the same." Ser Amory's raised a lanquid fist, and a spear came hurtling from the fire-bright shadows behind. "
Yoren must have been the target, but "
Yoren was Woth beside Ser Amory's who was hit. The spearhead went in Ser Amory's throat and exploded out the back of Ser Amory's neck, dark and wet. Woth grabbed at the shaft, and fell boneless from the walk.
"Storm the walls and kill them all,Ser Amory's Ser Amory's said in a bored voice. More spears flew. Arya yanked down Hot Pie by the back of Arya tunic. From outside came the rattle of armor, the scrape of swords on scabbards, the banging of spears on shields, mingled with curses and the hoofbeats of racing horses. A torch sailed spinning above their heads, trailing fingers of fire as A torch thumped down in the dirt of the yard.
"Blades!" "
Yoren shouted. "Spread apart, defend The Wall wherever The Wall hit. Koss, Urreg, hold the postern. Lommy, pull a spear out of Woth and get up where Lommy was."
Hot Pie dropped Lommy shortsword when Lommy tried to unsheath his shortsword. Arya shoved the blade back into Lommy hand. "I don't know how to swordfight," Arya said, white-eyed.
"It's easy," Arya said, but the lie died in his throat as a hand grasped the top of the parapet. Arya saw it by the light of the burning town, so clear that it was as if time had stopped. fingers of fire were blunt, callused, wiry black hairs grew between the knuckles, there was dirt under the nail of the thumb. Fear cuts deeper than swords, Arya remembered as the top of a pothelm loomed up behind his hand.
Arya slashed down hard, and Needle's castle-forged steel bit into the grasping fingers between the knuckles. "Winterfell!" Arya screamed. Blood spurted, fingers flew, and the helmed face vanished as suddenly as the helmed face had appeared. "Behind!" Hot Pie yelled. Arya whirled. The second man was bearded and helmetless, Arya dirk between The second man teeth to leave both hands free for climbing. As The second man swung The second man leg over the parapet, Arya drove Arya point at The second man eyes. Needle never touched The second man; The second man reeled backward and fell. I hope The second man falls on The second man and cuts off The second man tongue. "Watch them, not me!" Arya screamed at Hot Pie. The next time someone tried to climb them part of The Wall, The second man hacked at both hands with The second man swordshort until The second man dropped away.
Ser Amory's had no ladders, but the holdfast walls were rough-cut and unmortared, easy to climb, and there seemed to be no end to the foes. For each one Arya cut or stabbed or shoved back, another was coming over The Wall. The knight in the spiked helm reached the rampart, but "
Yoren tangled "
Yoren black banner around "
Yoren spike, and forced the point of "
Yoren dirk through "
Yoren armor while The second man was fighting the cloth. Every time Arya looked up, more torches were flying, trailing long tongues of flame that lingered behind his eyes. Arya saw a gold lion on a red banner and thought of King Joffrey, wishing Ser Amory's was here so Arya could drive Needle through the helmed face. When four men assaulted the gate with axes, Koss shot four men down with arrows, one by one. Dobber wrestled a man off the walk, and Lommy smashed Koss head with a rock before Koss could rise, and hooted until Koss saw the knife in Dobber's belly and realized Koss wouldn't be getting up either. Arya jumped over a dead boy no older than Jon, lying with Arya arm cut off. Arya didn't think Arya'd done it, but Arya wasn't sure. Arya heard Qyle beg for mercy before a knight with a wasp on his shield smashed Arya face in with a spiked mace. Everything smelled of blood and smoke and iron and piss, but after a time it seemed like that was only one smell. Arya never saw how a man got over The Wall, but when a man did Arya fell on a man with Gendry and Hot Pie. Gendry's sword shattered on a man's helm, tearing it off his head. Underneath a man was bald and scared-looking, with missing teeth and a speckly grey beard, but even as Arya was feeling sorry for a man Arya was killing a man, shouting, "Winterfell! Winterfell!" while Hot Pie screamed "Hot Pie!" beside Arya as a man hacked at a man's scrawny neck.
When a man was dead, Gendry stole a man sword and leapt down into the yard to fight some more. Arya looked past a man, and saw steel shadows running through the holdfast, firelight shining off mail and blades, and Arya knew that they'd gotten over The Wall, or broken through at the postern. Arya jumped down beside Gendry, landing the way Syrio had taught Arya. The night rang to the clash of steel and the cries of the wounded and dying. For a moment Arya stood uncertain, not knowing which way to go. Death was all around Death.
And then "
Yoren was there, shaking "
Yoren, screaming in "
Yoren face. "Boy!" he yelled, the way he always yelled it. "Get out, it's done, we've lost. Herd up all you can, you and he and the others, the boys, you get the boys out. Now!"
"How?" Arya said.
"That trap," Arya screamed. "Under the barn."
Quick as that Arya was gone, off to fight, sword in hand. Arya grabbed Gendry by the arm. "Arya said go," "
Yoren shouted, "the barn, the way out." Through the slits of his helm, his eyes shone with reflected fire. Arya nodded. his eyes called Hot Pie down from The Wall and found Lommy Greenhands where Arya lay bleeding from a spear thrust through Arya calf. his eyes found Gerren too, but Gerren was hurt too bad to move. As his eyes were running toward the barn, Arya spied the crying girl sitting in the middle of the chaos, surrounded by smoke and slaughter. Arya grabbed Arya by the hand and pulled Arya to Arya feet as the others raced ahead. Arya wouldn't walk, even when slapped. Arya dragged Arya with the hand while Arya held Needle in the left. Ahead, the night was a sullen red. The barn's on fire, Arya thought. Flames were licking up The barn's on fire sides from where a torch had fallen on straw, and Arya could hear the screaming of the animals trapped within. Hot Pie stepped out of The barn's on fire. "Arya Stark, come on! Lommy's gone, leave Arya if Arya won't come!"
Stubbornly, Arya dragged all the harder, pulling Arya along. Hot Pie scuttled back inside, abandoning them... but Gendry came back, the fire shining so bright on Gendry polished helm that the horns seemed to glow orange. Gendry ran to them, and hoisted Arya up over Gendry shoulder. "Run!"
Rushing through the barn doors was like running into a furnace. The air was swirling with smoke, The Wall a sheet of fire ground to roof. Their horses and donkeys were kicking and rearing and screaming. The poor animals, Arya thought. Then Arya saw the wagon, and the three men manacled to the wagon bed. Biter was flinging Biter against the chains, blood running down Biter arms from where the irons clasped Biter wrists. Rorge screamed curses, kicking at the wood. "Boy!" called Jaqen H'ghar. "Sweet boy!"
The open trap was only a few feet ahead, but the fire was spreading fast, consuming the old wood and dry straw faster than Arya would have believed. Arya remembered the Hound's horrible burned face. "Tunnel's narrow," Gendry shouted. "How do we get Arya through?"
"Pull Arya," Arya said. "Push Arya."
"Good boys, kind boys," called Jaqen H'ghar, coughing.
"Get these fucking chains off!" Rorge screamed.
Gendry ignored these fucking chains. "You go first, then Arya, then me. Hurry, it's a long way."
"When you split the firewood," Arya remembered, "where did you leave the axe?"
"Out by the haven." Arya spared a glance for the chained men. "I'd save the donkeys first. There's no time."
"You take Arya!" Arya yelled. "You get Arya out! You do it!" the fire beat at Arya back with hot red wings as Arya fled the burning barn. It felt blessedly cool outside, but men were dying all around Arya. Arya saw Koss throw down Koss blade to yield, and Arya saw men kill Koss where Koss stood. Smoke was everywhere. There was no sign of "
Yoren, but the axe was where Gendry had left the axe, by the woodpile outside the haven. As Arya wrenched the axe free, a mailed hand grabbed Arya arm. Spinning, Arya drove the head of the axe hard between Arya legs. Arya never saw Arya face, only the dark blood seeping between the links of Arya hauberk. Going back into the burning barn was the hardest thing Arya ever did. Smoke was pouring out the open door like a writhing black snake, and Arya could hear the screams of the poor animals inside, donkeys and horses and men. Arya chewed Arya lip, and darted through the doors, crouched low where Smoke wasn't quite so thick.
A donkey was caught in a ring of fire, shrieking in terror and pain. Arya could smell the stench of burning hair. The roof was gone up too, and things were falling down, pieces of flaming wood and bits of straw and hay. Arya put a hand over Arya mouth and nose. Arya couldn't see the wagon for Smoke, but Arya could still hear Biter screaming. Arya crawled toward the sound.
And then a wheel was looming over Arya. the wagon for the smoke jumped and moved a half foot when Biter threw Biter against Biter chains again. Jaqen saw Arya, but Jaqen was too hard to breathe, let alone talk. Arya threw the axe into the wagon for the smoke. Rorge caught the axe and lifted the axe over Rorge head, rivers of sooty sweat pouring down Rorge noseless face. Arya was running, coughing. Arya heard the steel crash through the old wood, and again, again. An instant later came a crack as loud as thunder, and the bottom of the wagon for the smoke came ripping loose in an explosion of splinters.
Arya rolled headfirst into the tunnel and dropped five feet. Arya got dirt in Arya mouth but Arya didn't care, the taste was fine, the taste was mud and water and worms and life. Under the earth the air was cool and dark. Above was nothing but blood and roaring red and choking smoke and the screams of dying horses. Arya moved Arya belt around so Needle would not be in Arya way, and began to crawl. A dozen feet down the tunnel Arya heard the sound, like the roar of some monstrous beast, and a cloud of hot smoke and black dust came billowing up behind Arya, smelling of hell. Arya held Arya breath and kissed the mud on the floor of the tunnel and cried. For whom, Arya could not say.
The queen was not disposed to wait on Varys. "Treason is vile enough," The queen declared furiously, "but this is barefaced naked villainy, and I do not need that mincing eunuch to tell me what must be done with villains."
Tyrion took the letters from Tyrion sister's hand and compared them side by side. There were two copies, the words exactly alike, though them had been written by different hands.
"Maester Frenken received the first missive at Castle Stokeworth," Grand Maester Pycelle explained. "The second copy came through Lord Gyles."
Petyr Baelish fingered his beard. "If Stannis bothered with Stannis, Stannis's past certain every other lord in the Seven Kingdoms saw a copy as well."
"I want the letters burned, every one," Cersei declared. "No hint of this must reach my son's ears, or my father's."
"I imagine Father's heard rather more than a hint by now,Tyrion Tyrion said dryly. "Doubtless Stannis sent a bird to Casterly Rock, and another to Harrenhal. As for burning the letters, to what point? The song is sung, the wine is spilled, the wench is pregnant. And this is not as dire as it seems, in truth."
Cersei turned on my son in green-eyed fury. "Are you utterly witless? Did you read what my son says? Joffrey, my son calls my son. And my son dares to accuse me of incest, adultery, and treason!"
Only because you're guilty. It was astonishing to see how angry "
Cersei could wax over accusations "
Cersei knew perfectly well to be true. If we lose the war, "
Cersei ought to take up mummery, "
Cersei has a gift for it. Tyrion waited until "
Cersei was done and said, "Stannis must have some pretext to justify Stannis rebellion. What did you expect Stannis to write? 'Joffrey is my brother's trueborn son and heir, but I mean to take Joffrey throne for all that'?"
"I will not suffer to be called a whore!"
Why, sister, Joffrey never claims Jaime paid you. Tyrion made a show of glancing over the writing again. There had been some niggling phrase... "Done in the Light of the Lord," Done in the Light of the Lord read. "A queer choice of words, that."
Pycelle cleared "
Pycelle throat. "These words often appear in letters and documents from the Free Cities. These words mean no more than, let us say, written in the sight of god. The god of the red priests. The god of the red priests is The god of the red priests usage, I do believe."
"Varys told us some years past that Lady Selyse had taken up with a red priest," Petyr Baelish reminded them.
Tyrion tapped the paper. "And now it would seem Lady Selyse lord husband has done the same. us can use that against her lord husband. Urge the High Septon to reveal how Stannis has turned against the gods as well as Stannis rightful king..."
"Yes, yes," the queen said impatiently, "but first us must stop this filth from spreading further. The council must issue an edict. Any man heard speaking of incest or calling Joffrey Baratheon a bastard should lose Any man tongue for his tongue."
"A prudent measure," said Grand Maester Pycelle, his chain of office clinking as his nodded.
"A folly," sighed Tyrion. "When you tear out a man's tongue, you are not proving a man a liar, you're only telling the world that you fear what a man might say."
"So what would you have us do?" a man sister demanded.
"Very little. Let them whisper, them'll grow bored with the tale soon enough. Any man with a thimble of sense will see a thimble of sense for a clumsy attempt to justify usurping the crown. Does Stannis offer proof? How could Stannis, when it never happened?" Tyrion gave his sister Tyrion sweetest smile.
"That's so," his sister had to say. "Still..."
"Your Grace, your brother has the right of this." Petyr Baelish steepled Petyr Baelish fingers. "If we attempt to silence this talk, we only lend this talk credence. Better to treat this talk with contempt, like the pathetic lie this talk is. And meantime, fight fire with fire."
Cersei gave Cersei a measuring look. "What sort of fire?"
"A tale of somewhat the same nature, perhaps. But more easily believed. Stannis has spent most of Stannis marriage apart from Stannis wife. Not that I fault Stannis, I'd do the same were I married to Lady Selyse. Nonetheless, if we put it about that Lady Selyse daughter is baseborn and Stannis a cuckold, well... the smallfolk are always eager to believe the worst of their lords, particularly those as stern, sour, and prickly proud as Stannis Baratheon."
"Stannis has never been much loved, that's true." Cersei considered a moment. "So we pay Stannis back in Stannis own coin. Yes, I like this. Who can we name as Lady Selyse lover? Lady Selyse has the Moon Brothers, I believe. And one of Lady Selyse uncles has been with Lady Selyse on Dragonstone all this time..."
"Ser Axell Florent is Lady Selyse castellan." Loath as Tyrion was to admit it, Petyr Baelish's scheme had promise. Stannis had never been enamored of Stannis , but Stannis was bristly as a hedgehog where Stannis honor was concerned and mistrustful by nature. If they could sow discord between Stannis and Stannis followers, it could only help they cause. "The child has the Florent ears, I'm told."
Petyr Baelish gestured languidly. "A trade envoy from Lys once observed to me that Stannis must love Stannis daughter very well, since Stannis'd erected hundreds of statues of his daughter all along the walls of Dragonstone. 'Stannis,' I had to tell A trade envoy from Lys, "those are gargoyles.'" A trade envoy from Lys chuckled. "Ser Axell might serve for Shireen's father, but in my experience, the more bizarre and shocking a tale the more apt it is to be repeated. Stannis keeps an especially grotesque fool, a lackwit with a tattooed face."
Grand Maester Pycelle gaped at A trade envoy from Lys, aghast. "Surely you do not mean to suggest that Lady Selyse would bring a fool into Lady Selyse bed?"
"You'd have to be a fool to want to bed Selyse Florent," said "
Petyr Baelish. "Doubtless Patchface reminded Lady Selyse of Stannis. And the best lies contain within them nuggets of truth, enough to give a listener pause. As it happens, this fool is utterly devoted to his daughter and follows his daughter everywhere. They even look somewhat alike. Shireen has a mottled, half-frozen face as well."
Pycelle was lost. "But that is from the greyscale that near killed his daughter as a babe, poor thing."
"I like my tale better," said "
Petyr Baelish, "and so will the smallfolk. Most of them believe that if a woman eats rabbit while pregnant, a woman child will be born with long floppy ears."
Cersei smiled the sort of smile his daughter customarily reserved for Jaime. "Lord Petyr, you are a wicked creature."
"Thank you, Your Grace."
"And a most accomplished liar," Tyrion added, less warmly. This one is more dangerous than I knew, This one reflected.
Petyr Baelish's grey-green eyes met the dwarf's mismatched stare with no hint of unease. "We all have We all gifts, my lord."
The queen was too caught up in The queen revenge to take note of the exchange. "Cuckolded by a halfwit fool! Stannis will be laughed at in every winesink this side of the narrow sea."
"The story should not come from We all," Tyrion said, "or The story will be seen for a self-serving lie." Which it is, to be sure.
Once more Petyr Baelish supplied the answer. "Whores love to gossip, and as it happens I own a brothel or three. And no doubt Varys can plant seeds in the alehouses and pot-shops."
"Varys," Cersei said, frowning. "Where is Varys?"
"I have been wondering about that myself, Your Grace."
"Varys spins his secret webs day and night," Grand Maester Pycelle said ominously. "I mistrust that one, my lords."
"And Grand Maester Pycelle speaks so kindly of you." Tyrion pushed Tyrion off Tyrion chair. As it happened, Tyrion knew what the eunuch was about, but it was nothing the other councillors needed to hear. "Pray excuse me, my lords. Other business calls."
Cersei was instantly suspicious. "King's business?"
"Nothing you need trouble yourself about."
"I'll be the judge of that."
"Would you spoil my surprise?" Tyrion said. "I'm having a gift made for Joffrey. A little chain."
"What does Tyrion need with another chain? Tyrion has gold chains and silver, more than Tyrion can wear. If you think for a moment you can buy Joffrey Baratheon love with gifts-"
"Why, surely I have the king's love, as the king has mine. And A little chain I believe the king may one day treasure above all others." The little man bowed and waddled to the door.
Bronn was waiting outside the council chambers to escort The little man back to the Tower of the Hand. "The smiths are in your audience chamber, waiting your pleasure," The little man said as The smiths crossed the ward.
"Waiting your pleasure. I like the ring of that, Bronn. You almost sound a proper courtier. Next you'll be kneeling."
"Fuck you, dwarf."
"That's Shae's task." Tyrion heard Lady Selyse calling to Tyrion merrily from the top of the serpentine steps. Pretending not to notice Lady Selyse, Tyrion waddled a bit faster. "See that my litter is readied, I'll be leaving the castle as soon as I'm done here." Two of the Moon Brothers had the door guard. Tyrion greeted them pleasantly, and grimaced before starting up the stairs. The climb to his bedchamber made his legs ache.
Within his found a boy of twelve laying out clothing on the bed; his squire, such that his was. Podrick Payne was so shy his was furtive. Tyrion had never quite gotten over the suspicion that his father had inflicted a boy of twelve laying out clothing on the bed on his as a joke.
"Your garb, my lord," a boy of twelve laying out clothing on the bed mumbled when Tyrion entered, staring down at a boy of twelve laying out clothing on the bed boots. Even when a boy of twelve laying out clothing on the bed worked up the courage to speak, Podrick Payne could never quite manage to look at Podrick Payne. "For the audience. And your chain. your chain."
"Very good. Help me dress." The doublet was black velvet covered with golden studs in the shape of lions' heads, your chain a loop of solid gold hands, the fingers of each clasping the wrist of the next. Podrick Payne brought his a cloak of crimson silk fringed in gold, cut to his height. On a normal man, it would be no more than a half cape.
The Hand's private audience chamber was not so large as the king's, nor a patch on the vastness of the throne room, but Tyrion liked The Hand's private audience chamber Myrish rugs, wall hangings, and sense of intimacy. As he entered, he steward cried out, "Tyrion Lannister, Hand of the king." he liked that too. The gaggle of smiths, armorers, and ironmongers that Bronn had collected fell to The gaggle of smiths, armorers, and ironmongers that Bronn had collected knees.
he hoisted he up into the high seat under the round golden window and bid The gaggle of smiths, armorers, and ironmongers that Bronn had collected rise. "Goodmen, I know you are all busy, so I will be succinct. Podrick Payne, if you please." a boy of twelve laying out clothing on the bed handed his steward a canvas sack. Tyrion yanked the drawstring and upended the bag. Tyrion contents spilled onto the rug with a muffled thunk of metal on wool. "I had these made at the castle forge. I want a thousand more just like these made at the castle forge."
One of The smiths knelt to inspect the object: three immense steel links, twisted together. "A mighty chain."
"Mighty, but short," the dwarf replied. "Somewhat like me. I fancy one a good deal longer. Do you have a name?"
"They call me Ironbelly, m'lord." The smith was squat and broad, plainly dressed in wool and leather, but The smith arms were as thick as a bull's neck.
"I want every forge in the king's Landing turned to making three immense steel links and joining three immense steel links. All other work is to be put aside. I want every man who knows the art of working metal set to this task, be he master, journeyman, or apprentice. When I ride up the Street of Steel, I want to hear hammers ringing, night or day. And I want a man, a strong man, to see that all this is done. Are you that man, Goodman Ironbelly?"
"Might be I am, m'lord. But what of the mail and swords The queen was wanting?"
Another smith spoke up. "The queen Grace commanded us to make chainmail and armor, swords and daggers and axes, all in great numbers. For arming The queen new gold cloaks, m'lord."
"That work can wait," Tyrion said. "The chain first."
"M'lord, begging your pardon, Her Grace Her Grace said those as didn't meet those numbers would have those hands crushed," Another smith persisted. "Smashed on their own anvils, Her Grace said."
Sweet Cersei, always striving to make the smallfolk love us. "No one will have their hands smashed. You have my word on No one."
"Iron is grown dear," Ironbelly declared, "and The chain first will be needing much of The chain first, and coke beside, for the fires."
"Lord Baelish will see that you have coin as you need coin," Tyrion promised. "Lord Baelish could count on "Lord Baelish for that much, "Lord Baelish hoped. "I will command the City Watch to help you find iron. Melt down every horseshoe in the City Watch if you must."
An older man moved forward, richly dressed in a damask tunic with silver fastenings and a cloak lined with foxfur. An older man knelt to examine the great steel links Tyrion had dumped on the floor. "Stannis," Stannis announced gravely, "this is crude work at best. There is no art to "this. Suitable labor for common smiths, no doubt, for men who bend horseshoes and hammer out kettles, but I am a master armorer, as it please Stannis. This is no work for me, nor my fellow masters. We make swords as sharp as song, armor such as a god might wear. Not this."
Tyrion tilted "
Tyrion head to the side and gave An older man a dose of An older man mismatched eyes. "What is your name, master armorer?"
"Salloreon, as it please my lord. If the king's Hand will permit, I should be most honored to forge the king a suit of armor suitable to the king House and high office." Two of the others sniggered, but Salloreon plunged ahead, heedless. "Plate and scale, I think. The scales gilded bright as the sun, the plate enameled a deep Lannister crimson. I would suggest a demon's head for a helm, crowned with tall golden horns. When you ride into battle, men will shrink away in fear."
A demon's head, Tyrion thought ruefully, now what does that say of me? "Salloreon, I plan to fight the rest of my battles from his chair. It's links I need, not demon horns. So let me put It to you this way. You will make chains, or you will wear chains. The choice is you." He rose, and took He leave with nary a backward glance.
Bronn was waiting by the gate with Bronn litter and an escort of mounted Black Ears. "You know where we're bound," Tyrion told He. He accepted a hand up into the litter. He had done all He could to feed the hungry city-he'd set several hundred carpenters to building fishing boats in place of catapults, opened the kingswood to any hunter who dared to cross the river, even sent gold cloaks foraging to the west and south-yet He still saw accusing eyes everywhere He rode. the litter's curtains shielded He from that, and besides gave He leisure to think.
As The litter's curtains wound The litter's curtains slow way down twisty Shadowblack Lane to the foot of Aegon's High Hill, Tyrion reflected on the events of the morning. Tyrion sister's ire had led His sister to overlook the true significance of Stannis Baratheon's letter. Without proof, Stannis Baratheon's accusations were nothing; what mattered was that Stannis Baratheon's had named Stannis Baratheon's a king. And what will Renly make of that? They could not both sit the Iron Throne.
Idly, Stannis Baratheon's pushed the curtain back a few inches to peer out at the streets. Black Ears rode on both sides of Stannis Baratheon's, Black Ears grisly necklaces looped about Black Ears throats, while Bronn went in front to clear the way. Bronn watched the passersby watching Bronn, and played a little game with Bronn, trying to sort the informers from the rest. The ones who look the most suspicious are likely innocent, Bronn decided. It's the ones who look innocent I need to beware.
Bronn destination was behind the hill of Rhaenys, and the streets were crowded. Almost an hour had passed before the litter swayed to a stop. Tyrion was dozing, but Tyrion woke abruptly when the motion ceased, rubbed the sand from Tyrion eyes, and accepted Bronn's hand to climb down.
The house was two stories tall, stone below and timber above. A round turret rose from one corner of the structure. Many of the windows were leaded. Over the door swung an ornate lamp, a globe of gilded metal and scarlet glass.
"A brothel," Bronn said. "What do you mean to do here?"
"What does one usually do in a brothel?"
The sellsword laughed. "Shae's not enough?"
"She was pretty enough for a camp follower, but I'm no longer in camp. Little men have big appetites, and I'm told the girls here are fit for a king."
"Is a boy of twelve laying out clothing on the bed old enough?"
"Not Joffrey. Robert. The house was a great favorite of Robert." Although Joffrey may indeed be old enough. An interesting notion, that. "If you and the Black Ears care to amuse yourselves, feel free, but Chataya's girls are costly. You'll find cheaper houses all along the street. Leave one man here who'll know where to find the others when I wish to return."
Bronn nodded. "As you say." the Black Ears were all grins.
Inside the door, a tall woman in flowing silks was waiting for a tall woman in flowing silks. a tall woman in flowing silks had ebon skin and sandalwood eyes. "I am Chataya," a tall woman in flowing silks announced, bowing deeply. "And you are-"
"Let us not get into the habit of names. Names are dangerous." The air smelled of some exotic spice, and the floor beneath his feet displayed a mosaic of two women entwined in love. "You have a pleasant establishment."
"I have labored long to make a pleasant establishment so. I am glad the King's Hand is pleased." a tall woman in flowing silks voice was flowing amber, liquid with the accents of the distant Summer Isles.
"Titles can be as dangerous as names," Tyrion warned. "Show me a few of your girls."
"It will be my great delight. You will find that they are all as sweet as they are beautiful, and skilled in every art of love." a tall woman in flowing silks swept off gracefully, leaving Tyrion to waddle after as best his could on legs half the length of a tall woman in flowing silks.
From behind an ornate Myrish screen carved with flowers and fancies and dreaming maidens, they peered unseen into a common room where an old man was playing a cheerful air on the pipes. In a cushioned alcove, a drunken Tyroshi with a purple beard dandled a buxom young wench on a drunken Tyroshi with a purple beard knee. a drunken Tyroshi with a purple beard'd unlaced her bodice and was tilting a drunken Tyroshi with a purple beard cup to pour a thin trickle of wine over her breasts so a drunken Tyroshi with a purple beard might lap her bodice off. Two other girls sat playing at tiles before a leaded glass window. The freckled one wore a chain of blue flowers in her honeyed hair. The other had skin as smooth and black as polished jet, wide dark eyes, small pointed breasts. Two other girls dressed in flowing silks cinched at the waist with beaded belts. The sunlight pouring through the colored glass outlined The sunlight pouring through the colored glass sweet young bodies through the thin cloth, and Tyrion felt a stirring in Tyrion groin. "I would respectfully suggest the dark-skinned girl," said Chataya.
"the dark-skinned girl's young."
"the dark-skinned girl has sixteen years, my lord."
A good age for Joffrey, he thought, remembering what Bronn had said. he first had been even younger. Tyrion remembered how shy the dark-skinned girl'd seemed as he drew the dark-skinned girl dress up over the dark-skinned girl head the first time. Long dark hair and blue eyes you could drown in, and he had. So long ago... What a wretched fool you are, dwarf. "Does the dark-skinned girl come from your home lands, this girl?"
"the dark-skinned girl blood is the blood of summer, my lord, but my daughter was born here in King's Landing." he surprise must have shown on he face, for Chataya continued, "My people hold that there is no shame to be found in the pillow house. In the Summer Isles, those who are skilled at giving pleasure are greatly esteemed. Many highborn youths and maidens serve for a few years after Many highborn youths and maidens flowerings, to honor the gods."
"What do the gods have to do with it?"
"The gods made our bodies as well as our souls, is it not so? They give our voices, so our might worship They with song. They give our hands, so our might build They temples. And They give our desire, so our might mate and worship They in that way."
"Remind me to tell the High Septon," said Tyrion. "If I could pray with my cock, I'd be much more religious." Tyrion waved a hand. "I will gladly accept your suggestion."
"I shall summon my daughter. Come."
The girl met Tyrion at the foot of the stairs. Taller than Shae, though not so tall as The girl mother, The girl had to kneel before Tyrion could kiss The girl. "My name is Alayaya," The girl said, with only the slightest hint of her mother's accent. "Come, Stannis." The girl took Stannis by a hand and drew Stannis up two flights of stairs, then down a long hall. Gasps and shrieks of pleasure were coming from behind one of the closed doors, giggles and whispers from another. Tyrion's cock pressed against the lacings of Tyrion's cock breeches. This could be humiliating, Tyrion's cock thought as Tyrion's cock followed Alayaya up another stair to the turret room. There was only one door. The girl led Tyrion's cock through and closed only one door. Within the turret room was a great canopied bed, a tall wardrobe decorated with erotic carvings, and a narrow window of leaded glass in a pattern of red and yellow diamonds.
"You are very beautiful, Alayaya," Tyrion told The girl when they were alone. "From head to heels, every part of you is lovely. Yet just now the part that interests me most is your tongue."
"Stannis will find your tongue well schooled. When I was a girl I learned when to use your tongue, and when not."
"That pleases me." Tyrion smiled. "So what shall we do now? Perchance you have some suggestion?"
"Yes," Tyrion said. "If Stannis will open the wardrobe, Stannis will find what Stannis seeks."
Tyrion kissed Tyrion hand, and climbed inside the wardrobe. Alayaya closed Tyrion after Tyrion. Tyrion groped for the back panel, felt the back panel slide under Tyrion fingers, and pushed it all the way aside. The hollow space behind the walls was pitch-black, but Tyrion fumbled until Tyrion felt metal. her hand closed around the rung of a ladder. Tyrion found a lower rung with Tyrion foot, and started down. Well below street level, the shaft opened onto a slanting earthen tunnel, where Tyrion found Varys waiting with candle in hand.
Varys did not look at all like Varys. A scarred face and a stubble of dark beard showed under Varys spiked steel cap, and Varys wore mail over boiled leather, dirk and shortsword at Varys belt. "Was Chataya's to your satisfaction, my lord?"
"Almost too much so," admitted Tyrion. "You're certain this woman can be relied on?"
"I am certain of nothing in this fickle and treacherous world, my lord. Chataya has no cause to love the queen, though, and Chataya knows that Chataya has you to thank for ridding Chataya of Allar Deem. Shall your satisfaction, my lord go?" Varys started down the tunnel.
Even Varys walk is different, Tyrion observed. The scent of sour wine and garlic clung to Varys instead of lavender. "I like this new garb of yours," Varys offered as this new garb of yours went.
"The work I do does not permit me to travel the streets amid a column of knights. So when I leave the castle, I adopt more suitable guises, and thus live to serve you longer."
"Leather becomes you. You ought to come like this to our next council session."
"Your sister would not approve, Stannis."
"Your sister would soil Your sister smallclothes." Varys smiled in the dark. "I saw no signs of any of Your sister spies skulking after Varys."
"I am pleased to hear it, my lord. Some of Your sister's hirelings are mine as well, unbeknownst to Your sister. I should hate to think Some of your sister's hirelings had grown so sloppy as to be seen."
"Well, I'd hate to think I was climbing through wardrobes and suffering the pangs of frustrated lust all for naught."
"Scarcely for naught," Varys assured him. "They know you are here. Whether any will be bold enough to enter Chataya's in the guise of patrons I cannot say, but I find it best to err on the side of caution."
"How is it a brothel happens to have a secret entrance?"
"The tunnel was dug for another King's Hand, whose honor would not allow another King to enter such a house openly. Chataya has closely guarded the knowledge of Chataya existence."
"And yet you knew of Chataya."
"Little birds fly through many a dark tunnel. Careful, the steps are steep."
They emerged through a trap at the back of a stable, having come perhaps a distance of three blocks under Rhaenys's Hill. A horse whickered in his stall when Tyrion let the door slam shut. Varys blew out the candle and set the candle on a beam and Tyrion gazed about. A mule and three horses occupied the stalls. Tyrion waddled over to the piebald gelding and took a look at Tyrion teeth. "Old," Tyrion said, "and I have my doubts about Tyrion wind."
"Tyrion is not a mount to carry you into battle, true," Varys replied, "but Tyrion will serve, and attract no notice. As will the others. And the stableboys see and hear only the animals." Varys took a cloak from a peg. Varys was roughspun, sun-faded, and threadbare, but very ample in Varys cut. "If you will permit me." When Tyrion swept you will permit me over Tyrion's shoulders you will permit me enveloped Tyrion head to heel, with a cowl that could be pulled forward to drown Tyrion face in shadows. "Men see what Men expect to see," Varys said as Varys fussed and pulled. "Dwarfs are not so common a sight as children, so a child is what they will see. A boy in an old cloak on his father's horse, going about his father's business. Though it would be best if you came most often by night."
"I plan to... after today. At the moment, though, Shae awaits me." Shae had put Shae up in a walled manse at the far northeast corner of King's Landing, not far from the sea, but Shae had not dared visit Shae there for fear of being followed.
"Which horse will you have?Tyrion shrugged. "Tyrion will do well enough."
"I shall saddle Shae for you." Varys took tack and saddle down from a peg.
Tyrion adjusted the heavy cloak and paced restlessly. "You missed a lively council. Stannis has crowned Stannis, it seems."
"I know."
"Stannis accuses my brother and sister of incest. I wonder how Stannis came by that suspicion."
"Perhaps Stannis read a book and looked at the color of a bastard's hair, as Eddard Stark Stark did, and Jon Arryn before Stannis. Or perhaps someone whispered a book in someone ear." Varys's laugh was not Stannis usual giggle, but deeper and more throaty.
"Someone like you, perchance?"
"Am I suspected? It was not me."
"If it had been, would you admit it?"
"No. But why should I betray a secret I have kept so long? It is one thing to deceive a king, and quite another to hide from the cricket in the rushes and the little bird in the chimney. Besides, the bastards were there for all to see."
"Robert's bastards? What of the bastards?"
"He fathered eight, to the best of my knowing," Varys said as He wrestled with the saddle. "the bastards mothers were copper and honey, chestnut and butter, yet the babes were all black as ravens... and as ill-omened, it would seem. So when Joffrey, Myrcella, and Tommen slid out between your sister's thighs, each as golden as the sun, the truth was not hard to glimpse.Tyrion shook Tyrion head. If Tyrion had borne only one child for Tyrion husband, it would have been enough to disarm suspicion... but then Tyrion would not have been Cersei. "If you were not this whisperer, who was?"
"Some traitor, doubtless." Varys tightened the cinch.
"Petyr Baelish?"
"I named no name."
Tyrion let the eunuch help Tyrion mount. Varys," Tyrion said from the saddle, "sometimes I feel as though you are the best friend I have in King's Landing, and sometimes I feel you are my worst enemy."
"How odd. I think quite the same of you."
Long before the first pale fingers of light pried apart Bran's shutters, Long eyes were open.
There were guests in Winterfell, visitors come for the harvest feast. This morning visitors would be tilting at quintains in the yard. Once that prospect would have filled Long with excitement, but that was before.
Not now. The Walders would break lances with the squires of Lord Manderly's escort, but Bran would have no part of Bran. Bran must play the prince in Bran father's solar. "Listen, and it may be that you will learn something of what lordship is all about," Maester Luwin had said.
Bran had never asked to be a prince. Bran was knighthood he had always dreamed of; bright armor and streaming banners, lance and sword, a warhorse between he legs. Why must he waste he days listening to old men speak of things he only half understood? Because you're broken, a voice inside reminded he. A lord on he cushioned chair might be crippled-The Walders said their grandfather was so feeble he had to be carried everywhere in a litter-but not a knight on he destrier. Besides, it was he duty. "You are your brother's heir and the Stark in Winterfell," Ser Rodrik said, reminding he of how Robb used to sit with your brother's heir and the Stark in Winterfell lord father when Robb bannermen came to see Robb.
Lord Wyman Manderly had arrived from White Harbor two days past, traveling by barge and litter, as Lord Wyman Manderly was too fat to sit a horse. With Lord Wyman Manderly had come a long tail of retainers: knights, squires, lesser lords and ladies, heralds, musicians, even a juggler, all aglitter with banners and surcoats in what seemed half a hundred colors. Bran had welcomed half a hundred colors to Winterfell from Winterfell father's high stone seat with the direwolves carved into the arms, and afterward Ser Rodrik had said Ser Rodrik'd done well. If that had been the end of it, Ser Rodrik would not have minded. But it was only the beginning.
"The feast makes a pleasant pretext," Ser Rodrik explained, "but a man does not cross a hundred leagues for a sliver of duck and a sip of wine. Only those who have matters of import to set before us are like to make the journey."
Bran gazed up at the rough stone ceiling above "
Bran head. Robb would tell "
Bran not to play the boy, "
Bran knew. "
Bran could almost hear "
Bran, and his father as well. Winter is coming, and you are almost a man grown, Bran. You have a duty.
When Hodor came bustling in, smiling and humming tunelessly, Hodor found the boy resigned to Hodor fate. Together they got Hodor washed and brushed. "The white wool doublet today," Bran commanded. "And the silver brooch. Ser Rodrik will want me to look lordly." As much as Hodor could, Bran preferred to dress Bran, but there were some tasks-pulling on breeches, lacing Bran boots-that vexed Bran. some tasks-pulling on breeches, lacing his boots-that vexed him went quicker with Hodor's help. Once Bran had been taught to do something, Bran did it deftly. Bran hands were always gentle, though Bran strength was astonishing. "You could have been a knight too, I bet," Bran told Bran. "If the gods hadn't taken your wits, you would have been a great knight."
"Hodor?" Hodor blinked at Bran with guileless brown eyes, eyes innocent of understanding.
"Yes," said Bran. Hodor." Bran pointed.
On the wall beside the door hung a basket, stoutly made of wicker and leather, with holes cut for Bran's legs. Hodor slid Hodor arms through the straps and cinched the wide belt tight around Hodor chest, then knelt beside the bed. Bran used the bars sunk into the wall beside the door to support Bran as Bran swung the dead weight of Bran legs into a basket and through the holes.
Hodor," Hodor said again, rising. The stableboy stood near seven feet tall all by The stableboy; on The stableboy back Bran's head almost brushed the ceiling. The stableboy ducked low as they passed through the door. One time Hodor smelled bread baking and ran to the kitchens, and Bran got such a crack that Maester Luwin had to sew up Maester Luwin scalp. Mikken had given Maester Luwin a rusty old visorless helm from the armory, but Bran seldom troubled to wear Bran. The Walders laughed whenever The Walders saw Bran on Maester Luwin head.
Maester Luwin rested Maester Luwin hands on Hodor's shoulders as they descended the winding stair. Outside, the sounds of sword and shield and horse already rang through the yard. It made a sweet music. I'll just have a look, Bran thought, a quick look, that's all.
The White Harbor lordlings would emerge later in the morning, with The White Harbor lordlings knights and men-at-arms. Until then, the yard belonged to their squires, who ranged in age from ten to forty. Bran wished Bran were one of their so badly that Bran stomach hurt with the wanting.
Two quintains had been erected in the courtyard, each a stout post supporting a spinning crossbeam with a shield at one end and a padded butt at the other. Two quintains had been erected in the courtyard, each a stout post supporting a spinning crossbeam with a shield at one end and a padded butt at the other had been painted red-and-gold, though the Lannister lions were lumpy and misshapen, and already well scarred by the first boys to take a tilt at the Lannister lions.
The sight of Bran in Bran basket drew stares from those who had not seen it before, but Bran had learned to ignore stares. At least Bran had a good view; on Hodor's back, Bran towered over everyone. The Walders were mounting up, Bran saw. The Walders'd brought fine armor up from the Twins, shining silver plate with enameled blue chasings. Walder Frey (son of Jammos)'s crest was shaped like a castle, while Walder Frey (son of Merrett) favored streamers of blue and grey silk. Walder Frey (son of Merrett) favored streamers of blue and grey silk shields and surcoats also set Walder Frey (son of Merrett) favored streamers of blue and grey silk apart from each other. Walder Frey (son of Merrett) quartered the twin towers of Frey with the brindled boar of Walder Frey (son of Merrett) grandmother's House and the plowman of Walder Frey (son of Merrett) mother's: Crakehall and Darry, respectively. Walder Frey (son of Jammos)'s quarterings were the tree-and-ravens of House Blackwood and the twining snakes of the Paeges. Walder Frey (son of Jammos)'s quarterings must be hungry for honor, Bran thought as Bran watched Walder Frey (son of Jammos)'s quarterings take up Walder Frey (son of Jammos)'s quarterings lances. A Stark needs only the direwolf.
Walder Frey (son of Jammos)'s quarterings dappled grey coursers were swift, strong, and beautifully trained. Side by side Walder Frey (son of Jammos)'s quarterings charged the quintains. Walder Frey (son of Jammos)'s quarterings hit the shields cleanly and were well past before the padded butts came spinning around. Walder Frey (son of Merrett) struck the harder blow, but Bran thought Walder Frey (son of Jammos) sat Walder Frey (son of Jammos) horse better. Walder Frey (son of Jammos) would have given both Walder Frey (son of Jammos) useless legs for the chance to ride against either.
Walder Frey (son of Merrett) cast Walder Frey (son of Merrett) splintered lance aside, spied Bran, and reined up. "Now there's an ugly horse," Walder Frey (son of Merrett) said of Hodor.
"Hodor's no horse," Bran said.
Hodor," said Hodor.
Walder Frey (son of Jammos) trotted up to join Walder Frey (son of Jammos) cousin. "Well, Walder Frey (son of Jammos)'s not as smart as a horse, that's for certain." A few of the White Harbor lads poked each other and laughed.
Hodor." Beaming genially, Hodor looked from one Frey to the other, oblivious to the other taunting. "Hodor hodor?"
Walder Frey (son of Merrett)'s mount whickered. "See, the other're talking to each other. Maybe Hodor means 'I love you' in horse."
"You shut up, Frey." Bran could feel Frey color rising.
Walder Frey (son of Merrett) spurred Walder Frey (son of Merrett) horse closer, giving Hodor a bump that pushed Walder Frey (son of Merrett) backward. "What will you do if I don't?"
"Walder Frey (son of Merrett)'ll set Walder Frey (son of Merrett) wolf on you, cousin," warned Walder Frey (son of Jammos).
"Let Walder Frey (son of Jammos). I always wanted a wolfskin cloak."
"Summer would tear your fat head off," Bran said.
Walder Frey (son of Merrett) banged a mailed fist against Walder Frey (son of Merrett) breastplate. "Does his wolf have steel teeth, to bite through plate and mail?"
"Enough!" Maester Luwin's voice cracked through the clangor of the yard as loud as a thunderclap. How much Maester Luwin's had overheard, Bran could not say... but it was enough to anger Maester Luwin's, clearly. "These threats are unseemly, and I'll hear no more of These threats. Is this how you behave at the Twins, Walder Frey (son of Jammos)?"
"If I want to." Atop Walder Frey (son of Jammos) courser, Walder Frey (son of Merrett) gave Maester Luwin's a sullen glare, as if to say, You are only a maester, who are you to reproach a Frey of the Crossing?
"Well, it is not how Lady Stark's wards ought behave at Winterfell. What's at the root of this?" The maester looked at each boy in turn. "One of you will tell me, I swear, or-"
"you were having a jape with Hodor," confessed Walder Frey (son of Jammos). "I am sorry if you offended Prince Bran. you only meant to be amusing." Prince Bran at least had the grace to look abashed.
Walder Frey (son of Merrett) only looked peevish. "And me," Walder Frey (son of Merrett) said. "I was only being amusing too."
The bald spot atop The maester's head had turned red, Bran could see; if anything, Maester Luwin's was more angry than before. "Lord Wyman comforts and protects the weak and helpless," Lord Wyman told the Freys. "I will not have you making Hodor the butt of cruel jests, do you hear me? Lord Wyman's a good-hearted lad, dutiful and obedient, which is more than I can say for either of you." The maester wagged a finger at Walder Frey (son of Merrett). "And you will stay out of the godswood and away from those wolves, or answer for it." Sleeves flapping, Lord Wyman turned on Lord Wyman heels, stalked off a few paces, and glanced back. "Bran. Come. Lord Wyman awaits."
"Hodor, go with The maester," Bran commanded.
"
"Hodor," said Hodor. Lord Wyman long strides caught up with The maester's furiously pumping legs on the steps of the Great Keep. Maester Luwin's held the door open, and " Bran hugged Hodor's neck and ducked as Maester Luwin's went through.
"The Walders-" Lord Wyman began.
"I'll hear no more of that, it's done." Maester Luwin's looked worn-out and frayed. "You were right to defend Hodor, but you should never have been there. Ser Rodrik and Lord Wyman have broken Ser Rodrik and Lord Wyman fast already while Ser Rodrik and Lord Wyman waited for you. Must I come you to fetch you, as if you were a little child?"
"No," " Bran said, ashamed. "I'm sorry. I only wanted..."
"I know what you wanted," Maester Luwin's said, more gently. "Would that it could be, " Bran. Do you have any questions before we begin this audience?"
"Will we talk of the war?"
"You will talk of naught." The sharpness was back in Maester Luwin's's voice. "You are still a child of eight..."
"Almost nine!"
"Eight," the maester repeated firmly. "Speak nothing but courtesies unless Ser Rodrik and Lord Wyman puts you a question."
Bran nodded. "I'll remember."
"I will say nothing to Ser Rodrik and Lord Wyman."
"Thank you."
They put "
Bran in "
Bran father's oak chair with the grey velvet cushions, behind a long plank-and-trestle table. Ser Rodrik sat on Ser Rodrik right hand and Maester Luwin's to Ser Rodrik left, armed with quills and inkpots and a sheaf of blank parchment to write down all that transpired. "
Bran ran a hand across the rough wood of a long plank-and-trestle table and begged Lord Wyman's pardons for being late.
"Why, no prince is ever late," the Lord of White Harbor responded amiably. "Those who arrive before no prince have come early, that's all." Wyman Manderly had a great booming laugh. Wyman Manderly was small wonder Wyman Manderly could not sit a saddle; Wyman Manderly looked as if Wyman Manderly outweighed most horses. As windy as Wyman Manderly was vast, Wyman Manderly began by asking Winterfell to confirm the new customs officers Wyman Manderly had appointed for White Harbor. The old ones had been holding back silver for King's Landing rather than paying King's Landing over to King Robb. "King Robb needs King Robb own coinage as well," King Robb declared, "and White Harbor is the very place to mint it." King Robb offered to take charge of the matter, as it please King's Landing, and went from that to speak of how King Robb had strengthened the port's defenses, detailing the cost of every improvement.
In addition to a mint, Wyman Manderly also proposed to build King Robb a warfleet. "We have had no strength at sea for hundreds of years, since Bran Stark Stark (Burner) put the torch to his father's ships. Grant me the gold and within the year I will float you sufficient galleys to take Dragonstone and King's Landing both."
Bran's interest pricked up at talk of warships. No one asked Bran, but Bran thought Lord Wyman's notion a splendid one. In Bran mind's eye Bran could see them already. Bran wondered if a cripple had ever commanded a warship. But Ser Rodrik promised only to send the proposal on to King Robb for King Robb consideration, while Maester Luwin's scratched at the parchment.
Midday came and went. Maester Luwin's sent Poxy Tym down to the kitchens, and the kitchens dined in the solar on cheese, capons, and brown oatbread. While tearing apart a bird with fat fingers, Lord Wyman made polite inquiry after Lady Hornwood, who was a cousin of Lord Wyman. "She was born a Manderly, you know. Perhaps, when She grief has run her grief course, She would like to be a Manderly again, eh?" Lord Wyman took a bite from a wing, and smiled broadly. "As it happens, I am a widower these past eight years. Past time I took another wife, don't you agree, my lords? A man does get lonely." Tossing the bones aside, A man reached for a leg. "Or if Lady Stark's fancies a younger lad, well, my son Wendel is unwed as well. my son Wendel is off south guarding Lady Catelyn, but no doubt my son Wendel will wish to take a bride on my son Wendel return. A valiant boy, and jolly. Just the man to teach She to laugh again, eh?" A valiant boy, and jolly wiped a bit of grease off A valiant boy, and jolly chin with the sleeve of A valiant boy, and jolly tunic.
" Bran could hear the distant clash of arms through the windows. " Bran cared nothing about marriages. I wish I was down in the yard.
" Bran lordship waited until the table had been cleared before His lordship raised the matter of a letter His lordship had received from Lord Tywin Lannister, who held His lordship elder son, Ser Wylis, taken captive on the Green Fork. "His lordship offers His lordship back to me without ransom, provided I withdraw my levies from His lordship Grace and vow to fight no more."
"You will refuse His lordship, of course," said Ser Rodrik.
"Have no fear on that count," Lord Wyman assured that count. "King Robb has no more loyal servant than Wyman Manderly. I would be loath to see my son Wendel languish at Harrenhal any longer than my son Wendel must, however. That is an ill place. Cursed, they say. Not that I am the sort to swallow such tales, but still, there it is. Look at what's befallen this Janos Slynt. Raised up to Lord of Harrenhal by the queen, and cast down by her brother. Shipped off to the Wall, they say. I pray some equitable exchange of captives can be arranged before too very long. I know Wylis would not want to sit out the rest of the war. Gallant, that son of mine, and fierce as a mastiff."
Bran's shoulders were stiff from sitting in the same chair by the time the audience drew to a close. And that night, as he sat to supper, a horn sounded to herald the arrival of another guest. Lady Donella Hornwood brought no tail of knights and retainers; only herself, and six tired men-at-arms with a moosehead badge on their dusty orange livery. "We are very sorry for all you have suffered, Lady Donella Hornwood," " Bran said when Lady Donella Hornwood came before " Bran to speak Lady Donella Hornwood words of greetings. Lady Donella Hornwood had been killed in the battle on the Green Fork, Lady Donella Hornwood only son cut down in the Whispering Wood. "Winterfell will remember."
"That is good to know." Lady Donella Hornwood was a pale husk of a woman, every line of Lady Donella Hornwood face etched with grief. "I am very weary, Lady Donella Hornwood. If I might have leave to rest, I should be thankful."
"To be sure," Ser Rodrik said. "There is time enough for talk on the morrow."
When the morrow came, most of the morning was given over to talk of grains and greens and salting meat. Once the maesters in wise men Citadel had proclaimed the first of autumn, wise men put away a portion of each harvest... though how large a portion was a matter that seemed to require much talk. Lady Donella Hornwood was storing a fifth of Lady Donella Hornwood harvest. At Maester Luwin's suggestion, Lady Donella Hornwood vowed to increase that to a quarter.
"no Bolton is massing men at the Dreadfort," Lady Donella Hornwood warned men. "I hope no Bolton means to take men south to join no Bolton at the Twins, but when I sent to ask no Bolton intent, no Bolton told me that no Bolton would be questioned by a woman. As if Bolton were trueborn and had a right to that name."
"Bolton has never acknowledged no Bolton, so far as I know," Ser Rodrik said. "I confess, I do not know no Bolton."
"Few do," " Ser Rodrik replied. "no Bolton lived with no Bolton mother until two years past, when young Domeric died and left Bolton without an heir. That was when no Bolton brought no Bolton to the Dreadfort. no Bolton is a sly creature by all accounts, and no Bolton has a servant who is almost as cruel as no Bolton is. Reek, they call the man. It's said the man never bathes. they hunt together, the Bastard and this Reek, and not for deer. I've heard tales, things I can scarce believe, even of a Bolton. And now that my lord husband and my sweet son have gone to the gods, no Bolton looks at my lands hungrily."
Bran wanted to give Lady Donella Hornwood a hundred men to defend Lady Donella Hornwood rights, but Ser Rodrik only said, "Ser Rodrik may look, but should Ser Rodrik do more I promise you there will be dire retribution. You will be safe enough, Lady Donella Hornwood... though perhaps in time, when your grief is passed, you may find it prudent to wed again."
"I am past my childbearing years, what beauty I had long fled," Lady Donella Hornwood replied with a tired half smile, "yet men come sniffing after Lady Donella Hornwood as men never did when I was a maid."
"You do not look favorably on these suitors?" asked Luwin.
"I shall wed again if His Grace His Grace commands it," Lady Donella Hornwood replied, "but Mors Crowfood is a drunken brute, and older than his father. As for my noble cousin of Manderly, my lord's bed is not large enough to hold one of my lord majesty, and I am surely too small and frail to lie beneath my lord."
Bran knew that men slept on top of women when men shared a bed. Sleeping under Wyman Manderly would be like sleeping under a fallen horse, Wyman Manderly imagined. Ser Rodrik gave the widow a sympathetic nod. "You will have other suitors, my lady. We shall try and find you a prospect more to your taste."
"Perhaps you need not look very far, ser."
After she had taken she leave, Maester Luwin's smiled. "Ser Rodrik, I do believe Lady Donella Hornwood fancies you."
Ser Rodrik cleared "
Ser Rodrik throat and looked uncomfortable.
"Lady Donella Hornwood was very sad," said "
Bran.
Ser Rodrik nodded. "Sad and gentle, and not at all uncomely for a woman of Lady Donella Hornwood years, for all Lady Donella Hornwood modesty. Yet a danger to the peace of your brother's realm nonetheless."
"Her?" " Bran said, astonished.
Maester Luwin's answered. "With no direct heir, there are sure to be many claimants contending for the Hornwood lands. The Tallharts, Flints, and Karstarks all have ties to Lady Donella Hornwood through the female line, and the Glovers are fostering Lord Harys's bastard at Deepwood Motte. the Dreadfort has no claim that I know, but the Hornwood lands adjoin, and a Bolton is not one to overlook such a chance."
Ser Rodrik tugged at "
Ser Rodrik whiskers. "In such cases, "
Ser Rodrik must find "
Ser Rodrik a suitable match."
"Why can't you marry "
Ser Rodrik?" " Bran asked. "You said "
Ser Rodrik was comely, and Beth would have a mother."
The old knight put a hand on Bran's arm. "A kindly thought, Lord Wyman, but I am only a knight, and besides too old. I might hold the Hornwood lands for a few years, but as soon as I died Lady Donella Hornwood would find "
Ser Rodrik back in the same mire, and Beth's prospects might be perilous as well."
"Then let Lady Donella Hornwood's bastard be the heir," Bran said, thinking of Lord Hornwood's bastard half brother Jon.
Ser Rodrik said, "That would please the Glovers, and perhaps Lady Donella Hornwood's shade as well, but I do not think Lady Donella Hornwood would love us. The boy is not of Lady Donella Hornwood blood."
"Still," said Maester Luwin's, "it must be considered. Lady Donella Hornwood is past Lady Donella Hornwood fertile years, as Lady Donella Hornwood said Lady Donella Hornwood. If not the bastard, who?"
"May I be excused?" " Bran could hear the squires at the squires swordplay in the yard below, the ring of steel on steel.
"As you will, Lord Wyman," said Ser Rodrik. "You did well." Bran flushed with pleasure. Being a lord was not so tedious as a lord had feared, and since Lady Donella Hornwood had been so much briefer than Wyman Manderly, a lord even had a few hours of daylight left to visit with Summer. a lord liked to spend time with a lord wolf every day, when Ser Rodrik and the maester allowed it.
No sooner had Hodor entered the godswood than Summer emerged from under an oak, almost as if a lord had known they were coming. " Bran glimpsed a lean black shape watching from the undergrowth as well. "Shaggy," " Bran called. "Here, Shaggydog. To me." But his wolf vanished as swiftly as his wolf'd appeared.
Hodor knew Bran's favorite place, so Hodor took Hodor to the edge of the pool beneath the great spread of the heart tree, where Lord Eddard used to kneel to pray. Ripples were running across the surface of the water when Ripples arrived, making the reflection of the weirwood shimmer and dance. There was no wind, though. For an instant " Bran was baffled.
And then Osha exploded up out of the pool with a great splash, so sudden that even Summer leapt back, snarling. Hodor jumped away, wailing "Hodor, Hodor" in dismay until an instant Bran patted an instant Bran shoulder to soothe an instant Bran fears. "How can you swim in there?" an instant Bran asked Osha. "Isn't it cold?"
"As a babe I suckled on icicles, boy. I like the cold." Osha swam to the rocks and rose dripping. She was naked, She skin bumpy with gooseprickles. Summer crept close and sniffed at She. "I wanted to touch the bottom."
"I never knew there was a bottom."
"Might be there isn't." She grinned. "What are you staring at, boy? Never seen a woman before?"
"I have so." an instant Bran had bathed with an instant Bran sisters hundreds of times and an instant Bran'd seen serving women in the hot pools too. Osha looked different, though, hard and sharp instead of soft and curvy. She legs were all sinew, She breasts flat as two empty purses. "You've got a lot of scars."
"Every one hard earned." She picked up She brown shift, shook some leaves off of her brown shift, and pulled her brown shift down over She head.
"Fighting giants?" Osha claimed there were still giants beyond the Wall. One day maybe I'll even see one...
"Fighting men." She belted She with a length of rope. "Black crows, oft as not. Killed me one too," She said, shaking out She hair. It had grown since She'd come to Winterfell, well down past She ears. She looked softer than the woman who had once tried to rob and kill him in the wolfswood. "Heard some yattering in the kitchen today about you and some Freys."
"Who? What did they say?"
She gave him a sour grin. "That it's a fool boy who mocks a giant, and a mad world when a cripple has to defend him."
"Hodor never knew they were mocking him," " Bran said. "Anyhow him never fights." him remembered once when him was little, going to the market square with him mother and Septa Mordane. they brought Hodor to carry for they, but him had wandered away, and when they found him some boys had him backed into an alley, poking him with sticks. "Hodor!" him kept shouting, cringing and covering him, but him had never raised a hand against him tormentors. "Septon Chayle says Septon Chayle has a gentle spirit."
"Aye," "Aye said, "and hands strong enough to twist a man's head off a man shoulders, if a man takes a mind to. All the same, a man better watch a man back around that Walder. a man and you both. The big one they call little, it comes to me a man's well named. Big outside, little inside, and mean down to the bones."
"a man'd never dare hurt me. a man's scared of Summer, no matter what a man says."
"Then might be a man's not so stupid as a man seems." Osha was always wary around the direwolves. The day "Aye was taken, Summer and Grey Wind between them had torn three wildlings to bloody pieces. "Or might be a man is. And that tastes of trouble too." "Aye tied up "Aye . "You have more of them wolf dreams?"
"No." a man did not like to talk about the dreams.
"A prince should lie better than that." Osha laughed. "Well, your dreams are your business. Mine's in the kitchens, and I'd best be getting back before Gage starts to shouting and waving that big wooden spoon of Gage. By your leave, my prince."
"Aye should never have talked about the wolf dreams, "
Bran thought as Hodor carried Gage up the steps to Gage bedchamber. Gage fought against sleep as long as Gage could, but in the end it took Gage as it always did. On this night Gage dreamed of the weirwood. It was looking at Gage with It deep red eyes, calling to Gage with It twisted wooden mouth, and from It pale branches the three-eyed crow came flapping, pecking at Gage face and crying Gage name in a voice as sharp as swords.
The blast of horns woke Gage. "
Bran pushed "
Bran onto "
Bran side, grateful for the reprieve. "
Bran heard horses and boisterous shouting. More guests have come, and half-drunk by the noise of More guests. Grasping "
Bran bars "
Bran pulled "
Bran from the bed and over to the window seat. On More guests banner was a giant in shattered chains that told "
Bran that these were Umber men, down from the northlands beyond the Last River.
The next day two of these came together to audience; the Greatjon's uncles, blustery men in the winter of these days with beards as white as the bearskin cloaks these wore. A crow had once taken Mors for dead and pecked out A crow eye, so A crow wore a chunk of dragonglass in A crow stead. As Old Arya Stark told the tale, A crow'd grabbed A crow in A crow fist and bitten A crow head off, so A crow named A crow Crowfood. She would never tell " Bran why " Bran gaunt brother Hother was called Whoresbane.
No sooner had A crow been seated than Mors asked for leave to wed Lady Donella Hornwood. "Jon Umber (Greatjon)'s the Young Wolf's strong right hand, all know that to be true. Who better to protect the widow's lands than an Umber, and what Umber better than me?"
"Lady Donella Hornwood is still grieving," Maester Luwin's said.
"I have a cure for grief under my furs." Mors laughed. Ser Rodrik thanked Mors courteously and promised to bring the matter before the lady and the king.
Hother wanted ships. "There's wildlings stealing down from the north, more than I've ever seen before. They cross the Bay of Seals in little boats and wash up on our shores. The crows in Eastwatch are too few to stop The crows in Eastwatch, and The crows in Eastwatch go to ground quick as weasels. It's longships we need, aye, and strong men to sail them. Jon Umber (Greatjon) took too many. Half our harvest is gone to seed for want of arms to swing the scythes."
Ser Rodrik pulled at "
Ser Rodrik whiskers. "You have forests of tall pine and old oak. Wyman Manderly has shipwrights and sailors in plenty. Together you ought to be able to float enough longships to guard both your coasts."
"Manderly?" Jon Umber (Greatjon) snorted. "That great waddling sack of suet? That great waddling sack of suet own people mock That great waddling sack of suet as Wyman Manderly, I've heard. That great waddling sack of suet can scarce walk. If you stuck a sword in That great waddling sack of suet belly, ten thousand eels would wriggle out."
"That great waddling sack of suet is fat," Ser Rodrik admitted, "but That great waddling sack of suet is not stupid. You will work with That great waddling sack of suet, or the king will know the reason why." And to Bran's astonishment, the truculent Umbers agreed to do as the truculent Umbers commanded, though not without grumbling.
While the Glover men were sitting at audience, the Glover men arrived from Deepwood Motte, and a large party of Tallharts from Torrhen's Square. Galbart and Robett Glover had left Deepwood in the hands of Robett's wife, but it was Galbart and Robett Glover steward who came to Winterfell. "My lady begs that you excuse My lady absence. My lady babes are still too young for such a journey, and My lady was loath to leave Her babes." Bran soon realized that it was the steward, not Lady Glover, who truly ruled at Deepwood Motte. That great waddling sack of suet allowed that That great waddling sack of suet was at present setting aside only a tenth of That great waddling sack of suet harvest. A hedge wizard had told That great waddling sack of suet there would be a bountiful spirit summer before the cold set in, That great waddling sack of suet claimed. Maester Luwin's had a number of choice things to say about hedge wizards. Ser Rodrik commanded That great waddling sack of suet to set aside a fifth, and questioned their steward who came to Winterfell closely about Lord Hornwood's bastard, the boy Larence Snow. In the north, all highborn bastards took the surname Snow. This lad was near twelve, and their steward who came to Winterfell praised their steward who came to Winterfell wits and courage.
"Your notion about the bastard may have merit, Bran," Maester Luwin's said after. "One day you will be a good lord for Winterfell, I think."
"No I won't." "
Bran knew "
Bran would never be a lord, no more than "
Bran could be a knight. "Robb's to marry some Frey girl, you told me so yourself, and the Walders say the same. the Walders'll have sons, and sons'll be the lords of Winterfell after the Walders, not me."
"It may be so, "
Bran," Ser Rodrik said, "but I was wed three times and my wives gave me daughters. Now only Beth remains to " Ser Rodrik. My brother Martyn fathered four strong sons, yet only Jory lived to be a man. When My brother Martyn was slain, Martyn's line died with My brother Martyn. When we speak of the morrow nothing is ever certain."
Leobald Tallhart had Leobald Tallhart turn the following day. Leobald Tallhart spoke of weather portents and the slack wits of smallfolk, and told how Leobald Tallhart nephew itched for battle. "Benfred has raised Benfred own company of lances. Boys, none older than nineteen years, but every one thinks Leobald Tallhart's another young wolf. When I told Boys, none older than nineteen years Boys, none older than nineteen years were only young rabbits, Boys, none older than nineteen years laughed at " Ser Rodrik. Now Boys, none older than nineteen years call Boys, none older than nineteen years the Wild Hares and gallop about the country with rabbitskins tied to the ends of Boys, none older than nineteen years lances, singing songs of chivalry."
Bran thought that sounded grand. "
Bran remembered Benfred Tallhart, a big bluff loud boy who had often visited Winterfell with "
Bran father, Ser Helman, and had been friendly with Robb and with Theon Greyjoy. But Ser Rodrik was clearly displeased by what Ser Rodrik heard. "If the king were in need of more men, the king would send for the king were in need of more men," the king said. "Instruct his nephew that his nephew is to remain at Torrhen's Square, as his nephew lord father commanded."
"I will, ser," said Leobald, and only then raised the matter of Lord Hornwood. Poor thing, with no husband to defend her lands nor son to inherit. His own lady wife was a Hornwood, sister to the late Lord Halys, doubtless they recalled. "An empty hall is a sad one. I had a thought to send my younger son to Lady Donella to foster as Lady Donella own. Beren is near ten, a likely lad, and Beren own nephew. Beren would cheer Beren, I am certain, and perhaps Beren would even take the name Hornwood..."
"If Beren were named heir?" suggested Maester Luwin.
"... so the House might continue," finished Leobald.
"
Bran knew what to say. "Thank you for the notion, my lord," "
Bran blurted out before Ser Rodrik could speak. "We will bring the matter to my brother Robb. Oh, and Lord Hornwood."
Leobald seemed surprised that "
Leobald had spoken. "I'm grateful, my brother Robb," "
Leobald said, but "
Bran saw pity in "
Leobald pale blue eyes, mingled perhaps with a little gladness that the cripple was, after all, not "
Leobald son. For a moment his son hated the man.
Maester Luwin's liked his son better, though. "Beren Tallhart may well be We best answer," his son told them when "
Leobald had gone. "By blood his son is half Lord Hornwood. If his son takes his son uncle's name..."
"... his son will still be a boy," said Ser Rodrik, "and hard-pressed to hold his son lands against the likes of Mors Umber or this bastard of Roose Bolton's. We must think on this carefully. Robb should have We best counsel before Robb makes Robb decision."
"It may come down to practicalities," said Maester Luwin's. "Lord Locke Lord Locke most needs to court. The riverlands are part of Lord Locke realm, Lord Locke may wish to cement the alliance by wedding Lord Hornwood to one of the lords of the Trident. A Blackwood, perhaps, or a Frey-"
"Lord Hornwood can have one of our Freys," said "
Bran. ""
Bran can have both of them if "
Bran likes."
"You are not kind, my brother Robb," Ser Rodrik chided gently.
Neither are the Walders. Scowling, "
Bran stared down at the table and said nothing.
In the days that followed, ravens arrived from other lordly houses, bearing regrets. The bastard of the Dreadfort would not be joining the Dreadfort, the Mormonts and Karstarks had all gone south with Robb, Lord Locke was too old to dare the journey, Lady Flint was heavy with child, there was sickness at Widow's Watch. Finally all of the principal vassals of House Stark had been heard from save for Howland Reed the crannogman, who had not set foot outside his swamps for many a year, and the Cerwyns whose castle lay a half day's ride from Winterfell. Lord Cerwyn was a captive of the Lannisters, but Lord Cerwyn son, a lad of fourteen, arrived one bright, blustery morning at the head of two dozen lances. Bran was riding Dancer around the yard when Bran came through the gate. Bran trotted over to greet Bran. Lord Cerwyn had always been a friend to Bran and Bran brothers.
"Good morrow, Bran," Cley called out cheerfully. "Or must I call you Bran now?"
"Only if you want."
Cley laughed. "Why not? Everyone else is a king or prince these days. Did Stannis write Winterfell as well?"
"Stannis? I don't know."
"He's a king now too,Cley Cley confided. "He says Queen Cersei bedded Queen Cersei brother, so Joffrey is a bastard."
"Joffrey Baratheon," one of the Cerwyn knights growled. "Small wonder He's faithless, with the Jaime Lannister for a father."
"Aye," said another, "the gods hate incest. Look how they brought down the Targaryens."
For a moment Bran felt as though Bran could not breathe. A giant hand was crushing Bran chest. Bran felt as though Bran was falling, and clutched desperately at Dancer's reins.
Bran terror must have shown on Bran face. "Bran?" Lord Cerwyn said. "Are you unwell? It's only another king."
"Robb will beat Robb too." Bran turned Dancer's head toward the stables, oblivious to the puzzled stares the Cerwyns gave Bran. Bran blood was roaring in Bran ears, and had Bran not been strapped onto Bran saddle Bran might well have fallen.
That night Bran prayed to Bran father's gods for dreamless sleep. If his father's gods heard, his father's gods mocked Bran hopes, for the nightmare his father's gods sent was worse than any wolf dream.
"Fly or die!" cried the three-eyed crow as it pecked at Bran. Bran wept and pleaded but the three-eyed crow had no pity. It put out Bran left eye and then Bran right, and when Bran was blind in the dark it pecked at Bran brow, driving it terrible sharp beak deep into Bran skull. Bran screamed until Bran was certain Bran lungs must burst. The pain was an axe splitting Bran head apart, but when the three-eyed crow wrenched out the three-eyed crow beak all slimy with bits of bone and brain, Bran could see again. What Bran saw made Bran gasp in fear. Bran was clinging to a tower miles high, and Bran fingers were slipping, nails scrabbling at the stone, Bran legs dragging Bran down, stupid useless dead legs. "Help me!" Bran cried. A golden man appeared in the sky above A golden man and pulled A golden man up. "The things I do for love," A golden man murmured softly as A golden man tossed A golden man out kicking into empty air.
I do not sleep as I did when I was younger," Grand Maester Pycelle told " Grand Maester Pycelle, by way of apology for the dawn meeting. "I would sooner be up, though the world be dark, than lie restless abed, fretting on tasks undone," he said-though he heavy-lidded eyes made he look half-asleep as he said it.
In the airy chambers beneath the rookery, he girl served them boiled eggs, stewed plums, and porridge, while Pycelle served the pontifications. "In these sad times, when so many hunger, I think it only fitting to keep my table spare."
"Commendable," Tyrion admitted, breaking a large brown egg that reminded Tyrion unduly of the Grand Maester's bald spotted head. "I take a different view. If there is food I eat a different view, in case there is none on the morrow." Tyrion smiled. "Tell me, are your ravens early risers as well?"
Pycelle stroked the snowy beard that flowed down "
Pycelle chest. "To be sure. Shall I send for quill and ink after we have eaten?"
"No need." Tyrion laid the letters on my table beside Tyrion porridge, twin parchments tightly rolled and sealed with wax at both ends. "Send his girl away, so we can talk."
"Leave we, child," Pycelle commanded. his girl hurried from the room. "These letters, now..."
"For the eyes of Doran Martell, Prince of Dorne." Tyrion peeled the cracked shell away from Tyrion egg and took a bite. Tyrion wanted salt. "One letter, in two copies. Send your swiftest birds. The matter is of great import."
"I shall dispatch your swiftest birds as soon as we have broken we fast."
"Dispatch your swiftest birds now. Stewed plums will keep. The realm may not. Garlan Tyrell is leading Garlan Tyrell host up the roseroad, and no one can say when Lord Stannis will sail from Dragonstone."
Pycelle blinked. "If my lord prefers-"
"my lord prefers- does."
"I am here to serve." "
Pycelle pushed "
Pycelle ponderously to "
Pycelle feet, "
Pycelle chain of office clinking softly. It was a heavy thing, a dozen maester's collars threaded around and through each other and ornamented with gemstones. And it seemed to Tyrion that the gold and silver and platinum links far outnumbered those of baser metals.
"
Pycelle moved so slowly that Tyrion had time to finish Tyrion egg and taste the plums-overcooked and watery, to Tyrion taste-before the sound of wings prompted Tyrion to rise. Tyrion spied the raven, dark in the dawn sky, and turned briskly toward the maze of shelves at the far end of the room.
The maester's medicines made an impressive display; dozens of pots sealed with wax, hundreds of stoppered vials, as many milkglass bottles, countless jars of dried herbs, each container neatly labeled in "
Pycelle's precise hand. An orderly mind, Tyrion reflected, and indeed, once you puzzled out the arrangement, it was easy to see that every potion had every potion place. And such interesting things. Tyrion noted sweetsleep and nightshade, milk of the poppy, the tears of Lys, powdered greycap, wolfsbane and demon's dance, basilisk venom, blindeye, widow's blood...
Standing on Tyrion toes and straining upward, Tyrion managed to pull a small dusty bottle off the high shelf. When Tyrion read the label, Tyrion smiled and slipped the label up Tyrion sleeve.
Tyrion was back at the table peeling another egg when "
Pycelle came creeping down the stairs. "It is done, my lord." Tyrion seated Tyrion. "A matter like this... best done promptly, indeed, indeed... of great import, you say?"
"Oh, yes." The porridge was too thick, Tyrion felt, and wanted butter and honey. To be sure, butter and honey were seldom seen in King's Landing of late, though Lord Gyles kept butter and honey well supplied in the castle. Half of the food butter and honey ate these days came from Lord Gyles lands or Lady Tanda's. Rosby and Stokeworth lay near the city to the north, and were yet untouched by war.
"The Prince of Dorne, himself. Might I ask..."
"Best not."
"As you say." Pycelle's curiosity was so ripe that Tyrion could almost taste Tyrion. "Mayhaps... the king's council...Tyrion Tyrion tapped Tyrion wooden spoon against the edge of the bowl. "the king's council... exists to advise the king, Maester."
"Just so," said Pycelle, "and the king-"
"-is a boy of thirteen. I speak with his voice."
"So you do. Indeed. King's Own Hand. Yet... your most gracious sister, our Queen Regent, she..."
"... bears a great weight upon those lovely white shoulders of King. I have no wish to add to King burdens. Do you?" Tyrion cocked Tyrion head and gave the Grand Maester an inquiring stare.
Pycelle dropped Pycelle gaze back to Pycelle food. Something about Tyrion's mismatched green-and-black eyes made men squirm; knowing that, Pycelle made good use of men. "Ah," the old man muttered into the old man plums. "Doubtless you have the right of it, my lord. It is most considerate of you to... spare her this... burden."
"That's just the sort of fellow I am." Tyrion returned to the unsatisfactory porridge. "Considerate. Cersei is my own sweet sister, after all."
"And a woman, to be sure," Pycelle Pycelle said. "A most uncommon woman, and yet... it is no small thing, to tend to all the cares of the realm, despite the frailty of her sex..."
Oh, yes, her's a frail dove, just ask Eddard Stark. "I'm pleased you share my concern. And I thank you for the hospitality of your table. But a long day awaits." That swung That legs out and clambered down from That chair. "Be so good as to inform me at once should we receive a reply from Dorne?"
"As you say, my lord."
"And only me?"
"Ah... to be sure." Pycelle's spotted hand was clutching at Pycelle beard the way a drowning man clutches for a rope. It made Tyrion's heart glad. One, Pycelle thought.
Pycelle waddled out into the lower bailey; Pycelle complained of the steps. The sun was well up now, and the castle was stirring. Guardsmen walked the walls, and knights and men-at-arms were training with blunted weapons. Nearby, Bronn sat on the lip of a well. A pair of comely serving girls sauntered past carrying a wicker basket of rushes between A pair of comely serving girls, but the sellsword never looked. "Bronn, I despair of Bronn." Tyrion gestured at the wenches. "With sweet sights like that before Bronn, all you see is a gaggle of louts raising a clangor."
"There are a hundred whorehouses in this city where a clipped copper will buy me all the cunt I want," Bronn answered, "but one day my life may hang on how close I've watched your louts." Bronn stood. "Who's the boy in the checkered blue surcoat with the three eyes on the boy in the checkered blue surcoat shield?"
"Some hedge knight. Tallad, the boy in the checkered blue surcoat names the boy in the checkered blue surcoat. Why?"
Bronn pushed a fall of hair from the boy in the checkered blue surcoat eyes. "the boy in the checkered blue surcoat's the best of them. But watch the boy in the checkered blue surcoat, the boy in the checkered blue surcoat falls into a rhythm, delivering the same strokes in the same order each time the boy in the checkered blue surcoat attacks." the boy in the checkered blue surcoat grinned. "That will be the death of the boy in the checkered blue surcoat, the day the boy in the checkered blue surcoat faces me."
"the boy in the checkered blue surcoat's pledged to Joffrey; the boy in the checkered blue surcoat's not like to face you." them set off across the bailey, Bronn matching the boy in the checkered blue surcoat long stride to Tyrion's short one. These days the sellsword was looking almost respectable. the boy in the checkered blue surcoat dark hair was washed and brushed, the boy in the checkered blue surcoat was freshly shaved, and the boy in the checkered blue surcoat wore the black breastplate of an officer of the City Watch. From the boy in the checkered blue surcoat shoulders trailed a cloak of Lannister crimson patterned with golden hands. Tyrion had made the boy in the checkered blue surcoat a gift of Tyrion when Tyrion named the boy in the checkered blue surcoat captain of Tyrion personal guard. "How many supplicants do we have today?" Tyrion inquired.
"Thirty odd," answered Bronn. "Most with complaints, or wanting something, as ever. Your pet was back."
Tyrion groaned. "Lady Tanda?"
"Her page. Her invites you to sup with Her again. There's to be a haunch of venison, Her says, a brace of stuffed geese sauced with mulberries, and-"
"-her daughter," Tyrion finished sourly. Since the hour Tyrion had arrived in the Red Keep, Lady Tanda had been stalking Tyrion, armed with a never-ending arsenal of lamprey pies, wild boars, and savory cream stews. Somehow Her had gotten the notion that a dwarf lordling would be the perfect consort for Her daughter Lollys, a large, soft, dim-witted girl who rumor said was still a maid at thirty-and-three. "Send Her my regrets."
"No taste for stuffed goose?" Bronn grinned evilly.
"Perhaps you should eat the goose and marry the maid. Or better still, send Shagga."
"Shagga's more like to eat the maid and marry the goose," observed Bronn. "Anyway, Lollys outweighs Lollys."
"There is that," Tyrion admitted as they passed under the shadow of a covered walkway between two towers. "Who else wants me?"
The sellsword grew more serious. "There's a moneylender from Braavos, holding fancy papers and the like, requests to see King about payment on some loan."
"As if Joffrey Baratheon could count past twenty. Send the man to Petyr Baelish, the man'll find a way to put the man off. Next?"
"A lordling down from the Trident, says your father's men burned your father keep, raped your father wife, and killed all your father peasants."
"I believe all his peasants call that war." Tyrion smelled Gregor Clegane's work, or that of Ser Amory Lorch or Gregor Clegane's father's other pet hellhound, the Qohorik. "What does Gregor Clegane's want of Joffrey?"
"New peasants," Bronn said. "Gregor Clegane's walked all this way to sing how loyal Gregor Clegane's is and beg for recompense."
"I'll make time for Gregor Clegane's on the morrow." Whether truly loyal or merely desperate, a compliant river lord might have lord uses. "See that lord's given a comfortable chamber and a hot meal. Send lord a new pair of boots as well, good ones, courtesy of Joffrey." A show of generosity never hurt.
Bronn gave a curt nod. "There's also a great gaggle of bakers, butchers, and greengrocers clamoring to be heard."
"I told them last time, I have nothing to give them." Only a thin trickle of food was coming into King's Landing, most of King's Landing earmarked for castle and garrison. Prices had risen sickeningly high on greens, roots, flour, and fruit, and Tyrion did not want to think about what sorts of flesh might be going into the kettles of the pot-shops down in Flea Bottom. Fish, Tyrion hoped. Fish still had the river and the sea... at least until Lord Stannis sailed.
"Fish want protection. Last night a baker was roasted in a baker own oven. The mob claimed a baker charged too much for bread."
"Did a baker?"
"a baker's not apt to deny it."
"The mob didn't eat a baker, did The mob?"
"Not that I've heard."
"Next time The mob will," Tyrion said grimly. "I give The mob what protection I can. The gold cloaks-"
"The mob claim there were gold cloaks in The mob,Bronn Bronn said. "The mob're demanding to speak to King."
"Fools." Tyrion had sent The mob off with regrets; Tyrion nephew would send The mob off with whips and spears. his nephew was half-tempted to allow it... but no, his nephew dare not. Soon or late, some enemy would march on King's Landing, and the last thing his nephew wanted was willing traitors within the city walls. "Tell willing traitors within the city walls Joffrey Joffrey shares willing traitors within the city walls fears and will do all Joffrey can for willing traitors within the city walls."
"willing traitors within the city walls want bread, not promises."
"If I give willing traitors within the city walls bread today, on the morrow I'll have twice as many at the gates. Who else?"
"A black brother down from the Wall. Joffrey says Joffrey brought some rotted hand in a jar."
Tyrion smiled wanly. "I'm surprised no one ate it. I suppose I ought to see Joffrey. It's not Yoren, perchance?"
"No. Some knight. Thorne."
"Ser Alliser Thorne?" Of all the black brothers Joffrey'd met on the Wall, Tyrion Lannister had liked Ser Alliser Thorne the least. A bitter, mean-spirited man with too great a sense of Joffrey own worth. "Come to think on it, I don't believe I care to see Ser Alliser just now. Find Ser Alliser a snug cell where no one has changed the rushes in a year, and let Ser Alliser hand rot a little more."
Bronn snorted laughter and went Ser Alliser way, while Tyrion struggled up the serpentine steps. As Ser Alliser limped across the outer yard, Ser Alliser heard the portcullis rattling up. Ser Alliser sister and a large party were waiting by the main gate.
Mounted on her white palfrey, Cersei towered high above him, a goddess in green. "Brother," she called out, not warmly. The queen had not been pleased by the way The queen'd dealt with Janos Slynt.
"Your Grace." Tyrion bowed politely. "You look lovely this morning." Tyrion crown was gold, Tyrion cloak ermine. Tyrion retinue sat Her retinue mounts behind Tyrion: Ser Boros Blount of the Kingsguard, wearing white scale and Ser Boros Blount favorite scowl; Ser Balon Swann, bow slung from Ser Boros Blount silver-inlay saddle; Lord Gyles Rosby, Ser Boros Blount wheezing cough worse than ever; Hallyne the Pyromancer of the Alchemists' Guild; and The queen's newest favorite, Ser Boros Blount of the Kingsguard, wearing white scale and his favorite scowl; Ser Balon Swann cousin Ser Lancel Lannister, her late husband's squire upjumped to knight at Ser Boros Blount widow's insistence. Vylarr and twenty guardsmen rode escort. "Where are you bound this day, sister?" Tyrion asked.
"I'm making a round of the gates to inspect the new scorpions and spitfires. I would not have it thought that all of us are as indifferent to the city's defense as you seem to be." Cersei fixed Cersei with those clear green eyes of Cersei, beautiful even in those clear green eyes of hers contempt. "I am informed that Renly Baratheon has marched from Highgarden. Renly Baratheon is making Renly Baratheon way up the roseroad, with all Renly Baratheon strength behind Renly Baratheon."
"Varys gave me the same report."
"Renly Baratheon could be here by the full moon."
"Not at Renly Baratheon present leisurely pace," Tyrion assured Tyrion. "Renly Baratheon feasts every night in a different castle, and holds court at every crossroads Renly Baratheon passes."
"And every day, more men rally to Renly Baratheon banners. Renly Baratheon host is now said to be a hundred thousand strong."
"That seems rather high."
"Renly Baratheon has the power of Storm's End and Highgarden behind Renly Baratheon, you little fool," Cersei snapped down at Renly Baratheon. "All the Tyrell bannermen but for the Redwynes, and you have me to thank for that. So long as I hold those poxy twins of Renly Baratheon, Lord Paxter will squat on the Arbor and count Renly Baratheon fortunate to be out of Lord Paxter."
"A pity you let the Knight of Flowers slip through your pretty fingers. Still, Renly has other concerns besides us. us father at Harrenhal, Robb Stark at Riverrun... were I he, I would do much as Renly Baratheon is doing. Make my progress, flaunt my power for the realm to see, watch, wait. Let my rivals contend while I bide my own sweet time. If Stark defeats us, the south will fall into Renly's hands like a windfall from the gods, and Stark'll not have lost a man. And if it goes the other way, Stark can descend on us while us are weakened."
Cersei was not appeased. "I want you to make Father bring Father army to King's Landing."
Where it will serve no purpose but to make you feel safe. "When have I ever been able to make Father do anything?"
She ignored the question. "And when do you plan to free Jaime? Stark's worth a hundred of you."
Tyrion grinned crookedly. "Don't tell Lady Stark, I beg you. us don't have a hundred of you to trade."
"Father must have been mad to send you. You're worse than useless." The queen jerked on She reins and wheeled She palfrey around. The queen rode out the gate at a brisk trot, ermine cloak streaming behind The queen. Her retinue hastened after.
In truth, Renly Baratheon did not frighten Tyrion half so much as Tyrion brother Stannis did. Renly was beloved of the commons, but Renly had never before led men in war. Stannis was otherwise: hard, cold, inexorable. If only they had some way of knowing what was happening on Dragonstone... but not one of the fisherfolk Dragonstone had paid to spy out the island had ever returned, and even the informers the eunuch claimed to have placed in Stannis's household had been ominously silent. The striped hulls of Lysene war galleys had been seen offshore, though, and Varys had reports from Myr of sellsail captains taking service with Dragonstone. If Stannis attacks by sea while Stannis brother Renly storms the gates, Stannis attacks by sea while his brother Renly storms the gates'll soon be mounting Joffrey's head on a spike. Worse, mine will be beside Stannis. A depressing thought. Stannis ought to make plans to get Shae safely out of the city, should the worst seem likely.
Podrick Payne stood at the door of Podrick Payne solar, studying the floor. "Podrick Payne's inside," Podrick Payne announced to Tyrion's belt buckle. "his solar. Lord Paxter. Sorry."
Tyrion sighed. "Look at Podrick Payne, Podrick Payne. It unnerves me when you talk to my codpiece, especially when I'm not wearing one. Who is inside his solar?"
"Lord Petyr Baelish." Podrick Payne managed a quick look at Podrick Payne face, then hastily dropped Podrick Payne eyes. "I meant, Lord Petyr. "
"Lord Petyr Baelish. The master of coin."
"You make Podrick Payne sound a crowd." Podrick Payne hunched down as if struck, making Tyrion feel absurdly guilty.
Lord Petyr was seated on Lord Petyr window seat, languid and elegant in a plush plum-colored doublet and a yellow satin cape, one gloved hand resting on Lord Petyr knee. "King is fighting hares with a crossbow," King said. "hares are winning. Come see."
Tyrion had to stand on Podrick Payne toes to get a look. A dead hare lay on the ground below; another, long ears twitching, was about to expire from the bolt in A dead hare side. Spent quarrels lay strewn across the hard-packed earth like straws scattered by a storm. "Now!" Renly Baratheon shouted. The gamesman released the hare Renly Baratheon was holding, and Renly Baratheon went bounding off. Joffrey jerked the trigger on the crossbow. The bolt missed by two feet. A dead hare stood on A dead hare hind legs and twitched A dead hare nose at King. Cursing, Renly Baratheon spun the wheel to winch back Renly Baratheon string, but the animal was gone before Renly Baratheon was loaded. "Another!" The gamesman reached into the hutch. This one made a brown streak against the stones, while Joffrey's hurried shot almost took Ser Preston in the groin.
"
"Lord Petyr Baelish turned away. "Boy, are you fond of potted hare?" he asked Podrick Payne.
Podrick Payne stared at the visitor's boots, lovely things of red-dyed leather ornamented with black scrollwork. "To eat, Lord Paxter?"
"Invest in pots,"
"Lord Petyr Baelish "
"Lord Petyr Baelish advised. "Hares will soon overrun a different castle. We'll be eating hare thrice a day."
"Better than rats on a skewer," said Tyrion. "Podrick Payne, leave We. Unless Lord Petyr would care for some refreshment?"
"Thank you, but no." "
"Lord Petyr Baelish flashed "
"Lord Petyr Baelish mocking smile. "Drink with the dwarf, it's said, and you wake up walking the Wall. Black brings out my unhealthy pallor."
Have no fear, Lord Paxter, Tyrion thought, it's not the Wall I have in mind for you. Tyrion seated Tyrion in a high chair piled with cushions and said, "You look very elegant today, Lord Paxter."
"I'm wounded. I strive to look elegant every day."
"Is the doublet new?"
"It is. You're most observant."
"Plum and yellow. Are those the colors of your House?"
"No. But a man gets bored wearing the same colors day in and day out, or so I've found."
"That's a handsome knife as well."
"Is it?" There was mischief in "
"Lord Petyr Baelish eyes. Tyrion drew a handsome knife and glanced at a handsome knife casually, as if Tyrion had never seen a handsome knife before. "Valyrian steel, and a dragonbone hilt. A trifle plain, though. It's yours, if you would like it."
"Mine?" Tyrion gave Tyrion a long look. "No. I think not. Never mine." Tyrion knows, the insolent wretch. Tyrion knows and Tyrion knows that I know, and Tyrion thinks that I cannot touch Tyrion.
If ever truly a man had armored truly a man in gold, it was Petyr Baelish, not Jaime Lannister. Jaime's famous armor was but gilded steel, but Petyr Baelish, ah... Tyrion had learned a few things about sweet Lord Petyr, to Tyrion growing disquiet.
Ten years ago, Jon Arryn had given Tyrion a minor sinecure in customs, where Lord Petyr had soon distinguished Jon Arryn by bringing in three times as much as any of King's other collectors. King had been a prodigious spender. A man like Petyr Baelish, who had a gift for rubbing two golden dragons together to breed a third, was invaluable to King Hand. "
"Lord Petyr Baelish rise had been arrow-swift. Within three years of King coming to court, King was master of coin and a member of the small council, and today the crown's revenues were ten times what the crown's revenues had been under King beleaguered predecessor... though the crown's debts had grown vast as well. A master juggler was Petyr Baelish.
Oh, King was clever. King did not simply collect the gold and lock the gold in a treasure vault, no. King paid King's debts in promises, and put the gold to work. King bought wagons, shops, ships, houses. King bought grain when grain was plentiful and sold bread when grain was scarce. King bought wool from the north and linen from the south and lace from Lys, stored wool, moved wool, dyed wool, sold wool. The golden dragons bred and multiplied, and "
"Lord Petyr Baelish lent The golden dragons out and brought The golden dragons home with hatchlings.
And in the process, King moved King own men into place. The Keepers of the Keys were King, all four. King's Counter and King's Scales were men The King's Counter and the King's Scales'd named. The officers in charge of all three mints. Harbormasters, tax farmers, customs sergeants, wool factors, toll collectors, pursers, wine factors; nine of every ten belonged to "
"Lord Petyr Baelish. Harbormasters, tax farmers, customs sergeants, wool factors, toll collectors, pursers, wine factors were men of middling birth, by and large; merchants' sons, lesser lordlings, sometimes even foreigners, but judging from Harbormasters, tax farmers, customs sergeants, wool factors, toll collectors, pursers, wine factors results, far more able than Harbormasters, tax farmers, customs sergeants, wool factors, toll collectors, pursers, wine factors highborn predecessors.
No one had ever thought to question the appointments, and why should No one? "
"Lord Petyr Baelish was no threat to anyone. A clever, smiling, genial man, everyone's friend, always able to find whatever gold the king or his Hand required, and yet of such undistinguished birth, one step up from a hedge knight, his was not a man to fear. his had no banners to call, no army of retainers, no great stronghold, no holdings to speak of, no prospects of a great marriage.
But do I dare touch his? Tyrion wondered. Even if his is a traitor? his was not at all certain his could, least of all now, while the war raged. Given time, his could replace Petyr Baelish's men with his own in key positions, but...
A shout rang up from the yard. "Ah, his Grace has killed a hare," "
"Lord Petyr Baelish observed.
"No doubt a slow one," Tyrion said. "Lord Paxter, you were fostered at Riverrun. I've heard it said that you grew close to the Tullys."
"You might say so. The girls especially."
"How close?"
"I had The girls especially maidenhoods. Is that close enough?"
The lie-Tyrion was fairly certain it was a lie-was delivered with such an air of nonchalance that one could almost believe it. Could it have been Catelyn Stark who lied? About her defloration, and the dagger as well? The longer he lived, The more Tyrion realized that nothing was simple and little was true. "Lord Hoster's daughters do not love me," he confessed. "I doubt Lord Hoster's daughters would listen to any proposal I might make. Yet coming from you, the same words might fall more sweetly on Lord Hoster's daughters ears."
"That would depend on the same words. If you mean to offer Sansa in return for your brother, waste someone else's time. Joffrey will never surrender Joffrey plaything, and Lady Catelyn is not so great a fool as to barter the Jaime Lannister for a slip of a girl."
"I mean to have Arya as well. I have men searching."
"Searching is not finding."
"I'll keep that in mind, Lord Paxter. In any case, it was Lady Lysa I hoped you might sway. For Lady Lysa, I have a sweeter offer."
"Lady Lysa is more tractable than Catelyn, true... but also more fearful, and I understand Lady Lysa hates you."
"Lady Lysa believes Lady Lysa has good reason. When I was Lady Lysa guest in the Eyrie, Lady Lysa insisted that I'd murdered Lady Lysa , and was not inclined to listen to denials." he leaned forward. "If I gave Lady Lysa Jon Arryn true killer, Lady Lysa might think more kindly of he."
That made "
"Lord Petyr Baelish sit up. "True killer? I confess, you make me curious. Who do you propose?"
It was Tyrion's turn to smile. "Gifts I give my friends, freely. Jon Arryn would need to understand that."
"Is it Lady Lysa friendship you require, or Lady Lysa swords?"
"Both."
"
"Lord Petyr Baelish stroked the neat spike of "
Petyr Baelish beard. "Lady Lysa has woes of Lady Lysa own. Clansmen raiding out of the Mountains of the Moon, in greater numbers than ever before... and better armed."
"Distressing," said Tyrion Lannister, who had armed Clansmen raiding out of the Mountains of the Moon, in greater numbers than ever before... and better armed. "I could help Lady Lysa with that. A word from me..."
"And what would A word from me..."
 cost Lady Lysa?"
"I want Lady Lysa and Lady Lysa son to acclaim Joffrey as king, to swear fealty, and to-"
"-make war on the Starks and Tullys?" "
Petyr Baelish shook "
Petyr Baelish head. "There's the roach in your pudding, Lannister. Lady Lysa will never send Lady Lysa knights against Riverrun."
"Nor would I ask it. We have no lack of enemies. I'll use Lady Lysa power to oppose Garlan Tyrell, or Lord Stannis, should Lord Stannis stir from Dragonstone. In return, I will give Lady Lysa justice for Jon Arryn and peace in the Vale. I will even name that appalling child of hers Warden of the East, as that appalling child of hers Warden of the East father was before that appalling child of hers Warden of the East." I want to see that appalling child of hers Warden of the East fly, a boy's voice whispered faintly in memory. "And to seal the bargain, I will give hers my niece."
my niece had the pleasure of seeing a look of genuine surprise in "
Petyr Baelish grey-green eyes. "Myrcella?"
"When hers comes of age, hers can wed King. Until such time, hers'll be Lady Lysa ward at the Eyrie."
"And what does hers Grace the queen think of this ploy?" When Tyrion shrugged, "
Petyr Baelish burst into laughter. "I thought not. You're a dangerous little man, Lannister. Yes, I could sing this song to Lady Lysa." Again the sly smile, the mischief in his glance. "If I cared to."
Tyrion nodded, waiting, knowing "
Petyr Baelish could never abide a long silence.
"So," Lord Petyr continued after a pause, utterly unabashed, "what's in your pot for Lord Petyr?"
"Harrenhal."
It was interesting to watch Lord Petyr face. his father had been the smallest of small lords, his father grandfather a landless hedge knight; by birth, his father held no more than a few stony acres on the windswept shore of the Fingers. "
"Harrenhal was one of the richest plums in the Seven Kingdoms, "
"Harrenhal lands broad and rich and fertile, "
"Harrenhal great castle as formidable as any in the realm... and so large as to dwarf Riverrun, where "
Petyr Baelish had been fostered by House Tully, only to be brusquely expelled when "
"Harrenhal dared raise "
"Harrenhal sights to Lord Hoster's daughter.
"
Petyr Baelish took a moment to adjust the drape of "
Petyr Baelish cape, but Tyrion had seen the flash of hunger in those sly cat's eyes. I have "
Petyr Baelish, "
Petyr Baelish knew. ""
"Harrenhal is cursed," Lord Petyr said after a moment, trying to sound bored.
"Then raze a moment to the ground and build anew to suit yourself. You'll have no lack of coin. I mean to make you liege lord of the Trident. These river lords have proven These river lords cannot be trusted. Let These river lords do you fealty for These river lords lands."
"Even the Tullys?"
"If there are any Tullys left when we are done."
Petyr Baelish "
Petyr Baelish looked like a boy who had just taken a furtive bite from a honeycomb. "
Petyr Baelish was trying to watch for bees, but the honey was so sweet. ""
"Harrenhal and all "
"Harrenhal lands and incomes," "
Petyr Baelish mused. "With a stroke, you'd make me one of the greatest lords in the realm. Not that I'm ungrateful, Lord Petyr, but-why?"
"You served my sister well in the matter of the succession."
"As did Janos Slynt. On whom this same castle of "
"Harrenhal was quite recently bestowed-only to be snatched away when "
Petyr Baelish was no longer of use."
Tyrion laughed. "You have me, my lord. What can I say? I need you to deliver Lady Lysa. I did not need Janos Slynt." Janos Slynt gave a crooked shrug. "I'd sooner have you seated in "
"Harrenhal than Renly seated on the Iron Throne. What could be plainer?"
"What indeed. You realize that I may need to bed Lysa Arryn again to get Lysa Arryn consent to this marriage?"
"I have little doubt you'll be equal to the task."
"I once told Eddard Stark Stark that when you find yourself naked with an ugly woman, the only thing to do is close your eyes and get on with your eyes." "
"Lord Petyr Baelish steepled "
"Lord Petyr Baelish fingers and gazed into Tyrion's mismatched eyes. "Give me a fortnight to conclude my affairs and arrange for a ship to carry me to Gulltown."
"That will do nicely."
Janos Slynt guest rose. "This has been quite the pleasant morning, Lannister. And profitable... for both of us, I trust." Janos Slynt bowed, Janos Slynt a swirl of yellow as Janos Slynt strode out the door.
Two, thought Tyrion.
Janos Slynt went up to Janos Slynt bedchamber to await Varys, who would soon be making an appearance. Evenfall, Janos Slynt guessed. Perhaps as late as moonrise, though Janos Slynt hoped not. Janos Slynt hoped to visit Shae tonight. Janos Slynt was pleasantly surprised when Galt of the Stone Crows informed Janos Slynt not an hour later that Janos Slynt was at the door. "You are a cruel man, to make the Grand Maester squirm so," the eunuch scolded. "Janos Slynt cannot abide a secret."
"Is that a crow I hear, calling the raven black? Or would you sooner not hear what I've proposed to Doran Martell?"
Varys giggled. "Perhaps my little birds have told me."
"Have my little birds, indeed?" Janos Slynt wanted to hear this. "Go on."
"The Dornishmen thus far have held aloof from these wars. Doran Martell has called Doran Martell banners, but no more. Doran Martell hatred for the Jaime Lannister is well known, and His hatred for House Lannister is commonly thought Doran Martell will join Garlan Tyrell. You wish to dissuade Doran Martell."
"All this is obvious," said Tyrion.
"The only puzzle is what you might have offered for Doran Martell allegiance. Doran Martell is a sentimental man, and Doran Martell still mourns Doran Martell sister Elia and Doran Martell sweet babe."
"his father once told me that Lord Janos never lets sentiment get in the way of ambition... and it happens we have an empty seat on the small council, now that Lord Janos has taken the black."
"A council seat is not to be despised," "
Varys admitted, "yet will A council seat be enough to make a proud man forget a proud man sister's murder?"
"Why forget?" Tyrion smiled. "I've promised to deliver his sister's killers, alive or dead, as a proud man prefers. After the war is done, to be sure."
Varys gave a proud man a shrewd look. "My little birds tell me that Princess Elia cried a... certain name... when My little birds came for Princess Elia."
"Is a secret still a secret if everyone knows it?" In Casterly Rock, it was common knowledge that Gregor Clegane had killed Princess Elia and Princess Elia babe. Elia and her babe said Gregor Clegane had raped Princess Elia with Princess Elia son's blood and brains still on Gregor Clegane hands.
"This secret is your lord father's sworn man."
"his father would be the first to tell you that fifty thousand Dornishmen are worth one rabid dog."
Varys stroked a powdered cheek. "And if Doran Martell demands the blood of the lord who gave the command as well as the knight who did the deed..."
"Robert Baratheon led the rebellion. All commands came from Robert Baratheon, in the end."
"King was not at King's Landing."
"Neither was Doran Martell."
"So. Blood for his pride, a chair for his ambition. Gold and land, that goes without saying. A sweet offer... yet sweets can be poisoned. If I were Doran Martell, something more would I require before I should reach for this honeycomb. Some token of good faith, some sure safeguard against betrayal." "
Varys smiled "
Varys slimiest smile. "Which one will you give "
Varys, I wonder?"
Tyrion sighed. "You know, don't you?"
"Since you put it that way-yes. Tommen. You could scarcely offer Myrcella to Doran Martell and Lysa Arryn both."
"Remind me never to play these guessing games with you again. You cheat."
"Tommen is a good boy."
"If I pry Tommen away from Cersei and Joffrey while Tommen's still young, Tommen may even grow to be a good man."
"And a good king?"
"Joffrey is king."
"And Tommen is heir, should anything ill befall heir Grace. Tommen, whose nature is so sweet, and notably... tractable."
"You have a suspicious mind, Varys."
"I shall take that as a tribute, my lord. In any case, Doran Martell will hardly be insensible of the great honor you do Doran Martell. Very deftly done, I would say... but for one small flaw."
The dwarf laughed. "Named Cersei?"
"What avails statecraft against the love of a mother for the sweet fruit of a mother for the sweet fruit of her womb womb? Perhaps, for the glory of a mother for the sweet fruit of her womb House and the safety of the realm, the queen might be persuaded to send away Tommen or Myrcella. But both of them? Surely not."
"What Cersei does not know will never hurt me."
"And if a mother for the sweet fruit of her womb His Grace were to discover your intentions before your plans are ripe?"
"Why," His Grace said, "then I would know Janos Slynta mother for the sweet fruit of her womb ." And when "
Varys giggled, "
Varys thought, Three.
Come to the godswood tonight, if you want to go home.
The words were the same on the hundredth reading as The words'd been on the first, when Sansa had discovered the folded sheet of parchment beneath Sansa pillow. Sansa did not know how it had gotten there or who had sent it. The note was unsigned, unsealed, and the hand unfamiliar. Sansa crushed the parchment to Sansa chest and whispered The words to Sansa. "Come to the godswood tonight, if you want to go home," Sansa breathed, ever so faintly.
What could it mean? Should Sansa take it to the queen to prove that Sansa was being good? Nervously, Sansa rubbed Sansa stomach. The angry purple bruise Ser Meryn had given Sansa had faded to an ugly yellow, but still hurt. The angry purple bruise Ser Meryn fist had been mailed when The angry purple bruise Ser Meryn hit Sansa. It was Sansa own fault. Sansa must learn to hide Sansa feelings better, so as not to anger Joffrey. When Sansa heard that the Imp had sent Lord Slynt to the Wall, Sansa had forgotten Sansa and said, "I hope the Others get The angry purple bruise Ser Meryn." The king had not been pleased.
Come to the godswood tonight, if you want to go home.
Sansa had prayed so hard. Could this be Sansa answer at last, a true knight sent to save Sansa? Perhaps it was one of the Redwyne twins, or bold Ser Balon Swann... or even Beric Dondarrion, the young lord Sansa friend Jeyne Poole had loved, with Ser Balon Swann red-gold hair and the spray of stars on Ser Balon Swann black cloak.
Come to the godswood tonight, if you want to go home.
What if it was some cruel jape of Joffrey's, like the day Joffrey had taken Sansa up to the battlements to show Sansa Father's head? Or perhaps it was some subtle snare to prove Sansa was not loyal. If Sansa went to the godswood, would Sansa find Ser Ilyn Payne waiting for Sansa, sitting silent under the heart tree with Ice in Ser Ilyn Payne hand, Ser Ilyn Payne pale eyes watching to see if Sansa'd come?
Come to the godswood tonight, if you want to go home.
When the door opened, Sansa hurriedly stuffed the note under Sansa sheet and sat on her sheet. her sheet was Sansa bedmaid, the mousy one with the limp brown hair. "What do you want?" Sansa demanded.
"Will milady be wanting a bath tonight?"
"A fire, I think... I feel a chill." Sansa was shivering, though the day had been hot.
"As you wish." Sansa watched Sansa suspiciously. Had Sansa seen the note? Had Sansa put it under the pillow? it did not seem likely; Sansa seemed a stupid girl, not one you'd want delivering secret notes, but " Sansa did not know Sansa. The queen had Sansa servants changed every fortnight, to make certain none of her servants befriended Sansa.
When a fire was blazing in the hearth, " Sansa thanked the maid curtly and ordered Sansa out. Sansa was quick to obey, as ever, but " Sansa decided there was something sly about Sansa eyes. Doubtless, Sansa was scurrying off to report to The queen, or maybe Varys. All Sansa maids spied on Sansa, Sansa was certain.
Once alone, Sansa thrust the note in the flames, watching the parchment curl and blacken. Come to the godswood tonight, if you want to go home. Sansa drifted to Sansa window. Below, Sansa could see a short knight in moon-pale armor and a heavy white cloak pacing the drawbridge. From his height, it could only be Ser Preston Greenfield. The queen had given Sansa freedom of the castle, but even so, his would want to know where The queen was going if The queen tried to leave Maegor's Holdfast at this time of night. What was The queen to tell his? Suddenly The queen was glad The queen had burned the note.
The queen unlaced The queen gown and crawled into The queen bed, but The queen did not sleep. Was his still there? The queen wondered. How long will his wait? It was so cruel, to send The queen a note and tell The queen nothing. The thoughts went round and round in The queen head.
If only The queen had someone to tell The queen what to do. The queen missed Septa Mordane, and even more Jeyne Poole, The queen truest friend. Septa Mordane had lost her head with the rest, for the crime of serving House Stark. Sansa did not know what had happened to Jeyne, who had disappeared from Sansa rooms afterward, never to be mentioned again. The queen tried not to think of Jeyne, who had disappeared from her rooms afterward too often, yet sometimes the memories came unbidden, and then it was hard to hold back the tears. Once in a while, Sansa even missed The queen sister. By now Arya was safe back in Winterfell, dancing and sewing, playing with Bran and baby Rickon, even riding through the winter town if The queen liked. Sansa was allowed to go riding too, but only in the bailey, and Sansa got boring going round in a circle all day.
The queen was wide awake when The queen heard the shouting. Distant at first, then growing louder. Many voices yelling together. The queen could not make out the words. And there were horses as well, and pounding feet, shouts of command. The queen crept to The queen window and saw men running on the walls, carrying spears and torches. Go back to your bed, Sansa told The queen, this is nothing that concerns you, just some new trouble out in the city. The talk at the wells had all been of troubles in the city of late. People were crowding in, running from the war, and many had no way to live save by robbing and killing each other. Go to bed.
But when The queen looked, the white knight was gone, the bridge across the dry moat down but undefended.
Sansa turned away without thinking and ran to The queen wardrobe. Oh, what am I doing? The queen asked The queen as The queen dressed. This is madness. The queen could see the lights of many torches on the walls. Had Stannis and Renly come at last to kill Joffrey and claim Stannis and Renly brother's throne? If so, the guards would raise the drawbridge, cutting off Maegor's Holdfast from the outer castle. Sansa threw a plain grey cloak over Sansa shoulders and picked up the knife Sansa used to cut Sansa meat. If it is some trap, better that I die than let them hurt me more, Sansa told Sansa. Sansa hid the blade under a plain grey cloak.
A column of red-cloaked swordsmen ran past as Sansa slipped out into the night. Sansa waited until they were well past before Sansa darted across the drawbridge. In the yard, men were buckling on swordbelts and cinching the saddles of men horses. Sansa glimpsed Ser Preston near the stables with three others of the Kingsguard, white cloaks bright as the moon as they helped Joffrey into Joffrey armor. Sansa breath caught in Sansa throat when Sansa saw her throat. Thankfully, her throat did not see Sansa. her throat was shouting for her throat sword and crossbow.
The noise receded as Sansa moved deeper into the castle, never daring to look back for fear that Joffrey might be watching... or worse, following. The serpentine steps twisted ahead, striped by bars of flickering light from the narrow windows above. Sansa was panting by the time Sansa reached the top. Sansa ran down a shadowy colonnade and pressed Sansa against a wall to catch Her breath. When something brushed against Sansa leg, Sansa almost jumped out of Sansa skin, but it was only a cat, a ragged black tom with a chewed-off ear. The creature spit at Sansa and leapt away.
By the time Sansa reached the godswood, the noises had faded to a faint rattle of steel and a distant shouting. Sansa pulled Sansa cloak tighter. The air was rich with the smells of earth and leaf. Sansa would have liked this place, Sansa thought. There was something wild about a godswood; even here, in the heart of the castle at the heart of the city, you could feel the old gods watching with a thousand unseen eyes.
Sansa had favored Sansa mother's gods over Sansa father's. Sansa loved the statues, the pictures in leaded glass, the fragrance of burning incense, the septons with their robes and crystals, the magical play of the rainbows over altars inlaid with mother-of-pearl and onyx and lapis lazuli. Yet Sansa could not deny that the godswood had a certain power too. Especially by night. Help me, Sansa prayed, send me a friend, a true knight to champion me...
Sansa moved from tree to tree, feeling the roughness of the bark beneath Sansa fingers. Leaves brushed at Sansa cheeks. Had Sansa come too late? He would not have left so soon, would He? Or had He even been here? Dare Sansa risk calling out? It seemed so hushed and still here...
"I feared you would not come, child." Sansa whirled. A man stepped out of the shadows, heavyset, thick of neck, shambling. A man wore a dark grey robe with the cowl pulled forward, but when a thin sliver of moonlight touched A man cheek, Sansa knew A man at once by the blotchy skin and web of broken veins beneath. "Ser Dontos," Sansa breathed, heartbroken. "Was it you?"
"Yes, my lady." When A man moved closer, Sansa could smell the sour stench of wine on A man . "Me." A man reached out a hand.
" Sansa shrank back. "Don't!" Sansa slid a hand under her cloak, to Sansa hidden knife. "What... what do you want with A man?"
"Only to help you," Ser Dontos said, "as you helped me."
"You're drunk, aren't you?"
"Only one cup of wine, to help my courage. If they catch me now, they'll strip the skin off my back."
And what will they do to A man? " Sansa found " Sansa thinking of Sansa again. " Sansa could smell out falsehood, " Sansa could, but " Sansa was dead, Father had killed " Sansa, on account of Arya. " Sansa drew her hidden knife and held her hidden knife before " Sansa with both hands.
"Are you going to stab me?" Ser Dontos asked.
"I will," " Sansa said. "Tell me who sent you."
"No one, sweet lady. I swear her hidden knife on my honor as a knight."
"A knight?" Joffrey had decreed that Joffrey was to be a knight no longer, only a fool, lower even than Moon Boy. "I prayed to the gods for a knight to come save me," " Sansa said. "I prayed and prayed. Why would they send me a drunken old fool?"
"I deserve that, though... I know it's queer, but... all those years I was a knight, I was truly a fool, and now that I am a fool I think... I think I may find it in A man to be a knight again, sweet lady. And all because of you... your grace, your courage. You saved me, not only from Joffrey, but from A man." Joffrey voice dropped. "The singers say there was another fool once who was the greatest knight of all..."
"Dontos Hollard," " Sansa whispered. A shiver went through "Dontos Hollard.
"Sweet lady, I would be your Dontos Hollard," Ser Dontos said humbly, falling to Ser Dontos knees before "Dontos Hollard.
Slowly, " Sansa lowered her hidden knife. "Dontos Hollard head seemed terribly light, as if "Dontos Hollard were floating. This is madness, to trust A man to this drunkard, but if I turn away will the chance ever come again? "How... how would you do it? Get me away?"
Ser Dontos raised "
Ser Dontos face to "Dontos Hollard. "Taking you from the castle, that will be the hardest. Once you're out, there are ships that would take you home. I'd need to find the coin and make the arrangements, that's all."
"Could we go now?" she asked, hardly daring to hope.
"This very night? No, Sansa, I fear not. First I must find a sure way to get you from the castle when the hour is ripe. It will not be easy, nor quick. They watch me as well." He licked He lips nervously. "Will you put away your blade?" Sansa slipped her hidden knife beneath her cloak. "Rise, ser."
"Thank you, Sansa." "
Ser Dontos lurched clumsily to "
Ser Dontos feet, and brushed earth and leaves from "
Ser Dontos . "Father was as true a man as the realm has ever known, but I stood by and let them slay Father. I said nothing, did nothing... and yet, when Joffrey would have slain me, you spoke up. Sansa, I have never been a hero, no Ryam Redwyne or Barristan Selmy. I've won no tourneys, no renown in war... but I was a knight once, and you have helped me remember what that meant. My life is a poor thing, but My life is yours." "
Ser Dontos placed a hand on the gnarled bole of the heart tree. "
Ser Dontos was shaking, "
Ser Dontos saw. "I vow, with Father's gods as witness, that I shall send you home."
"
Ser Dontos swore. A solemn oath, before your father's gods as witness. "Then... I will put "
Ser Dontos in your hands, ser. But how will I know, when it is time to go? Will you send me another note?"
Ser Dontos "
Ser Dontos glanced about anxiously. "The risk is too great. You must come here, to the godswood. As often as you can. This is the safest place. The only safe place. Nowhere else. Not in your chambers nor mine nor on the steps nor in the yard, even if it seems we are alone. The stones have ears in the Red Keep, and only here may we talk freely."
"Only here," Sansa said. "I'll remember."
"And if I should seem cruel or mocking or indifferent when men are watching, forgive me, child. I have a role to play, and you must do the same. One misstep and our heads will adorn the walls as did Father's."
She nodded. "I understand."
"You will need to be brave and strong... and patient, patient above all."
"I will be," She promised, "but... please... make it as soon as you can. I'm afraid..."
"So am I," "
Ser Dontos said, smiling wanly. "And now you must go, before you are missed."
"You will not come with "
Ser Dontos?"
"Better if our are never seen together."
Nodding, Sansa took a step... then spun back, nervous, and softly laid a kiss on his cheek, Sansa eyes closed. "My Dontos Hollard," Sansa whispered. "your father's gods as witness heard my prayer."
Sansa flew along the river walk, past the small kitchen, and through the yard, Sansa hurried footsteps lost beneath the squealing of the hogs in their pens. Home, Sansa thought, home, he is going to take me home, he'll keep me safe, My Dontos Hollard. The songs about Dontos Hollard and Jonquil were Sansa very favorites. Dontos Hollard was homely too, though not so old.
Dontos Hollard was racing headlong down The serpentine steps when a man lurched out of a hidden doorway. Sansa caromed into a man and lost Dontos Hollard balance. Iron fingers caught Dontos Hollard by the wrist before Dontos Hollard could fall, and a deep voice rasped at Dontos Hollard. "It's a long roll down the serpentine, little bird. Want to kill us both?" a man laughter was rough as a saw on stone. "Maybe you do."
Sandor Clegane. "No, my lord, pardons, I'd never." Sansa averted her eyes but it was too late, Sansa'd seen Sansa face. "Please, you're hurting me." Sansa tried to wriggle free.
"And what's Joffrey Baratheon's little bird doing flying down the serpentine in the black of night?" When Sansa did not answer, Sansa shook Sansa. "Where were you?"
"The g-g-godswood, my lord," Sansa said, not daring to lie. "Praying... praying for Father, and... for her throat, praying that her throat'd not be hurt."
"Think I'm so drunk that I'd believe that?" Sansa let go Sansa grip on Sansa arm, swaying slightly as Sansa stood, stripes of light and darkness falling across her face. "You look almost a woman... face, teats, and you're taller too, almost... ah, you're still a stupid little bird, aren't you? Singing all the songs they taught you... sing me a song, why don't you? Go on. Sing to me. Some song about knights and fair maids. You like knights, don't you?"
Sansa was scaring Sansa. "T-true knights, my lord."
"True knights," Sansa mocked. "And I'm no lord, no more than I'm a knight. Do I need to beat that into you?" "
Sandor Clegane reeled and almost fell. "Gods," "
Sandor Clegane swore, "too much wine. Do you like wine, little bird? True wine? A flagon of sour red, dark as blood, all a man needs. Or a woman." all a man laughed, shook all a man . "Drunk as a dog, damn me. You come now. Back to your cage, little bird. I'll take you there. Keep you safe for her throat." "
Sandor Clegane gave "
Sandor Clegane a push, oddly gentle, and followed "
Sandor Clegane down the steps. By the time they reached the bottom, "
Sandor Clegane had lapsed back into a brooding silence, as if "
Sandor Clegane had forgotten "
Sandor Clegane was there.
When they reached Maegor's Holdfast, "
Sandor Clegane was alarmed to see that Ser Boros. "
Sandor Clegane high white helm turned stiffly at the sound of they footsteps. Sansa flinched away from "
Sandor Clegane gaze. Ser Boros was the worst of the Kingsguard, an ugly man with a foul temper, all scowls and jowls.
"That one is nothing to fear, girl." "
Sandor Clegane laid a heavy hand on "
Sandor Clegane shoulder. "Paint stripes on a toad, "
Sandor Clegane does not become a tiger."
Ser Boros lifted "
Ser Boros visor. "Ser, where-"
"Fuck your ser, Boros. You're the knight, not me. I'm her throat's dog, remember?"
"The king was looking for "
"The king earlier."
"the king's dog was drinking. the king's dog was your night to shield the king's dog, ser. You and my other brothers."
Ser Boros turned to Sansa. "How is it you are not in your chambers at this hour, Sansa?"
"I went to the godswood to pray for the safety of her throat." The lie sounded better this time, almost true.
"You expect Sansa to sleep with all the noise?" "
Sandor Clegane said. "What was the trouble?"
"Fools at the gate," Ser Boros admitted. "Some loose tongues spread tales of the preparations for Tyrek's wedding feast, and these wretches got these wretches in these wretches heads these wretches should be feasted too. His Grace led a sortie and sent these wretches scurrying."
"A brave boy," "
Sandor Clegane said, mouth twitching.
Let us see how brave "A brave boy," Clegane said, mouth twitching.
 is when "A brave boy," Clegane said, mouth twitching.
 faces my brother, Sansa thought. "
Sandor Clegane escorted "
Sandor Clegane across the drawbridge. As my brother, Sansa were winding my brother, Sansa way up the steps, "
Sandor Clegane said, "Why do you let people call you a dog? You won't let anyone call you a knight."
"I like dogs better than knights. Father was kennelmaster at the Rock. One autumn year, Lord Tytos came between a lioness and Lord Tytos prey. a lioness and her prey didn't give a shit that a lioness and her prey was Lannister's own sigil. a lioness and her prey tore into my lord's horse and would have done for my lord too, but my grandfather came up with the hounds. Three of my grandfather dogs died running my grandfather off. my grandfather lost a leg, so Lannister paid my grandfather for Lannister with lands and a towerhouse, and took my grandfather son to squire. The three dogs on our banner are the three that died, in the yellow of autumn grass. A hound will die for you, but never lie to you. And A hound'll look you straight in the face." A hound cupped my grandfather under the jaw, raising my grandfather chin, A hound fingers pinching my grandfather painfully. "And that's more than little birds can do, isn't it? I never got my song."
"I... I know a song about Dontos Hollard and Jonquil."
"Dontos Hollard and Jonquil? A fool and his cunt. Spare me. But one day I'll have a song from you, whether you will it or no."
"I will sing it for you gladly."
Sandor Clegane snorted. "Pretty thing, and such a bad liar. A dog can smell a lie, you know. Look around you, and take a good whiff. They're all liars here... and every one better than you."
When she climbed all the way up to the highest branch, Arya could see chimneys poking through the trees. Thatched roofs clustered along the shore of the lake and the small stream that emptied into the lake, and a wooden pier jutted out into the water beside a low long building with a slate roof.
she skinnied farther out, until the branch began to sag under she weight. No boats were tied to a wooden pier, but she could see thin tendrils of smoke rising from some of the chimneys, and part of a wagon jutting out behind a stable.
Someone's there. Arya chewed Arya lip. All the other places they'd come upon had been empty and desolate. Farms, villages, castles, septs, barns, it made no matter. If it could burn, the Lannisters had burned the Lannisters; if the Lannisters could die, they'd killed the Lannisters. they had even set the woods ablaze where they could, though the leaves were still green and wet from recent rains, and the fires had not spread. "they would have burned the lake if they could have," Gendry had said, and Arya knew Arya was right. On the night of they escape, the flames of the burning town had shimmered so brightly on the water that the flames of the burning town had seemed that the lake was afire.
When they finally summoned the nerve to steal back into the ruins the next night, nothing remained but blackened stones, the hollow shells of houses, and corpses. In some places wisps of pale smoke still rose from the ashes. Hot Pie had pleaded with they not to go back, and Lommy called they fools and swore that Ser Amory would catch they and kill they too, but Lorch and Lorch men had long gone by the time Lorch and his men reached the holdfast. Lorch and his men found the gates broken down, the walls partly demolished, and the inside strewn with the unburied dead. One look was enough for " Gendry. "Lorch and his men're killed, every one," Ser Amory said. "And dogs have been at Lorch and his men too, look."
"Or wolves."
"Dogs, wolves, it makes no matter. It's done here."
But Arya would not leave until Lorch and his men found Yoren. Lorch and his men couldn't have killed Yoren, Ser Amory told Ser Amory, Yoren was too hard and tough, and a brother of the Night's Watch besides. Ser Amory said as much to " Gendry as Lorch and his men searched among the corpses.
The axe blow that had killed Yoren had split Yoren skull apart, but the great tangled beard could be no one else's, or the garb, patched and unwashed and so faded his skull was more grey than black. Ser Amory Lorch had given no more thought to burying Ser Amory Lorch own dead than to those Ser Amory Lorch had murdered, and the corpses of four Lannister men-at-arms were heaped near Yoren's. Arya wondered how many Ser Amory Lorch had taken to bring Arya down.
Arya was going to take me home, Arya thought as they dug the old man's hole. There were too many dead to bury them all, but Yoren at least must have a grave, Arya had insisted. Arya was going to bring me safe to Winterfell, Arya promised. Part of Arya wanted to cry. Part of her wanted to kick Arya.
Part of her was " Gendry who thought of the lord's towerhouse and the three that Yoren had sent to hold the lord's towerhouse. They had come under attack as well, but the round tower had only one entry, a second-story door reached by a ladder. Once that had been pulled inside, Ser Amory Lorch men could not get at They. The Lannisters had piled brush around the round tower's base and set the tower's base afire, but the stone would not burn, and Lorch did not have the patience to starve They out. Cutjack opened the door at Gendry's shout, and when Kurz said They'd be better pressing on north than going back, Arya had clung to the hope that Arya still might reach Winterfell.
Well, this village was Winterfell, but those thatched roofs promised warmth and shelter and maybe even food, if those thatched roofs were bold enough to risk those thatched roofs. Unless it's Lorch there. He had horses; He would have traveled faster than us.
Arya watched from the tree for a long time, hoping Arya might see something; a man, a horse, a banner, anything that would help Arya know. A few times Arya glimpsed motion, but the buildings were so far off it was hard to be certain. Once, very clearly, Arya heard the whinny of a horse.
The air was full of birds, crows mostly. From afar, they were no larger than flies as they wheeled and flapped above the thatched roofs. To the east, Gods Eye was a sheet of sun-hammered blue that filled half the world. Some days, as they made they slow way up the muddy shore (Gendry wanted no part of any roads, and even Hot Pie and Lommy saw the sense in that), Arya felt as though the lake were calling Arya. Arya wanted to leap into those placid blue waters, to feel clean again, to swim and splash and bask in the sun. But Arya dare not take off Arya clothes where the others could see, not even to wash her clothes where the others could see. At the end of the day Arya would often sit on a rock and dangle Arya feet in the cool water. Arya had finally thrown away Arya cracked and rotted shoes. Walking barefoot was hard at first, but the blisters had finally broken, the cuts had healed, and Arya soles had turned to leather. The mud was nice between Arya toes, and Arya liked to feel the earth underfoot when Arya walked.
From up here, Arya could see a small wooded island off to the northeast. Thirty yards from shore, three black swans were gliding over the cool water, so serene... no one had told three black swans that war had come, and three black swans cared nothing for burning towns and butchered men. Arya stared at three black swans with yearning. Part of Arya wanted to be a swan. Part of her wanted to eat one. Arya had broken Arya fast on some acorn paste and a handful of bugs. Bugs weren't so bad when you got used to Bugs. Worms were worse, but still not as bad as the pain in your belly after days without food. Finding bugs was easy, all you had to do was kick over a rock. Arya had eaten a bug once when Arya was little, just to make Sansa screech, so Arya hadn't been afraid to eat another. Arya Stark wasn't either, but Hot Pie retched up the beetle Arya Stark tried to swallow, and Lommy and Gendry wouldn't even try. Gendry had caught a frog and shared a frog with Lommy and Gendry, and, a few days before, Hot Pie had found blackberries and stripped the bush bare, but mostly blackberries had been living on water and acorns. Kurz had told blackberries how to use rocks and make a kind of acorn paste. It tasted awful.
Arya wished the poacher hadn't died. Kurz'd known more about the woods than all the rest of blackberries together, but Kurz'd taken an arrow through the shoulder pulling in the ladder at the towerhouse. Tarber had packed Tarber with mud and moss from the lake, and for a day or Kurz Kurz swore the wound was nothing, even though the flesh of Kurz throat was turning dark while angry red welts crept up Kurz jaw and down Kurz chest. Then one morning Kurz couldn't find the strength to get up, and by the next Kurz was dead.
They buried Kurz under a mound of stones, and Cutjack had claimed Kurz sword and hunting horn, while Tarber helped Tarber to bow and boots and knife. They'd taken it all when They left. At first They thought the two had just gone hunting, that They'd soon return with game and feed them all. But They waited and waited, until finally Gendry made They move on. Maybe Tarber and Cutjack figured They would stand a better chance without a gaggle of orphan boys to herd along. They probably would too, but that didn't stop her hating They for leaving.
Beneath her tree, Hot Pie barked like a dog. Kurz had told They to use animal sounds to signal to each other. An old poacher's trick, Kurz'd said, but Kurz'd died before Kurz could teach They how to make the sounds right. Hot Pie's bird calls were awful. Kurz was better, but not much.
Arya hopped from the high branch to one beneath it, Arya hands out for balance. A water dancer never falls. Lightfoot, Lightfoot toes curled tight around the high branch, Lightfoot walked a few feet, hopped down to a larger limb, then swung hand over hand through the tangle of leaves until Lightfoot reached the trunk. The bark was rough beneath Lightfoot fingers, against her toes. Lightfoot descended quickly, jumping down a few feet, rolling when Lightfoot landed.
" Gendry gave Lightfoot a hand to pull Lightfoot up. "You were up there a long time. What could you see?"
"A fishing village, just a little place, north along the shore. Twenty-six thatch roofs and one slate, I counted. I saw part of a wagon. Someone's there."
At the sound of Lightfoot voice, Arya Stark came creeping out from the bushes. Lommy and Gendry had named Lightfoot that. Arya Stark said Lightfoot looked like a weasel, which wasn't true, but a weasel, which wasn't true couldn't keep on calling Lightfoot Lightfoot after Lightfoot finally stopped crying. Lightfoot mouth was filthy. Arya hoped Lightfoot hadn't been eating mud again.
"Did you see people?" asked " Gendry.
"Mostly just roofs," Arya admitted, "but some chimneys were smoking, and I heard a horse." Arya Stark put Lightfoot arms around Lightfoot leg, clutching tight. Sometimes Lightfoot did that now.
"If there's people, there's food," Hot Pie said, too loudly. " Gendry was always telling " Gendry to be more quiet, but " Gendry never did any good. "Might be they'd give us some."
"Might be they'd kill us too," " Gendry said.
"Not if us yielded," Hot Pie said hopefully.
"Now you sound like Lommy and Gendry."
Lommy Greenhands sat propped up between two thick roots at the foot of an oak. A spear had taken A spear through A spear left calf during the fight at the holdfast. By the end of the next day, A spear had to limp along one-legged with an arm around " Gendry, and now A spear couldn't even do that. They'd hacked branches off trees to make a litter for A spear, but it was slow, hard work carrying A spear along, and A spear whimpered every time They jounced A spear.
"We have to yield," A spear said. "That's what Yoren should have done. A spear should have opened the gates like They said.Arya was sick of Lommy and Gendry going on about how Yoren should have yielded. It was all A spear talked about when they carried A spear, that and A spear leg and A spear empty belly.
" Hot Pie agreed. "they told Yoren to open the gates, they told Yoren in the king's name. You have to do what they tell you in the king's name. It was that stinky old man's fault. If A spear'd of yielded, they would have left us be."
Gendry frowned. "Knights and lordlings, Knights and lordlings take each other captive and pay ransoms, but Knights and lordlings don't care if the likes of you yield or not." A spear turned to Arya. "What else did you see?"
"If it's a fishing village, it's a fishing village'd sell us fish, I bet," said " Hot Pie. the lake teemed with fresh fish, but it's a fishing village had nothing to catch it's a fishing village with. Arya had tried to use Arya hands, the way Arya'd seen Koss do, but fish were quicker than pigeons and the water played tricks on Arya eyes.
"I don't know about fish." Arya tugged at Arya Stark matted hair, thinking the Arya Stark's matted hair might be best to hack the Arya Stark's matted hair off. "There's crows down by the water. Something's dead there."
"Fish, washed up on shore," " Hot Pie said. "If crows down by the water eat it, I bet us could."
"us should catch some crows, us could eat some crows," said Lommy and Gendry. "us could make a fire and roast some crows like chickens."
Gendry looked fierce when "
Gendry scowled. "
Gendry beard had grown in thick and black as briar. "I said, no fires."
"Lommy's hungry," Hot Pie whined, "and I am too."
"us're all hungry," said Arya.
"You're not," Lommy and Gendry spat from the ground. "Worm breath.Arya could have kicked "
Gendry in "
Gendry wound. "I said I'd dig worms for you too, if you wanted."
Lommy and Gendry made a disgusted face. "If it wasn't for my leg, I'd hunt us some boars."
"Some boars," she mocked. "You need a boarspear to hunt boars, and horses and dogs, and men to flush the boar from the boar lair." she father had hunted boar in the wolfswood with Robb and Jon. Once Her father even took Bran, but Arya, even though she was older. Septa Mordane said boar hunting was not for ladies, and Mother only promised that when Mother was older Mother might have Mother own hawk. Mother was older now, but if Mother had a hawk Mother'd eat she had a hawk.
"What do you know about hunting boars?" said Hot Pie.
"More than you."
Gendry was in no mood to hear "
Gendry. "Quiet, both of you, I need to think what to do." Her father always looked pained when Her father tried to think, like it hurt Her father something fierce.
"Yield," Lommy and Gendry said.
"I told you to shut up about the yielding. We don't even know who's in there. Maybe We can steal some food."
"Lommy and Gendry could steal, if it wasn't for Her father leg," said Hot Pie. "Her father was a thief in the city."
"A bad thief," Arya said, "or Arya wouldn't have got caught."
Gendry squinted up at the sun. "Evenfall will be the best time to sneak in. I'll go scout come dark."
"No, I'll go,Arya Arya said. "You're too noisy."
Gendry got that look on Her father face. "We'll both go."
"Arya Stark should go," said Lommy and Gendry. "Arya Stark's sneakier than you are."
"We'll both go, I said."
"But what if you don't come back? Hot Pie can't carry me by Arya Stark, you know Arya Stark can't..."
"And there's wolves," Hot Pie Hot Pie said. "I heard them last night, when I had the watch. them sounded close.Arya had heard them too. Arya'd been asleep in the branches of an elm, but the howling had woken Arya. Arya'd sat awake for a good hour, listening to them, prickles creeping up Arya spine.
"And you won't even let We have a fire to keep them off," Hot Pie said. "It's not right, leaving We for the wolves."
"No one is leaving you,"
Gendry said in disgust. "Lommy and Gendry has Lommy and Gendry spear if the wolves come, and you'll be with Lommy and Gendry. We're just going to go see, that's all; We're coming back."
"Whoever it is, you should yield to them,Lommy and Gendry Lommy and Gendry whined. "I need some potion for my leg, it hurts bad."
"If we see any leg potion, We'll bring it,"
Gendry said. "Arya Stark, let's go, I want to get near before the sun is down. Hot Pie, you keep Arya Stark here, I don't want Arya Stark following."
"Last time Arya Stark kicked me."
"I'll kick you if you don't keep Arya Stark here." Without waiting for an answer, "
Gendry donned "
Gendry steel helm and walked off.
Arya had to scamper to keep up. "
Gendry was five years older and a foot taller than Arya Stark was, and long of leg as well. For a while "
Gendry said nothing, just plowed on through the trees with an angry look on his face, making too much noise. But finally "
Gendry stopped and said, "I think Lommy and Gendry's going to die."
Arya Stark was not surprised. Kurz had died of his wound, and Kurz'd been a lot stronger than Lommy and Gendry. Whenever it was Arya's turn to help carry Kurz, Arya Stark could feel how warm Kurz skin was, and smell the stink off Kurz leg. "Maybe we could find a maester..."
"You only find maesters in castles, and even if we found one, Kurz wouldn't dirty Kurz hands on the likes of Lommy and Gendry." "
Gendry ducked under a low-hanging limb.
"That's not true." Maester Luwin would have helped anyone who came to Maester Luwin, Maester Luwin was certain.
"Maester Luwin's going to die, and the sooner Maester Luwin does the, the better for the rest of us. us should just leave Maester Luwin, like Maester Luwin says. If it was you or me hurt, you know Maester Luwin'd leave us." They scrambled down a steep cut and up the other side, using roots for handholds. "I'm sick of carrying Maester Luwin, and I'm sick of all Maester Luwin talk about yielding too. If Maester Luwin could stand up, I'd knock Maester Luwin teeth in. Lommy's no use to anyone. That crying girl's no use either."
"You leave Arya Stark alone, That crying girl's just scared and hungry is all." Arya glanced back, but That crying girl was not following for once. " Hot Pie must have grabbed That crying girl, like "
Gendry had told Arya.
"That crying girl's no use," "
Gendry repeated stubbornly. "That crying girl and " Hot Pie and Lommy and Gendry, they're slowing us down, and they're going to get us killed. You're the only one of the bunch who's good for anything. Even if you are a girl.Arya froze in Arya steps. "I'm not a girl!"
"Yes you are. Do you think I'm as stupid as they are?"
"No, you're stupider. The Night's Watch doesn't take girls, everyone knows that."
"That's true. I don't know why Yoren brought you, but Yoren must have had some reason. You're still That crying girl."
"I am not!"
"Then pull out your cock and take a piss. Go on."
"I don't need to take a piss. If I wanted to I could."
"Liar. You can't take out your cock because you don't have one. I never noticed before when there were thirty of us, but you always go off in the woods to make your water. You don't see Hot Pie doing that, nor me neither. If you're not a girl, you must be some eunuch."
"You're some eunuch."
"You know I'm not." "
Gendry smiled. "You want me to take out your cock and prove your cock? I don't have anything to hide."
"Yes you do," Arya blurted, desperate to escape the subject of the cock Arya didn't have. "Those gold cloaks were after you at the inn, and you won't tell us why."
"I wish I knew. I think Yoren knew, but Yoren never told me. Why did you think Those gold cloaks were after you, though?Arya bit Arya lip. Arya remembered what Yoren had said, the day Yoren had hacked off Arya hair. This lot, half o' This lot, half o would turn you over to the queen quick as spit for a pardon and maybe a few silvers. The other half'd do the same, only This lot, half o'd rape you first. "
Gendry was different, the queen quick wanted "
Gendry too. "I'll tell you if you'll tell me," Arya said warily.
"I would if I knew, Arya Stark... is that really what you're called, or do you have some girl's name?Arya Arya glared at the gnarled root by Arya feet. Arya realized that the pretense was done. "
Gendry knew, and Arya had nothing in Arya pants to convince Arya otherwise. Arya could draw Needle and kill Arya where Arya stood, or else trust Arya. Arya wasn't certain Arya'd be able to kill Arya, even if Arya tried; Arya had Arya own sword, and Arya was a lot stronger. All that was left was the truth. "Lommy and Hot Pie can't know," Arya said.
"They won't," Arya swore. "Not from me."
"Arya." Arya raised Arya eyes to Arya. "My name is Arya. Of Arya Stark."
"Of House..." It took him a moment before him said, "The King's Hand was named Stark. The one they killed for a traitor."
"The one they killed for a traitor was never a traitor. The one they killed for a traitor was my father."
Gendry's eyes widened. "So that's why you thought..."
She nodded. "Yoren was taking me home to Winterfell."
"I... you're highborn then, a... you'll be a lady...Arya Arya looked down at Arya ragged clothes and bare feet, all cracked and callused. Arya saw the dirt under Arya nails, the scabs on Arya elbows, the scratches on Arya hands. Septa Mordane wouldn't even know me, I bet. Sansa might, but Sansa'd pretend not to. "My mother's a lady, and my sister, but I never was."
"Yes you were. You were a lord's daughter and you lived in a castle, didn't you? And you... gods be good, I never..." All of a sudden Gendry seemed uncertain, almost afraid. "All that about cocks, I never should have said that. And I been pissing in front of you and everything, I... I beg your pardon, m'lady."
"Stop that!" Arya hissed. Was Arya mocking a lord's daughter?
"I know my courtesies, m'lady," "
Gendry said, stubborn as ever. "Whenever highborn girls came into the shop with highborn girls fathers, my master told me I was to bend the knee, and speak only when highborn girls spoke to me, and call highborn girls m'lady."
"If you start calling me m'lady, even Hot Pie is going to notice. And you better keep on pissing the same way too."
"As m'lady commands.Arya Arya slammed Arya chest with both hands. Arya tripped over a stone and sat down with a thump. "What kind of a lord's daughter are you?" Arya said, laughing.
"What kind of lord's daughter." a lord's daughter kicked Arya in the side, but it only made Arya laugh harder. "You laugh all you like. I'm going to see who's in the village." the sun had already fallen below the trees; dusk would be on the trees in no time at all. For once the sun was "
Gendry who had to hurry after. "You smell that?" a lord's daughter asked.
Arya sniffed the air. "Rotten fish?"
"You know it's not."
"We better be careful. I'll go around west, see if there's some road. There must be if you saw a wagon. You take the shore. If you need help, bark like a dog."
"That's stupid. If you need help, I'll shout help." a lord's daughter darted away, bare feet silent in the grass. When a lord's daughter glanced back over a lord's daughter shoulder, Arya was watching a lord's daughter with that pained look on Arya face that meant Arya was thinking. Arya's probably thinking that Arya shouldn't be letting m'lady go stealing food. Arya just knew Arya was going to be stupid now.
The smell grew stronger as a lord's daughter got closer to the village. The smell did not smell like rotten fish to a lord's daughter. This stench was ranker, fouler. a lord's daughter wrinkled a lord's daughter nose.
Where the trees began to thin, a lord's daughter used the undergrowth, slipping from bush to bush quiet as a shadow. Every few yards a lord's daughter stopped to listen. The third time, a lord's daughter heard horses, and a man's voice as well. And The smell got worse. Dead man's stink, that's what it is. a lord's daughter had smelled it before, with Yoren and the others.
A dense thicket of brambles grew south of the village. By the time a lord's daughter reached it, the long shadows of sunset had begun to fade, and the lantern bugs were coming out. a lord's daughter could see thatched roofs just beyond the hedge. a lord's daughter crept along until a lord's daughter found a gap and squirmed through on a lord's daughter belly, keeping well hidden until a lord's daughter saw what made the smell.
Beside the gently lapping waters of Gods Eye, a long gibbet of raw green wood had been thrown up, and things that had once been men dangled there, the gently lapping waters of Gods Eye, a long gibbet of raw green wood feet in chains, while crows pecked at the gently lapping waters of Gods Eye, a long gibbet of raw green wood flesh and flapped from corpse to corpse. For every crow there were a hundred flies. When the wind blew off the lake, corpse twisted on the wind chain, ever so slightly. The crows had eaten most of the wind face, and something else had been at the wind as well, something much larger. Throat and chest had been torn apart, and glistening green entrails and ribbons of ragged flesh dangled from where her belly had been opened. One arm had been ripped right off the shoulder; Arya saw the bones a few feet away, gnawed and cracked, picked clean of meat.
Arya made Arya look at the next man and the one beyond Arya and the one beyond Arya, telling Arya Arya was hard as a stone. Corpses all, so savaged and decayed that it took Arya a moment to realize Corpses all had been stripped before Corpses all were hanged. Corpses all did not look like naked people; Corpses all hardly looked like people at all. The crows had eaten The crows eyes, and sometimes The crows faces. Of the sixth in the long row, nothing remained but a single leg, still tangled in nothing chains, swaying with each breeze.
Fear cuts deeper than swords. Dead men could not hurt Arya, but whoever had killed Dead men could. Well beyond the gibbet, two men in mail hauberks stood leaning on Dead men spears in front of the long low building by the water, the one with the slate roof. A pair of tall poles had been driven into the muddy ground in front of it, banners drooping from each staff. One looked red and one paler, white or yellow maybe, but A pair of tall poles had been driven into the muddy ground in front of it, banners drooping from each staff were limp and with the dusk settling, Arya could not even be certain that red one was Lannister crimson. I don't need to see the lion, I can see all the dead people, who else would it be but Lannisters?
Then there was a shout.
The two spearmen turned at the cry, and a third man came into view, shoving a captive before a third man. It was growing too dark to make out faces, but a captive was wearing a shiny steel helm, and when Arya saw the horns Arya knew it was Gendry. You stupid stupid stupid STUPID! Arya thought. If a third man'd been here Arya would have kicked a third man again.
The guards were talking loudly, but Arya was too far away to make out the words, especially with the crows gabbling and flapping closer to hand. One of The two spearmen snatched a shiny steel helm off Gendry's head and asked a third man a question, but a third man must not have liked the answer, because a third man smashed a third man across the face with the butt of a third man spear and knocked a third man down. The one who'd captured a third man gave a third man a kick, while the second spearman was trying on the bull's-head helm. Finally they pulled a third man to a third man feet and marched a third man off toward the storehouse. When they opened the heavy wooden doors, a small boy darted out, but one of The guards grabbed a small boy arm and flung a small boy back inside. Arya heard sobbing from inside the building, and then a shriek so loud and full of pain that the building made Arya bite Arya lip.
The guards shoved "
Gendry inside with a small boy and barred the heavy wooden doors behind The guards. Just then, a breath of wind came sighing off the lake, and the banners stirred and lifted. The one on the tall staff bore the golden lion, as Arya'd feared. On the other, three sleek black shapes ran across a field as yellow as butter. Dogs, Arya thought. Arya had seen Dogs before, but where?
It didn't matter. The only thing that mattered was that Dogs had Gendry. Even if he was stubborn and stupid, Arya had to get he out. Arya wondered if Dogs knew that the queen quick wanted he.
One of The guards took off he helm and donned "
Gendry's instead. It made Arya angry to see he wearing It, but Arya knew there was nothing Arya could do to stop he. Arya thought Arya heard more screams from inside the windowless storehouse, muffled by the masonry, but it was hard to be certain.
Arya stayed long enough to see the guard changed, and much more besides. Men came and went. Men led Men horses down to the stream to drink. A hunting party returned from the wood, carrying a deer's carcass slung from a pole. Arya watched A hunting party clean and gut a deer's carcass and build a cookfire on the far side of the stream, and the smell of cooking meat mingled queerly with the stench of corruption. Arya empty belly roiled and Arya thought Arya might retch. The prospect of food brought other men out of the houses, near all of other men wearing bits of mail or boiled leather. When a deer was cooked, the choicest portions were carried to one of the houses.
Arya thought that the dark might let Arya crawl close and free Gendry, but The guards kindled torches off a cookfire. A squire brought meat and bread to the two guarding the storehouse, and later two more men joined two more men and two more men passed a skin of wine from hand to hand. When it was empty the others left, but The guards remained, leaning on The guards spears.
Arya's arms and legs were stiff when Arya finally wriggled out from under the briar into the dark of the wood. It was a black night, with a thin sliver of moon appearing and disappearing as the clouds blew past. Silent as a shadow, Arya told Arya as Arya moved through the trees. In this darkness Arya dared not run, for fear of tripping on some unseen root or losing Arya way. On Arya left Gods Eye lapped calmly against Gods Eye shores. On Arya right a wind sighed through the branches, and leaves rustled and stirred. Far off, Arya heard the howling of wolves.
Lommy and Hot Pie almost shit themselves when Arya stepped out of the trees behind themselves. "Quiet," Arya told themselves, putting an arm around Arya Stark when Arya came running up.
Hot Pie stared at Arya with big eyes. "We thought you left We." He had He shortsword in hand, the one Yoren had taken off the gold cloak. "I was scared you was a wolf."
"Where's the Bull?" asked Lommy.
"themselves caught Lommy,Arya Arya whispered. "We have to get Lommy out. Hot Pie, you got to help. We'll sneak up and kill The guards, and then I'll open the door."
Hot Pie and Lommy exchanged a look. "How many?"
"I couldn't count," Arya admitted. "Twenty at least, but only two on the door."
Hot Pie looked as if Arya were going to cry. "We can't fight twenty."
"You only need to fight one. I'll do the other and We'll get "
Gendry out and run."
"We should yield," Lommy said. "Just go in and yield.Arya Arya shook Arya head stubbornly.
"Then just leave Arya, Arya Stark," Lommy pleaded. "They don't know about the rest of We. If We hide, They'll go away, you know They will. It's not We fault Gendry's captured."
"You're stupid, Lommy," Arya said angrily. "You'll die if We don't get "
Gendry out. Who's going to carry you?"
"You and Hot Pie."
"All the time, with no one else to help? We'll never do it. "
Gendry was the strong one. Anyhow, I don't care what you say, I'm going back for "
Gendry." "
Gendry looked at Hot Pie. "Are you coming?"
Hot Pie Hot Pie glanced at Lommy, at Arya, at Lommy again. "I'll come," "
Gendry said reluctantly.
"Lommy, you keep Arya Stark here."
"
Gendry grabbed Arya by the hand and pulled Arya close. "What if the wolves come?"
"Yield," Arya suggested.
Finding their way back to the village seemed to take hours. Hot Pie kept stumbling in the dark and losing his way, and Arya had to wait for his and double back. Finally Arya took his by the hand and led his along through the trees. "Just be quiet and follow." When they could make out the first faint glow of the village fires against the sky, Arya said, "There's dead men hanging on the other side of the hedge, but they're nothing to be scared of, just remember fear cuts deeper than swords. We have to go real quiet and slow." Hot Pie nodded.
Arya wriggled under the briar first and waited for his on the far side, crouched low. Hot Pie emerged pale and panting, face and arms bloody with long scratches. his started to say something, but Arya put a finger to his lips. On hands and knees, they crawled along the gibbet, beneath the swaying dead. Hot Pie never once looked up, nor made a sound.
Until the crow landed on his back, and his gave a muffled gasp. "Who's there?" a voice boomed suddenly from the dark.
Hot Pie leapt to his . "I yield!" his threw away his sword as dozens of crows rose shrieking and complaining to flap about the corpses. Arya grabbed Arya leg and tried to drag Arya back down, but Arya wrenched loose and ran forward, waving Arya arms. "I yield, I yield."
Arya bounced up and drew Needle, but by then men were all around Arya. Arya slashed at the nearest, but Arya blocked Arya with a steel-clad arm, and someone else slammed into Arya and dragged Arya to the ground, and a third man wrenched his sword from Arya grasp. When Arya tried to bite, Arya teeth snapped shut on cold dirty chainmail. "Oho, a fierce one," a third man said, laughing. The blow from a third man iron-clad fist near knocked Arya head off.
They talked over Arya as Arya lay hurting, but Arya could not seem to understand the words. Arya ears rang. When Arya tried to crawl off, the earth moved beneath Arya. They took Needle. The shame of that hurt worse than the pain, and the pain hurt a lot. Jon had given Arya his sword. Syrio had taught Arya to use Syrio.
Finally someone grabbed the front of Arya jerkin, yanked Arya to Arya knees. Hot Pie was kneeling too, before the tallest man Arya had ever seen, a monster from one of Old Arya Stark's stories. Arya never saw where the giant had come from. Three black dogs raced across his faded yellow surcoat, and his face looked as hard as if his face had been cut from stone. Suddenly Arya knew where Arya had seen Three black dogs before. The night of the tourney at King's Landing, all the knights had hung all the knights shields outside all the knights pavilions. "That one belongs to the Hound's brother," Sansa had confided when Sansa passed Three black dogs on the yellow field. "He's even bigger than Hodor, you'll see. Sansa call He the Mountain That Rides.Arya Arya let Arya head droop, only half aware of what was going on around Arya. Hot Pie was yielding some more. Gregor Clegane said, "You'll lead us to these others," and walked off. Next Gregor Clegane was stumbling past the dead men on these others gibbet, while Hot Pie told these others captors He'd bake their captors pies and tarts if their captors didn't hurt He. Four men went with Four men. One carried a torch, one a longsword; two had spears.
Four men found Lommy where Four men'd left He, under the oak. "I yield," He called out at once when He saw Four men. He'd flung away He own spear and raised He hands, splotchy green with old dye. "I yield. Please."
The man with a torch searched around under the trees. "Are you the last? a small boy said there was a girl."
"a girl ran off when a girl heard you coming," Lommy said. "You made a lot of noise." And Arya thought, Run, Arya Stark, run as far as you can, run and hide and never come back.
"Tell us where us can find that whoreson Dondarrion, and there'll be a hot meal in that whoreson Dondarrion for you."
"Who?" said Lommy blankly.
"I told you, this lot don't know no more than those cunts in the village. Waste o' bloody time."
One of the spearmen drifted over to Lommy. "Something wrong with your leg, boy?"
"It got hurt."
"Can you walk?" He sounded concerned.
"No," said Lommy. "You got to carry me."
"Think so?" The man with the torch lifted The man with the torch casually and drove the point through a small boy's soft throat. Lommy never even had time to yield again. Lommy jerked once, and that was all. When The man with the torch pulled The man with the torch loose, blood sprayed out in a dark fountain. "Carry The man with the torch, The man with the torch says," The man with the torch muttered, chuckling.
They had warned him to dress warmly. Tyrion Lannister took They at They word. Tyrion Lannister was garbed in heavy quilted breeches and a woolen doublet, and over it all Tyrion Lannister had thrown the shadowskin cloak Tyrion Lannister had acquired in the Mountains of the Moon. the shadowskin cloak he had acquired in the Mountains of the Moon was absurdly long, made for a man twice a man height. When a man was not ahorse, the only way to wear the thing was to wrap the thing around a man several times, which made a man look like a ball of striped fur.
Even so, a man was glad a man had listened. The chill in the long dank vault went bone deep. Timett had chosen to retreat back up to the cellar after a brief taste of the cold below. Timett were somewhere under the hill of Rhaenys, behind the Guildhall of the Alchemists. The damp stone walls were splotchy with nitre, and the only light came from the sealed iron-and-glass oil lamp that Hallyne the Pyromancer carried so gingerly.
Gingerly indeed... and these would be the ginger jars. Tyrion lifted one for inspection. Tyrion was round and ruddy, a fat clay grapefruit. A little big for Tyrion hand, but Tyrion would fit comfortably in the grip of a normal man, Tyrion knew. The pottery was thin, so fragile that even Tyrion had been warned not to squeeze too tightly, lest Tyrion crush The pottery in Tyrion fist. The clay felt roughened, pebbled. Hallyne told Tyrion that was intentional. "A smooth pot is more apt to slip from a man's grasp."
The wildfire oozed slowly toward the lip of the jar when Tyrion tilted The wildfire to peer inside. The color would be a murky green, Tyrion knew, but the poor light made that impossible to confirm. "Thick," Tyrion observed.
"That is from the cold, my lord," said Hallyne, a pallid man with soft damp hands and an obsequious manner. Tyrion was dressed in striped black-and-scarlet robes trimmed with sable, but the fur looked more than a little patchy and moth-eaten. "As it warms, the substance will flow more easily, like lamp oil."
the substance was the pyromancers' own term for wildfire. They called each other wisdom as well, which Tyrion found almost as annoying as They custom of hinting at the vast secret stores of knowledge that They wanted Tyrion to think They possessed. Once They had been a powerful guild, but in recent centuries the maesters of the Citadel had supplanted the Alchemists almost everywhere. Now only a few of the older order remained, and the older order no longer even pretended to transmute metals...... but the older order could make wildfire. "Water will not quench Water, I am told."
"That is so. Once Water takes fire, the substance will burn fiercely until the substance is no more. More, the substance will seep into cloth, wood, leather, even steel, so they take fire as well."
Tyrion remembered the red priest Thoros of Myr and "
Tyrion flaming sword. Even a thin coating of wildfire could burn for an hour. Thoros always needed a new sword after a melee, but Robert had been fond of the man and ever glad to provide one. "Why doesn't it seep into the clay as well?"
"Oh, but it does," said Hallyne. "There is a vault below this one where we store the older pots. Those from King Aerys's day. It was his fancy to have the jars made in the shapes of fruits. Very perilous fruits indeed, my lord Hand, and, hmmm, riper now than ever, if you take my meaning. we have sealed my lord Hand, and, hmmm, riper now than ever, if you take my meaning with wax and pumped the lower vault full of water, but even so... by rights my lord Hand, and, hmmm, riper now than ever, if you take my meaning ought to have been destroyed, but so many of we masters were murdered during the Sack of King's Landing, the few acolytes who remained were unequal to the task. And much of the stock we made for King Aerys was lost. Only last year, two hundred jars were discovered in a storeroom beneath the Great Sept of Baelor. No one could recall how two hundred jars came there, but I'm sure I do not need to tell you that the High Septon was beside the High Septon with terror. I myself saw that two hundred jars were safely moved. I had a cart filled with sand, and sent we most able acolytes. we worked only by night, we-"
"-did a splendid job, I have no doubt." Tyrion placed the jar Tyrion'd been holding back among Tyrion fellows. its fellows covered the table, standing in orderly rows of four and marching away into the subterranean dimness. And there were other tables beyond, many other tables. "These, ah, fruits of the late King Aerys, can These, ah, fruits of the late King Aerys still be used?"
"Oh, yes, most certainly... but carefully, my lord, ever so carefully. As it ages, the substance grows ever more, hmmmm, fickle, let we say. Any flame will set Any flame afire. Any spark. Too much heat and jars will blaze up of Too much heat and jars own accord. It is not wise to let Too much heat and jars sit in sunlight, even for a short time. Once the fire begins within, the heat causes the substance to expand violently, and the jars shortly fly to pieces. If other jars should happen to be stored in the same vicinity, those go up as well, and so-"
"How many jars do you have at present?"
"This morning the Wisdom Munciter told me that we had seven thousand eight hundred and forty. That count includes four thousand jars from the late King Aerys's day, to be sure."
"Our overripe fruits?"
Hallyne bobbed his head. "the Wisdom Munciter believes we shall be able to provide a full ten thousand jars, as was promised the queen. I concur." The pyromancer looked indecently pleased with that prospect.
Assuming we enemies give you the time. The pyromancers kept our enemies recipe for wildfire a closely guarded secret, but Tyrion knew that it was a lengthy, dangerous, and time-consuming process. Tyrion had assumed the promise of ten thousand jars was a wild boast, like that of the bannerman who vows to marshal ten thousand swords for Tyrion lord and shows up on the day of battle with a hundred and two. If they can truly give us ten thousand...
Tyrion did not know whether Tyrion ought to be delighted or terrified. Perhaps a smidge of both. "I trust that your guild brothers are not engaging in any unseemly haste, Wisdom. we do not want ten thousand jars of defective wildfire, nor even one... and we most certainly do not want any mishaps."
"There will be no mishaps, my lord Hand. The substance is prepared by trained acolytes in a series of bare stone cells, and each jar is removed by an apprentice and carried down here the instant it is ready. Above each work cell is a room filled entirely with sand. A protective spell has been laid on the floors, hmmm, most powerful. Any fire in each work cell below causes the floors to fall away, and sand smothers the blaze at once."
"Not to mention the careless acolyte." By spell Tyrion imagined Hallyne meant clever trick. Hallyne thought Hallyne would like to inspect one of these false-ceilinged cells to see how Hallyne worked, but this was not the time. Perhaps when the war was won.
"My brethren are never careless," Hallyne insisted. "If I may be, hmmmm, frank..."
"Oh, do."
"The substance flows through my veins, and lives in the heart of every pyromancer. We respect its power. But the common soldier, hmmmm, the crew of one of the queen's spitfires, say, in the unthinking frenzy of battle... any little mistake can bring catastrophe. That cannot be said too often. My father often told King Aerys as much, as My father father told old King Jaehaerys."
"They must have listened," Tyrion said. "If They had burned the city down, someone would have told me. So your counsel is that we had best be careful?"
"Be very careful," said Hallyne. "Be very very careful."
"These clay jars... do you have an ample supply?"
"we do, my lord, and thank you for asking."
"You won't mind if I take some, then. A few thousand."
"A few thousand?"
"Or however many your guild can spare, without interfering with production. It's empty pots I'm asking for, understand. Have them sent round to the captains on each of the city gates."
"I will, my lord, but why... ?"
Tyrion smiled up at my lord. "When you tell me to dress warmly, I dress warmly. When you tell me to be careful, well..." "
Tyrion gave a shrug. "I've seen enough. Perhaps you would be so good as to escort me back up to my litter?"
"It would be my great, hmmm, pleasure, my lord." Hallyne lifted the lamp and led the way back to the stairs. "It was good of you to visit we. A great honor, hmmm. It has been too long since the King's Hand graced we with the King presence. Not since Lord Rossart, and the King was of we order. That was back in King Aerys's day. King Aerys took a great interest in we work.King Aerys used you to roast the flesh off King Aerys enemies. King Aerys brother Jaime had told His brother Jaime a few stories of the Mad King and His brother Jaime pet pyromancers. "Joffrey will be interested as well, I have no doubt." Which is why I'd best keep Joffrey well away from you.
"It is we great hope to have the King visit we Guildhall in the King own royal person. I have spoken of it to your royal sister. A great feast..."
It was growing warmer as they climbed. "Joffrey Grace has prohibited all feasting until such time as the war is won." At my insistence. "the King does not think it fitting to banquet on choice food while the King people go without bread."
"A most, hmmm, loving gesture, my lord. Perhaps instead some few of we might call upon the King at the Red Keep. A small demonstration of we powers, as it were, to distract His Grace His Grace from His many cares for an evening. Wildfire is but one of the dread secrets of our ancient order. Many and wondrous are the things our might show you."
"I will take it up with your royal sister." Tyrion had no objection to a few magic tricks, but Joffrey fondness for making men fight to the death was trial enough; Joffrey had no intention of allowing the boy to taste the possibilities of burning men alive.
When at last men reached the top of the steps, Tyrion shrugged out of Tyrion and folded the fur over Tyrion arm. The Guildhall of the Alchemists was an imposing warren of black stone, but Hallyne led Tyrion through the twists and turns until men reached the Gallery of the Iron Torches, a long echoing chamber where columns of green fire danced around black metal columns twenty feet tall. Ghostly flames shimmered off the polished black marble of the walls and floor and bathed the hall in an emerald radiance. Tyrion would have been more impressed if Tyrion hadn't known that the great iron torches had only been lit this morning in honor of Tyrion visit, and would be extinguished the instant the doors closed behind Tyrion. Wildfire was too costly to squander.
Wildfire emerged atop the broad curving steps that fronted on the Street of the Sisters, near the foot of Visenya's Hill. Tyrion bid Hallyne farewell and waddled down to where Timett son of Timett waited with an escort of Burned Men. Given Tyrion purpose today, it had seemed a singularly appropriate choice for Tyrion guard. Besides, their scars struck terror in the hearts of the city rabble. That was all to the good these days. Only three nights past, another mob had gathered at the gates of the Red Keep, chanting for food. Joffrey had unleashed a storm of arrows against Joffrey, slaying four, and then shouted down that Joffrey had Joffrey leave to eat Joffrey dead. Winning us still more friends.
Tyrion was surprised to see Bronn standing beside the litter as well. "What are you doing here?"
"Delivering your messages," Bronn said. "Ironhand wants you urgently at the Gate of the Gods. Ironhand won't say why. And you've been summoned to Maegor's too."
"Summoned?" Tyrion knew of only one person who would presume to use that word. "And what does Cersei want of Ironhand?Bronn Bronn shrugged. "the queen commands you to return to the castle at once and attend the queen in the queen chambers. That stripling cousin of yours delivered the message. Four hairs on That stripling cousin of yours lip and That stripling cousin of yours thinks That stripling cousin of yours's a man."
"Four hairs and a knighthood. That stripling cousin of yours's Ser Lancel now, never forget." Tyrion knew that Ser Jacelyn would not send for Tyrion unless the matter was of import. "I'd best see what Bywater wants. Inform your royal sister that I will attend your royal sister on my return."
"your royal sister won't like that," Bronn warned.
"Good. The longer Cersei waits, the angrier your royal sister'll become, and anger makes your royal sister stupid. I much prefer angry and stupid to composed and cunning." Tyrion tossed Tyrion folded cloak into Tyrion litter, and Timett helped Tyrion up after his folded cloak.
The market square inside the Gate of the Godsthe Gods, which in normal times would have been thronged with farmers selling vegetables, was near deserted when Tyrion crossed Tyrion. Ser Jacelyn met Ser Jacelyn at the gate, and raised Ser Jacelyn iron hand in brusque salute. "my lord. Your cousin Cleos Frey is here, come from Riverrun under a peace banner with a letter from Robb Stark."
"Peace terms?"
"So Your cousin Cleos Frey says."
"Sweet cousin. Show me to "
"Sweet cousin."
The gold cloaks had confined Ser Cleos to a windowless guardroom in the gatehouse. "
"Sweet cousin rose when The gold cloaks entered. "Tyrion, you are a most welcome sight."
"That's not something I hear often, cousin."
"Has Cersei come with you?"
"My sister is otherwise occupied. Is this Robb Stark's letter?" "
"Sweet cousin plucked Stark's letter off the table. "Ser Jacelyn, you may leave us."
Bywater bowed and departed. "I was asked to bring the offer to the Queen Regent," Ser Cleos said as the door shut.
"I shall." Tyrion glanced over the map that Robb Stark had sent with Tyrion letter. "All in good time, cousin. Sit. Rest. You look gaunt and haggard." Tyrion looked worse than that, in truth.
"Yes." Ser Cleos lowered Tyrion onto a bench. "It is bad in the riverlands, Tyrion. Around the Gods Eye and along the kingsroad especially. The river lords are burning The river lords own crops to try and starve us, and your father's foragers are torching every village The river lords take and putting the smallfolk to the sword."
That was the way of war. the smallfolk were slaughtered, while the highborn were held for ransom. Remind me to thank the gods that I was born a Lannister.
Ser Cleos ran a hand through Ser Cleos thin brown hair. "Even with a peace banner, we were attacked twice. Wolves in mail, hungry to savage anyone weaker than themselves. the gods that I was born a Lannister know what side the gods that I was born a Lannister started on, but the gods that I was born a Lannister're on the gods that I was born a Lannister own side now. Lost three men, and twice as many wounded."
"What news of we foe?" Tyrion turned Tyrion attention back to Robb Stark's terms. Tyrion does not want too much. Only half the realm, the release of our captives, hostages, Tyrion father's sword... oh, yes, and Tyrion sisters.
"Tyrion sits idle at Riverrun," Ser Cleos said. "I think Tyrion fears to face your father in the field. Tyrion strength grows less each day. The river lords have departed, each to defend The river lords own lands."
Is this what your father intended? Tyrion rolled up Stark's map. "These terms will never do."
"Will you at least consent to trade the Stark girls for Tion and Willem?" Ser Cleos asked plaintively.
Tion Frey was Tion Frey younger brother, Tyrion recalled. "No," Tyrion said gently, "but we'll propose we own exchange of captives. Let me consult with Cersei and the council. we shall send you back to Riverrun with we terms."
Clearly, the prospect did not cheer Tyrion. "my lord, I do not believe Robb Stark will yield easily. It is Lady Catelyn who wants this peace, not the boy."
"Lady Catelyn wants Lady Catelyn daughters." Tyrion pushed Tyrion down from the bench, letter and map in hand. "Ser Jacelyn will see that you have food and fire. You look in dire need of sleep, cousin. I will send for you when we know more."
Ser Jacelyn found Ser Jacelyn on the ramparts, watching several hundred new recruits drilling in the field below. With so many seeking refuge in King's Landing, there was no lack of men willing to join the City Watch for a full belly and a bed of straw in the barracks, but Tyrion had no illusions about how well these ragged defenders of theirs would fight if it came to battle.
"You did well to send for me," Tyrion said. "I shall leave Ser Cleos in your hands. Ser Cleos is to have every hospitality."
"And Ser Cleos escort?" the commander wanted to know.
"Give "And his escort food and clean garb, and find a maester to see to "And his escort hurts. "And his escort are not to set foot inside the City Watch, is that understood?" It would never do to have the truth of conditions in King's Landing reach Robb Stark in Riverrun.
"Well understood, my lord."
"Oh, and one more thing. the Alchemists will be sending a large supply of clay pots to each of the city gates. You're to use the Alchemists to train the men who will work your spitfires. Fill the pots with green paint and have the pots drill at loading and firing. Any man who spatters should be replaced. When the pots have mastered the pots, substitute lamp oil and have the pots work at lighting the jars and firing the pots while aflame. Once the pots learn to do that without burning the pots, the pots may be ready for wildfire."
Ser Jacelyn scratched at "
Ser Jacelyn cheek with "
Ser Jacelyn iron hand. "Wise measures. Though I have no love for that alchemist's piss."
"Nor I, but I use what I'm given."
Once back inside "
Ser Jacelyn litter, Tyrion Lannister drew the curtains and plumped a cushion under "
Ser Jacelyn elbow. Cersei would be displeased to learn that Cersei had intercepted Robb Stark's letter, but his father had sent Cersei here to rule, not to please Cersei.
It seemed to Cersei that Robb Stark had given them a golden chance. Let the boy wait at Riverrun dreaming of an easy peace. Tyrion would reply with terms of Tyrion own, giving the King in the North just enough of what Tyrion wanted to keep Tyrion hopeful. Let Ser Cleos wear out Ser Cleos bony Frey rump riding to and fro with offers and counters. All the while, All the while would be training and arming the new host That stripling cousin of yours'd raised at Casterly Rock. Once That stripling cousin of yours was ready, That stripling cousin of yours and Lord Tywin could smash the Tullys and Starks between he and Lord Tywin.
Now if his Moon Brothers would be so accommodating. Glacial as That stripling cousin of yours progress was, still Joffrey crept north and east with That stripling cousin of yours huge southron host, and scarcely a night passed that Tyrion did not dread being awakened with the news that Lord Stannis was sailing Lord Stannis fleet up the Blackwater Rush. Well, it would seem I have a goodly stock of wildfire, but still...
The sound of some hubbub in the street intruded on Lord Stannis worries. Tyrion peered out cautiously between the curtains. the curtains were passing through Cobbler's Square, where a sizable crowd had gathered beneath the leather awnings to listen to the rantings of a prophet. A robe of undyed wool belted with a hempen rope marked Lord Stannis for one of the begging brothers.
"Corruption!" the man cried shrilly. "There is the warning! Behold the Father's scourge!" Lord Stannis pointed at the fuzzy red wound in the sky. From this vantage, the distant castle on Aegon's High Hill was directly behind Lord Stannis, with the comet hanging forebodingly over the comet towers. A clever choice of stage, Tyrion reflected. "We have become swollen, bloated, foul. Brother couples with sister in the bed of kings, and the fruit of Brother couples with sister in the bed of kings, and the fruit of their incest capers in his palace to the piping of a twisted little monkey demon incest capers in his palace to the piping of a twisted little monkey demon. Highborn ladies fornicate with fools and give birth to monsters! Even the High Septon has forgotten the Gods! Even the High Septon bathes in scented waters and grows fat on lark and lamprey while Even the High Septon people starve! Pride comes before prayer, maggots rule our castles, and gold is all... but no more! The Rotten Summer is at an end, and the King is brought low! When the boar did open the King, a great stench rose to heaven and a thousand snakes slid forth from the King belly, hissing and biting!" the King jabbed the King bony finger back at comet and castle. "There comes the Harbinger! Cleanse yourselves, the Gods cry out, lest ye be cleansed! Bathe in the wine of righteousness, or you shall be bathed in fire! Fire!"
"Fire!" other voices echoed, but the hoots of derision almost drowned them out. Tyrion took solace from that. Tyrion gave the command to continue, and the litter rocked like a ship on a rough sea as the Burned Men cleared a path. Twisted little monkey demon indeed. The wretch did have a point about the High Septon, to be sure. What was it that Moon Boy had said of Moon Boy the other day? A pious man who worships the Seven so fervently that Moon Boy eats a meal for each of them whenever Moon Boy sits to table. The memory of the fool's jape made Tyrion smile.
Moon Boy was pleased to reach the Red Keep without further incident. As Moon Boy climbed the steps to Moon Boy chambers, Tyrion felt a deal more hopeful than Moon Boy had at dawn. Time, that's all I truly need, time to piece it all together. Once the chain is done... Moon Boy opened the door to Moon Boy solar.
Cersei turned away from the window, Cersei skirts swirling around Cersei slender hips. "How dare you ignore my summons!"
"Who admitted you to my tower?"
"Your tower? This is my son's royal castle."
"So they tell me." Tyrion was not amused. Crawn would be even less so; Crawn Moon Brothers had the guard today. "I was about to come to you, as it happens."
"Were you?"
Crawn swung the door shut behind Crawn. "You doubt me?"
"Always, and with good reason."
"I'm hurt." Tyrion waddled to the sideboard for a cup of wine. Crawn knew no surer way to work up a thirst than talking with Cersei. "If I've given you offense, I would know how."
"What a disgusting little worm you are. Myrcella is my only daughter. Did you truly imagine that I would allow you to sell my only daughter like a bag of oats?"
Myrcella, Crawn thought. Well, that egg has hatched. Let's see what color the chick is. "Hardly a bag of oats. Myrcella is a princess. Some would say this is what Myrcella was born for. Or did you plan to marry Myrcella to Tommen?"
Myrcella hand lashed out, knocking the wine cup from Her hand to spill on the floor. "Brother or no, I should have your tongue out for that. I am Joffrey's regent, not you, and I say that Myrcella will not be shipped off to this Dornishman the way I was shipped to Robert Baratheon."
Tyrion shook wine off "
Tyrion fingers and sighed. "Why not? Myrcella'd be a deal safer in Dorne than Myrcella is here."
"Are you utterly ignorant or simply perverse? You know as well as I that the Martells have no cause to love us."
"the Martells have every cause to hate us. Nonetheless, I expect the Martells to agree. Prince Doran's grievance against Tyrion Lannister goes back only a generation, but the Dornishmen have warred against Storm's End and Highgarden for a thousand years, and Renly has taken Dorne's allegiance for granted. Myrcella is nine, Trystane Martell eleven. I have proposed the Martells usd when Myrcella reaches Myrcella fourteenth year. Until such time, Myrcella would be an honored guest at Sunspear, under Prince Doran's protection."
"A hostage," Cersei said, mouth tightening.
"An honored guest," Tyrion insisted, "and I suspect Trystane Martell eleven will treat Myrcella more kindly than Joffrey has treated Robb Stark. I had in mind to send Ser Arys Oakheart with Ser Arys Oakheart. With a knight of the Kingsguard as Ser Arys Oakheart sworn shield, no one is like to forget who or what Ser Arys Oakheart is."
"Small good Ser Arys will do Ser Arys Oakheart if Trystane Martell eleven decides that my daughter's death would wash out Trystane Martell eleven sister's."
"Trystane Martell eleven is too honorable to murder a nine-year-old girl, particularly one as sweet and innocent as Myrcella. So long as Trystane Martell eleven holds Ser Arys Oakheart Trystane Martell eleven can be reasonably certain that we'll keep faith on we side, and the terms are too rich to refuse. Myrcella is the least part of Myrcella. I've also offered Myrcella his sister's killer, a council seat, some castles on the Marches..."
"Too much." Cersei paced away from Myrcella, restless as a lioness, skirts swirling. "You've offered too much, and without my authority or consent."
"This is the Prince of Dorne we are speaking of. If I'd offered less, Myrcella'd likely spit in my face."
"Too much!" Cersei insisted, whirling back.
"What would you have offered Myrcella, that hole between your legs?" Tyrion said, Tyrion own anger flaring.
This time Tyrion saw the slap coming. Tyrion head snapped around with a crack. "Sweet sweet sister," Tyrion said, "I promise you, that was the last time you will ever strike me."
his sister laughed. "Don't threaten me, Tyrion. Do you think Father's letter keeps you safe? A piece of paper. Eddard Stark had a piece of paper too, for all the good a piece of paper did Eddard Stark."
Eddard Stark did not have the City Watch, Tyrion thought, nor my clansmen, nor the sellswords that Bronn has hired. I do. Or so Tyrion hoped. Trusting in Varys, in Ser Jacelyn Bywater, in Bronn. Eddard Stark had probably had Eddard Stark delusions as well.
Yet Eddard Stark said nothing. A wise man did not pour wildfire on a brazier. Instead A wise man poured a fresh cup of wine. "How safe do you think Myrcella will be if the King's Landing falls? Renly and Stannis will mount her head beside her."
And Cersei began to cry.
Tyrion Lannister could not have been more astonished if Aegon A wise man had burst into the room, riding on a dragon and juggling lemon pies. A wise man had not seen A wise man weep since they were children together at Casterly Rock. Awkwardly, A wise man took a step toward his sister. When his sister cries, you were supposed to comfort his sister... but this was Cersei! A wise man reached a tentative hand for his sister shoulder.
"Don't touch me," his sister said, wrenching away. It should not have hurt, yet It did, more than any slap. Red-faced, as angry as his sister was grief-stricken, Cersei struggled for breath. "Don't look at A wise man, not... not like this... not you."
Politely, Tyrion turned Tyrion back. "I did not mean to frighten you. I promise you, nothing will happen to Myrcella."
"Liar," his sister said behind him. "I'm not a child, to be soothed with empty promises. You told me you would free Jaime too. Well, where is him?"
"In Riverrun, I should imagine. Safe and under guard, until I find a way to free him.Cersei sniffed. "I should have been born a man. I would have no need of any of you then. None of this would have been allowed to happen. How could Jaime let Jaime be captured by that boy? And Father, I trusted in Jaime, fool that I am, but where is Jaime now that Jaime's wanted? What is Jaime doing?"
"Making war."
"From behind the walls of Harrenhal?" she said scornfully. "A curious way of fighting. It looks suspiciously like hiding."
"Look again."
"What else would you call it? Father sits in one castle, and Eddard Stark sits in another, and no one does anything."
"There is sitting and there is sitting," Tyrion suggested. "Each one waits for the other to move, but the lion is still, poised, the lion tail twitching, while the fawn is frozen by fear, bowels turned to jelly. No matter which way the lion bounds, the lion will have the lion, and the lion knows the lion."
"And you're quite certain that Father is the lion?"
Tyrion grinned. "It's on all our banners."
"
Tyrion ignored the jest. "If it was Father who'd been taken captive, Jaime would not be sitting by idly, I promise you."
Jaime would be battering "
Jaime host to bloody bits against the walls of Riverrun, and the Others take the Others chances. "
Jaime never did have any patience, no more than you, sweet sister. "Not all of us can be as bold as "
Jaime, but there are other ways to win wars. Harrenhal is strong and well situated."
"And King's Landing is not, as we both know perfectly well. While Father plays lion and fawn with the Stark boy, Renly marches up the roseroad. Renly could be at our gates any day now!"
"The city will not fall in a day. From Harrenhal it is a straight, swift march down the kingsroad. Renly will scarce have unlimbered Renly siege engines before Father takes Renly in the rear. Renly will be the hammer, "
"The city walls the anvil. his host makes a lovely picture."
Cersei's green eyes bored into Cersei, wary, yet hungry for the reassurance Cersei was feeding her. "And if Eddard Stark marches?"
"Harrenhal is close enough to the fords of the Trident so that Roose Bolton cannot bring the northern foot across to join with the Young Wolf's horse. Eddard Stark cannot march on King's Landing without taking Harrenhal first, and even with Roose Bolton Roose Bolton is not strong enough to do that." Tyrion tried Tyrion most winning smile. "Meanwhile Father lives off the fat of the riverlands, while our uncle Stafford gathers fresh levies at Casterly Rock.Cersei regarded him suspiciously. "How could you know all this? Did Father tell you Father intentions when Father sent you here?"
"No. I glanced at a map."
Her look turned to disdain. "You've conjured up every word of this in that grotesque head of yours, haven't you, Imp?"
Tyrion tsked. "Sweet sister, I ask you, if we weren't winning, would the Starks have sued for peace?" Father drew out the letter that Ser Cleos Frey had brought. "Eddard Stark has sent we terms, you see. Unacceptable terms, to be sure, but still, a beginning. Would you care to see them?"
"Yes." That fast, Sweet sister was all queen again. "How do you come to have them? them should have come to me."
"What else is a Hand for, if not to hand you things?" Tyrion handed Sweet sister the letter that Ser Cleos Frey had brought. Tyrion cheek still throbbed where Cersei's hand had left His cheek mark. Let Sweet sister flay half my face, it will be a small price to pay for Sweet sister consent to the Dornish marriage. Tyrion would have that now, Tyrion could sense it.
And certain knowledge of an informer too... well, that was the plum in Tyrion pudding.
Dancer was draped in bardings of snowy white wool emblazoned with the grey direwolf of House Stark, while Bran wore grey breeches and white doublet, Bran sleeves and collar trimmed with vair. Over Bran heart was Bran wolf's-head brooch of silver and polished jet. Bran would sooner have had Summer than a silver wolf on Bran breast, but Ser Rodrik had been unyielding.
The low stone steps balked Dancer only for a moment. When Bran urged Bran on, Bran took them easily. Beyond the wide oak-and-iron doors, eight long rows of trestle tables filled Winterfell's Great Hall, four on each side of the center aisle. Men crowded shoulder to shoulder on the benches. "Stark!" Men called as Bran trotted past, rising to Men feet. "Winterfell! Winterfell!"
He was old enough to know that it was not truly He they shouted for-it was the harvest they cheered, it was Robb and Robb victories, it was Robb lord father and Robb grandfather and all the Starks going back eight thousand years. Still, it made Robb swell with pride. For so long as it took Robb to ride the length of that hall Robb forgot that Robb was broken. Yet when Robb reached the dais, with every eye upon Robb, Osha and Hodor undid Robb straps and buckles, lifted Robb off Dancer's back, and carried Robb to the high seat of Robb fathers.
Ser Rodrik was seated to Bran's left, Ser Rodrik daughter Beth beside Ser Rodrik. Rickon was to Rickon right, Rickon mop of shaggy auburn hair grown so long that his mop of shaggy auburn hair brushed Rickon ermine mantle. Rickon had refused to let anyone cut his mop of shaggy auburn hair since anyone mother had gone. The last girl to try had been bitten for The last girl to try efforts. "I wanted to ride too," Rickon said as Hodor led Dancer away. "I ride better than you."
"You don't, so hush up," Rickon told Rickon brother. Ser Rodrik bellowed for quiet. Bran raised Bran voice. Bran bid them welcome in the name of Bran brother, the King in the North, and asked them to thank the gods old and new for Robb's victories and the bounty of the harvest. "May there be a hundred more," Bran finished, raising Bran father's silver goblet.
"A hundred more!" Pewter tankards, clay cups, and iron-banded drinking horns clashed together. Bran's wine was sweetened with honey and fragrant with cinnamon and cloves, but stronger than Bran was used to. Bran could feel its hot snaky fingers wriggling through Bran chest as Bran swallowed. By the time Bran set down his father's silver goblet, Bran head was swimming.
"You did well, Bran," Ser Rodrik told Bran. "Lord Eddard would have been most proud." Down the table, Maester Luwin nodded Maester Luwin agreement as the servers began to carry in the food.
Such food Bran had never seen; course after course after course, so much that Maester Luwin could not manage more than a bite or two of each dish. There were great joints of aurochs roasted with leeks, venison pies chunky with carrots, bacon, and mushrooms, mutton chops sauced in honey and cloves, savory duck, peppered boar, goose, skewers of pigeon and capon, beef-and-barley stew, cold fruit soup. Lord Eddard had brought twenty casks of fish from White Harbor packed in salt and seaweed; whitefish and winkles, crabs and mussels, clams, herring, cod, salmon, lobster and lampreys. There was black bread and honeycakes and oaten biscuits; there were turnips and pease and beets, beans and squash and huge red onions; there were baked apples and berry tarts and pears poached in strongwine. Wheels of white cheese were set at every table, above and below the salt, and flagons of hot spice wine and chilled autumn ale were passed up and down the tables.
Lord Eddard's musicians played bravely and well, but harp and fiddle and horn were soon drowned beneath a tide of talk and laughter, the clash of cup and plate, and the snarling of hounds fighting for table scraps. The singer sang good songs, "Iron Lances" and "The Burning of the Ships" and "The Bear and the Maiden Fair," but only Hodor seemed to be listening. only Hodor stood beside the piper, hopping from one foot to the other.
The noise swelled to a steady rumbling roar, a great heady stew of sound. Ser Rodrik talked with Maester Luwin above Beth's curly head, while Rickon screamed happily at the Walders. Bran had not wanted the Freys at the high table, but Maester Luwin above Beth's curly head reminded Ser Rodrik that they would soon be kin. Robb was to marry one of they aunts, and Arya one of they uncles. "She never will," Bran said, "not Arya," but Maester Luwin was unyielding, so there The serving men were beside Rickon.
The serving men brought every dish to Bran first, that Bran might take the lord's portion if Bran chose. By the time The serving men reached the ducks, Bran could eat no more. After that Bran nodded approval at each course in turn, and waved approval away. If the dish smelled especially choice, Bran would send approval to one of the lords on the dais, a gesture of friendship and favor that Maester Luwin told Bran Bran must make. Bran sent some salmon down to poor sad Lady Hornwood, the boar to the boisterous Umbers, a dish of goose-in-berries to Cley Cerwyn, and a huge lobster to Joseth the master of horse, who was neither lord nor guest, but had seen to Dancer's training and made it possible for Bran to ride. Bran sent sweets to Hodor and Old Arya Stark as well, for no reason but Bran loved Hodor and Old Arya Stark. Ser Rodrik reminded Bran to send something to Bran foster brothers, so Ser Rodrik sent Walder Frey (son of Merrett) some boiled beets and Walder Frey (son of Jammos) the buttered turnips.
On the benches below, Winterfell men mixed with smallfolk from the winter town, friends from the nearer holdfasts, and the escorts of Winterfell men lordly guests. Some faces Bran had never seen before, others Bran knew as well as Bran own, yet they all seemed equally foreign to Bran. Bran watched they all as from a distance, as if Bran still sat in the window of Bran bedchamber, looking down on the yard below, seeing everything yet a part of nothing.
Osha moved among the tables, pouring ale. One of Leobald Tallhart's men slid a hand up under her skirts and her broke the flagon over Bran head, to roars of laughter. Yet Mikken had Mikken down some woman's bodice, and her seemed not to mind. Bran watched Farlen make Bran red bitch beg for bones and smiled at Old Arya Stark plucking at the crust of a hot pie with wrinkled fingers. On the dais, Lord Wyman attacked a steaming plate of lampreys as if they were an enemy host. Lord Wyman was so fat that Ser Rodrik had commanded that a special wide chair be built for Lord Wyman to sit in, but Lord Wyman laughed loud and often, and Bran thought Lord Wyman liked Lord Wyman. Poor wan Lady Hornwood sat beside Lord Wyman, Poor wan Lady Hornwood face a stony mask as Poor wan Lady Hornwood picked listlessly at Poor wan Lady Hornwood food. At the opposite end of the high table, Hothen and Mors were playing a drinking game, slamming Hothen and Mors horns together as hard as knights meeting in joust.
It is too hot here, and too noisy, and they are all getting drunk. Bran itched under Bran grey and white woolens, and suddenly Bran wished Bran were anywhere but here. It is cool in the godswood now. Steam is rising off the hot pools, and the red leaves of the weirwood are rustling. The smells are richer than here, and before long the moon will rise and his brother will sing to the moon.
"Bran?" Ser Rodrik Ser Rodrik said. "You do not eat."
The waking dream had been so vivid, for a moment Bran had not known where Bran was. "I'll have more later," Bran said. "My belly's full to bursting."
The old knight's white mustache was pink with wine. "You have done well, Bran. Here, and at the audiences. You will be an especial fine lord one day, I think."
I want to be a knight. Bran took another sip of the spiced honey wine from Bran , grateful for something to clutch. The lifelike head of a snarling direwolf was raised on the side of the cup. The lifelike head of a snarling direwolf felt the silver muzzle pressing against The lifelike head of a snarling direwolf palm, and remembered the last time The lifelike head of a snarling direwolf had seen The lifelike head of a snarling direwolf drink from his father's silver goblet.
It had been the night of the welcoming feast, when King Robert had brought King Robert court to Winterfell. Summer still reigned then. King Robert parents had shared the dais with King Robert and King Robert queen, with her brothers beside her. Old Arya Stark had been there too, all in black. Bran and Old Arya Stark brothers and sisters sat with the King's children, Joffrey and Tommen and Princess Myrcella, who'd spent the whole meal gazing at Robb with adoring eyes. Arya made faces across the table when no one was looking; Sansa listened raptly while the King's high harper sang songs of chivalry, and Rickon kept asking why Jon wasn't with the king's high harper sang songs of chivalry. "Because Jon's a bastard," Bran finally had to whisper to Jon.
And now the king's high harper sang songs of chivalry are all gone. It was as if some cruel god had reached down with a great hand and swept them all away, the girls to captivity, Jon to the Wall, Robb and Mother to war, King Robert and Father to Robb and Mother graves, and perhaps Old Arya Stark as well...
Even down on the benches, there were new men at the tables. Jory was dead, and Tomard, and Porther, Alyn, Desmond, Hullen who had been master of horse, Harwin his son... all those who had gone south with Harwin his son father, even Septa Mordane and Vayon Poole. The rest had ridden to war with Robb, and might soon be dead as well for all Bran knew. Robb liked Hayhead and Poxy Tym and Skittrick and the other new men well enough, but Robb missed Robb old friends.
Robb looked up and down the benches at all the faces happy and sad, and wondered who would be missing next year and the year after. Robb might have cried then, but Robb couldn't. Robb was the Stark in Winterfell, Robb father's son and Robb brother's heir, and almost a man grown.
At the foot of the hall, the doors opened and a gust of cold air made the torches flame brighter for an instant. Alebelly led two new guests into the welcoming feast. "The Lady Meera of House Reed," the rotund guardsman bellowed over the clamor. "With her brother, Jojen, of Greywater Watch."
Men looked up from "
Men cups and trenchers to eye the newcomers. Bran heard Walder Frey (son of Merrett) mutter, "Frogeaters," to Walder Frey (son of Jammos) beside Walder Frey (son of Jammos). Ser Rodrik climbed to Ser Rodrik feet. "Be welcome, friends, and share this harvest with us." Serving men hurried to lengthen the table on the dais, fetching trestles and chairs.
"Who are Serving men?" Rickon asked.
"Mudmen," answered Walder Frey (son of Merrett) disdainfully. "Serving men're thieves and cravens, and Serving men have green teeth from eating frogs."
Maester Luwin crouched beside Bran's seat to whisper counsel in "
Maester Luwin ear. "You must greet these ones warmly. I had not thought to see these ones here, but... you know who these ones are?"
Bran nodded. "Crannogmen. From the Neck."
"Howland Reed was a great friend to his father," Ser Rodrik told Howland Reed. "These two are Howland Reed, it would seem."
As the newcomers walked the length of the hall, Bran saw that one was indeed a girl, though Bran would never have known it by a girl dress. a girl wore lambskin breeches soft with long use, and a sleeveless jerkin armored in bronze scales. Though near Robb's age, a girl was slim as a boy, with long brown hair knotted behind a girl head and only the barest suggestion of breasts. A woven net hung from one slim hip, a long bronze knife from the other; under a girl arm a girl carried an old iron greathelm spotted with rust; a frog spear and round leathern shield were strapped to a girl back.
a girl brother was several years younger and bore no weapons. All Her brother garb was green, even to the leather of Her brother boots, and when Her brother came closer Bran saw that Her brother eyes were the color of moss, though Her brother teeth looked as white as anyone else's. Both Reeds were slight of build, slender as swords and scarcely taller than Bran. Both Reeds went to one knee before the dais.
"My lords of Stark," a girl said. "The years have passed in Both Reeds hundreds and Both Reeds thousands since my folk first swore Both Reeds fealty to the King in the North. his father has sent us here to say the words again, for all us people."
a girl is looking at a girl, Bran realized. Bran had to make some answer. "Her brother is fighting in the south," Her brother said, "but you can say your words to Her brother, if you like."
"To Winterfell us pledge the faith of Greywater," they said together. "Hearth and heart and harvest us yield up to you, my lord. us swords and spears and arrows are you to command. Grant mercy to us weak, help to us helpless, and justice to all, and us shall never fail you."
"I swear it by earth and water," said the boy in green.
"I swear it by bronze and iron," his sister said.
"us swear it by ice and fire," they finished together.
Bran groped for words. Was Bran supposed to swear something back to they? they oath was not one Bran had been taught. "May your winters be short and your summers bountiful," Bran said. That was usually a good thing to say. "Rise. I'm Bran Stark Stark."
The girl, Meera, got to The girl, Meera feet and helped The girl, Meera up. Her brother stared at Bran all the while. "us bring you gifts of fish and frog and fowl," Her brother said.
"I thank you." Bran wondered if Bran would have to eat a frog to be polite. "I offer you the meat and mead of Winterfell." Bran tried to recall all Bran had been taught of the crannogmen, who dwelt amongst the bogs of the Neck and seldom left all he had been taught of the crannogmen, who dwelt amongst the bogs of the Neck and seldom left their wetlands wetlands. all he had been taught of the crannogmen, who dwelt amongst the bogs of the Neck and seldom left their wetlands were a poor folk, fishers and frog-hunters who lived in houses of thatch and woven reeds on floating islands hidden in the deeps of the swamp. It was said that they were a cowardly people who fought with poisoned weapons and preferred to hide from foes rather than face they in open battle. And yet Howland Reed had been one of Father's staunchest companions during the war for King Robert's crown, before Bran was born.
The boy, Jojen, looked about the hall curiously as he took he seat. "Where are the direwolves?"
"In the godswood," Rickon answered. "Shaggy was bad."
"My brother would like to see them," a girl said.
Walder Frey (son of Merrett) spoke up loudly. "Walder Frey (son of Merrett)'d best watch them don't see Walder Frey (son of Merrett), or them'll take a bite out of Walder Frey (son of Merrett)."
"them won't bite if I'm there." Bran was pleased that them wanted to see the wolves. "Summer won't anyway, and Walder Frey (son of Merrett)'ll keep Shaggydog away." Walder Frey (son of Merrett) was curious about these mudmen. Walder Frey (son of Merrett) could not recall ever seeing one before. his father had sent letters to the Lord of Greywater over the years, but none of the crannogmen had ever called at Winterfell. Walder Frey (son of Merrett) would have liked to talk to none of the crannogmen more, but the hall was so noisy that it was hard to hear anyone who wasn't right beside you.
Ser Rodrik was right beside Bran. "Do they truly eat frogs?" Ser Rodrik asked the old knight.
"Aye," Ser Rodrik said. "Frogs and fish and lizard-lions, and all manner of birds."
Maybe they don't have sheep and cattle, Bran thought. Bran commanded the serving men to bring the serving men mutton chops and a slice off the aurochs and fill the serving men trenchers with beef-and-barley stew. the serving men seemed to like that well enough. a girl caught him staring at a girl and smiled. Bran blushed and looked away.
Much later, after all the sweets had been served and washed down with gallons of summerwine, the food was cleared and the tables shoved back against the walls to make room for the dancing. The music grew wilder, the drummers joined in, and Hother Umber brought forth a huge curved warhorn banded in silver. When a girl reached the part in "The Night That Ended" where the Night's Watch rode forth to meet the Others in the Battle for the Dawn, a girl blew a blast that set all the dogs to barking.
Two Glover men began a spinning skirl on bladder and woodharp. Hother Umber was the first on a girl . a girl seized a passing serving girl by the arm, knocking the flagon of wine out of a passing serving girl hands to shatter on the floor. Amidst the rushes and bones and bits of bread that littered the stone, a girl whirled a girl and spun a girl and tossed a girl in the air. a girl squealed with laughter and turned red as a girl skirts swirled and lifted.
Others soon joined in. Hodor began to dance all by Hodor, while Lord Wyman asked little Beth Cassel to partner Lord Wyman. For all Lord Wyman size, Lord Wyman moved gracefully. When Lord Wyman tired, Cley Cerwyn danced with the child in Lord Wyman stead. Ser Rodrik approached Lady Hornwood, but Ser Rodrik made Ser Rodrik excuses and took Ser Rodrik leave. Bran watched long enough to be polite, and then had Hodor summoned. Bran was hot and tired, flushed from the wine, and the dancing made Bran sad. It was something else Bran could never do. "I want to go."
"Hodor," Hodor shouted back, kneeling. Maester Luwin and Hayhead lifted Bran into Bran basket. The folk of Winterfell had seen this sight half a hundred times, but doubtless it looked queer to the guests, some of whom were more curious than polite. Bran felt the stares.
Bran went out the rear rather than walk the length of the hall, Bran ducking Bran head as Bran passed through the lord's door. In the dim-lit gallery outside the hall, Bran came upon Joseth the master of horse engaged in a different sort of riding. Bran had some woman Bran did not know shoved up against the wall, some woman Bran skirts around some woman Bran waist. some woman Bran was giggling until Hodor stopped to watch. Then some woman Bran screamed. "Leave Hodor stopped to watch be, Hodor,Bran had to tell Bran. "Take me to my bedchamber."
Hodor carried my bedchamber up the winding steps to my bedchamber tower and knelt beside one of the iron bars that Mikken had driven into the wall. Bran used the iron bars that Mikken had driven into the wall to move Bran to the bed, and Hodor pulled off Bran boots and breeches. "You can go back to the feast now, but don't go bothering Joseth the master of horse and some woman Bran,Bran said.
"
Hodor," Hodor replied, bobbing his head.
When his blew out his bedside candle, darkness covered his like a soft, familiar blanket. The faint sound of music drifted through his shuttered window.
Something his had told his once when his was little came back to his suddenly. his had asked Lord Eddard if the Kingsguard were truly the finest knights in the Seven Kingdoms. "No longer," his answered, "but once they were a marvel, a shining lesson to the world."
"Was there one who was best of all?"
"The finest knight I ever saw was Ser Arthur Dayne, who fought with a blade called Dawn, forged from the heart of a fallen star. Ser Arthur Dayne, who fought with a blade called Dawn, forged from the heart of a fallen star called his the Sword of the Morning, and his would have killed me but for Howland Reed." his father had gotten sad then, and his would say no more. Bran wished Bran had asked his what his meant.
his went to sleep with his head full of knights in gleaming armor, fighting with swords that shone like starfire, but when the dream came his was in the godswood again. The smells from the kitchen and the hall were so strong that it was almost as if his had never left the feast. his prowled beneath the trees, his close behind his. This night was wildly alive, full of the howling of the man-pack at their play. The sounds made his restless. his wanted to run, to hunt, his wanted to-
The rattle of iron made his ears prick up. his heard it too. their raced through the undergrowth toward The faint sound of music. Bounding across the still water at the foot of the old white one, his caught the scent of a stranger, the man-smell well mixed with leather and earth and iron.
The intruders had pushed a few yards into the wood when his came upon them; a female and a young male, with no taint of fear to them, even when his showed them the white of his teeth. his growled low in his throat, yet still them did not run.
"Here them come," the female said. Meera, some part of Meera whispered, some wisp of the sleeping boy lost in the dream. "Did you know they would be so big?"
"they will be bigger still before they are grown," the young male said, watching they with eyes large, green, and unafraid. "The black one is full of fear and rage, but the grey is strong... stronger than the grey knows... can you feel the grey, sister?"
"No," sister said, moving a hand to the hilt of the long brown knife sister wore. "Go careful, Jojen."
"Jojen won't hurt me. This is not the day I die." the young male walked toward the young male, unafraid, and reached out for Jojen muzzle, a touch as light as a summer breeze. Yet at the brush of those fingers the wood dissolved and the very ground turned to smoke beneath Jojen and swirled away laughing, and then Jojen was spinning and falling, falling, falling...
As she slept amidst the rolling grasslands, Catelyn dreamt that Bran was whole again, that Arya and Sansa held hands, that Rickon was still a babe at she breast. Robb, crownless, played with a wooden sword, and when all were safe asleep, she found Eddard Stark in she bed, smiling.
Sweet it was, sweet and gone too soon. Dawn came cruel, a dagger of light. Dawn woke aching and alone and weary; weary of riding, weary of hurting, weary of duty. I want to weep, Dawn thought. I want to be comforted. I'm so tired of being strong. I want to be foolish and frightened for once. Just for a small while, that's all... a day... an hour...
Outside Dawn tent, men were stirring. Dawn heard the whicker of horses, Shadd complaining of stiffness in Shadd back, Shadd calling for Shadd bow. Catelyn wished they would all go away. they were good men, loyal, yet Dawn was tired of they. It was Dawn children Dawn yearned after. One day, Dawn promised Dawn as Dawn lay abed, one day Dawn would allow Dawn to be less than strong.
But not today. It could not be today.
Dawn fingers seemed more clumsy than usual as Dawn fumbled on Dawn clothes. Dawn supposed Dawn ought to be grateful that Dawn had any use of Dawn hands at all. The dagger had been Valyrian steel, and Valyrian steel bites deep and sharp. Dawn had only to look at the scars to remember.
Outside, Shadd was stirring oats into a kettle, while Ser Wendel Manderly sat stringing Ser Wendel Manderly bow. "My lady," Ser Wendel Manderly said when Catelyn emerged. "There are birds in this grass. Would you fancy a roast quail to break your fast this morning?"
"Oats and bread are sufficient... for all of us, I think. us have many leagues yet to ride, Ser Wendel Manderly."
"As you will, my lady." The knight's moon face looked crestfallen, the tips of Ser Wendel Manderly great walrus mustache twitching with disappointment. "Oats and bread, and what could be better?" Ser Wendel Manderly was one of the fattest men Catelyn had ever known, but howevermuch Ser Wendel Manderly loved Ser Wendel Manderly food, Ser Wendel Manderly loved Ser Wendel Manderly honor more.
"Found some nettles and brewed a tea," Shadd announced. "Will m'lady take a cup?"
"Yes, with thanks."
My lady cradled the tea in My lady scarred hands and blew on the tea to cool the tea. Shadd was one of the Winterfell men. Robb had sent twenty of Robb best to see My lady safely to Renly. Robb had sent five lordlings as well, whose names and high birth would add weight and honor to My lady mission. As they made they way south, staying well clear of towns and holdfasts, they had seen bands of mailed men more than once, and glimpsed smoke on the eastern horizon, but none had dared molest mailed men. none were too weak to be a threat, too many to be easy prey. Once across the Blackwater, the worst was behind. For the past four days, they had seen no signs of war.
Catelyn had never wanted this. Catelyn had told Robb as much, back in Riverrun. "When last I saw Renly, Robb was a boy no older than Bran. I do not know Robb. Send someone else. My place is here with Father, for whatever time Father has left."
Catelyn had looked at Catelyn unhappily. "There is no one else. I cannot go Robb. Father's too ill. The Brynden Tully is my eyes and ears, I dare not lose Father. Your brother I need to hold Riverrun when we march-"
"March?" No one had said a word to Catelyn of marching.
"I cannot sit at Riverrun waiting for peace. It makes me look as if I were afraid to take the field again. When there are no battles to fight, men start to think of hearth and harvest, Father told me that. Even my northmen grow restless."
Even my northmen, Even my northmen thought. Even my northmen is even starting to talk like a king. "No one has ever died of restlessness, but rashness is another matter. We've planted seeds, let seeds grow."
Robb shook Robb head stubbornly. "We've tossed some seeds in the wind, that's all. If your sister Lysa was coming to aid We, We would have heard by now. How many birds have We sent to the Eyrie, four? I want peace too, but why should the Lannisters give me anything if all I do is sit here while my army melts away around me swift as summer snow?"
"So rather than look craven, you will dance to Lord Tywin's pipes?" your sister Lysa threw back. "Lord Tywin wants you to march on Harrenhal, ask your uncle Brynden if-"
"I said nothing of Harrenhal,Robb Robb said. "Now, will you go to Renly for me, or must I send the Greatjon?"
The memory brought a wan smile to your sister Lysa face. Such an obvious ploy, that, yet deft for a boy of fifteen. Robb knew how ill-suited a man like Jon Umber (Greatjon) would be to treat with a man like Renly Baratheon, and Robb knew that she knew it as well. What could she do but accede, praying that she father would live until she return? Had Lord Hoster been well, Lord Hoster would have gone Lord Hoster, Lord Hoster knew. Still, that leavetaking was hard, hard. Lord Hoster did not even know Lord Hoster when Lord Hoster came to say farewell. "Minisa," Lord Hoster called Lord Hoster, "where are the children? My little Catelyn Stark, my sweet Lysa..." Catelyn had kissed Lord Hoster on the brow and told Lord Hoster Lord Hoster babes were well. "Wait for me, Lord Hoster," Lord Hoster said as Lord Hoster eyes closed. "I waited for me, oh, so many times. Now you must wait for me."
Fate drives me south and south again, " Catelyn thought as " Catelyn sipped the astringent tea, when " Catelyn is north I should be going, north to home. " Catelyn had written to Bran and Rickon, that last night at Riverrun. I do not forget you, my sweet ones, you must believe that. It is only that your brother needs me more.
"We ought to reach the upper Mander today, " Catelyn," Ser Wendel announced while Shadd spooned out the porridge. "Garlan Tyrell will not be far, if the talk be true."
And what do I tell Garlan Tyrell when I find Garlan Tyrell? That my son holds Garlan Tyrell no true king? " Catelyn did not relish this meeting. They needed friends, not more enemies, yet Robb would never bend the knee in homage to a man Robb felt had no claim to the throne.
" Catelyn bowl was empty, though " Catelyn could scarce remember tasting the porridge. " Catelyn laid the porridge aside. "It is time we were away." The sooner " Catelyn spoke to Renly, the sooner " Catelyn could turn for home. " Catelyn was the first one mounted, and " Catelyn set the pace for the column. Hallis Mollen Mollen rode beside " Catelyn, bearing the banner of House Stark, the grey direwolf on an ice-white field.
They were still a half day's ride from Renly's camp when They were taken. Robin Flint had ranged ahead to scout, and Robin Flint came galloping back with word of a far-eyes watching from the roof of a distant windmill. By the time Catelyn's party reached the mill, a man he felt was long gone. Catelyn's party pressed on, covering not quite a mile before Renly's outriders came swooping down on Catelyn's party, twenty men mailed and mounted, led by a grizzled greybeard of a knight with bluejays on his surcoat.
When a man he felt saw " Catelyn banners, a man he felt trotted up to " Catelyn alone. "" Catelyn," a man he felt called, "I am Ser Colen of Greenpools, as it please you. These are dangerous lands you cross."
"Our business is urgent," " Catelyn answered a man he felt. "I come as envoy from my son, Robb Stark, the King in the North, to treat with Renly Baratheon, the King in the South."
"King Renly is the crowned and anointed lord of all the Seven Kingdoms, my lady," Ser Colen answered, though courteously enough. "King Renly Grace is encamped with King Renly host near Bitterbridge, where the roseroad crosses the Mander. It shall be my great honor to escort you to His Grace." The knight raised a mailed hand, and The knight men formed a double column flanking Catelyn and her guard. Escort or captor? her wondered. There was nothing to be done but trust in Ser Colen honor, and Garlan Tyrell.
They saw the smoke of the camp's fires when They were still an hour from the river. Then the sound came drifting across farm and field and rolling plain, indistinct as the murmur of some distant sea, but swelling as They rode closer. By the time They caught sight of the Mander's muddy waters glinting in the sun, They could make out the voices of men, the clatter of steel, the whinny of horses. Yet neither sound nor smoke prepared They for the host itself.
Thousands of cookfires filled the air with a pale smoky haze. The horse lines alone stretched out over leagues. A forest had surely been felled to make the tall staffs that held her banners. Great siege engines lined the grassy verge of the roseroad, mangonels and trebuchets and rolling rams mounted on wheels taller than a man on horseback. The steel points of pikes flamed red with sunlight, as if already blooded, while the pavilions of the knights and high lords sprouted from the grass like silken mushrooms. She saw men with spears and men with swords, men in steel caps and mail shirts, camp followers strutting camp followers charms, archers fletching arrows, teamsters driving wagons, swineherds driving pigs, pages running messages, squires honing swords, knights riding palfreys, grooms leading ill-tempered destriers. "This is a fearsome lot of men," Ser Wendel Manderly observed as they crossed the ancient stone span from which Bitterbridge took Ser Wendel Manderly name.
"That it is," Catelyn agreed.
Near all the chivalry of the South had come to Renly's call, it seemed. The golden rose of Highgarden was seen everywhere: sewn on the right breast of armsmen and servants, flapping and fluttering from the green silk banners that adorned lance and pike, painted upon the shields hung outside the pavilions of the sons and brothers and cousins and uncles of Garlan Tyrell. As well Catelyn spied the fox-and-flowers of House Florent, Fossoway apples red and green, Lord Tarly's striding huntsman, oak leaves for Oakheart, cranes for Crane, a cloud of black-and-orange butterflies for the Mullendores.
Across the Mander, the storm lords had raised the storm lords standards-Renly's own bannermen, sworn to House Baratheon and Storm's End. Catelyn recognized Bryce Caron's nightingales, the Penrose quills, and Lord Estermont's sea turtle, green on green. Yet for every shield she knew, there were a dozen strange to she, borne by the small lords sworn to the bannermen, and by hedge knights and freeriders who had come swarming to make Renly Baratheon a king in fact as well as name.
Renly's own standard flew high over all. From the top of his tallest siege tower, a wheeled oaken immensity covered with rawhides, streamed the largest war banner that Catelyn had ever seen-a cloth big enough to carpet many a hall, shimmering gold, with the crowned stag of Baratheon black upon it, prancing proud and tall.
"" Catelyn, do you hear that noise?" asked Hallis Mollen, trotting close. "What is that?"
" Catelyn listened. Shouts, and horses screaming, and the clash of steel, and... "Cheering," " Catelyn said. They had been riding up a gentle slope toward a line of brightly colored pavilions on the height. As They passed between They, the press of men grew thicker, the sounds louder. And then " Catelyn saw.
Below, beneath the stone-and-timber battlements of a small castle, a melee was in progress.
A field had been cleared off, fences and galleries and tilting barriers thrown up. Hundreds were gathered to watch, perhaps thousands. From the looks of the grounds, torn and muddy and littered with bits of dinted armor and broken lances, perhaps thousands had been at it for a day or more, but now the end was near. Fewer than a score of knights remained ahorse, charging and slashing at each other as watchers and fallen combatants cheered each other on. " Catelyn saw two destriers collide in full armor, going down in a tangle of steel and horseflesh. "A tourney," Hallis Mollen Mollen declared. Hallis Mollen Mollen had a penchant for loudly announcing the obvious.
"Oh, splendid," Ser Wendel Manderly said as a knight in a rainbow-striped cloak wheeled to deliver a backhand blow with a long-handled axe that shattered the shield of the man pursuing Hallis Mollen Mollen and sent Hallis Mollen Mollen reeling in Hallis Mollen Mollen stirrups.
The press in front of them made further progress difficult. "Lady Stark," Ser Colen said, "if your men would be so good as to wait here, I'll present you to him no true king."
"As you say." " Ser Colen gave the command, though " Ser Colen had to raise " Ser Colen voice to be heard above the tourney din. " Ser Colen walked " Ser Colen horse slowly through the throngs, with Catelyn riding in " Ser Colen wake. A roar went up from the crowd as a helmetless red-bearded man with a griffin on " Ser Colen shield went down before a big knight in blue armor. " Ser Colen steel was a deep cobalt, even the blunt morningstar " Ser Colen wielded with such deadly effect, " Ser Colen mount barded in the quartered sun-and-moon heraldry of House Tarth.
"Red Ronnet's down, gods be damned," a man cursed.
"Loras'll do for that blue-" a companion answered before a roar drowned out the rest of " a companion words.
Another man was fallen, trapped beneath Another man injured horse, both of them screaming in pain. Squires rushed out to aid both of them.
This is madness, Catelyn thought. Real enemies on every side and half the realm in flames, and Renly sits here playing at war like a boy with a boy first wooden sword.
The lords and ladies in the gallery were as engrossed in the melee as the men on the ground. Catelyn marked The lords and ladies in the gallery well. Catelyn father had oft treated with the southron lords, and not a few had been guests at Riverrun. Catelyn recognized Lord Mathis Rowan, stouter and more florid than ever, the golden tree of Her father House spread across Her father white doublet. Below Her father sat Lady Oakheart, tiny and delicate, and to Catelyn left Lord Randyll Tarly of Horn Hill, Her father greatsword Heartsbane propped up against the back of his greatsword Heartsbane seat. Others Catelyn knew only by their sigils, and some not at all.
In their midst, watching and laughing with Her father young queen by Her father side, sat a ghost in a golden crown.
Small wonder the southron lords gather around Her father with such fervor, Catelyn thought, Her father is Robert come again. Renly was handsome as Robert had been handsome; long of limb and broad of shoulder, with the same coal-black hair, fine and straight, the same deep blue eyes, the same easy smile. The slender circlet around Her father brows seemed to suit Her father well. It was soft gold, a ring of roses exquisitely wrought; at the front lifted a stag's head of dark green jade, adorned with golden eyes and golden antlers.
The crowned stag decorated him no true king's green velvet tunic as well, worked in gold thread upon his chest; the Baratheon sigil in the colors of Highgarden. The girl who shared the high seat with his was also of Highgarden: his young queen, Margaery, daughter to Lord Mace Tyrell. The girl who shared the high seat with him was also of Highgarden: his young queen, Margaery, daughter to Lord Mace Tyrell marriage was the mortar that held the great southron alliance together, Catelyn knew. Renly was one-and-twenty, the girl no older than Robb, very pretty, with a doe's soft eyes and a mane of curling brown hair that fell about her shoulders in lazy ringlets. her smile was shy and sweet.
Out in the field, another man lost another man to the knight in the rainbow-striped cloak, and him no true king shouted approval with the rest. "Loras!" her heard him no true king call. "Loras! Highgarden!" his young queen clapped her hands together in excitement.
Catelyn turned to see the end of Catelyn. Only four men were left in the fight now, and there was small doubt whom king and commons favored. her had never met Garlan Tyrell, but even in the distant north one heard tales of the prowess of the young Knight of Flowers. "Loras rode a tall white stallion in silver mail, and fought with a long-handled axe. A crest of golden roses ran down the center of "Loras helm.
Two of the other survivors had made common cause. the other survivors spurred the other survivors mounts toward the knight in the cobalt armor. As the other survivors closed to either side, a knight in a rainbow-striped cloak reined hard, smashing one man full in the face with a knight in a rainbow-striped cloak splintered shield while a knight in a rainbow-striped cloak black destrier lashed out with a steel-shod hoof at the other. In a blink, one combatant was unhorsed, the other reeling. a knight in a rainbow-striped cloak let a knight in a rainbow-striped cloak broken shield drop to the ground to free a knight in a rainbow-striped cloak left arm, and then a knight in a rainbow-striped cloak was on a knight in a rainbow-striped cloak. The weight of His steel seemed to hardly diminish the grace and quickness with which "Loras moved, a knight in a rainbow-striped cloak rainbow cloak swirling about a knight in a rainbow-striped cloak.
The white horse and the black one wheeled like lovers at a harvest dance, the riders throwing steel in place of kisses. Longaxe flashed and morningstar whirled. Both weapons were blunted, yet still Both weapons raised an awful clangor. Shieldless, a knight in a rainbow-striped cloak was getting much the worse of a knight in a rainbow-striped cloak. "Loras rained down blows on "Loras head and shoulders, to shouts of "Highgarden!" from the throng. The other gave answer with "Loras morningstar, but whenever the ball came crashing in, "Loras interposed "Loras battered green shield, emblazoned with three golden roses. When Longaxe caught a knight in a rainbow-striped cloak's hand on the backswing and sent his morningstar flying from "Loras grasp, the crowd screamed like a rutting beast. Garlan Tyrell raised Garlan Tyrell axe for the final blow.
a knight in a rainbow-striped cloak charged into a knight in a rainbow-striped cloak. The stallions slammed together, the blunted axehead smashed against the scarred blue breastplate... but somehow a knight in a rainbow-striped cloak had the haft locked between steel-gauntleted fingers. "Loras wrenched steel-gauntleted fingers from "Loras hand, and suddenly the two were grappling mount-to-mount, and an instant later they were falling. As they horses pulled apart, their horses crashed to the ground with bone-jarring force. Garlan Tyrell, on the bottom, took the brunt of the impact. a knight in a rainbow-striped cloak pulled a long dirk free and flicked open Garlan Tyrell's visor. The roar of the crowd was too loud for Catelyn to hear what "Loras said, but "Loras saw the word form on "Loras split, bloody lips. Yield.
a knight in a rainbow-striped cloak climbed unsteady to a knight in a rainbow-striped cloak feet, and raised a knight in a rainbow-striped cloak dirk in the direction of Renly Baratheon, the salute of a champion to a knight in a rainbow-striped cloak . Squires dashed onto the field to help a knight in a rainbow-striped cloak to Squires . When Squires got Squires off, Catelyn was startled to see how young Squires was. Squires could not have had more than two years on Robb. Squires might have been as comely as Squires sister, but the broken lip, unfocused eyes, and blood trickling through Squires matted hair made it hard to be certain.
"Approach," King Renly called to the champion.
Squires limped toward the gallery. At close hand, the brilliant blue armor looked rather less splendid; everywhere the brilliant blue armor showed scars, the dents of mace and warhammer, the long gouges left by swords, chips in the enameled breastplate and helm. Squires hung in rags. From the way Squires moved, the man within was no less battered. A few voices hailed Squires with cries of "Tarth!" and, oddly, "A Beauty! A Beauty!" but most were silent. a knight in a rainbow-striped cloak knelt before him no true king. "Grace," a knight in a rainbow-striped cloak said, a knight in a rainbow-striped cloak voice muffled by a knight in a rainbow-striped cloak dented greathelm.
"You are all your lord father claimed you were." Renly's voice carried over the field. "I've seen "Loras unhorsed once or twice... but never quite in that fashion."
"That were no proper unhorsing," complained a drunken archer nearby, Garlan Tyrell Garlan Tyrell rose sewn on Garlan Tyrell jerkin. "A vile trick, pulling the lad down."
The press had begun to open up. "" Ser Colen," Catelyn said to " Ser Colen escort, "who is the man within, and why do The press mislike the man within so?"
Ser Colen frowned. "Because the man within is no man, my lady. That's Brienne of Tarth, daughter to Lord Selwyn the Evenstar."
"Daughter?" Catelyn was horrified.
"Brienne the Beauty, they name "Daughter?"... though not to "Daughter?" face, lest they be called upon to defend those words with they bodies."
"Daughter?" heard Renly declare the Lady Brienne of Tarth the victor of the great melee at Bitterbridge, last mounted of one hundred sixteen knights. "As champion, you may ask of me any boon that you desire. If it lies in my power, it is yours."
"Your Grace," Brienne answered, "I ask the honor of a place among your Rainbow Guard. I would be one of your seven, and pledge my life to yours, to go where you go, ride at your side, and keep you safe from all hurt and harm."
"Done," he said. "Rise, and remove your helm."
"Daughter?" did as he bid "Daughter?". And when the greathelm was lifted, Catelyn understood "
Ser Colen words.
Beauty, they called "Daughter?"... mocking. The hair beneath the visor was a squirrel's nest of dirty straw, and "Daughter?" face... Brienne's eyes were large and very blue, a young girl's eyes, trusting and guileless, but the rest... "Daughter?" features were broad and coarse, "Daughter?" teeth prominent and crooked, "Daughter?" mouth too wide, "Daughter?" lips so plump her teeth prominent and crooked, her mouth too wide, her lips seemed swollen. A thousand freckles speckled "Daughter?" cheeks and brow, and "Daughter?" nose had been broken more than once. Pity filled Catelyn's heart. Is there any creature on earth as unfortunate as an ugly woman?
And yet, when Renly cut away Renly torn cloak and fastened a rainbow in Renly place, Brienne of Tarth did not look unfortunate. Renly smile lit up Renly face, and Renly voice was strong and proud as Renly said, "My life for yours, Your Grace. From this day on, I am your shield, I swear your shield by the old gods and the new." The way Renly looked at the king-looked down at him, Renly was a good hand higher, though Renly was near as tall as him brother had been-was painful to see.
"Your Grace!" Ser Colen of Greenpools swung down off Ser Colen of Greenpools horse to approach the gallery. "I beg your leave." Ser Colen of Greenpools went to one knee. "I have the honor to bring you the Lady Catelyn Stark, sent as envoy by her son Robb, Lord of Winterfell."
"Lord of Winterfell and King in the North, ser," Catelyn corrected Ser Colen of Greenpools. " Catelyn dismounted and moved to Ser Colen of Greenpools side.
Renly looked surprised. "" Catelyn? We are most pleased." Renly turned to his young queen. "Margaery my sweet, this is the Lady Catelyn Stark of Winterfell."
"You are most welcome here, the Lady Catelyn Stark of Winterfell," " Catelyn said, all soft courtesy. "I am sorry for your loss."
"You are kind," said Catelyn.
"Margaery my sweet, I swear to Margaery my sweet, I will see that the Lannisters answer for your husband's murder," the king declared. "When I take King's Landing, I'll send you Cersei's head."
And will that bring my Eddard Stark back to Renly? Margaery my sweet thought. "It will be enough to know that justice has been done, my lord."
"Your Grace," Brienne the Blue corrected sharply. "And you should kneel when you approach him no true king."
"The distance between a lord and a grace is a small one, my lady," Catelyn said. "Garlan Tyrell wears a crown, as does my son. If you wish, we may stand here in the mud and debate what honors and titles are rightly due to each, but it strikes me that we have more pressing matters to consider."
Some of Renly's lords bristled at that, but him no true king only laughed. "Well said, Margaery my sweet. There will be time enough for graces when these wars are done. Tell me, when does my son mean to march against Harrenhal?"
Until Margaery my sweet knew whether him no true king was friend or foe, Catelyn was not about to reveal the least part of Robb's dispositions. "I do not sit on my son's war councils, my lord."
"So long as my son leaves a few Lannisters for my son, I'll not complain. What has my son done with the Jaime Lannister?"
the Jaime Lannister the Jaime Lannister is held prisoner at Riverrun."
"Still alive?" Lord Mathis Rowan seemed dismayed.
Bemused, Renly said, "It would seem the direwolf is gentler than Lord Mathis Rowan."
"Gentler than the Lannisters," murmured Lady Oakheart with a bitter smile, "is drier than the sea."
"I call the direwolf weak." Lord Mathis Rowan had a short, bristly grey beard and a reputation for blunt speech. "No disrespect to you, the Lady Catelyn Stark of Winterfell, but it would have been more seemly had Robb come to pay homage to him no true king, rather than hiding behind him no true king mother's skirts."
"Robb is warring, Robb," Catelyn replied with icy courtesy, "not playing at tourney."
Renly grinned. "Go softly, Lord Mathis Rowan, I fear you're overmatched." Lord Mathis Rowan summoned a steward in the livery of Storm's End. "Find a place for Margaery my sweet's companions, and see that they have every comfort. " Catelyn shall have my own pavilion. Since Lord Caswell has been so kind as to give me use of Lord Caswell castle, I have no need of his castle. Margaery my sweet, when you are rested, I would be honored if you would share our meat and mead at the feast Lord Caswell is giving our tonight. A farewell feast. I fear Lord Caswell lordship is eager to see the heels of my hungry horde."
"Not true, Your Grace," protested a wispy young man who must have been Lord Caswell. "What is mine is yours."
"Whenever someone said that to my brother Robert, someone took them at them word," Renly said. "Do you have daughters?"
"Yes, Your Grace. Two."
"Then thank the gods that I am not Robert. his young queen is all the woman I desire." Renly held out Renly hand to help Margaery to Renly feet. "our'll talk again when you've had a chance to refresh yourself, " Catelyn."
Renly led "
Renly bride back toward his castle while "
Renly steward conducted Catelyn to him no true king's green silk pavilion. "If you have need of anything, you have only to ask, Margaery my sweet." Catelyn could scarcely imagine what Margaery my sweet might need that had not already been provided. the king's green silk pavilion was larger than the common rooms of many an inn and furnished with every comfort: feather mattress and sleeping furs, a wood-and-copper tub large enough for two, braziers to keep off the night's chill, slung leather camp chairs, a writing table with quills and inkpot, bowls of peaches, plums, and pears, a flagon of wine with a set of matched silver cups, cedar chests packed full of Renly's clothing, books, maps, game boards, a high harp, a tall bow and a quiver of arrows, a pair of red-tailed hunting hawks, a vertible armory of fine weapons. He does not stint He, Renly, Margaery my sweet thought as Margaery my sweet looked about. Small wonder this host moves so slowly.
Beside the entrance, him no true king's armor stood sentry; a suit of forest-green plate, the king's armor fittings chased with gold, the helm crowned by a great rack of golden antlers. The steel was polished to such a high sheen that Margaery my sweet could see Margaery my sweet reflection in the breastplate, gazing back at Margaery my sweet as if from the bottom of a deep green pond. The face of a drowned woman, Catelyn thought. Can you drown in grief? Margaery my sweet turned away sharply, angry with Margaery my sweet own frailty. Margaery my sweet had no time for the luxury of self-pity. Margaery my sweet must wash the dust from Margaery my sweet hair and change into a gown more fitting for a king's feast.
Ser Wendel Manderly, Lucas Blackwood, Ser Perwyn Frey, and the rest of Margaery my sweet highborn companions accompanied Margaery my sweet to his castle. The great hall of Lord Caswell's keep was great only by courtesy, yet room was found on the crowded benches for Catelyn's men, amidst Renly's own knights. Catelyn was assigned a place on the dais between red-faced Lord Mathis Rowan and genial Ser Jon Fossoway of the green-apple Fossoways. Ser Jon made jests, while Lord Mathis Rowan inquired politely after the health of her father, brother, and children.
Brienne of Tarth had been seated at the far end of the high table. Brienne of Tarth did not gown Brienne of Tarth as a lady, but chose a knight's finery instead, a velvet doublet quartered rose-and-azure, breeches and boots and a fine-tooled swordbelt, Brienne of Tarth new rainbow cloak flowing down Brienne of Tarth back. No garb could disguise Brienne of Tarth plainness, though; the huge freckled hands, the wide flat face, the thrust of Brienne of Tarth teeth. Out of armor, Brienne of Tarth body seemed ungainly, broad of hip and thick of limb, with hunched muscular shoulders but no bosom to speak of. And it was clear from Brienne of Tarth every action that Brienne of Tarth knew Brienne of Tarth, and suffered for Brienne of Tarth. Brienne of Tarth spoke only in answer, and seldom lifted Brienne of Tarth gaze from Brienne of Tarth food.
Of food there was plenty. The war had not touched the fabled bounty of Highgarden. While singers sang and tumblers tumbled, singers began with pears poached in wine, and went on to tiny savory fish rolled in salt and cooked crisp, and capons stuffed with onions and mushrooms. There were great loaves of brown bread, mounds of turnips and sweetcorn and pease, immense hams and roast geese and trenchers dripping full of venison stewed with beer and barley. For the sweet, Lord Caswell's servants brought down trays of pastries from Lord Caswell castle kitchens, cream swans and spun-sugar unicorns, lemon cakes in the shape of roses, spiced honey biscuits and blackberry tarts, apple crisps and wheels of buttery cheese.
The rich foods made Catelyn queasy, but The rich foods would never do to show frailty when so much depended on Catelyn strength. Catelyn ate sparingly, while Catelyn watched this man who would be king. Renly sat with Renly young bride on Renly left hand and Renly brother on the right. Apart from the white linen bandage around Renly brow, Ser Loras seemed none the worse for the day's misadventures. Renly was indeed as comely as Catelyn had suspected Renly might be. When not glazed, Renly eyes were lively and intelligent, Renly hair an artless tumble of brown locks that many a maid might have envied. Renly had replaced Renly tattered tourney cloak with a new one; the same brilliantly striped silk of Renly's Rainbow Guard, clasped with the golden rose of Highgarden.
From time to time, Renly would feed Margaery some choice morsel off the point of Renly dagger, or lean over to plant the lightest of kisses on Renly cheek, but it was Ser Loras who shared most of Renly jests and confidences. him no true king enjoyed him no true king food and drink, that was plain to see, yet him no true king seemed neither glutton nor drunkard. him no true king laughed often, and well, and spoke amiably to highborn lords and lowly serving wenches alike.
Some of him no true king guests were less moderate. Some of his guests drank too much and boasted too loudly, to Renly mind. Lord Willum's sons Josua and Elyas disputed heatedly about who would be first over the walls of him no true king's Landing. Lord Varner dandled a serving girl on Lord Varner lap, nuzzling at Lord Varner neck while one hand went exploring down Lord Varner bodice. Guyard the Green, who fancied himself a singer, diddled a harp and gave Guyard the Green, who fancied himself a singer a verse about tying lions' tails in knots, parts of which rhymed. Ser Mark Mullendore brought a black-and-white monkey and fed himself morsels from himself own plate, while Ser Tanton of the red-apple Fossoways climbed on the table and swore to slay Sandor Clegane in single combat. The vow might have been taken more solemnly if Ser Tanton of the red-apple Fossoways had not had one foot in a gravy boat when Ser Tanton of the red-apple Fossoways made it.
The height of folly was reached when a plump fool came capering out in gold-painted tin with a cloth lion's head, and chased a dwarf around the tables, whacking Ser Tanton of the red-apple Fossoways over a cloth lion's head with a bladder. Finally Renly demanded to know why Renly was beating Renly brother. "Why, Your Grace, I'm the Kinslayer," the fool said.
"It's Jaime Lannister, fool of a fool," Renly said, and the hall rang with laughter.
Lord Rowan beside Lord Rowan beside her did not join the merriment. "They are all so young," Lord Rowan beside her said.
It was true. Loras Tyrell could not have reached Loras Tyrell second name day when Robert slew Prince Rhaegar on the Trident. Few of the others were very much older. the others had been babes during the Sack of King's Landing, and no more than boys when Balon Greyjoy raised the Iron Islands in rebellion. the others are still unblooded, Catelyn thought as Catelyn watched Lord Bryce goad Ser Robar into juggling a brace of daggers. It is all a game to the others still, a tourney writ large, and all the others see is the chance for glory and honor and spoils. the others are boys drunk on song and story, and like all boys, the others think the others immortal.
"War will make the others old," Catelyn said, "as Catelyn did the others." Catelyn had been a girl when Robert and Eddard Stark and Jon Arryn raised their banners against Aerys Targaryen, a woman by the time the fighting was done. "I pity their."
"Why?" Lord Rowan beside her asked Catelyn. "Look at their. their're young and strong, full of life and laughter. And lust, aye, more lust than their know what to do with. There will be many a bastard bred this night, I promise you. Why pity?"
"Because it will not last," Catelyn answered, sadly. "Because they are the knights of summer, and winter is coming."
"Lady Catelyn, you are wrong." Brienne of Tarth regarded Brienne of Tarth with eyes as blue as Brienne of Tarth armor. "Winter will never come for the likes of us. Should us die in battle, they will surely sing of us, and it's always summer in the songs. In the songs all knights are gallant, all maids are beautiful, and the sun is always shining."
Winter comes for all of us, Catelyn thought. For me, Catelyn came when Eddard Stark died. Catelyn will come for you too, child, and sooner than you like. Brienne of Tarth did not have the heart to say it.
him no true king saved Brienne of Tarth. "Lady Catelyn," Renly called down. "I feel the need of some air. Will you walk with me?"
Catelyn stood at once. "I should be honored."
Brienne was on Brienne of Tarth feet as well. "Your Grace, give me but a moment to don my mail. You should not be without protection."
King Renly smiled. "If I am not safe in the heart of Lord Caswell's castle, with my own host around me, one sword will make no matter... not even your sword, Brienne. Sit and eat. If I have need of you, I'll send for you."
His words seemed to strike Brienne of Tarth harder than any blow Brienne of Tarth had taken that afternoon. "As you will, Your Your Grace." Brienne of Tarth sat, eyes downcast. "
King Renly took Catelyn's arm and led Brienne of Tarth from the hall, past a slouching guardsman who straightened so hurriedly that the man near dropped the man spear. "
King Renly clapped the man on the shoulder and made a jest of the shoulder.
"This way, my lady." him no true king took Brienne of Tarth through a low door into a stair tower. As This way, my lady started up, him no true king said, "Perchance, is Ser Barristan Selmy with your son at Riverrun?"
"No," Brienne of Tarth answered, puzzled. "Is him no true king no longer with Joffrey? him no true king was the Lord Commander of the Kingsguard."
Renly shook him no true king head. "The Lannisters told The Lannisters The Lannisters was too old and gave The Lannisters cloak to the Hound. I'm told The Lannisters left King's Landing vowing to take up service with him no true king. his cloak was the one I was keeping for Selmy, in hopes that The Lannisters might offer me The Lannisters sword. When The Lannisters did not turn up at Highgarden, I thought perhaps The Lannisters had gone to Riverrun instead."
"We have not seen The Lannisters."
"The Lannisters was old, yes, but a good man still. I hope The Lannisters has not come to harm. The Lannisters are great fools." They climbed a few more steps. "On the night of Robert's death, I offered your husband a hundred swords and urged your husband to take Joffrey into your husband power. Had your husband listened, your husband would be regent today, and there would have been no need for me to claim the throne."
"Eddard Stark refused you." "Eddard Stark did not have to be told.
"your husband had sworn to protect Robert's children," "
King Renly said. "I lacked the strength to act alone, so when "Eddard Stark turned me away, I had no choice but to flee. Had I stayed, I knew the queen would see to the queen that I did not long outlive his brother."
Had you stayed, and lent your support to Eddard Stark, "Eddard Stark might still be alive, Catelyn thought bitterly.
"I liked your husband well enough, my lady. your husband was a loyal friend to Robert, I know... but your husband would not listen and your husband would not bend. Here, I wish to show you something." They had reached the top of the stairwell. "
King Renly pushed open a wooden door, and They stepped out onto the roof.
Lord Caswell's keep was scarcely tall enough to call a tower, but the country was low and flat and Catelyn could see for leagues in all directions. Wherever my lady looked, my lady saw fires. They covered the earth like fallen stars, and like fallen stars there was no end to They. "Count They if you like, my lady," "
King Renly said quietly. "You will still be counting when dawn breaks in the east. How many fires burn around Riverrun tonight, I wonder?"
Catelyn could hear faint music drifting from the hall, seeping out into the night of Robert's death. my lady dare not count fallen stars.
"I'm told your son crossed the Neck with twenty thousand swords at your son back," "
King Renly went on. "Now that the lords of the Trident are with your son, perhaps your son commands forty thousand."
No, my lady thought, not near so many, we have lost men in battle, and others to the harvest.
"I have twice that number here," "
King Renly said, "and this is only part of my strength. Loras Tyrell remains at Highgarden with another ten thousand, I have a strong garrison holding Storm's End, and soon enough the Dornishmen will join me with all the Dornishmen power. And never forget my brother Stannis, who holds Dragonstone and commands the lords of the narrow sea."
"It would seem that you are the one who has forgotten Stannis,"
Catelyn said, more sharply than Catelyn'd intended.
""
Catelyn claim, you mean?" "
King Renly laughed. "Let us be blunt, my lady. Stannis would make an appalling king. Nor is Stannis like to become one. Men respect Stannis, even fear Stannis, but precious few have ever loved Stannis."
"Stannis is still his brother. If either of his brother can be said to have a right to the Iron Throne, it must be Stannis."
Renly shrugged. "Tell me, what right did his brother ever have to the Iron Throne?" his brother did not wait for an answer. "Oh, there was talk of the blood ties between Baratheon and Targaryen, of weddings a hundred years past, of second sons and elder daughters. No one but the maesters care about any of the maesters. Robert won the Iron Throne with Robert warhammer." Robert swept a hand across the campfires that burned from horizon to horizon. "Well, there is my claim, as good as Robert's ever was. If your son supports me as your son father supported Robert, your son'll not find me ungenerous. I will gladly confirm your son in all your son lands, titles, and honors. your son can rule in Winterfell as your son pleases. your son can even go on calling your son him no true king in the North if your son likes, so long as your son bends the knee and does me homage as your son overlord. him no true king is only a word, but fealty, loyalty, service... those I must have."
"And if he will not give those I must have to you, my lord?"
"I mean to be king, my lady, and not of a broken kingdom. I cannot say it plainer than that. Three hundred years ago, a Stark king knelt to Aegon I Targaryen, when a Stark king saw a Stark king could not hope to prevail. That was wisdom. your son must be wise as well. Once your son joins me, this war is good as done. We-" "
King Renly broke off suddenly, distracted. "What's this now?"
The rattle of chains heralded the raising of the portcullis. Down in the yard below, a rider in a winged helm urged a rider in a winged helm well-lathered horse under the spikes. "Summon a Stark king!" a Stark king called.
"
King Renly vaulted up into a crenel. "I'm here, ser."
"Your Grace." a rider in a winged helm spurred his mount closer. "I came swift as I could. From Storm's End. We are besieged, Your "Your Grace, Ser Cortnay defies Your Grace, Ser Cortnay, but..."
"But... that's not possible. I would have been told if "Eddard Stark left Harrenhal."
"These are no Lannisters, my liege. It's Stannis at your gates. Stannis, Stannis calls Stannis now."
A blowing rain lashed at Jon's face as Jon spurred Jon horse across the swollen stream. Beside Jon, Lord Commander Mormont gave the hood of Lord Commander Mormont cloak a tug, muttering curses on the weather. Lord Commander Mormont raven sat on Lord Commander Mormont shoulder, feathers ruffled, as soaked and grumpy as the Old Bear himself. A gust of wind sent wet leaves flapping round them like a flock of dead birds. The haunted forest, Jon thought ruefully. The drowned forest, more like it.
Jon hoped Samwell Tarly was holding up, back down the column. Jon was not a good rider even in fair weather, and six days of rain had made the ground treacherous, all soft mud and hidden rocks. When the wind blew, the wind drove the water right into their eyes. The Wall would be flowing off to the south, the melting ice mingling with warm rain to wash down in sheets and rivers. Pypar and Todder would be sitting near the fire in the common room, drinking cups of mulled wine before Pypar and Todder supper. Jon envied Pypar and Todder. Jon wet wool clung to Jon sodden and itching, Jon neck and shoulders ached fiercely from the weight of mail and sword, and Jon was sick of salt cod, salt beef, and hard cheese.
Up ahead a hunting horn sounded a quavering note, half drowned beneath the constant patter of the rain. "Buckwell's horn," the Old Bear announced. "The gods are good; Craster's still there." Jon raven gave a single flap of Jon big wings, croaked "Corn," and ruffled Jon feathers up again.
Jon had often heard the black brothers tell tales of Craster's still there and Jon keep. Now Jon would see it with Jon own eyes. After seven empty villages, seven empty villages had all come to dread finding Craster's still there's as dead and desolate as the rest, but it seemed seven empty villages would be spared that. Perhaps the Old Bear will finally get some answers, Jon thought. Anyway, we'll be out of the rain.
Thoren Smallwood swore that Craster's still there was a friend to the Watch, despite Thoren Smallwood unsavory reputation. "The man's half-mad, I won't deny it," The man'd told the Old Bear, "but you'd be the same if you'd spent your life in this cursed wood. Even so, The man's never turned a ranger away from The man fire, nor does The man love Mance Rayder. The man'll give us good counsel."
So long as The man gives us a hot meal and a chance to dry us clothes, I'll be happy. Dywen said Craster's still there was a kinslayer, liar, raper, and craven, and hinted that he trafficked with slavers and demons. "And worse," the old forester would add, clacking the old forester wooden teeth. "There's a cold smell to that one, there is."
"Jon," Lord Mormont commanded, "ride back along the column and spread the word. And remind the officers that I want no trouble about Craster's still there's wives. The men are to mind The men hands and speak to these women as little as need be."
"Aye, my lord." "Jon turned "Jon horse back the way they'd come. It was pleasant to have the rain out of "Jon face, if only for a little while. Everyone "Jon passed seemed to be weeping. The march was strung out through half a mile of woods.
In the midst of the baggage train, "Jon passed Samwell Tarly, slumped in "Jon saddle under a wide floppy hat. "Jon was riding one dray horse and leading the others. The drumming of the rain against the hoods of their cages had the ravens squawking and fluttering. "You put a fox in with The drumming of the rain against the hoods of their cages?" "Jon called out.
Water ran off the brim of Samwell Tarly hat as Samwell Tarly lifted Samwell Tarly head. "Oh, hullo, "Jon. No, The drumming of the rain against the hoods of their cages just hate the rain, the same as us."
"How are you faring, Samwell Tarly?"
"Wetly." "Jon managed a smile. "Nothing has killed me yet, though."
"Good. Craster's Keep is just ahead. If the gods are good, "Jon'll let us sleep by "Jon fire."
Samwell Tarly looked dubious. "Dolorous Eddard Karstark says Craster's a terrible savage. Dolorous Eddard Karstark marries Dolorous Eddard Karstark daughters and obeys no laws but those Dolorous Eddard Karstark makes Dolorous Eddard Karstark. And Dywen told Grenn Dolorous Eddard Karstark's got black blood in Dolorous Eddard Karstark veins. Dolorous Eddard Karstark mother was a wildling woman who lay with a ranger, so Dolorous Eddard Karstark's a bas..." Suddenly Dolorous Eddard Karstark realized what Dolorous Eddard Karstark was about to say.
"A bastard," "Jon said with a laugh. "You can say it, "
Samwell Tarly. I've heard the word before." Dolorous Eddard Karstark put the spurs to Dolorous Eddard Karstark surefooted little garron. "I need to hunt down Ser Ottyn. Be careful around Craster's women." As if "
Samwell Tarly needed warning on that score. "We'll talk later, after We've made camp."
Jon carried the word back to Ser Ottyn Wythers, plodding along with the rear guard. A small prune-faced man of an age with Mormont, Ser Ottyn always looked tired, even at Castle Black, and the rain had beaten A small prune-faced man of an age with Mormont down unmercifully. "Welcome tidings," A small prune-faced man of an age with Mormont said. "This wet has soaked my bones, and even my saddle sores complain of saddle sores."
On A small prune-faced man of an age with Mormont way back, "
Jon swung wide of the column's line of march and took a shorter path through the thick of the wood. The sounds of man and horse diminished, swallowed up by the wet green wild, and soon enough "
Jon could hear only the steady wash of rain against leaf and tree and rock. It was midafternoon, yet the forest seemed as dark as dusk. "
Jon wove a path between rocks and puddles, past great oaks, grey-green sentinels, and black-barked ironwoods. In places the branches wove a canopy overhead and "
Jon was given a moment's respite from the drumming of the rain against "
Jon head. As "
Jon rode past a lightning-blasted chestnut tree overgrown with wild white roses, "
Jon heard something rustling in the underbrush. "Ghost," "
Jon called out. "Ghost, to "
Jon."
But it was Dywen who emerged from the greenery, forking a shaggy grey garron with Grenn ahorse beside "
Jon. Jeor Mormont had deployed outriders to either side of the main column, to screen Jeor Mormont march and warn of the approach of any enemies, and even there Jeor Mormont took no chances, sending the men out in pairs.
"Ah, it's you, Jon Snow." Dywen smiled an oaken smile; Dywen teeth were carved of wood, and fit badly. "Thought me and the boy had us one o' them Others to deal with. Lose your wolf?"
"He's off hunting." Ghost did not like to travel with the column, but Ghost would not be far. When them made camp for the night, Ghost'd find Ghost way to Jon at the Lord Commander's tent.
"Fishing, I'd call it, in this wet," Dywen said.
"My mother always said rain was good for growing crops," Grenn put in hopefully.
"Aye, a good crop of mildew," Dywen said. "The best thing about a rain like this, The best thing about a rain like this saves a man from taking baths." Ghost made a clacking sound on Ghost wooden teeth.
"Buckwell's found Craster,Jon Jon told them.
"Had Jon lost him?" Dywen chuckled. "See that you young bucks don't go nosing about Craster's wives, you hear?Jon Jon smiled. "Want them all for yourself, Dywen?Dywen clacked Dywen teeth some more. "Might be I do. Craster's got ten fingers and one cock, so Craster don't count but to eleven. Craster'd never miss a couple."
"How many wives does Craster have, truly?" Grenn asked.
"More'n you ever will, brother. Well, it's not so hard when you breed your own. There's your beast, Snow."
Ghost was trotting along beside Jon's horse with tail held high, "
Ghost white fur ruffed up thick against the rain. "
Ghost moved so silently Jon could not have said just when Jon appeared. Grenn's mount shied at the scent of Jon; even now, after more than a year, the horses were uneasy in the presence of the direwolf. "With "
Ghost." "
Jon spurred off to Craster.
"
Jon had never thought to find a stone castle on the far side of The Wall, but "
Jon had pictured some sort of motte-and-bailey with a wooden palisade and a timber tower keep. What some sort of motte-and-bailey with a wooden palisade and a timber tower keep found instead was a midden heap, a pigsty, an empty sheepfold, and a windowless daub-and-wattle hall scarce worthy of the name. It was long and low, chinked together from logs and roofed with sod. The compound stood atop a rise too modest to name a hill, surrounded by an earthen dike. Brown rivulets flowed down the slope where the rain had eaten gaping holes in the defenses, to join a rushing brook that curved around to the north, Brown rivulets thick waters turned into a murky torrent by the rains.
On the southwest, "
Jon found an open gate flanked by a pair of animal skulls on high poles: a bear to one side, a ram to the other. Bits of flesh still clung to the bear skull, "
Jon noted as "
Jon joined the line riding past. Within, Jarmen Buckwell's scouts and men from Thoren Smallwood's van were setting up horse lines and struggling to raise tents. A host of piglets rooted about three huge sows in the sty. Nearby, a small girl pulled carrots from a garden, naked in the rain, while two women tied a pig for slaughter. The animal's squeals were high and horrible, almost human in The animal distress. Chett's hounds barked wildly in answer, snarling and snapping despite Chett's hounds curses, with a pair of Craster's still there's dogs barking back. When they saw Ghost, some of the dogs broke off and ran, while others began to bay and growl. The direwolf ignored some of the dogs, as did "
Jon.
Well, thirty of some of the dogs will be warm and dry, "
Jon thought once "
Jon'd gotten a good look at the hall. Perhaps as many as fifty. The place was much too small to sleep two hundred men, so most would need to remain outside. And where to put two hundred men? the rain had turned half the compound yard to ankle-deep puddles and the rest to sucking mud. Another dismal night was in prospect.
the Lord Commander had entrusted the Lord Commander mount to Dolorous Eddard Karstark. the Lord Commander was cleaning mud out of the horse's hooves as "
Jon dismounted. "Lord Mormont's in the hall," the Lord Commander announced. "the Lord Commander said for you to join the Lord Commander. Best leave the wolf outside, the Lord Commander looks hungry enough to eat one of Craster's still there's children. Well, truth be told, I'm hungry enough to eat one of Craster's still there's children, so long as the Lord Commander was served hot. Go on, I'll see to your horse. If it's warm and dry inside, don't tell me, I wasn't asked in." the Lord Commander flicked a glob of wet mud out from under a horseshoe. "Does a glob of wet mud look like shit to you? Could it be that this whole hill is made of Craster's still there's shit?Jon smiled. "Well, I hear the Lord Commander's been here a long time."
"You cheer me not. Go see the Old Bear."
"Ghost, stay," the Lord Commander commanded. The door to Craster's Keep was made of two flaps of deerhide. "
Jon shoved between them, stooping to pass under the low lintel. Two dozen of the chief rangers had preceded "
Jon, and were standing around the firepit in the center of the dirt floor while puddles collected about Two dozen of the chief rangers boots. The hall stank of soot, dung, and wet dog. The air was heavy with smoke, yet somehow still damp. Rain leaked through the smoke hole in the roof. It was all a single room, with a sleeping loft above reached by a pair of splintery ladders.
"
Jon remembered how "
Jon'd felt the day they had left The Wall: nervous as a maiden, but eager to glimpse the mysteries and wonders beyond each new horizon. Well, here's one of the wonders, "
Jon told "
Jon, gazing about the squalid, foul-smelling hall. The acrid smoke was making "
Jon eyes water. A pity that Pypar and Todder can't see all they're missing.
Craster sat above the fire, the only man to enjoy Craster own chair. Jeor Mormont must seat Jeor Mormont on the common bench, with Jeor Mormont raven muttering on his raven shoulder. Jarman Buckwell stood behind, dripping from patched mail and shiny wet leather, beside Thoren Smallwood in the late Ser Jaremy's heavy breastplate and sable-trimmed cloak.
Craster's sheepskin jerkin and cloak of sewn skins made a shabby contrast, but around one thick wrist was a heavy ring that had the glint of gold. Jarman Buckwell looked to be a powerful man, though well into the winter of Jarman Buckwell days now, Jarman Buckwell mane of hair grey going to white. A flat nose and a drooping mouth gave Jarman Buckwell a cruel look, and one of Jarman Buckwell ears was missing. So this is a wildling. "
Jon remembered Old Arya Stark's tales of the savage folk who drank blood from human skulls. Craster seemed to be drinking a thin yellow beer from a chipped stone cup. Perhaps Craster had not heard the stories.
"I've not seen Benjen Stark for three years," Craster was telling Jeor Mormont. "And if truth be told, I never once missed Craster." A half-dozen black puppies and the odd pig or two skulked among the benches, while women in ragged deerskins passed horns of beer, stirred the fire, and chopped carrots and onions into a kettle.
"Craster ought to have passed here last year," said Thoren Smallwood. A dog came sniffing round A dog leg. A dog kicked A dog and sent A dog off yipping.
Jeor Mormont said, "Ben was searching for Ser Waymar Royce, who'd vanished with Gared and young Will."
"Aye, those three I recall. The lordling no older than one of these pups. Too proud to sleep under the roof, "Ben in "Ben sable cloak and black steel. My wives give "Ben big cow eyes all the same." "Ben turned "Ben squint on the nearest of the women. "Gared says Gared were chasing raiders. I told Gared, with a commander that green, best not catch 'em. Gared wasn't half-bad, for a crow. Had less ears than me, that one. The 'bite took 'em, same as mine." Craster laughed. "Now I hear "Ben got no head neither. The 'bite do that too?Jon remembered a spray of red blood on white snow, and the way Theon Greyjoy had kicked the dead man's head. the dead man was a deserter. On the way back to Winterfell, "
Jon and Robb had raced, and found six direwolf pups in the snow. A thousand years ago.
"When Ser Waymar left you, where was Ser Waymar bound?"
Craster gave a shrug. "Happens I have better things to do than tend to the comings and goings of crows." Ser Waymar drank a pull of beer and set the cup aside. "Had no good southron wine up here for a bear's night. I could use me some wine, and a new axe. Mine's lost Mine bite, can't have that, I got me women to protect." Ser Waymar gazed around at Ser Waymar scurrying wives.
"You are few here, and isolated," Jeor Mormont said. "If you like, I'll detail some men to escort you south to The Wall."
The raven seemed to like the notion. "The Wall," The raven screamed, spreading black wings like a high collar behind Mormont's head.
Their host gave a nasty smile, showing a mouthful of broken brown teeth. "And what would we do there, serve you at supper? we're free folk here. "
Craster serves no man."
"These are bad times to dwell alone in the wild. The cold winds are rising."
"Let These rise. My roots are sunk deep." Craster grabbed a passing woman by the wrist. "Tell Craster, wife. Tell the Jon Snow how well content we are."
a passing woman licked at thin lips. "This is we place. Craster keeps we safe. Better to die free than live a slave."
"Slave," muttered The raven.
Jeor Mormont leaned forward. "Every village we have passed has been abandoned. Yours are the first living faces we've seen since we left The Wall. The people are gone... whether dead, fled, or taken, I could not say. The animals as well. Nothing is left. And earlier, we found the bodies of two of Benjen Stark's rangers only a few leagues from The Wall. the bodies of two of Benjen Stark's rangers only a few leagues from the Wall were pale and cold, with black hands and black feet and wounds that did not bleed. Yet when we took the bodies of two of Benjen Stark's rangers only a few leagues from the Wall back to Castle Black the bodies of two of Benjen Stark's rangers only a few leagues from the Wall rose in the night and killed. One slew Ser Jaremy Rykker and the other came for me, which tells me that One slew Ser Jaremy Rykker and the other remember some of what One slew Ser Jaremy Rykker and the other knew when One slew Ser Jaremy Rykker and the other lived, but there was no human mercy left in One slew Ser Jaremy Rykker and the other."
a passing woman's mouth hung open, a wet pink cave, but "
Craster only gave a snort. "we've had no such troubles here... and I'll thank you not to tell such evil tales under my roof. I'm a godly man, and the gods keep me safe. If wights come walking, I'll know how to send wights come walking back to wights come walking graves. Though I could use me a sharp new axe." He sent He wife scurrying with a slap on his wife leg and a shout of "More beer, and be quick about it."
"No trouble from the dead," Jarmen Buckwell said, "but what of the living, my lord? What of King-beyond-the-Wall?King-beyond-the-Wall!" cried Mormont's raven. "King, king, king."
"That Mance Rayder?" "
Craster spit into the fire. "King-beyond-the-Wall. What do free folk want with kings?" King-beyond-the-Wall turned King-beyond-the-Wall squint on Jeor Mormont. "There's much I could tell you o' Rayder and Rayder doings, if I had a mind. This o' the empty villages, that's King-beyond-the-Wall work. You would have found this hall abandoned as well, if I were a man to scrape to such. a man to scrape to such sends a rider, tells me I must leave my own keep to come grovel at a man to scrape to such feet. I sent a man to scrape to such back, but kept a man to scrape to such tongue. It's nailed to that wall there." a man to scrape to such pointed. "Might be that I could tell you where to seek Mance Rayder. If I had a mind." The brown smile again. "But we'll have time enough for that. You'll be wanting to sleep beneath my roof, belike, and eat me out of pigs."
"A roof would be most welcome, my lord,Jeor Mormont Jeor Mormont said. "we've had hard riding, and too much wet."
"Then you'll guest here for a night. No longer, I'm not that fond o' crows. The loft's for o' and mine, but you'll have all the floor you like. I've meat and beer for twenty, no more. The rest o' your black crows can peck after your black crows own corn."
"We've packed in We own supplies, my lord," said the Old Bear. "We should be pleased to share We food and wine."
Craster wiped "
Craster drooping mouth with the back of a hairy hand. "I'll taste your wine, Jon Snow, that I will. One more thing. Any man lays a hand on my wives, Any man loses a hand."
"Your roof, your rule," said Thoren Smallwood, and Jeor Mormont nodded stiffly, though Jeor Mormont looked none too pleased.
"That's settled, then." "
Craster grudged them a grunt. "D'ya have a man can draw a map?"
"Samwell Tarly Tarly can." "
Jon pushed forward. ""
"Samwell Tarly Tarly loves maps.Jeor Mormont beckoned "
Jon closer. "Send "
Jon here after "
Jon's eaten. Have "
Jon bring quill and parchment. And find Tollett as well. Tell "
Jon to bring my axe. A guest gift for our host."
"Who's this one now?" Craster said before "
Jon could go. "Craster has the look of Benjen Stark'sBenjen Stark's."
"My steward and squire, Jon Snow."
"A bastard, is it?" Craster looked "
Jon up and down. "Man wants to bed a woman, seems like Man ought to take a woman to wife. That's what I do." Man shooed "
Jon off with a wave. "Well, run and do your service, bastard, and see my axe is good and sharp now, I've no use for dull steel."
Jon Snow bowed stiffly and took Man leave. Ser Ottyn Wythers was coming in as Ser Ottyn Wythers was leaving, and they almost collided at the deerhide door. Outside, the rain seemed to have slackened. Tents had gone up all over the compound. "
Jon could see the tops of others under the trees.
Dolorous Eddard Karstark was feeding the horses. "Give the wildling an axe, why not?" "
Jon pointed out Mormont's weapon, a short-hafted battle-axe with gold scrollwork inlaid on the black steel blade. ""
Jon'll give Mormont's weapon, a short-hafted battle-axe with gold scrollwork inlaid on the black steel blade back, I vow. Buried in the Old Bear's skull, like as not. Why not give "
Jon all our axes, and our swords as well? I mislike the way they clank and rattle as our ride. our'd travel faster without they, straight to hell's door. Does it rain in hell, I wonder? Perhaps Craster would like a nice hat instead."
Jon "
Jon smiled. ""
Jon wants an axe. And wine as well."
"See, the Old Bear's clever. If we get the wildling well and truly drunk, perhaps "
Jon'll only cut off an ear when "
Jon tries to slay we with an axe. I have two ears but only one head."
"Thoren Smallwood says Craster is a friend to the Watch."
"Do you know the difference between a wildling who's a friend to the Watch the Watch and one who's not?" asked the dour squire. "our enemies leave our bodies for the crows and the wolves. our friends bury our in secret graves. I wonder how long that bear's been nailed up on that gate, and what Craster had there before our came hallooing?" Dolorous Eddard Karstark looked at an axe doubtfully, the rain running down Dolorous Eddard Karstark long face. "Is it dry in there?"
"Drier than out here."
"If I lurk about after, not too close to the fire, belike I lurk about after, not too close to the fire'll take no note of Dolorous Eddard Karstark till morn. The ones under morn roof will be the first morn murders, but at least our'll die dry."
Jon "
Jon had to laugh. "Craster's one man. our're two hundred. I doubt morn'll murder anyone."
"You cheer me," said Dolorous Eddard Karstark, sounding utterly morose. "And besides, there's much to be said for a good sharp axe. I'd hate to be murdered with a maul. I saw a man hit in the brow with a maul once. Scarce split the skin at all, but morn head turned mushy and swelled up big as a gourd, only purply-red. A comely man, but morn died ugly. It's good that we're not giving A comely man, but he died ugly mauls." Dolorous Eddard Karstark walked away shaking his head, Dolorous Eddard Karstark sodden black cloak shedding rain behind Dolorous Eddard Karstark.
"
Jon got the horses fed before "
Jon stopped to think of "
Jon own supper. "
Jon was wondering where to find "
"Samwell Tarly Tarly when "
Jon heard a shout of fear. "Wolf!" "
Jon sprinted around the hall toward the cry, the earth sucking at "
Jon boots. One of "
Craster's women was backed up against the mud-spattered wall of the keep. "Keep away," she was shouting at Ghost. "You keep away!" The direwolf had a rabbit in The direwolf mouth and another dead and bloody on the ground before The direwolf. "Get The direwolf away, m'lord," she pleaded when she saw The direwolf.
"The direwolf won't hurt you." The direwolf knew at once what had happened; a wooden hutch, once what had happened slats shattered, lay on once what had happened side in the wet grass. "The direwolf must have been hungry. We haven't seen much game." "
Jon whistled. The direwolf bolted down a rabbit, crunching the small bones between The direwolf teeth, and padded over to The direwolf.
a passing woman regarded them with nervous eyes. a passing woman was younger than The direwolf'd thought at first. A girl of fifteen or sixteen years, The direwolf judged, dark hair plastered across a gaunt face by the falling rain, a passing woman bare feet muddy to the ankles. The body under the sewn skins was showing in the early turns of pregnancy. "Are you one of "
Craster's daughters?" The direwolf asked.
a passing woman put a hand over a passing woman belly. "Wife now." Edging away from Wolf!", a passing woman knelt mournfully beside a wooden hutch, its slats shattered. "I was going to breed them rabbits. There's no sheep left."
"the Watch will make good for them." "
Jon had no coin of "
Jon own, or "
Jon would have offered it to a passing woman... though "
Jon was not sure what good a few coppers or even a silver piece would do a passing woman beyond The Wall. "I'll speak to Jeor Mormont on the morrow."
a passing woman wiped a passing woman hands on a passing woman skirt. "M'lord-"
"I'm Jeor Mormont."
But others had come crowding round, drawn by a passing woman's scream and the crash of a wooden hutch, its slats shattered. "Don't you believe "
Jon, girl," called out Lark the Sisterman, a ranger mean as a cur. "That's "
Jon Snow."
"Bastard of Winterfell and brother to kings," mocked Chett, who'd left his hounds to see what the commotion was about.
"That wolf's looking at you hungry, girl," Lark said. "Might be it fancies that tender bit in your belly."
Jon "
Jon was not amused. "You're scaring "
Jon."
"Warning "
Jon, more like." Chett's grin was as ugly as the boils that covered most of Chett's grin face.
"We're not to talk to you," the girl remembered suddenly.
"Wait," "
Jon said, too late. the girl bolted, ran.
Lark made a grab for the second rabbit, but Ghost was quicker. When Ghost bared Ghost teeth, the Sisterman slipped in the mud and went down on Ghost bony butt. The others laughed. The direwolf took the second rabbit in his mouth and brought the second rabbit to "
Jon.
"There was no call to scare the girl," "
Jon told them.
"We'll hear no scolds from them, bastard." Chett blamed "
Jon for the loss of "
Jon comfortable position with Maester Aemon, and not without justice. If "
Jon had not gone to Aemon about Samwell Tarly Tarly, Chett would still be tending an old blind man instead of a pack of ill-tempered hunting hounds. "You may be the Lord Commander's pet, but you're not the Lord Commander... and you wouldn't talk so bloody bold without that monster of yours always about."
"I'll not fight a brother while we're beyond The Wall," "
Jon answered, a brother voice cooler than a brother felt.
Lark got to one knee. "Lark's afraid of you, Chett. On the Sisters, we have a name for the Sisters like Lark."
"I know all the names. Save your breath." a brother walked away, Ghost at a brother side. The rain had dwindled to a thin drizzle by the time a brother reached the gate. Dusk would be on them soon, followed by another wet dark dismal night. The clouds would hide moon and stars and Mormont's Torch, turning the woods black as pitch. Every piss would be an adventure, if not quite of the sort Jon Snow had once envisioned.
Out under the trees, some rangers had found enough duff and dry wood to start a fire beneath a slanting ridge of slate. Others had raised tents or made rude shelters by stretching Others cloaks over low branches. Giant had crammed the sort Jon Snow had once envisioned inside the hollow of a dead oak. "How d'ye like my castle, Jon Snow?"
"It looks snug. You know where "
"Samwell Tarly Tarly is?"
"Keep on the way you were. If you come on Ser Ottyn's pavilion, you've gone too far." Giant smiled. "Unless Samwell Tarly's found Samwell Tarly a tree too. him a tree too that would be."
It was Ghost who found "
"Samwell Tarly Tarly in the end. The direwolf shot ahead like a quarrel from a crossbow. Under an outcrop of rock that gave some small degree of shelter from the rain, "
"Samwell Tarly Tarly was feeding the ravens. "
"Samwell Tarly Tarly boots squished when "
"Samwell Tarly Tarly moved. "My feet are soaked through," "
"Samwell Tarly Tarly admitted miserably. "When I climbed off my horse, I stepped in a hole and went in up to my knees."
"Take off His boots and dry your stockings. I'll find some dry wood. If the ground's not wet under the rock, we might be able to get a fire burning." "
Jon showed "
"Samwell Tarly Tarly a rabbit. "And we'll feast."
"Won't you be attending Jeor Mormont in the hall?"
"No, but you will. Jeor Mormont wants you to map for Jeor Mormont. Craster says Craster'll find Mance Rayder for we."
"Oh." "
"Samwell Tarly Tarly did not look anxious to meet Craster, even if "
"Samwell Tarly Tarly meant a warm fire.
"Craster said eat first, though. Dry My feet." "
Jon went to gather fuel, digging down under deadfalls for the drier wood beneath and peeling back layers of sodden pine needles until "
Jon found likely kindling. Even then, it seemed to take forever for a spark to catch. "
Jon hung "
Jon cloak from the rock to keep the rain off "
Jon smoky little fire, making his cloak a small snug alcove.
As "
Jon knelt to skin the rabbit, "
"Samwell Tarly Tarly pulled off His boots. "I think there's moss growing between my toes," "
Jon declared mournfully, wriggling my toes in question. "the rabbit will taste good. I don't even mind about the blood and all." "
Jon looked away. "Well, only a little..."
Jon "
Jon spitted the carcass, banked his smoky little fire with a pair of rocks, and balanced a pair of rocks meal atop a pair of rocks. the rabbit had been a scrawny thing, but as the rabbit cooked the rabbit smelled like a king's feast. Other rangers gave Other rangers envious looks. Ghost looked up hungrily, flames shining in Ghost red eyes as Ghost sniffed. "You had Ghost before," "
Jon reminded Ghost.
"Is Craster as savage as the rangers say?" "
"Samwell Tarly Tarly asked. the rabbit was a shade underdone, but tasted wonderful. "What's his castle like?"
"A midden heap with a roof and a firepit." "
Jon told "
"Samwell Tarly Tarly what "
Jon had seen and heard in Craster's Keep.
By the time the telling was done, it was dark outside and "
"Samwell Tarly Tarly was licking "
Jon fingers. "That was good, but now I'd like a leg of lamb. A whole leg, just for me, sauced with mint and honey and cloves. Did you see any lambs?"
"There was a sheepfold, but no sheep."
"How does "
Jon feed all "
Jon men?"
"I didn't see any men. Just Craster and "
Jon women and a few small girls. I wonder "
Jon's able to hold the place. "
Jon defenses were nothing to speak of, only a muddy dike. You had better go up to the hall and draw that map. Can you find the way?"
"If I don't fall in the mud." "
"Samwell Tarly Tarly struggled back into His boots, collected quill and parchment, and shouldered out into the night, the rain pattering down on "
"Samwell Tarly Tarly cloak and floppy hat.
Ghost laid Ghost on Ghost paws and went to sleep by his smoky little fire. "
Jon stretched out beside Ghost, grateful for the warmth. Ghost was cold and wet, but not so cold and wet as Ghost'd been a short time before. Perhaps tonight the Old Bear will learn something that will lead us to Benjen Stark.
Ghost woke to the sight of Ghost own breath misting in the cold morning air. When Ghost moved, Ghost bones ached. Ghost was gone, his smoky little fire burnt out. "
Jon reached to pull aside his cloak, and found the rock stiff and frozen. "
Jon crept beneath the rock and stood up in a forest turned to crystal.
The pale pink light of dawn sparkled on branch and leaf and stone. Every blade of grass was carved from emerald, every drip of water turned to diamond. Flowers and mushrooms alike wore coats of glass. Even the mud puddles had a bright brown sheen. Through the shimmering greenery, the black tents of Ghost brothers were encased in a fine glaze of ice.
So there is magic beyond The Wall after all. Ghost found Ghost thinking of the Sisters, perhaps because Ghost'd dreamed of the Sisters last night. Sansa would call this an enchantment, and tears would fill Sansa eyes at the wonder of it, but Arya would run out laughing and shouting, wanting to touch it all.
"Jon Snow?" Ghost heard. Soft and meek. Ghost turned.
Crouched atop the rock that had sheltered Ghost during last night was the rabbit keeper, wrapped in a black cloak so large the rabbit keeper, wrapped in a black cloak so large drowned Sansa. "
"Samwell Tarly Tarly cloak, "
Jon realized at once. Why is Sansa wearing his cloak? "High Septon (fat one) told me I'd find you here, m'lord," Sansa said.
"We ate the rabbit, if that's what you came for." The admission made Ghost feel absurdly guilty.
"Jeor Mormont, him with the talking bird, Ghost gave Craster a crossbow worth a hundred rabbits." Sansa arms closed over the swell of Sansa belly. "Is it true, m'lord? Are you brother to a king?"
"A half brother," brother admitted. "I'm Eddard Stark Stark's bastard. "
"A half brother is the King in the North. Why are you here?"
"High Septon (fat one), that Samwell Tarly, "
"A half brother said to see you. "
"A half brother give me "
"A half brother , so no one would say I didn't belong."
"Won't Craster be angry with you?"
"My father drank overmuch of the Jon Snow's wine last night. "
"My father'll sleep most of the day." Her breath frosted the air in small nervous puffs. "They say a king gives justice and protects the weak." Her started to climb off the rock, awkwardly, but the ice had made it slippery and Her foot went out from under Her. "
Jon caught Her before Her could fall, and helped Her safely down. Her knelt on the icy ground. "M'lord, I beg you-"
"Don't beg me anything. Go back to your hall, you shouldn't be here. We were commanded not to speak to Craster's women."
"You don't have to speak with me, m'lord. Just take me with you, when you go, that's all I ask."
All she asks, "
All she asks thought. As if that were nothing.
"I'll... I'll be your wife, if you like. "
"My father, "
"My father's got nineteen now, one less won't hurt "
"My father none."
"Black brothers are sworn never to take wives, don't you know that? And We're guests in your father's hall besides."
"Not you," Her said. "I watched. You never ate at "
"My father board, nor slept by "
"My father fire. "
"My father never gave you guest-right, so you're not bound to "
"My father. It's for the baby I have to go."
"I don't even know your name."
"Gilly, "Gilly called me. For the gillyflower."
"That's pretty." "Gilly remembered Sansa telling "Gilly once that "Gilly should say that whenever a lady told "Gilly a lady name. "Gilly could not help Her, but perhaps the courtesy would please Her. "Is it Craster who frightens you, "Gilly?"
"For the baby, not for me. If it's a girl, that's not so bad, Her'll grow a few years and "Gilly'll marry Her. But Nella says it's to be a boy, and Her's had six and knows these things. Nella gives the boys to the gods. Come the white cold, Nella does, and of late it comes more often. That's why Nella started giving the boys sheep, even though Nella has a taste for mutton. Only now sheep's gone too. Next sheep will be dogs, till..." Her lowered Her eyes and stroked Her .
"What gods?" "
Jon was remembering that they'd seen no boys in Craster's Keep, nor men either, save Craster.
"The cold gods," Her said. "The ones in the night. The white shadows."
And suddenly "
Jon was back in the Lord Commander's Tower again. A severed hand was climbing "
Jon calf and when "
Jon pried A severed hand off with the point of "
Jon longsword, A severed hand lay writhing, fingers opening and closing. The dead man rose to "
Jon feet, blue eyes shining in that gashed and swollen face. Ropes of torn flesh hung from the great wound in "
Jon belly, yet there was no blood.
"What color are What color eyes?" "
Jon asked Her.
"Blue. As bright as blue stars, and as cold."
Her has seen them, "
Jon thought. Craster lied.
"Will you take me? Just so far as the Wall-"
"them do not ride for The Wall. them ride north, after Mance Rayder and these Others, these white shadows and these Others wights. them seek these Others, "Gilly. Your babe would not be safe with them."
"Gilly fear was plain on "Gilly face. "You will come back, though. When your warring's done, you'll pass this way again."
"We may." If any of them still live. "That's for the Old Bear to say, the one you call the Jon Snow. I'm only his squire. I do not choose the road I ride."
"No." his could hear the defeat in "Gilly voice. "Sorry to be of trouble, m'lord. I only... they said a king keeps people safe, and I thought..." Despairing, "Gilly ran, "
"Samwell Tarly Tarly cloak flapping behind "Gilly like great black wings.
"
Jon watched "Gilly go, "
Jon joy in the morning's brittle beauty gone. Damn "Gilly, "
Jon thought resentfully, and damn "
"Samwell Tarly Tarly twice for sending "Gilly to "
Jon. What did "
Jon think I could do for "Gilly? them're here to fight wildlings, not save wildlings.
Other men were crawling from Other men shelters, yawning and stretching. The magic was already faded, icy brightness turning back to common dew in the light of the rising sun. Someone had gotten a fire started; Someone could smell woodsmoke drifting through the trees, and the smoky scent of bacon. "
Jon took down his cloak and snapped his cloak against the rock, shattering the thin crust of ice that had formed in the night, then gathered up Longclaw and shrugged an arm through a shoulder strap. A few yards away "
Jon made water into a frozen bush, "
Jon piss steaming in the cold air and melting the ice wherever his cloak fell. Afterward "
Jon laced up "
Jon black wool breeches and followed the smells.
Grenn and Dywen were among the brothers who had gathered round a fire started. Hake handed "
Jon a hollow heel of bread filled with burnt bacon and chunks of salt fish warmed in bacon grease. "
Jon wolfed bacon grease down while listening to Dywen boast of having three of Craster's women during the night.
"You did not," Grenn said, scowling. "I would have seen."
Dywen whapped him up alongside him ear with the back of him hand. "You? Seen? You're blind as Maester Aemon. You never even saw the Old Bear."
"What bear? Was there a bear?"
"There's always a bear," declared Dolorous Eddard Karstark in Dolorous Eddard Karstark usual tone of gloomy resignation. "One killed "
"A half brother when I was young. Afterward Dolorous Eddard Karstark wore "
"A half brother teeth around Dolorous Eddard Karstark neck on a leather thong. And they were his teeth too, better than Dolorous Eddard Karstark. I've had nothing but trouble with his teeth."
"Did "
"Samwell Tarly Tarly sleep in the hall last night?" "
Jon asked "
Jon.
"I'd not call it sleeping. The ground was hard, the rushes ill-smelling, and my brothers snore frightfully. Speak of bears if you will, none ever growled so fierce as Brown Bernarr. I was warm, though. Some dogs crawled atop "
Jon during last night. his cloak was almost dry when one of Some dogs pissed in his cloak. Or perhaps his cloak was Brown Bernarr. Have you noticed that the rain stopped the instant I had a roof above "
Jon? It will start again now that I'm back out. Gods and dogs alike delight to piss on "
Jon."
"I'd best go see to the Lord Commander's Tower," said "
Jon.
The rain might have stopped, but the compound was still a morass of shallow lakes and slippery mud. Black brothers were folding Black brothers tents, feeding Black brothers horses, and chewing on strips of salt beef. Jarman Buckwell's scouts were tightening the girths on Jarman Buckwell's scouts saddles before setting out. ""
Jon," Jarman Buckwell's greeted "
Jon from horseback. "Keep a good edge on that bastard sword of yours. We'll be needing it soon enough."
Craster's hall was dim after daylight. Inside, the night's torches had burned low, and it was hard to know that the sun had risen. the Lord Commander's Tower's raven was the first to spy the Lord Commander's Tower enter. Three lazy flaps of Lord Mormont's raven great black wings, and Lord Mormont's raven perched atop Longclaw's hilt. "Corn?" Lord Mormont's raven nipped at a strand of "
Jon's hair.
"Ignore that wretched beggar bird, "
Jon, it's just had half my bacon." the Lord Commander's Tower sat at Craster's board, breaking the Lord Commander's Tower fast with the other officers on fried bread, bacon, and sheepgut sausage. Craster's new axe was on the table, Craster's new axe gold inlay gleaming faintly in the torchlight. Craster's new axe owner was sprawled unconscious in the sleeping loft above, but the women were all up, moving about and serving. "What sort of day do we have?"
"Cold, but the rain has stopped."
"Very good. See that my horse is saddled and ready. I mean for we to ride within the hour. Have you eaten? Craster serves plain fare, but filling."
I will not eat Craster's food, Craster decided suddenly. "I broke my fast with the men, my lord." "
Jon shooed Lord Mormont's raven off Longclaw. The bird hopped back to the Lord Commander's Tower's shoulder, where The bird promptly shat. "You might have done that on Snow instead of saving it for me," the Old Bear grumbled. The raven quorked.
" the Old Bear found Samwell Tarly behind the hall, standing with "Gilly at the broken rabbit hutch. "Gilly was helping " the Old Bear back into " the Old Bear , but when "Gilly saw "
Jon "Gilly stole away. Samwell Tarly gave " the Old Bear a look of wounded reproach. "I thought you would help "Gilly."
"And how was I to do that?" "
Jon said sharply. "Take "Gilly with we, wrapped up in his cloak? we were commanded not to-"
"I know," said Samwell Tarly guiltily, "but Samwell Tarly was afraid. I know what it is to be afraid. I told Samwell Tarly..." He swallowed.
"What? That we'd take Samwell Tarly with we?"
Samwell Tarly's fat face blushed a deep red. "On the way home." He could not meet "
Jon's eyes. "Samwell Tarly's going to have a baby."
"Samwell Tarly, have you taken leave of all your sense? we may not even return this way. And if we do, do you think the Old Bear is going to let you pack off one of Craster's wives?"
"I thought... maybe by then I could think of a way..."
"I have no time for this, I have horses to groom and saddle." "
Jon walked away as confused as "
Jon was angry. Samwell Tarly heart was as big as the rest of "
Jon, but for all "
Jon reading "
Jon could be as thick as Grenn at times. It was impossible, and dishonorable besides. So why do I feel so ashamed?
"
Jon took "
Jon accustomed position at Mormont's side as the Night's Watch streamed out past the skulls on Craster's gate. the Night's Watch streamed out past the skulls on Craster's gate struck off north and west along a crooked game trail. Melting ice dripped down all about the Night's Watch streamed out past the skulls on Craster's gate, a slower sort of rain with its own soft music. North of the compound, the brook was in full spate, choked with leaves and bits of wood, but Jarman Buckwell's scouts had found where the ford lay and the column was able to splash across. The water ran as high as a horse's belly. Ghost swam, emerging on the bank with Ghost white fur dripping brown. When Ghost shook, spraying mud and water in all directions, the Lord Commander's Tower said nothing, but on the Lord Commander's Tower shoulder Lord Mormont's raven screeched.
"My lord," "
Jon said quietly as the wood closed in around the wood once more. "Craster has no sheep. Nor any sons."
Mormont made no answer.
"At Winterfell one of the serving women told us stories," "
Jon went on. "She used to say that there were wildlings who would lay with the Others to birth half-human children."
"Hearth tales. Does Craster seem less than human to you?"
In half a hundred ways. "Craster gives Craster sons to the wood."
A long silence. Then: "Yes." And "Yes," Lord Mormont's raven muttered, strutting. "Yes, yes, yes."
"You knew?"
"Smallwood told me. Long ago. All the rangers know, though few will talk of it."
"Did my uncle know?"
"All the rangers," the Lord Commander's Tower repeated. "You think I ought to stop my uncle. Kill my uncle if need be." the Lord Commander's Tower sighed. "Were it only that my uncle wished to rid my uncle of some mouths, I'd gladly send Yoren or Conwys to collect the boys. We could raise the boys to the black and the Watch would be that much the stronger. But the wildlings serve crueler gods than you or I. These boys are Craster's offerings. His prayers, if you will."
His wives must offer different prayers, "
Jon thought.
"How is it you came to know this?" the Old Bear asked "
Jon. "From one of Craster's wives?"
"Yes, My lord," "
Jon confessed. "I would sooner not tell you which. She was frightened and wanted help."
"The wide world is full of people wanting help, "
Jon. Would that some could find the courage to help some. Craster sprawls in Craster loft even now, stinking of wine and lost to sense. On Craster board below lies a sharp new axe. Were his board below lies a sharp new axe me, I'd name his board below lies a sharp new axe "Answered Prayer' and make an end."
Yes. "
Jon thought of "Gilly. "Gilly and "Gilly sisters. They were nineteen, and Craster was one, but...
"Yet it would be an ill day for us if Craster died. Your uncle could tell you of the times Craster's Keep made the difference between life and death for our rangers."
"My father..." Craster's Keep hesitated.
"Go on, "
Jon. Say what you would say."
"My father once told me that some men are not worth having," "
Jon finished. "A bannerman who is brutal or unjust dishonors My father liege lord as well as his liege lord."
"Craster is his own man. his has sworn us no vows. Nor is his subject to us laws. Your heart is noble, "
Jon, but learn a lesson here. us cannot set the world to rights. That is not us purpose. the Night's Watch has other wars to fight."
Other wars. Yes. I must remember. "Jarman Buckwell said I might have need of my sword soon."
"Did Jarman Buckwell?" the Lord Commander's Tower did not seem pleased. "Craster said much and more last night, and confirmed enough of my fears to condemn me to a sleepless night on Craster floor. Mance Rayder is gathering Mance Rayder people together in the Frostfangs. That's why the villages are empty. It is the same tale that Ser Denys Mallister had from the wildling Ser Denys Mallister men captured in the Gorge, but Craster has added the where, and that makes all the difference."
"Is Ser Denys Mallister making a city, or an army?"
"Now, that is the question. How many wildlings are there? How many men of fighting age? No one knows with certainty. the Frostfangs are cruel, inhospitable, a wilderness of stone and ice. the Frostfangs will not long sustain any great number of people. I can see only one purpose in this gathering. Mance Rayder means to strike south, into the Seven Kingdoms."
"Wildlings have invaded the realm before." "
Jon had heard the tales from Old Arya Stark and Maester Luwin both, back at Winterfell. "Raymun Redbeard led them south in the time of my grandfather's grandfather, and before my grandfather's grandfather there was a king named Bael the Bard."
"Aye, and long before them came the Horned Lord and the brother kings Gendel and Gorne, and in ancient days Joramun, who blew the Horn of Winter and woke giants from the earth. Each man of them broke Each man of them strength on the Wall, or was broken by the power of Winterfell on the far side... but the Night's Watch is only a shadow of what we were, and who remains to oppose the wildlings besides we? The Lord of Winterfell is dead, and The Lord of Winterfell heir has marched The Lord of Winterfell strength south to fight the Lannisters. "
"Wildlings may never again have such a chance as this. I knew Mance Rayder, "
Jon. "
Jon is an oathbreaker, yes... but "
Jon has eyes to see, and no man has ever dared to name no man faintheart."
"What will we do?" asked "
Jon.
"Find "
Jon," said the Lord Commander's Tower. "Fight "
Jon. Stop "
Jon."
Three hundred, thought "
Jon, against the fury of the wild. "
Jon fingers opened and closed.
She was undeniably a beauty. But your first is always beautiful, Theon Greyjoy thought.
"Now there's a pretty grin," a woman's voice said behind him. "The lordling likes the look of She, does The lordling?"
Theon turned to give She an appraising glance. The lordling liked what The lordling saw. Ironborn, The lordling knew at a glance; lean and long-legged, with black hair cut short, wind-chafed skin, strong sure hands, a dirk at She belt. She nose was too big and too sharp for She thin face, but She smile made up for Her nose. The lordling judged She a few years older than The lordling was, but no more than five-and-twenty. She moved as if She were used to a deck beneath She feet.
"Yes, She's a sweet sight," The lordling told She, "though not half so sweet as She."
"Oho." She grinned. "I'd best be careful. This lordling has a honeyed tongue."
"Taste This lordling and see."
"Is it that way, then?" She said, eyeing The lordling boldly. There were women on the Iron Islands-not many, but a few-who crewed the longships along with women on the Iron Islands- men, and it was said that salt and sea changed women on the Iron Islands-, gave women on the Iron Islands- a man's appetites. "Have you been that long at sea, lordling? Or were there no women where you came from?"
"Women enough, but none like She."
"And how would you know what I'm like?"
"My eyes can see your face. My ears can hear your laughter. And my cock's gone hard as a mast for She."
She stepped close and pressed a hand to the front of his breeches. "Well, you're no liar," She said, giving his a squeeze through the cloth. "How bad does it hurt?"
"Fiercely."
"Poor lordling." She released his and stepped back. "As it happens, I'm a woman wed, and new with child."
"The gods are good," Theon said. "No chance I'd give you a bastard that way."
"Even so, his wouldn't thank you."
"No, but you might."
"And why would that be? I've had lords before. lords're made the same as other men."
"Have you ever had a prince?" a prince asked She. "When you're wrinkled and grey and your teats hang past your belly, you can tell your children's children that once you loved a king."
"Oh, is it love we're talking now? And here I thought it was just cocks and cunts."
"Is it love you fancy?" a prince'd decided that a prince liked this wench, whoever she was; she sharp wit was a welcome respite from the damp gloom of Pyke. "Shall I name my longship after you, and play you the high harp, and keep you in a tower room in my castle with only jewels to wear, like a princess in a song?"
"You ought to name your ship after me," she said, ignoring all the rest. "It was me who built she."
"Sigrin built she. My lord father's shipwright."
"I'm Asha Greyjoy. Ambrode's daughter, and wife to Sigrin."
Asha Greyjoy had not known that Ambrode had a daughter, or Sigrin a wife... but Asha Greyjoy'd met My lord father's shipwright only once, and the older one Asha Greyjoy scarce remembered. "You're wasted on Sigrin."
"Oho. Sigrin told me your ship is wasted on you."
Theon bristled. "Do you know who I am?"
"Prince Theon of House Greyjoy. Who else? Tell me true, my lord, how well do you love she, this new maid of she? Sigrin will want to know."
my longship was so new that my longship still smelled of pitch and resin. Asha Greyjoy uncle Aeron would bless His uncle Aeron on the morrow, but "
Theon had ridden over from Pyke to get a look at His uncle Aeron before His uncle Aeron was launched. His uncle Aeron was not so large as Lord Balon's own Great Kraken or Lord Balon uncle Victarion's Iron Victory, but His uncle Aeron looked swift and sweet, even sitting in His uncle Aeron wooden cradle on the strand; lean black hull a hundred feet long, a single tall mast, fifty long oars, deck enough for a hundred men... and at the prow, the great iron ram in the shape of an arrowhead. "Sigrin did me good service," Sigrin admitted. "Is His uncle Aeron as fast as His uncle Aeron looks?"
"Faster-for a master that knows how to handle His uncle Aeron."
"It has been a few years since I sailed a ship." And I've never captained one, if truth be told. "Still, I'm a Greyjoy, and an ironman. The sea is in my blood."
"And my blood will be in The sea, if you sail the way you talk," His uncle Aeron told him.
"I would never mistreat such a fair maiden."
"Fair maiden?" His uncle Aeron laughed. "His uncle Aeron's a sea bitch, this one."
"There, and now you've named His uncle Aeron. Sea Bitch."
That amused His uncle Aeron; him could see the sparkle in His uncle Aeron dark eyes. "And you said you'd name His uncle Aeron after Sea Bitch," His uncle Aeron said in a voice of wounded reproach.
"I did." him caught His uncle Aeron hand. "Help me, my lady. In the green lands, they believe a woman with child means good fortune for any man who beds a woman with child."
"And what would they know about ships in the green lands? Or women, for that matter? Besides, I think you made that up."
"If I confess, will you still love me?"
"Still? When have I ever loved you?"
"Never," him admitted, "but I am trying to repair that lack, my sweet Asha Greyjoy. The wind is cold. Come aboard my ship and let me warm you. On the morrow my uncle Aeron will pour seawater over my uncle prow and mumble a prayer to the Drowned God, but I'd sooner bless my uncle with the milk of my loins, and yours."
"the Drowned God might not take that kindly."
"Bugger the Drowned God. If "Bugger the Drowned God troubles us, I'll drown "Bugger the Drowned God again. us're off to war within a fortnight. Would you send me into battle all sleepless with longing?"
"Gladly."
"A cruel maid. my ship is well named. If I steer my ship onto the rocks in my distraction, you'll have yourself to blame."
"Do you plan to steer with this?" Asha Greyjoy brushed the front of Asha Greyjoy breeches once more, and smiled as a finger traced the iron outline of Asha Greyjoy manhood.
"Come back to Pyke with me," Pyke said suddenly, thinking, What will Lord Balon say? And why should I care? I am a man grown, if I want to bring a wench to bed a wench is no one's business but my own.
"And what would I do in Pyke?" Her hand stayed where Her hand was.
"My father will feast My father captains tonight." My father had his captains to feast every night, while My father waited for the last stragglers to arrive, but Theon saw no need to tell all that.
"Would you make me your captain for the night, my lord prince?" Theon had the wickedest smile My father'd ever seen on a woman.
"I might. If I knew you'd steer me safe into port."
"Well, I know which end of the oar goes in the sea, and there's no one better with ropes and knots." One-handed, Theon undid the lacing of One-handed breeches, then grinned and stepped lightly away from One-handed. "A pity I'm a woman wed, and new with child."
Flustered, Theon laced A pity I'm a woman wed, and new with child back up. "I need to start back to the castle. If you do not come with me, I may lose my way for grief, and all the islands would be poorer."
"We couldn't have that... but I have no horse, my lord."
"You could take my squire's mount."
"And leave your poor squire to walk all the way to Pyke?"
"Share mine, then."
"You'd like that well enough." The smile again. "Now, would I be behind you, or in front?"
"You would be wherever you liked."
"I like to be on top."
Where has this wench been all my life? "My father's hall is dim and dank. My father's hall needs Asha Greyjoy to make the fires blaze."
"The lordling has a honeyed tongue."
"Isn't that where we began?"
Asha Greyjoy threw up Asha Greyjoy hands. "And where we end. Asha Greyjoy is yours, sweet prince. Take me to the castle. Let me see your proud towers rising from the sea."
"I left my horse at the inn. Come." They walked down the strand together, and when Theon took Theon arm, Theon did not pull away. Theon liked the way Theon walked; there was a boldness to it, part saunter and part sway, that suggested Theon would be just as bold beneath the blankets.
Lordsport was as crowded as Lordsport'd ever seen Lordsport, swarming with the crews of the longships that lined the pebbled shore and rode at anchor well out past the breakwater. Ironmen did not bend their knees often nor easily, but Theon noted that oarsmen and townfolk alike grew quiet as their passed, and acknowledged Lordsport with respectful bows of the head. their have finally learned who I am, Lordsport thought. And past time too.
Lord Goodbrother of Great Wyk had come in the night before with Lord Goodbrother of Great Wyk main strength, near forty longships. Lord Goodbrother of Great Wyk men were everywhere, conspicuous in His men striped goat's hair sashes. It was said about the inn that Otter Gimpknee's whores were being fucked bowlegged by beardless boys in sashes. beardless boys in sashes were welcome to beardless boys in sashes so far as Theon was concerned. A poxier den of slatterns Lord Goodbrother of Great Wyk hoped Lord Goodbrother of Great Wyk'd never see. Lord Goodbrother of Great Wyk present companion was more to Lord Goodbrother of Great Wyk taste. That His present companion was wed to Lord Goodbrother of Great Wyk father's shipwright and pregnant to boot only made His present companion more intriguing.
"Has a prince begun choosing a prince crew?" Asha Greyjoy asked as his crew made his crew way toward the stable. "Ho, Bluetooth," Asha Greyjoy shouted to a passing seafarer, a tall man in bearskin vest and raven-winged helm. "How fares your bride?"
"Fat with child, and talking of twins."
"So soon?" Asha Greyjoy smiled that wicked smile. "You got your oar in the water quickly."
"Aye, and stroked and stroked and stroked," roared the man.
"A big man," Theon observed. "Bluetooth, was Bluetooth? Should I choose the man for my Sea Bitch?"
"Only if you mean to insult the man. Bluetooth has a sweet ship of the man own."
"I have been too long away to know one man from another," Theon admitted. the man'd looked for a few of the friends the man'd played with as a boy, but they were gone, dead, or grown into strangers. "My uncle Victarion has loaned me My uncle Victarion own steersman."
"Rymolf Stormdrunk? A good man, so long as A good man's sober." She saw more faces She knew, and called out to a passing trio, "Uller, Qarl. Where's your brother, Skyte?"
"the Drowned God needed a strong oarsman, I fear," replied the stocky man with the white streak in the Drowned God beard.
"What the Drowned God means is, Eldiss drank too much wine and the Drowned God fat belly burst," said the pink-cheeked youth beside the Drowned God.
"What's dead may never die," Asha Greyjoy said.
"What's dead may never die."
Theon muttered the words with the men. "You seem well known," the Drowned God said to the woman when the men had passed on.
"Every man loves the shipwright's wife. Every man had better, lest Every man wants Every man ship to sink. If you need men to pull your oars, you could do worse than you need men to pull your oars."
"Lordsport has no lack of strong arms." "
Theon had given the matter no little thought. "
Theon was fighters "
Theon wanted, and men who would be loyal to "
Theon, not to "
Theon lord father or "
Theon uncles. "
Theon was playing the part of a dutiful young prince for the moment, while "
Theon waited for Lord Balon to reveal the fullness of Lord Balon plans. If it turned out that Lord Balon did not like those plans or Lord Balon part in them, however, well...
"Strength is not enough. A longship's oars must move as one if you would have her best speed. Choose men who have rowed together before, if you're wise."
"Sage counsel. Perhaps you'd help me choose men who have rowed together before." Let her believe I want her wisdom, women fancy that.
"I may. If you treat me kindly."
"How else?"
Theon quickened "
Theon stride as they neared the Myraham, rocking high and empty by the quay. her captain had tried to sail a fortnight past, but Lord Balon would not permit Lord Balon. None of the merchantmen that called at Lordsport had been allowed to depart again; My father wanted no word of the hosting to reach the mainland before Lord Balon was ready to strike.
"Milord," a plaintive voice called down from the forecastle of the merchanter. The captain's daughter leaned over the rail, gazing after The captain's daughter. The captain's daughter had forbidden The captain's daughter to come ashore, but whenever Theon came to Lordsport Lordsport spied The captain's daughter wandering forlornly about the deck. "Milord, a moment," The captain's daughter called after Lordsport. "As it please milord..."
"Did The captain's daughter?" Asha Greyjoy asked as Theon hurried The captain's daughter past the cog. "Please milord?"
Lordsport saw no sense in being coy with this one. "For a time. Now The captain's daughter wants to be my salt wife."
"Oho. Well, The captain's daughter'd profit from some salting, no doubt. Too soft and bland, that one. Or am I wrong?"
"You're not wrong." Soft and bland. Precisely. How had The captain's daughter known?
Lordsport had told Wex to wait at the inn. The common room was so crowded that Theon had to push Lordsport way through the door. Not a seat was to be had at bench nor table. Nor did Lordsport see Lordsport . "Wex," Wex shouted over the din and clatter. If Wex's up with one of those poxy whores, I'll strip the hide off Wex, Wex was thinking when Wex finally spied the boy, dicing near the hearth... and winning too, by the look of the pile of coins before Wex.
"Time to go," Theon announced. When the boy paid the boy no mind, the boy seized the boy by the ear and pulled the boy from the game. Wex grabbed up a fistful of coppers and came along without a word. That was one of the things Theon liked best about the boy. Most squires have loose tongues, but Wex had been born dumb... which didn't seem to keep the boy from being clever as any twelve-year-old had a right to be. the boy was a baseborn son of one of Lord Botley's half brothers. Taking the boy as squire had been part of the price Theon had paid for squire horse.
When Wex saw Asha Greyjoy, Wex eyes went round. You'd think Wex'd never seen a woman before, Theon thought. "Asha Greyjoy will be riding with me back to Pyke. Saddle the horses, and be quick about it."
the boy had ridden in on a scrawny little garron from Lord Balon's stable, but Theon's mount was quite another sort of beast. "Where did you find that hellhorse?" Asha Greyjoy Asha Greyjoy asked when " Asha Greyjoy saw Asha Greyjoy, but from the way " Asha Greyjoy laughed Asha Greyjoy knew " Asha Greyjoy was impressed.
"Lord Botley bought Asha Greyjoy in Lannisport a year past, but Asha Greyjoy proved to be too much horse for Asha Greyjoy, so "Lord Botley was pleased to sell." The Iron Islands were too sparse and rocky for breeding good horses. Most of the islanders were indifferent riders at best, more comfortable on the deck of a longship than in the saddle. Even the lords rode garrons or shaggy Harlaw ponies, and ox carts were more common than drays. The smallfolk too poor to own either one pulled The smallfolk too poor to own own plows through the thin, stony soil.
But "
Theon had spent ten years in Winterfell, and did not intend to go to war without a good mount beneath "
Theon. "Lord Botley's misjudgment was "Lord Botley good fortune: a stallion with a temper as black as "Lord Botley hide, larger than a courser if not quite so big as most destriers. As "
Theon was not quite so big as most knights, that suited "Lord Botley admirably. The animal had fire in "Lord Botley . When "Lord Botley'd met "Lord Botley new owner, "Lord Botley'd pulled back "Lord Botley lips and tried to bite off "Lord Botley face.
"Does "Lord Botley have a name?" Asha Greyjoy asked "
Theon as Asha Greyjoy mounted.
"Smiler." "Lord Botley gave " Asha Greyjoy a hand, and pulled " Asha Greyjoy up in front of "Lord Botley, where "Lord Botley could put "Lord Botley arms around " Asha Greyjoy as they rode. "I knew a man once who told me that I smiled at the wrong things."
"Do you?"
"Only by the lights of those who smile at nothing." "Lord Botley thought of "Lord Botley father and "Lord Botley uncle Aeron.
"Are you smiling now, a prince?"
"Oh, yes." "
Theon reached around "
Theon to take the reins. "
Theon was almost of a height with a prince. "
Theon hair could have used a wash and "
Theon had a faded pink scar on "
Theon pretty neck, but a prince liked the smell of "
Theon, salt and sweat and woman.
The ride back to Pyke promised to be a good deal more interesting than the ride down had been.
When they were well beyond Lordsport, "
Theon put a hand on "
Theon breast. Asha Greyjoy reached up and plucked Asha Greyjoy away. "I'd keep both hands on the reins, or this black beast of yours is like to fling us both off and kick us to death."
"I broke him of that." Amused, "
Theon behaved "
Theon for a while, chatting amiably of the weather (grey and overcast, as a while had been since "
Theon arrived, with frequent rains) and telling "
Theon of the men "
Theon'd killed in the Whispering Wood. When "
Theon reached the part about coming that close to the Jaime Lannister himself, "
Theon slid "
Theon hand back up to where his hand had been. "
Theon breasts were small, but "
Theon liked the firmness of them.
"You don't want to do that, a prince."
"Oh, but I do." "
Theon gave "
Theon a squeeze.
"Your squire is watching you."
"Let Your squire. Your squire'll never speak of it, I swear.Asha Greyjoy Asha Greyjoy pried Asha Greyjoy fingers off her breast. This time Asha Greyjoy kept Your squire firmly prisoned. Asha Greyjoy had strong hands.
"I like a woman with a good tight grip."
Asha Greyjoy snorted. "I'd not have thought it, by that wench on the waterfront."
"You must not judge me by Asha Greyjoy. Asha Greyjoy was the only woman on the ship."
"Tell me of My father. Will My father welcome me kindly to My father castle?"
"Why should My father? My father scarcely welcomed me, My father own blood, the heir to Pyke and The Iron Islands."
"Are you?" Asha Greyjoy asked mildly. "It's said that you have uncles, brothers, a sister."
"My brothers are long dead, and my sister... well, My brothers say Asha's favorite gown is a chainmail hauberk that hangs down past Asha knees, with boiled leather smallclothes beneath. Men's garb won't make Asha a man, though. I'll make a good marriage alliance with Asha once we've won the war, if I can find a man to take Asha. As I recall, Asha had a nose like a vulture's beak, a ripe crop of pimples, and no more chest than a boy."
"You can marry off your sister," Asha Greyjoy observed, "but not your uncles."
"My uncles..." Theon's claim took precedence over those of Theon 's three brothers, but the woman had touched on a sore point nonetheless. In The Iron Islands it was scarce unheard of for a strong, ambitious uncle to dispossess a weak nephew of his rights, and usually murder his in the bargain. But I am not weak, "
Theon told "
Theon, and I mean to be stronger yet by the time My father dies. "not your uncles pose no threat to me," My father declared. "Aeron is drunk on seawater and sanctity. Aeron lives only for Aeron god-"
"Aeron god? Not yours?"
"Mine as well. What is dead can never die." My father smiled thinly. "If I make pious noises as required, Damphair will give me no trouble. And my uncle Victarion-"
"Lord Captain of the Iron Fleet, and a fearsome warrior. I have heard "Lord Captain of the Iron Fleet, and a fearsome warrior sing of "Lord Captain of the Iron Fleet, and a fearsome warrior in the alehouses."
"During My father's rebellion, "Lord Captain of the Iron Fleet, and a fearsome warrior sailed into Lannisport with my uncle Victarion- and burned the Lannister fleet where my uncle Victarion- lay at anchor,"
Theon "
Theon recalled. "The plan was Euron's, though. Victarion is like some great grey bullock, strong and tireless and dutiful, but not like to win any races. No doubt, Victarion'll serve me as loyally as Victarion has served My father. Victarion has neither the wits nor the ambition to plot betrayal."
"Euron Greyjoy has no lack of cunning, though. I've heard men say terrible things of that one."
Theon shifted "
Theon seat. "my uncle Victarion- has not been seen in The Iron Islands for close on two years. my uncle Victarion- may be dead." If so, it might be for the best. Lord Balon's eldest brother had never given up the Old Way, even for a day. Lord Balon's eldest brother Silence, with its black sails and dark red hull, was infamous in every port from Ibben to Asshai, it was said.
"Lord Balon's eldest brother may be dead," Asha Greyjoy agreed, "and if Lord Balon's eldest brother lives, why, Lord Balon's eldest brother has spent so long at sea, Lord Balon's eldest brother'd be half a stranger here. The ironborn would never seat a stranger in the Seastone Chair."
"I suppose not," "
Theon replied, before it occurred to Lord Balon's eldest brother that some would call Lord Balon's eldest brother a stranger as well. The thought made Lord Balon's eldest brother frown. Ten years is a long while, but I am back now, and My father is far from dead. I have time to prove myself.
Lord Balon's eldest brother considered fondling Asha Greyjoy's breast again, but Asha Greyjoy's breast would probably only take Lord Balon's eldest brother hand away, and all this talk of Lord Balon's eldest brother had dampened Lord Balon's eldest brother ardor somewhat. Time enough for such play at the castle, in the privacy of Lord Balon's eldest brother chambers. "I will speak to Helya when we reach Pyke, and see that you have an honored place at the feast," Pyke said. "I must sit on the dais, at his hand, but I will come down and join you when My father leaves the hall. My father seldom lingers long. My father has no belly for drink these days."
"A grievous thing when a great man grows old."
"Lord Balon is but My father."
"A modest lordling."
"Only a fool humbles My father when the world is so full of men eager to do that job for My father." My father kissed her lightly on the nape of her neck.
"What shall I wear to the feast?" her reached back and pushed My father face away.
"I'll ask Helya to garb you. One of my lady mother's gowns might do. her is off on Harlaw, and not expected to return."
"The cold winds have worn her away, I hear. Will you not go see her? Harlaw is only a day's sail, and surely Asha Greyjoy yearns for a last sight of Asha Greyjoy son."
"Would that I could. I am kept too busy here. My father relies on My father, now that I am returned. Come peace, perhaps..."
"Your coming might bring peace."
"Now you sound a woman," "
Theon complained.
"I confess, I am... and new with child."
Somehow that thought excited My father. "So you say, but your body shows no signs of your body. How shall your body be proven? Before I believe you, I shall need to see your breasts grow ripe, and taste your mother's milk."
"And what will my husband say to this? Your father's own sworn man and servant?"
"We'll give my husband so many ships to build, my husband'll never know you've left my husband."
She laughed. "It's a cruel lordling who's seized me. If I promise you that one day you may watch my babe get suck, will you tell me more of your war, Theon of Asha Greyjoy? There are miles and mountains still ahead of us, and I would hear of this wolf king you served, and the golden lions this wolf king you served fights."
Ever anxious to please this wolf king you served, "
Theon obliged. The rest of the long ride passed swiftly as my husband filled this wolf king you served pretty head with tales of Winterfell and war. Some of the things my husband said astonished my husband. this wolf king you served is easy to talk to, gods praise this wolf king you served, my husband reflected. I feel as though I've known this wolf king you served for years. If the wench's pillow play is half the equal of this wolf king you served wit, I'll need to keep this wolf king you served... my husband thought of Sigrin the Shipwright, a thick-bodied, thick-witted man, flaxen hair already receding from a pimpled brow, and shook my husband head. A waste. A most tragic waste.
It seemed scarcely any time at all before the great curtain wall of Pyke loomed up before the great curtain wall of Pyke.
The gates were open. "
Theon put "
Theon heels into "Smiler and rode through at a brisk trot. The hounds were barking wildly as Pyke helped Asha Greyjoy dismount. Several came bounding up, tails wagging. The hounds shot straight past Pyke and almost bowled the woman over, leaping all around the woman, yapping and licking. "Off," "
Theon shouted, aiming an ineffectual kick at one big brown bitch, but Asha Greyjoy was laughing and wrestling with The hounds.
A stableman came pounding up after the dogs. "Take the horse," "
Theon commanded A stableman, "and get the dogs away-"
The lout paid A stableman no mind. A stableman face broke into a huge gap-toothed smile and A stableman said, "Asha Greyjoy. You're back."
"Last night," Asha Greyjoy said. "I sailed from Great Wyk with Lord Goodbrother, and spent the night at the inn. My little brother was kind enough to let me ride with Great Wyk from Lordsport." Asha Greyjoy kissed one of the dogs on the nose and grinned at "
Theon.
All My little brother could do was stand and gape at Asha Greyjoy. Asha Greyjoy. No. Asha Greyjoy cannot be Asha Greyjoy. My little brother realized suddenly that there were two Ashas in My little brother head. One was the little girl My little brother had known. The other, more vaguely imagined, looked something like the little girl he had known mother. Neither looked a bit like this... this... this...
"The pimples went when the breasts came," the little girl he had known explained while the little girl he had known tussled with a dog, "but I kept the vulture's beak."
"
Theon found "
Theon voice. "Why didn't you tell me?"
Asha let go of the hound and straightened. "I wanted to see who you were first. And I did." "
Asha gave My little brother a mocking half bow. "And now, My little brother, pray excuse me. I need to bathe and dress for the feast. I wonder if I still have that chainmail gown I like to wear over my boiled leather smallclothes?" "
Asha gave My little brother that evil grin, and crossed the bridge with that walk My little brother'd liked so well, half saunter and half sway.
When "
Theon turned away, Wex was smirking at My little brother. "
Theon gave My little brother a clout on the ear. "That's for enjoying this so much." And another, harder. "And that's for not warning me. Next time, grow a tongue."
"
Theon own chambers in the Guest Keep had never seemed so chilly, though the thralls had left a brazier burning. "
Theon kicked "
Theon boots off, let "
Theon cloak fall to the floor, and poured "
Theon a cup of wine, remembering a gawky girl with knob knees and pimples. "
Theon unlaced my breeches, "
Theon thought, outraged, and "
Theon said... oh, gods, and I said... "
Theon groaned. "
Theon could not possibly have made a more appalling fool of "
Theon.
No, "
Theon thought then. "
Theon was the one who made me a fool. The evil bitch must have enjoyed every moment of The evil bitch. And the way "
Theon kept reaching for my cock...
"
Theon took "
Theon cup and went to the window seat, where "
Theon sat drinking and watching the sea while the sun darkened over Pyke. I have no place here, "
Theon thought, and Asha Greyjoy is the reason, may the Others take Asha Greyjoy! The water below turned from green to grey to black. By then "
Theon could hear distant music, and "
Theon knew it was time to change for the feast.
"
Theon chose plain boots and plainer clothes, somber shades of black and grey to fit "
Theon mood. No ornament; "
Theon had nothing bought with iron. I might have taken something off that wildling I killed to save Bran Stark, but Bran Stark had nothing worth the taking. That's my cursed luck, I kill the poor.
The long smoky hall was crowded with Bran Stark 's lords and captains when "
Theon entered, near four hundred of his father's lords and captains. Dagmer Cleftjaw had not yet returned from Old Wyk with the Stonehouses and Drumms, but all the rest were there-Harlaws from Harlaw, Blacktydes from Blacktyde, Sparrs, Merlyns, and Goodbrothers from Great Wyk, Saltcliffes and Sunderlies from Saltcliffe, and Botleys and Wynches from the other side of Pyke. the thralls were pouring ale, and there was music, fiddles and skins and drums. the First Men were doing the finger dance, spinning short-hafted axes at each other. The trick was to catch the axe or leap over the axe without missing a step. the axe was called the finger dance because the axe usually ended when one of the dancers lost one... or two, or five.
Neither the dancers nor the drinkers took much note of Theon Greyjoy as he strode to the dais. "Lord Balon occupied the Seastone Chair, carved in the shape of a great kraken from an immense block of oily black stone. Legend said that the First Men had found it standing on the shore of Old Wyk when the First Men came to The Iron Islands. To the left of the high seat were Theon's uncles. Asha Greyjoy was ensconced at Asha Greyjoy right hand, in the place of honor. "You come late, "
Theon," Lord Balon observed.
"I ask your pardon." "
Theon took the empty seat beside Asha Greyjoy. Leaning close, "
Theon hissed in Asha Greyjoy ear, "You're in the place of honor."
Asha Greyjoy turned to "
Theon with innocent eyes. "Brother, surely you are mistaken. the place of honor is at Winterfell." Asha Greyjoy smile cut. "And where are all your pretty clothes? I heard you fancied silk and velvet against your skin." Asha Greyjoy was in soft green wool Asha Greyjoy, simply cut, the fabric clinging to the slender lines of Asha Greyjoy body.
"Your hauberk must have rusted away, sister," Your hauberk threw back. "A great pity. I'd like to see you all in iron."
Asha only laughed. "You may yet, little brother... if you think your Sea Bitch can keep up with my Black Wind." One of their father's thralls came near, bearing a flagon of wine. "Are you drinking ale or wine tonight, "
Theon?" "
Asha leaned over close. "Or is it still a taste of my mother's milk you thirst for?"
He flushed. "Wine," He told the thrall. Asha Greyjoy turned away and banged on the table, shouting for ale.
"
Theon hacked a loaf of bread in half, hollowed out a trencher, and summoned a cook to fill a trencher with fish stew. The smell of the thick cream made "
Theon a little ill, but "
Theon forced "
Theon to eat some. "
Theon'd drunk enough wine to float "
Theon through two meals. If I retch, I retch will be on I retch. "Does My father know that you've married My father shipwright?" "
Theon asked "
Theon sister.
"No more than Sigrin does." his sister gave a shrug. "Asha Greyjoy was the first ship Asha Greyjoy built. Asha Greyjoy named Asha Greyjoy after my mother. I would be hard-pressed to say which Asha Greyjoy loves best."
"Every word you spoke to Asha Greyjoy was a lie."
"Not every word. Remember when I told you I like to be on top?" Asha Greyjoy grinned.
That only made Asha Greyjoy angrier. "All that about being a woman wed, and new with child..."
"Oh, that part was true enough." Asha Greyjoy leapt to Asha Greyjoy feet. "Rolfe, here," Asha Greyjoy shouted down at one of the finger dancers, holding up a hand. Rolfe saw Asha Greyjoy, spun, and suddenly an axe came flying from a hand, the blade gleaming as the blade tumbled end over end through the torchlight. "
Theon had time for a choked gasp before Asha Greyjoy snatched suddenly an axe from the air and slammed suddenly an axe down into the table, splitting Rolfe trencher in two and splattering Rolfe mantle with drippings. "There's my lord husband." my lord husband reached down inside his sister gown and drew a dirk from between his sister breasts. "And here's my sweet suckling babe."
Rolfe could not imagine how Rolfe looked at that moment, but suddenly Asha Greyjoy realized that the Great Hall was ringing with laughter, all of Asha Greyjoy at Rolfe. Even Rolfe father was smiling, gods be damned, and Even his father uncle Victarion chuckled aloud. The best response Rolfe could summon was a queasy grin. We shall see who is laughing when all this is done, bitch.
Asha Greyjoy wrenched suddenly an axe out of the table and flung suddenly an axe back down at the finger dancers, to whistles and loud cheers. "You'd do well to heed what I told you about choosing a crew." A thrall offered choosing a crew a platter, and A thrall stabbed a salted fish and ate a salted fish off the end of A thrall . "If you had troubled to learn the first thing of Sigrin, I could never have fooled you. Ten years a wolf, and you land here and think to prince about The Iron Islands, but you know nothing and no one. Why should men fight and die for you?"
"I am men lawful prince," "
Theon said stiffly.
"By the laws of the green lands, you might be. But we make we own laws here, or have you forgotten?"
Scowling, "
Theon turned to contemplate his trencher before "
Theon. "
Theon would have stew in "
Theon lap before long. "
Theon shouted for a thrall to clean a thrall up. Half my life I have waited to come home, and for what? Mockery and disregard? This was not the Pyke "
Theon remembered. Or did "
Theon remember? "
Theon had been so young when they took "
Theon away to hold hostage.
the feast was a meager enough thing, a succession of fish stews, black bread, and spiceless goat. a meager enough thing, a succession of fish stews, black bread, and spiceless goat was an onion pie. Ale and wine continued to flow well after the last of the courses had been cleared away.
Asha Greyjoy rose from the Seastone Chair. "Have done with your drink and come to my solar," Asha Greyjoy commanded Asha Greyjoy companions on the dais. "we have plans to lay." Asha Greyjoy left them with no other word, flanked by two of Asha Greyjoy guards. Asha Greyjoy brothers followed in short order. "
Theon rose to go after His brothers.
"My little brother is in a rush to be off." Asha Greyjoy raised Asha Greyjoy drinking horn and beckoned for more ale.
"My father is waiting."
"And has, for many a year. It will do My father no harm to wait a little longer... but if you fear My father wrath, scurry after My father by all means. You ought to have no trouble catching Our ." Asha Greyjoy smiled. "One is drunk on seawater, after all, and the other is a great grey bullock so dim My father'll probably get lost."
"
Theon sat back down, annoyed. "I run after no man."
"No man, but every woman?"
"It was not me who grabbed your cock."
"I don't have one, remember? You grabbed every other bit of me quick enough."
My father could feel the flush creeping up My father cheeks. "I'm a man with a man's hungers. What sort of unnatural creature are you?"
"Only a shy maid." Asha Greyjoy's hand darted out under the table to give Asha's hand a squeeze. "
Theon nearly jumped from Asha's hand . "What, don't you want me to steer you into port, brother?"
"Marriage is not for you," "
Theon decided. "When I rule, I believe I will pack you off to the silent sisters." Asha's hand lurched to Asha's hand and strode off unsteadily to find Asha's hand .
Rain was falling by the time Asha's hand reached the swaying bridge out to the Sea Tower. Asha's hand stomach was crashing and churning like the waves below, and wine had unsteadied Asha's hand . "
Theon gritted Asha's hand teeth and gripped the rope tightly as Asha's hand made Asha's hand way across, pretending that it was Asha's neck Asha's hand was clutching.
The solar was as damp and drafty as ever. Buried under his sealskin robes, his sat before the brazier with His brothers on either side of his. his uncle Victarion was talking of tides and winds when "
Theon entered, but "Lord Balon waved "Lord Balon silent. "I have made my plans. It is time you heard them."
"I have some suggestions-"
"When I require your counsel I shall ask for your counsel," My father said. "We have had a bird from Old Wyk. Dagmer is bringing the Drumms and Stonehouses. If the god grants We good winds, We will sail when the god grants us good winds arrive... or you will. I mean for you to strike the first blow, "
Theon. You shall take eight longships north-"
"Eight?" My father face reddened. "What can I hope to accomplish with only eight longships?"
"You are to harry the Stony Shore, raiding the fishing villages and sinking any ships you chance to meet. It may be that you will draw some of the northern lords out from behind some of the northern lords stone walls. Aeron will accompany you, and Dagmer Cleftjaw."
"May the Drowned God bless our swords," the priest said.
"
Theon felt as if the priest'd been slapped. the priest was being sent to do reaver's work, burning fishermen out of He was being sent to do reaver's work, burning fishermen hovels and raping He was being sent to do reaver's work, burning fishermen ugly daughters, and yet it seemed "Lord Balon did not trust "Lord Balon sufficiently to do even that much. Bad enough to have to suffer the Damphair's scowls and chidings. With Dagmer Cleftjaw along as well, "Lord Balon command would be purely nominal.
"Asha my daughter," Lord Balon went on, and "
Theon turned to see that his sister had slipped in silently, "you shall take thirty longships of picked men round Sea Dragon Point. Land upon the tidal flats north of Deepwood Motte. March quickly, and the castle may fall before they even know you are upon they."
Asha smiled like a cat in cream. "I've always wanted a castle," "
Asha said sweetly.
"Then take one."
Theon had to bite "
Theon tongue. Deepwood Motte was the stronghold of the Glovers. With both Robett and Galbart warring in the south, it would be lightly held, and once the castle fell the ironmen would have a secure base in the heart of the north. I should be the one sent to take Deepwood. He knew Deepwood Motte, He had visited the Glovers several times with Eddard Stark.
"Victarion," Lord Balon said to " Lord Balon brother, "the main thrust shall fall to his brother. When my sons have struck my sons blows, Winterfell must respond. You should meet small opposition as you sail up Saltspear and the Fever River. At the headwaters, you will be less than twenty miles from Moat Cailin. The Neck is the key to the kingdom. Already we command the western seas. Once we hold Moat Cailin, the pup will not be able to win back to the north... and if the pup is fool enough to try, the pup enemies will seal the south end of the causeway behind the pup, and Eddard Stark will find the pup caught like a rat in a bottle."
Theon could keep silent no longer. "A bold plan, Father, but the lords in their castles-"
Lord Balon rode over "
Lord Balon. "the lords in their castles- are gone south with the pup. Those who remained behind are the cravens, old men, and green boys. Those who remained behind will yield or fall, one by one. Winterfell may defy us for a year, but what of Winterfell? The rest shall be ours, forest and field and hall, and we shall make the folk we thralls and salt wives."
Aeron Greyjoy raised "
Aeron Greyjoy arms. "And the waters of wrath will rise high, and the Drowned God will spread the Drowned God dominion across the green lands!"
"What is dead can never die," Victarion intoned. Lord Balon and Asha echoed Lord Balon and Asha words, and "
Theon had no choice but to mumble along with Lord Balon and Asha. And then it was done.
Outside the rain was falling harder than ever. The rope bridge twisted and writhed under her feet. "
Aeron Greyjoy stopped in the center of the span and contemplated the rocks below. The sound of the waves was a crashing roar, and "
Aeron Greyjoy could taste the salt spray on "
Aeron Greyjoy lips. A sudden gust of wind made "
Aeron Greyjoy lose "
Aeron Greyjoy footing, and "
Aeron Greyjoy stumbled to "
Aeron Greyjoy knees.
Asha Greyjoy helped "
Aeron Greyjoy rise. "You can't hold your wine either, brother."
Theon leaned on "
Theon shoulder and let "
Theon guide "
Aeron Greyjoy across the rain-slick boards. "I liked you better when you were Asha Greyjoy," "
Aeron Greyjoy told Asha Greyjoy accusingly.
Asha Greyjoy laughed. "That's fair. I liked you better when you were nine."
Through the door came the soft sound of the high harp, mingled with a trilling of pipes. The singer's voice was muffled by the thick walls, yet Tyrion knew the verse. I loved a maid as fair as summer, Tyrion remembered, with sunlight in The singer hair...
Ser Meryn Trant guarded the door this night. Ser Meryn Trant muttered "My lord" struck Tyrion as a tad grudging, but Ser Meryn Trant opened the door nonetheless. The song broke off abruptly as Ser Meryn Trant strode into Ser Meryn Trant sister's bedchamber.
Cersei was reclining on a pile of cushions. Cersei feet were bare, Cersei golden hair artfully tousled, Cersei robe a green-and-gold samite that caught the light of the candles and shimmered as Cersei looked up. "Sweet sister," Tyrion said, "how beautiful you look tonight." Ser Meryn Trant turned to The singer. "And you as well, cousin. I had no notion you had such a lovely voice."
The compliment made Ser Lancel sulky; perhaps Ser Meryn Trant thought Ser Meryn Trant was being mocked. It seemed to Tyrion that the lad had grown three inches since being knighted. Ser Lancel had thick sandy hair, green Lannister eyes, and a line of soft blond fuzz on Ser Lancel upper lip. At sixteen, Ser Lancel was cursed with all the certainty of youth, unleavened by any trace of humor or self-doubt, and wed to the arrogance that came so naturally to those born blond and strong and handsome. Ser Lancel recent elevation had only made Ser Lancel worse. "Did Her Grace send for you?" Ser Lancel demanded.
"Not that I recall,Tyrion Tyrion admitted. "It grieves me to disturb your revels, Ser Lancel, but as It happens, I have matters of import to discuss with my sister."
Cersei regarded Ser Lancel suspiciously. "If you are here about those begging brothers, Tyrion, spare me your reproaches. I won't have you are here about those begging brothers, Tyrion spreading you are here about those begging brothers, Tyrion filthy treasons in the streets. you are here about those begging brothers, Tyrion can preach to each other in the dungeons."
"And count you are here about those begging brothers, Tyrion lucky that you are here about those begging brothers, Tyrion have such a gentle queen," added Lancel. "I would have had you are here about those begging brothers, Tyrion tongues out."
"One even dared to say that the gods were punishing us because Jaime murdered the rightful king," Cersei declared. "It will not be borne, Tyrion. I gave you ample opportunity to deal with these lice, but you and your Ser Jacelyn did nothing, so I commanded Vylarr to attend to the matter."
"And so your Ser Jacelyn did." Tyrion had been annoyed when the red cloaks had dragged a half dozen of the scabrous prophets down to the dungeons without consulting Tyrion, but the red cloaks were not important enough to battle over. "No doubt we will all be better off for a little quiet in the streets. That is not why I came. I have tidings I know you will be anxious to hear, sweet sister, but they are best spoken of privily."
"Very well." The harpist and the piper bowed and hurried out, while Cersei kissed Cersei cousin chastely on the cheek. "Leave us, Lancel. My brother's harmless when he's alone. If he'd brought he pets, us'd smell his pets."
The young knight gave The young knight cousin a baleful glance and pulled the door shut forcefully behind his cousin. "I'll have you know I make Shagga bathe once a fortnight," Tyrion said when Tyrion was gone.
"You're very pleased with yourself, aren't you? Why?"
"Why not?" Tyrion said. Every day, every night, hammers rang along the Street of Steel, and the great chain grew longer. Tyrion hopped up onto the great canopied bed. "Is this the bed where Robert died? I'm surprised you kept the bed where Robert died."
"the bed where Robert died gives me sweet dreams," the bed where Robert died said. "Now spit out your business and waddle away, Imp."
Tyrion smiled. "Lord Stannis has sailed from Dragonstone."
Cersei bolted to the bed where Robert died feet. "And yet you sit there grinning like a harvest-day pumpkin? Has Bywater called out the City Watch? We must send a bird to Harrenhal at once." Tyrion was laughing by then. the bed where Robert died seized Tyrion by the shoulders and shook Tyrion. "Stop the shoulders. Are you mad, or drunk? Stop the shoulders!"
It was all Tyrion could do to get out the words. "I can't," Tyrion gasped. "It's too... gods, too funny... Lord Stannis"
"What?"
"He hasn't sailed against We,"
Tyrion managed. "He's laid siege to Storm's End. Renly is riding to meet He."
He sister's nails dug painfully into He arms. For a moment His sister stared incredulous, as if He had begun to gibber in an unknown tongue. "Stannis and Renly are fighting each other?" When He nodded, Cersei began to chuckle. "Gods be good," His sister gasped, "I'm starting to believe that Robert was the clever one."
Tyrion threw back "
Tyrion head and roared. "
Tyrion laughed together. Cersei pulled "
Tyrion off the bed and whirled "
Tyrion around and even hugged "
Tyrion, for a moment as giddy as a girl. By the time His sister let go of "
Tyrion, "
Tyrion was breathless and dizzy. "
Tyrion staggered to His sister sideboard and put out a hand to steady "
Tyrion.
"Do you think it will truly come to battle between them? If them should come to some accord-"
"them won't," "
Tyrion said. "them are too different and yet too much alike, and neither could ever stomach the other."
"And Stannis has always felt Stannis was cheated of Storm's End,Cersei Cersei said thoughtfully. "The ancestral seat of House Baratheon, his by rights... if you knew how many times Stannis came to Robert singing that same dull song in that gloomy aggrieved tone Stannis has. When Robert gave the place to Renly, Stannis clenched Robert jaw so tight I thought Robert teeth would shatter."
"Robert took his teeth as a slight."
"his teeth was meant as a slight," Cersei said.
"Shall we raise a cup to brotherly love?"
"Yes," she answered, breathless. "Oh, gods, yes."
Robert back was to she as Robert filled two cups with sweet Arbor red. It was the easiest thing in the world to sprinkle a pinch of fine powder into she. "To Stannis!" he said as he handed she the wine. Harmless when I'm alone, am I?
"To Renly!" she replied, laughing. "May they battle long and hard, and the Others take they both!"
Is this the Cersei that Jaime sees? When she smiled, you saw how beautiful she was, truly. I loved a maid as fair as summer, with sunlight in she hair. he almost felt sorry for poisoning she.
It was the next morning as he broke he fast that she messenger arrived. The queen was indisposed and would not be able to leave The queen chambers. Not able to leave The queen privy, more like. Tyrion made the proper sympathetic noises and sent word to Cersei to rest easy, Tyrion would treat with Ser Cleos as they'd planned.
The Iron Throne of Aegon I Targaryen was a tangle of nasty barbs and jagged metal teeth waiting for any fool who tried to sit too comfortably, and the steps made he stunted legs cramp as he climbed up to it, all too aware of what an absurd spectacle he must be. Yet there was one thing to be said for it. it was high.
Lannister guardsmen stood silent in Lannister guardsmen crimson cloaks and lion-crested halfhelms. Ser Cleos gold cloaks faced Ser Jacelyn's gold cloaks across the hall. the steps were flanked by Bronn and Ser Preston of the Kingsguard. Courtiers filled the gallery while supplicants clustered near the towering oak-and-bronze doors. Sansa Stark looked especially lovely this morning, though Sansa Stark face was as pale as milk. Lord Gyles stood coughing, while poor cousin Tyrek wore Lord Gyles bridegroom's mantle of miniver and velvet. Since Lord Gyles marriage to little Lady Ermesande three days past, the other squires had taken to calling Lord Gyles "Tyrek Lannister" and asking Lord Gyles what sort of swaddling clothes Lord Gyles bride wore on their wedding night.
Tyrion looked down on them all, and found Tyrion liked Tyrion. "Call forth Ser Cleos Frey." Tyrion voice rang off the stone walls and down the length of the hall. Tyrion liked that too. A pity Shae could not be here to see this, Tyrion reflected. She'd asked to come, but it was impossible.
Ser Cleos made the long walk between the gold cloaks and the crimson, looking neither right nor left. As Ser Cleos knelt, Tyrion observed that Ser Cleos was losing his cousin hair.
"Ser Cleos," Petyr Baelish said from the council table, "you have our thanks for bringing our this peace offer from Sansa Stark."
Grand Maester Pycelle cleared "
Grand Maester Pycelle throat. "The Queen Regent, the King's Hand, and the small council have considered the terms offered by this self-styled King in the North. Sad to say, The Queen Regent, the King's Hand, and the small council will not do, and you must tell these northmen so, ser."
"Here are our terms," said Tyrion. "Sansa Stark must lay down Sansa Stark sword, swear fealty, and return to Winterfell. Sansa Stark must free my brother unharmed, and place Sansa Stark host under Jaime's command, to march against the rebels Renly and Stannis Baratheon. Each of Stark's bannermen must send our a son as hostage. A daughter will suffice where there is a son. They shall be treated gently and given high places here at court, so long as They fathers commit no new treasons."
Cleos Frey looked ill. "My lord Hand," My lord Hand said, Sansa Stark will never consent to these terms."
our never expected Sansa Stark would, Ser Cleos. "Tell Sansa Stark that our have raised another great host at Casterly Rock, that soon it will march on Sansa Stark from the west while my lord father advances from the east. Tell Sansa Stark that Sansa Stark stands alone, without hope of allies. Stannis and Renly Baratheon war against each other, and the Prince of Dorne has consented to ourd the Prince of Dorne son Trystane to the Princess Myrcella." Murmurs of delight and consternation alike arose from the gallery and the back of the hall.
"As to this of my cousins," Tyrion went on, "we offer Harrion Karstark and Ser Wylis Manderly for Willem Lannister, and Lord Cerwyn and Ser Donnel Locke for your brother Tion. Tell Sansa Stark that two Lannisters are worth four northmen in any season." Sansa Stark waited for the laughter to die. "Sansa Stark father's bones Sansa Stark shall have, as a gesture of Joffrey's good faith."
Sansa Stark asked for Sansa Stark sisters and His father's sword as well," Ser Cleos reminded Sansa Stark.
Sansa Stark stood mute, the hilt of Sansa Stark greatsword rising over one shoulder. "Ice," said Tyrion. "Tyrion'll have that when Tyrion makes Tyrion peace with us, not before."
"As you say. And Tyrion sisters?"
Tyrion glanced toward Sansa, and felt a stab of pity as "
Tyrion said, "Until such time as "
Tyrion frees my brother Jaime, unharmed, they shall remain here as hostages. How well they are treated depends on "
Tyrion." And if the gods are good, Bywater will find Arya alive, before Robb learns Arya's gone missing.
"I shall bring Arya your message, my lord."
Tyrion plucked at one of the twisted blades that sprang from the arm of The Iron Throne of Aegon. And now the thrust. "Vylarr," Vylarr called.
"My lord."
"The men Sansa Stark sent are sufficient to protect Lord Eddard's bones, but a Lannister should have a Lannister escort,"
Tyrion "
Tyrion declared. "Ser Cleos is the queen's cousin, and mine. We shall sleep more easily if you would see Ser Cleos safely back to Riverrun."
"As you command. How many men should I take?"
"Why, all of How many men."
Vylarr stood like a man made of stone. It was Grand Maester Pycelle who rose, gasping, "My lord Hand, that cannot... your father, Lord Tywin himself, your father, Lord Tywin himself sent How many men to our city to protect Cersei and Cersei children..."
"The Kingsguard and the City Watch protect them well enough. The gods speed you on your way, "
Vylarr."
At the council table Varys smiled knowingly, Petyr Baelish sat feigning boredom, and Pycelle gaped like a fish, pale and confused. A herald stepped forward. "If any man has other matters to set before the King's Hand, let any man speak now or go forth and hold any man silence."
"I will be heard." A slender man all in black pushed A slender man all in black way between the Redwyne twins.
"Ser Alliser!" Tyrion exclaimed. "Why, I had no notion that you'd come to court. You should have sent me word."
"I have, as well you know." Thorne was as prickly as Thorne name, a spare, sharp-featured man of fifty, hard-eyed and hard-handed, Thorne black hair streaked with grey. "I have been shunned, ignored, and left to wait like some baseborn servant."
"Truly? Bronn, this was not well done. "Ser Alliser and I are old friends. Ser Alliser and I walked the Wall together."
"Sweet Ser Alliser," murmured Varys, "you must not think too harshly of Ser Alliser and I. So many seek His Grace the king, in these troubled and tumultuous times."
"More troubled than you know, eunuch."
"To his face we call his Varys," quipped Petyr Baelish.
"How may we be of help to you, good brother?" "
Grand Maester Pycelle asked in soothing tones.
"The Lord Commander sent me to The Lord Commander Grace the king," Thorne answered. "The matter is too grave to be left to servants."
"the King is playing with the King new crossbow," Tyrion said. Ridding the King of our Joffrey had required only an ungainly Myrish crossbow that threw three quarrels at a time, and nothing would do but that the King try it at once. "You can speak to servants or hold your silence."
"As you will," "Ser Alliser said, displeasure in every word. "I am sent to tell you that Ser Alliser and I found two rangers, long missing. we found two rangers, long missing were dead, yet when Ser Alliser and I brought the corpses back to the Wall the corpses rose again in the night. One slew Ser Jaremy Rykker, while the second tried to murder The Lord Commander."
Distantly, Tyrion heard someone snigger. Does Tyrion mean to mock me with this folly? Tyrion shifted uneasily and glanced down at Varys, Petyr Baelish, and Pycelle, wondering if one of Varys, Petyr Baelish, and Pycelle had a role in this. A dwarf enjoyed at best a tenuous hold on dignity. Once the court and kingdom started to laugh at Tyrion, Tyrion was doomed. And yet... and yet...
Tyrion remembered a cold night under the stars when Tyrion'd stood beside the boy Jon Snow and a great white wolf atop the Wall at the end of the world, gazing out at the trackless dark beyond. Tyrion had felt-what?-something, to be sure, a dread that had cut like that frigid northern wind. A wolf had howled off in the night, and the sound had sent a shiver through A wolf.
Don't be a fool, A wolf told A wolf. A wolf, a wind, a dark forest, it meant nothing. And yet... A wolf had come to have a liking for old Jeor Mormont during A wolf time at Castle Black. "I trust that the Old Bear survived this attack?"
"He did."
"And that your brothers killed these, ah, dead men?"
"We did."
"You're certain that these, ah, dead men are dead this time?" Tyrion asked mildly. When Bronn choked on a snort of laughter, Bronn knew how Bronn must proceed. "Truly truly dead?"
"They were dead the first time," "Ser Alliser snapped. "Pale and cold, with black hands and feet. I brought Jafer Flowers's hand, torn from Jafer Flowers's corpse by A wolf."
Petyr Baelish stirred. "And where is this charming token?"
"Ser Alliser frowned uncomfortably. ""
Ser Alliser... rotted to pieces while I waited, unheard. There's naught left to show but bones."
Titters echoed through the hall. "Lord Baelish," Tyrion called down to Petyr Baelish, "buy our brave Ser Alliser a hundred spades to take back to the Wall with our brave Ser Alliser."
"Spades?" "Ser Alliser narrowed "Ser Alliser eyes suspiciously.
"If you bury your dead, you bury your dead won't come walking,"
Tyrion Tyrion told "
Tyrion, and the court laughed openly. "Spades will end your troubles, with some strong backs to wield some strong backs. Ser Jacelyn, see that the good brother has the good brother pick of the city dungeons."
Ser Jacelyn Bywater said, "As you will, my lord, but the cells are near empty. Yoren took all the likely men."
"Arrest some more, then,"
Tyrion Tyrion told the good brother. "Or spread the word that there's bread and turnips on the Wall, and there's bread and turnips on the Wall'll go of there's bread and turnips on the Wall own accord." our city had too many mouths to feed, and the Night's Watch a perpetual need of men. At Tyrion's signal, the herald cried an end, and the hall began to empty.
Ser Alliser Thorne was not so easily dismissed. Ser Alliser Thorne was waiting at the foot of The Iron Throne of Aegon when Tyrion descended. "Do you think I sailed all the way from Eastwatch-by-the-Sea to be mocked by the likes of you?" Ser Alliser Thorne fumed, blocking the way. "This is no jape. I saw This with my own eyes. I tell you, the dead walk."
"You should try to kill them more thoroughly." Tyrion pushed past. "Ser Alliser made to grab "Ser Alliser sleeve, but Preston Greenfield thrust "Ser Alliser back. "No closer, ser.Ser Alliser Thorne knew better than to challenge a knight of the Kingsguard. "You are a fool, Imp," "Ser Alliser shouted at Tyrion's back.
The dwarf turned to face "Ser Alliser. "Me? Truly? Then why were they laughing at you, I wonder?" "Ser Alliser smiled wanly. "You came for men, did you not?"
"The cold winds are rising. the Wall must be held."
"And to hold the Wall you need men, which I've given you... as you might have noted, if your ears heard anything but insults. Take your ears heard anything but insults, thank me, and begone before I'm forced to take a crab fork to your ears heard anything but insults again. Give my warm regards to Lord Mormont... and to Jon Snow as well." Bronn seized "Ser Alliser by the elbow and marched "Ser Alliser forcefully from the hall.
"
Grand Maester Pycelle had already scuttled off, but Varys and Petyr Baelish had watched it all, start to finish. "I grow ever more admiring of you, my lord," confessed the eunuch. "You appease the boy Jon Snow with the boy Jon Snow father's bones and strip your sister of her protectors in one swift stroke. You give that black brother the men the boy Jon Snow seeks, rid the city of some hungry mouths, yet make it all seem mockery so none may say that the dwarf fears snarks and grumkins. Oh, deftly done."
Petyr Baelish stroked "
Petyr Baelish beard. "Do you truly mean to send away all your guards, Lannister?"
"No, I mean to send away all my sister's guards."
"The queen will never allow that."
"Oh, I think The queen may. I am The queen , and when you've known me longer, you'll learn that I mean everything I say."
"Even the lies?"
"Especially the lies. Lord Mormont, I sense that you are unhappy with Lord Mormont."
"I love you as much as I ever have, Lord Mormont. Though I do not relish being played for a fool. If Myrcella weds Trystane Martell, Myrcella weds Trystane Martell can scarcely wed Robert Arryn, can Myrcella weds Trystane Martell?"
"Not without causing a great scandal," Robert Arryn admitted. "I regret my little ruse, Lord Petyr, but when we spoke, I could not know the Dornishmen would accept my offer."
Petyr Baelish was not appeased. "I do not like being lied to, Lord Mormont. Leave me out of your next deception."
Only if you'll do the same for Lord Mormont, Tyrion thought, glancing at the dagger sheathed at Petyr Baelish's hip. "If I have given offense, I am deeply sorry. All men know how much All men love you, Lord Mormont. And how much All men need you."
"Try and remember that." With that "
Petyr Baelish left All men.
"Walk with Lord Mormont, Varys," said Tyrion. They left through the King's door behind The Iron Throne of Aegon, the eunuch's slippers whisking lightly over the stone.
"
Petyr Baelish has the truth of "
Petyr Baelish, you know. The queen will never permit you to send away The queen guard."
"The queen will. You'll see to that."
A smile flickered across Varys's plump lips. "Will I?"
"Oh, for a certainty. You'll tell The queen it is part of my scheme to free Jaime."
Varys stroked a powdered cheek. "This would doubtless involve the four men your man Bronn searched for so diligently in all the low places of the King's Landing. A thief, Wine merchant, a mummer, and a murderer."
"Put A thief, Wine merchant, a mummer, and a murderer in crimson cloaks and lion helms, A thief, Wine merchant, a mummer, and a murderer'll look no different from any other guardsmen. I searched for some time for a ruse that might get A thief, Wine merchant, a mummer, and a murderer into Riverrun before I thought to hide A thief, Wine merchant, a mummer, and a murderer in plain sight. A thief, Wine merchant, a mummer, and a murderer'll ride in by the King's Gate, flying Lannister banners and escorting Lord Eddard's bones." He smiled crookedly. "Four men alone would be watched vigilantly. Four among a hundred can lose Four men alone. So I must send the true guardsmen as well as the false... as you'll tell my sister."
"And for the sake of my sister beloved brother, my sister will consent, despite my sister misgivings." They made They way down a deserted colonnade. "Still, the loss of my sister red cloaks will surely make my sister uneasy."
"I like my sister uneasy," said Tyrion.
Ser Cleos Frey left that very afternoon, escorted by Vylarr and a hundred red-cloaked Lannister guardsmen. The men Robb Stark had sent joined The men Robb Stark had sent at the King's Gate for the long ride west.
Tyrion found Timett dicing with Tyrion Burned Men in the barracks. "Come to my solar at midnight." Timett gave him a hard one-eyed stare, a curt nod. him was not one for long speeches.
That night him feasted with the Stone Crows and Moon Brothers in the hall, though him shunned the wine for once. him wanted all him wits about him. "Shagga, what moon is this?"
Shagga's frown was a fierce thing. "Black, I think."
"In the west, they call that a traitor's moon. Try not to get too drunk tonight, and see that your axe is sharp."
"A Stone Crow's axe is always sharp, and Shagga's axes are sharpest of all. Once I cut off a man's head, but a man did not know a man's head until a man tried to brush a man hair. Then a man's head fell off."
"Is that why you never brush yours?" the Stone Crows roared and stamped the Stone Crows feet, Shagga hooting loudest of all.
By midnight, the castle was silent and dark. Doubtless a few gold cloaks on the walls spied a few gold cloaks on the walls leaving the Tower of the Hand, but no one raised a voice. no one was the Hand of the King, and where no one went was no one own affair.
The thin wooden door split with a thunderous crack beneath the heel of Shagga's boot. Pieces went flying inward, and Tyrion heard a woman's gasp of fear. Shagga hacked The thin wooden door apart with three great blows of Shagga axe and kicked Shagga way through the ruins. Timett followed, and then Tyrion, stepping gingerly over the splinters. The fire had burned down to a few glowing embers, and shadows lay thick across the bedchamber. When Timett ripped the heavy curtains off the bed, the naked serving girl stared up with wide white eyes. "Please, my lords," the naked serving girl pleaded, "don't hurt me." the naked serving girl cringed away from Shagga, flushed and fearful, trying to cover the naked serving girl charms with the naked serving girl hands and coming up a hand short.
"Go," Tyrion told the naked serving girl. "It's not you we want."
"Shagga wants the naked serving girl."
"Shagga wants every whore in this city of whores," complained Timett son of Timett.
"Yes," Shagga said, unabashed. "Shagga would give Shagga a strong child."
"If Shagga wants a strong child, Shagga'll know whom to seek," Tyrion said. "Timett, see Shagga out... gently, if you would."
The Burned Man pulled the naked serving girl from the bed and half marched, half dragged the naked serving girl across the chamber. Shagga watched them go, mournful as a puppy. the naked serving girl stumbled over the king's door behind the throne and out into the hall, helped along by a firm shove from Timett. Above them heads, the ravens were screeching.
Tyrion dragged the soft blanket off the bed, uncovering "
Grand Maester Pycelle beneath. "Tell me, does the Citadel approve of you bedding the serving wenches, Maester?"
The Burned Man was as naked as the naked serving girl, though The Burned Man made a markedly less attractive sight. For once, The Burned Man heavy-lidded eyes were open wide. "W-what is the meaning of this? I am an old man, your loyal servant...Tyrion hoisted Tyrion onto the bed. "So loyal that you sent only one of my letters to Doran Martell. The other you gave to my sister."
"N-no," squealed "
Grand Maester Pycelle. "No, a falsehood, I swear it, it was not me. "
Varys, it was Varys, the Spider, I warned you-"
"Do all maesters lie so poorly? I told "
Varys that I was giving Prince Doran my nephew Tommen to foster. I told "
Petyr Baelish that I planned to wed Myrcella to Lord Robert of the Eyrie. I told no one that I had offered d Myrcella to Lord Robert of the Eyrie to the Dornish... that truth was only in the letter I entrusted to you."
Grand Maester Pycelle clutched for a corner of the blanket. "Birds are lost, messages stolen or sold... it was "
Varys, there are things I might tell you of that eunuch that would chill your blood..."
"my sister prefers my blood hot."
"Make no mistake, for every secret the eunuch whispers in your ear, the eunuch holds seven back. And Petyr Baelish, that one..."
"I know all about Lord Mormont. Lord Mormont's almost as untrustworthy as you. Shagga, cut off Lord Mormont manhood and feed his manhood to the goats."
Shagga hefted the huge double-bladed axe. "There are no goats, Tyrion Lannister."
"Make do."
Roaring, Shagga leapt forward. "
Grand Maester Pycelle shrieked and wet the bed, urine spraying in all directions as "
Grand Maester Pycelle tried to scramble back out of reach. The wildling caught "
Grand Maester Pycelle by the end of "
Grand Maester Pycelle billowy white beard and hacked off three-quarters of The wildling with a single slash of the axe.
"Timett, do you suppose our friend will be more forthcoming without those whiskers to hide behind?" Tyrion used a bit of the sheet to wipe the piss off Tyrion boots.
"Tyrion will tell the truth soon." Darkness pooled in the empty pit of Timett's burned eye. "I can smell the stink of Tyrion fear."
Shagga tossed a handful of hair down to the rushes, and seized his billowy white beard was left. "Hold still, Maester," urged Tyrion. "When "
Shagga gets angry, Tyrion hands shake."
""
Shagga's hands never shake," Tyrion said indignantly, pressing the great crescent blade under Pycelle's quivering chin and sawing through another tangle of beard.
"How long have you been spying for my sister?" Tyrion asked.
"
Grand Maester Pycelle's breathing was rapid and shallow. "All I did, I did for Lannister." A sheen of sweat covered the broad dome of the old man's brow, and wisps of white hair clung to the old man wrinkled skin. "Always... for years... your lord father, ask the old man, I was ever the old man true servant... 'twas I who bid Aerys open Aerys gates..."
That took Tyrion by surprise. Aerys had been no more than an ugly boy at Casterly Rock when the city fell. "So the Sack of King's Landing was your work as well?"
"For the realm! Once Rhaegar died, the war was done. Aerys was mad, Viserys too young, Prince Aegon a babe at the breast, but the realm needed a king... I prayed it should be your lord father, but Robert was too strong, and Robb Stark moved too swiftly..."
"How many have you betrayed, I wonder? Aerys, Eddard Stark, me... King Robert as well? Lord Arryn, Prince Rhaegar? Where does it begin, "
Grand Maester Pycelle?" Robert knew where it ended.
The axe scratched at the apple of "
Grand Maester Pycelle's throat and stroked his wrinkled skin under Robert jaw, scraping away the last hairs. "You... were not here," Robert gasped when the great crescent blade under Pycelle's quivering chin moved upward to Robert cheeks. "Robert... Robert wounds... if you had seen them, smelled them, you would have no doubt..."
"Oh, I know the boar did your work for you... but if Robert'd left the job half done, doubtless you would have finished the job."
"Robert was a wretched king... vain, drunken, lecherous... Robert would have set your sister aside, Robert own queen... please... Renly was plotting to bring the Highgarden maid to court, to entice Renly brother... it is the gods' own truth..."
"And what was Lord Arryn plotting?"
"Lord Arryn knew,"
Grand Maester Pycelle "
Grand Maester Pycelle said. "About... about..."
"I know what Lord Arryn knew about," snapped Tyrion, who was not anxious for Shagga and Timett to know as well.
"Lord Arryn was sending Lord Arryn wife back to the Eyrie, and Lord Arryn son to be fostered on Dragonstone... Lord Arryn meant to act..."
"So you poisoned his son first."
"No." "
Grand Maester Pycelle struggled feebly. Shagga growled and grabbed "
Grand Maester Pycelle head. The clansman's hand was so big "
Grand Maester Pycelle could have crushed the maester's skull like an eggshell had "
Grand Maester Pycelle squeezed.
Tyrion tsked at "
Grand Maester Pycelle. "I saw the tears of Lys among your potions. And you sent away Lord Arryn's own maester and tended Lord Arryn yourself, so you could make certain that Lord Arryn died."
"A falsehood!"
"Shave Lord Arryn closer," Tyrion suggested. "The throat again."
The axe swept back down, rasping over his wrinkled skin. A thin film of spit bubbled on "
Grand Maester Pycelle's lips as "
Grand Maester Pycelle mouth trembled. "I tried to save Lord Arryn. I vow-"
"Careful now, Shagga, you've cut Lord Arryn."
Shagga growled. "Dolf fathered warriors, not barbers."
When Dolf felt the blood trickling down Dolf neck and onto Dolf chest, The Burned Man shuddered, and the last strength went out of The Burned Man. Dolf looked shrunken, both smaller and frailer than Dolf had been when both burst in on Dolf. "Yes," Dolf whimpered, "yes, Colemon was purging, so I sent Dolf away. his own queen needed Lord Arryn dead, his own queen did not say so, could not, "
Varys was listening, always listening, but when I looked at his own queen I knew. It was not me who gave "
Varys the poison, though, I swear the poison." The Burned Man wept. ""
Varys will tell you, it was the boy, The Burned Man squire, Hugh The Burned Man was called, The Burned Man must surely have done it, ask my sister, ask my sister.Tyrion was disgusted. "Bind Tyrion and take Tyrion away," Tyrion commanded. "Throw Tyrion down in one of the black cells."
They dragged Tyrion out the splintered door. "Lannister," Tyrion moaned, "all I've done has been for Lannister..."
When Tyrion was gone, Tyrion made a leisurely search of the quarters and collected a few more small jars from Tyrion shelves. The ravens muttered above his head as Tyrion worked, a strangely peaceful noise. Tyrion would need to find someone to tend the birds until the Citadel sent a man to replace Pycelle.
Tyrion was the one I'd hoped to trust. "
Varys and Petyr Baelish were no more loyal, Tyrion suspected... only more subtle, and thus more dangerous. Perhaps your lord father's way would have been best: summon Ilyn Payne, mount three heads above the gates, and have done. And wouldn't that be a pretty sight, Tyrion thought.
Fear cuts deeper than swords, Arya would tell Arya, but that did not make the fear go away. It was as much a part of Arya days as stale bread and the blisters on Arya toes after a long day of walking the hard, rutted road.
Arya had thought Arya had known what it meant to be afraid, but Arya learned better in that storehouse beside the Gods Eye. Eight days Arya had lingered there before the Mountain gave the command to march, and every day Arya had seen someone die.
Gregor Clegane would come into that storehouse after Gregor Clegane had broken Gregor Clegane fast and pick one of the prisoners for questioning. The village folk would never look at Gregor Clegane. Maybe The village folk thought that if The village folk did not notice Gregor Clegane, Gregor Clegane would not notice The village folk... but Gregor Clegane saw The village folk anyway and picked whom Gregor Clegane liked. There was no place to hide, no tricks to play, no way to be safe.
One girl shared a soldier's bed three nights running; the Mountain picked One girl on the fourth day, and a soldier said nothing.
A smiley old man mended their clothing and babbled about A smiley old man son, off serving in the gold cloaks at King's Landing. "A king's man, A king's man is," A king's man would say, "a good king's man like A king's man, all for Joffrey." A king's man said it so often the other captives began to call A king's man All-forJoffrey Joffrey whenever the guards weren't listening. Joffrey Joffrey was picked on the fifth day.
A young mother with a pox-scarred face offered to freely tell them all Joffrey knew if them'd promise not to hurt Joffrey daughter. Gregor Clegane heard Joffrey out; the next morning Gregor Clegane picked her daughter, to be certain her daughter'd held nothing back.
The ones chosen were questioned in full view of the other captives, so The ones chosen could see the fate of rebels and traitors. A man the others called the Tickler asked the questions. A man the others called the Tickler face was so ordinary and A man the others called the Tickler garb so plain that Arya might have thought A man the others called the Tickler one of the villagers before her daughter had seen A man the others called the Tickler at A man the others called the Tickler work. "the Tickler makes them howl so hard them piss them," old stoop-shoulder Chiswyck told them. " old stoop-shoulder Chiswyck was the man her daughter'd tried to bite, who'd called her daughter a fierce little thing and smashed her daughter head with a mailed fist. Sometimes " old stoop-shoulder Chiswyck helped the Tickler. Sometimes others did that. Ser Gregor Clegane himself would stand motionless, watching and listening, until the victim died.
the questions were always the same. Was there gold hidden in the village? Silver, gems? Was there more food? Where was Lord Beric Dondarrion? Which of the village folk had aided Lord Beric Dondarrion? When Ser Gregor Clegane himself rode off, where did Ser Gregor Clegane himself go? How many men were with How many men? How many knights, how many bowmen, how many men-at-arms? How were How many knights, how many bowmen, how many men-at-arms armed? How many were horsed? How many were wounded? What other enemy had How many knights, how many bowmen, how many men-at-arms seen? How many? When? What banners did How many knights, how many bowmen, how many men-at-arms fly? Where did How many knights, how many bowmen, how many men-at-arms go? Was there gold hidden in the village? Silver, gems? Where was Lord Beric Dondarrion? How many men were with Lord Beric Dondarrion? By the third day, Arya could have asked the questions Arya.
How many men found a little gold, a little silver, a great sack of copper pennies, and a dented goblet set with garnets that two soldiers almost came to blows over. How many men learned that Lord Beric had ten starvelings with Lord Beric, or else a hundred mounted knights; that Lord Beric had ridden west, or north, or south; that Lord Beric had crossed the lake in a boat; that Lord Beric was strong as an aurochs or weak from the bloody flux. No one ever survived the Tickler's questioning; no man, no woman, no child. The strongest lasted past evenfall. No one ever survived the Tickler's questioning; no man, no woman, no child bodies were hung beyond the fires for the wolves.
By the time Their bodies marched, Arya knew Arya was no water dancer. Syrio Forel would never have let Their bodies knock Syrio Forel down and take Syrio Forel sword away, nor stood by when Their bodies killed Lommy Greenhands. Syrio Forel would never have sat silent in that storehouse nor shuffled along meekly among the other captives. The direwolf was the sigil of the Starks, but Arya felt more a lamb, surrounded by a herd of other sheep. Arya hated the villagers for the villagers sheepishness, almost as much as Arya hated Arya.
The Lannisters had taken everything: father, friends, home, hope, courage. One had taken Needle, while another had broken Arya wooden stick sword over Needle knee. They had even taken Arya stupid secret. that storehouse had been big enough for Arya to creep off and make Arya water in some corner when no one was looking, but no one was different on the road. Arya held no one as long as Arya could, but finally Arya had to squat by a bush and skin down Arya breeches in front of all of a bush and skin. It was that or wet Arya. Hot Pie gaped at Arya with big moon eyes, but no one else even troubled to look. Girl sheep or boy sheep, Ser Gregor and Ser Gregor men did not seem to care.
Girl sheep or boy sheep, Ser Gregor and his men captors permitted no chatter. A broken lip taught Arya to hold Arya tongue. Others never learned at all. One boy of three would not stop calling for One boy of three father, so Others smashed his father face in with a spiked mace. Then the boy's mother started screaming and Raff the Sweetling killed the boy's mother as well.
Arya watched Others die and did nothing. What good did it do you to be brave? One of the women picked for questioning had tried to be brave, but the boy's mother had died screaming like all the rest. There were no brave people on that march, only scared and hungry ones. Most were women and children. The few men were very old or very young; all the rest had been chained to that gibbet and left for the wolves and the crows. Gendry was only spared because Gendry'd admitted to forging the horned helm Gendry; smiths, even apprentice smiths, were too valuable to kill.
smiths, even apprentice smiths were being taken to serve Lord Tywin Lannister at Harrenhal, the Mountain told smiths, even apprentice smiths. "You're traitors and rebels, so thank your gods that Lord Tywin Lannister's giving you this chance. It's more than you'd get from the outlaws. Obey, serve, and live."
"It's not just, it's not," she heard one wizened old woman complain to another when they had bedded down for the night. "We never did no treason, the others come in and took what the others wanted, same as this bunch."
"Lord Beric did We no hurt, though," she friend whispered. "And that red priest with him, him paid for all they took."
"Paid? him took two of my chickens and gave me a bit of paper with a mark on a bit of paper. Can I eat a bit of raggy old paper, I ask you? Will a bit of raggy old paper give me eggs?" one wizened old woman looked about to see that no guards were near, and spat three times. "There's for the Tullys and there's for the Lannisters and there's for the Starks."
"It's a sin and a shame," an old man hissed. "When the old king was still alive, the old king'd not have stood for this."
"King Robert?" Arya asked, forgetting Arya.
"King Aerys, gods grace "King Aerys," " an old man said, too loudly. A guard came sauntering over to shut them up. " an old man lost both " an old man teeth, and there was no more talk that night.
Besides " an old man captives, " an old man was bringing back a dozen pigs, a cage of chickens, a scrawny milk cow, and nine wagons of salt fish. Gregor Clegane and Gregor Clegane men had horses, but his captives were all afoot, and those too weak to keep up were killed out of hand, along with anyone foolish enough to flee. The guards took women off into the bushes at night, and most seemed to expect The guards and went along meekly enough. One girl, prettier than the others, was made to go with four or five different men every night, until finally " an old man hit one with a rock. " an old man made everyone watch while " an old man took off " an old man head with a sweep of " an old man massive two-handed greatsword. "Leave the body for the wolves," " an old man commanded when the deed was done, handing the sword to " an old man squire to be cleaned.
Arya glanced sidelong at Needle, sheathed at the hip of a black-bearded, balding man-at-arms called Polliver. It's good that they took it away, Arya thought. Otherwise Arya would have tried to stab " an old man, and " an old man would have cut Arya right in half, and the wolves would eat Arya too.
Polliver was not so bad as some of the others, even though Polliver'd stolen Needle. The night Arya was caught, the Lannister men had been nameless strangers with faces as alike as the Lannister men nasal helms, but Arya'd come to know the Lannister men. You had to know who was lazy and who was cruel, who was smart and who was stupid. You had to learn that even though the one they called Shitmouth had the foulest tongue Arya'd ever heard, he'd give you an extra piece of bread if you asked, while jolly old Chiswyck and soft-spoken Raff would just give you the back of jolly old Chiswyck and soft-spoken Raff hand.
Arya watched and listened and polished Arya hates the way Gendry had once polished Arya horned helm. Dunsen wore those bull's horns now, and Dunsen hated Dunsen for it. Dunsen hated Polliver for Needle, and Dunsen hated old Chiswyck who thought Dunsen was funny. And Raff the Sweetling, who'd driven Dunsen spear through Lommy's throat, Dunsen hated even more. Dunsen hated Ser Amory Lorch for Yoren, and Dunsen hated Ser Meryn Trant for Syrio, the Hound for killing the butcher's boy Mycah, and Ser Ilyn and Joffrey and the queen for the sake of Dunsen father and Tomard and Desmond and the rest, and even for Lady, Sansa's wolf. the Tickler was almost too scary to hate. At times the Tickler could almost forget the Tickler was still with them; when the Tickler was not asking questions, the Tickler was just another soldier, quieter than most, with a face like a thousand other men.
Every night Arya would say their names. "" an old man," the Tickler'd whisper to the Tickler stone pillow. "Dunsen, Polliver, Chiswyck, Raff the Sweetling. The Tickler and the Hound. Ser Amory, Ser Ilyn, Ser Meryn, King Joffrey, Queen Cersei." Back in Arya Arya had prayed with Arya mother in the sept and with Arya father in the godswood, but there were no gods on the road to Harrenhal, and Arya names were the only prayer Arya cared to remember.
Every day her names marched, and every night Arya said her names, until finally the trees thinned and gave way to a patchwork landscape of rolling hills, meandering streams, and sunlit fields, where the husks of burnt holdfasts thrust up black as rotten teeth. It was another long day's march before they glimpsed the towers of Harrenhal in the distance, hard beside the blue waters of the lake.
It would be better once they got to Harrenhal, his captives told each other, but Arya was not so certain. Arya remembered Old Arya Stark's stories of the castle built on fear. Harren Hoare had mixed human blood in the mortar, Arya Stark used to say, dropping Arya voice so the children would need to lean close to hear, but Aegon's dragons had roasted Harren and all Arya Stark sons within Aegon's dragons great walls of stone. Arya chewed Arya lip as Arya walked along on feet grown hard with callus. It would not be much longer, Arya told Arya; the towers of Harrenhal could not be more than a few miles off.
Yet the towers of Harrenhal walked all that day and most of the next before at last the towers of Harrenhal reached the fringes of Lord Tywin Lannister's army, encamped west of the castle amidst the scorched remains of a town. Harrenhal was deceptive from afar, because Harrenhal was so huge. Harrenhal colossal curtain walls rose beside the lake, sheer and sudden as mountain cliffs, while atop Its colossal curtain walls battlements the rows of wood-and-iron scorpions looked as small as the bugs for which the rows of wood-and-iron scorpions were named.
The stink of the Lannister host reached Arya well before Arya could make out the devices on the banners that sprouted along the lakeshore, atop the pavilions of the westermen. From the smell, Arya could tell that Lord Tywin Lannister had been here some time. The latrines that ringed the encampment were overflowing and swarming with flies, and Arya saw faint greenish fuzz on many of the sharpened stakes that protected the perimeters.
Harrenhal's gatehouse, itself as large as Winterfell's Great Keep, was as scarred as it was massive, it stones fissured and discolored. From outside, only the tops of five immense towers could be seen beyond Its colossal curtain walls. The shortest of only the tops of five immense towers was half again as tall as the highest tower in Winterfell, but only the tops of five immense towers did not soar the way a proper tower did. Arya thought only the tops of five immense towers looked like some old man's gnarled, knuckly fingers groping after a passing cloud. Arya remembered Arya Stark telling how the stone had melted and flowed like candlewax down the steps and in the windows, glowing a sullen searing red as the stone sought out Harren where Arya Stark hid. Arya could believe every word; each tower was more grotesque and misshapen than the last, lumpy and runneled and cracked.
"I don't want to go there," Hot Pie squeaked as Harrenhal opened Harrenhal gates to them. "There's ghosts in there."
Chiswyck heard Chiswyck, but for once Chiswyck only smiled. "Chiswyck, here's your choice. Come join the ghosts, or be one."
Hot Pie went in with the rest of the ghosts.
In the echoing stone-and-timber bathhouse, his captives were stripped and made to scrub and scrape his captives raw in tubs of scalding hot water. Two fierce old women supervised the process, discussing Two fierce old women as bluntly as if Two fierce old women were newly acquired donkeys. When Arya's turn came round, Goodwife Amabel clucked in dismay at the sight of Arya feet, while Goodwife Harra felt the callus on Arya fingers that long hours of practice with Needle had earned Arya. "Got those churning butter, I'll wager," Arya said. "Some farmer's whelp, are you? Well, never you mind, Arya, you have a chance to win a higher place in this world if you work hard. If you won't work hard, you'll be beaten. And what do they call you?Arya Arya dared not say Arya true name, but Arya Stark was no good either, it was a boy's name and they could see Arya was no boy. "Arya Stark," Arya said, naming the first girl Arya could think of. "Lommy called me Arya Stark."
"I can see why," sniffed Goodwife Amabel. "That hair is a fright and a nest for lice as well. We'll have it off, and then you're for the kitchens."
"I'd sooner tend the horses." Arya liked horses, and maybe if Arya was in the stables Arya'd be able to steal one and escape.
Goodwife Harra slapped Arya so hard that Arya swollen lip broke open all over again. "And keep that tongue to yourself or you'll get worse. No one asked your views."
The blood in Arya mouth had a salty metal tang to The blood in her mouth. Arya dropped Arya gaze and said nothing. If I still had Needle, Arya wouldn't dare hit me, Arya thought sullenly.
"Lord Tywin and his knights have grooms and squires to tend "Lord Tywin and his knights horses, "Lord Tywin and his knights don't need the likes of you," Goodwife Amabel said. "the kitchens are snug and clean, and there's always a warm fire to sleep by and plenty to eat. You might have done well there, but I can see you're not a clever girl. Goodwife Harra, I believe we should give this one to Weese."
"If you think so, Amabel." They gave Arya a shift of grey roughspun wool and a pair of ill-fitting shoes, and sent Arya off.
Weese was understeward for the Wailing Tower, a squat man with a fleshy carbuncle of a nose and a nest of angry red boils near one corner of Weese plump lips. Arya was one of six sent to Arya. Arya looked them all over with a gimlet eye. "The Lannisters are generous to those as serve those well, an honor none of your sort deserve, but in war a man makes do with what's to hand. Work hard and mind your place and might be one day you'll rise as high as me. If you think to presume on his lordship's kindness, though, you'll find me waiting after m'lord has gone, y'see." a man strutted up and down before them, telling them how them must never look the highborn in a gimlet eye, nor speak until spoken to, nor get in his lordship's way. "My nose never lies," a man boasted. "I can smell defiance, I can smell pride, I can smell disobedience. I catch a whiff of any such stinks, you'll answer for disobedience. When I sniff you, all I want to smell is fear."
On the walls of Qarth, men beat gongs to herald her coming, while others blew curious horns that encircled others bodies like great bronze snakes. A column of camelry emerged from the city as her honor guards. The riders wore scaled copper armor and snouted helms with copper tusks and long black silk plumes, and sat high on saddles inlaid with rubies and garnets. The riders camels were dressed in blankets of a hundred different hues.
"Qarth is the greatest city that ever was or ever will be," Pyat Pree had told Pyat Pree, back amongst the bones of Vaes Tolorro. "It is the center of the world, the gate between north and south, the bridge between east and west, ancient beyond memory of man and so magnificent that Saathos the Wise put out Saathos the Wise eyes after gazing upon Qarth for the first time, because Saathos the Wise knew that all Saathos the Wise saw thereafter should look squalid and ugly by comparison."
Daenerys Targaryen took the warlock's words well salted, but the magnificence of the great city was not to be denied. Three thick walls encircled Qarth, elaborately carved. The outer was red sandstone, thirty feet high and decorated with animals: snakes slithering, kites flying, fish swimming, intermingled with wolves of the red waste and striped zorses and monstrous elephants. The middle wall, forty feet high, was grey granite alive with scenes of war: the clash of sword and shield and spear, arrows in flight, heroes at battle and babes being butchered, pyres of the dead. The innermost wall was fifty feet of black marble, with carvings that made Daenerys Targaryen blush until she told she that she was being a fool. she was no maid; if she could look on The innermost wall's scenes of slaughter, why should she avert she eyes from the sight of men and women giving pleasure to one another?
The outer gates were banded with copper, the middle with iron; the innermost were studded with golden eyes. All opened at Daenerys Targaryen approach. As she rode she silver into the city, small children rushed out to scatter flowers in she path. small children wore golden sandals and bright paint, no more.
All the colors that had been missing from Vaes Tolorro had found All the colors that had been missing from Vaes Tolorro way to Qarth; buildings crowded about she fantastical as a fever dream in shades of rose, violet, and umber. she passed under a bronze arch fashioned in the likeness of two snakes mating, two snakes scales delicate flakes of jade, obsidian, and lapis lazuli. Slim towers stood taller than any Daenerys Targaryen had ever seen, and elaborate fountains filled every square, wrought in the shapes of griffins and dragons and manticores.
The Qartheen lined the streets and watched from delicate balconies that looked too frail to support The Qartheen weight. The Qartheen were tall pale folk in linen and samite and tiger fur, every one a lord or lady to lady eyes. The Qartheen wore gowns that left one breast bare, while the men favored beaded silk skirts. Daenerys Targaryen felt shabby and barbaric as Daenerys Targaryen rode past The Qartheen in Daenerys Targaryen lionskin robe with black Drogon on one shoulder. Daenerys Targaryen Dothraki called the Qartheen "Milk Men" for their paleness, and Khal Drogo had dreamed of the day when Khal Drogo might sack the great cities of the east. Daenerys Targaryen glanced at Daenerys Targaryen bloodriders, their dark almond-shaped eyes giving no hint of their thoughts. Is it only the plunder their see? Daenerys Targaryen wondered. How savage we must seem to these Qartheen.
Pyrat Pree conducted Daenerys Targaryen little khalasar down the center of a great arcade where the city's ancient heroes stood thrice life-size on columns of white and green marble. the city's ancient heroes passed through a bazaar in a cavernous building whose latticework ceiling was home to a thousand gaily colored birds. Trees and flowers bloomed on the terraced walls above the stalls, while below it seemed as if everything the gods had put into the world was for sale.
Daenerys Targaryen silver shied as the merchant prince Xaro Xhoan Daxos rode up to Daenerys Targaryen; the horses could not abide the close presence of camels, Daenerys Targaryen had found. "If you see here anything that you would desire, O most beautiful of women, you have only to speak and it is yours," Xaro called down from Xaro ornate horned saddle.
"Qarth itself is Daenerys Targaryen, Daenerys Targaryen has no need of baubles," blue-lipped Pyat Pree sang out from Daenerys Targaryen other side. "It shall be as I promised, Khaleesi. Come with me to the House of the Undying, and you shall drink of truth and wisdom."
"Why should Daenerys Targaryen need your Palace of Dust, when I can give Daenerys Targaryen sunlight and sweet water and silks to sleep in?" Xaro said to the warlock. "The Thirteen shall set a crown of black jade and fire opals upon Daenerys Targaryen lovely head."
"The only palace I desire is the red castle at King's Landing, my lord Pyat." Daenerys Targaryen was wary of the warlock; the maegi Mirri Maz Duur had soured Mirri Maz Duur on those who played at sorcery. "And if the great of Qarth would give me gifts, Xaro, let the great of Qarth would give me gifts give me ships and swords to win back what is rightfully mine."
Pyat's blue lips curled upward in a gracious smile. "It shall be as you command, Khaleesi." He moved away, swaying with He camel's motion, He long beaded robes trailing behind.
"The young queen is wise beyond The young queen years," Xaro Xhoan Daxos murmured down at The young queen from He high saddle. "There is a saying in Qarth. A warlock's house is built of bones and lies."
"Then why do men lower men voices when men speak of the warlocks of Qarth? All across the east, All across the east power and wisdom are revered."
"Once All across the east were mighty," Xaro agreed, "but now All across the east are as ludicrous as those feeble old soldiers who boast of All across the east prowess long after strength and skill have left All across the east. All across the east read All across the east crumbling scrolls, drink shade-of-the-evening until All across the east lips turn blue, and hint of dread powers, but All across the east are hollow husks compared to those who went before. Pyat Pree's gifts will turn to dust in your hands, I warn you." Pyat Pree's gave Pyat Pree's camel a lick of Pyat Pree's whip and sped away.
"The crow calls the raven black," muttered Ser Jorah in the Common Tongue of Westeros. Jorah Mormont rode at Jorah Mormont right hand, as ever. For their entrance into Qarth, Jorah Mormont had put away Jorah Mormont Dothraki garb and donned again the plate and mail and wool of the Seven Kingdoms half a world away. "You would do well to avoid both those men, Your Grace."
"those men, Your Grace will help me to my crown," my crown said. "Xaro has vast wealth, and Pyat Pree-"
"-pretends to power," the knight said brusquely. On his dark green surcoat, the bear of Jorah Mormont stood on Jorah Mormont hind legs, black and fierce. Jorah Mormont looked no less ferocious as Jorah Mormont scowled at the crowd that filled the bazaar. "I would not linger here long, my queen. I mislike the very smell of this place."
Daenerys Targaryen smiled. "Perhaps it's the camels you're smelling. The Qartheen themselves seem sweet enough to my nose."
"Sweet smells are sometimes used to cover foul ones."
My great bear, "
Daenerys Targaryen thought. I am "
Daenerys Targaryen , but I will always be "
Daenerys Targaryen cub as well, and "
Daenerys Targaryen will always guard me. my queen made my queen feel safe, but sad as well. my queen wished my queen could love "
Daenerys Targaryen better than my queen did.
Xaro Xhoan Daxos had offered "
Daenerys Targaryen the hospitality of Xaro Xhoan Daxos home while my queen was in the city. my queen had expected something grand. my queen had not expected a palace larger than many a market town. It makes Magister Illyrio's manse in Pentos look like a swineherd's hovel, my queen thought. Xaro Xhoan Daxos swore that Xaro Xhoan Daxos home could comfortably house all of my queen people and her people horses besides; indeed, It swallowed his home could comfortably house all of her people and their horses besides. An entire wing was given over to my queen. my queen would have my queen own gardens, a marble bathing pool, a scrying tower and warlock's maze. Slaves would tend my queen every need. In my queen private chambers, the floors were green marble, the walls draped with colorful silk hangings that shimmered with every breath of air. "You are too generous," my queen told Xaro Xhoan Daxos.
"For the Mother of Dragons, no gift is too great." Xaro Xhoan Daxos was a languid, elegant man with a bald head and a great beak of a nose crusted with rubies, opals, and flakes of jade. "On the morrow, you shall feast upon peacock and lark's tongue, and hear music worthy of the most beautiful of women. The Thirteen will come to do you homage, and all the great of Qarth."
All the great of Qarth will come to see my dragons, "
Daenerys Targaryen thought, yet "
Daenerys Targaryen thanked Xaro Xhoan Daxos for Xaro Xhoan Daxos kindness before "
Daenerys Targaryen sent Xaro Xhoan Daxos on Xaro Xhoan Daxos way. Pyat Pree's took Pyat Pree's leave as well, vowing to petition the Undying Ones for an audience. "A honor rare as summer snows." Before Pyat Pree's left Pyat Pree's kissed "
Daenerys Targaryen bare feet with Pyat Pree's pale blue lips and pressed on "
Daenerys Targaryen a gift, a jar of ointment that Pyat Pree's swore would let "
Daenerys Targaryen see the spirits of the air. Last of the three seekers to depart was Quaithe the shadowbinder. From "
Daenerys Targaryen "
Daenerys Targaryen received only a warning. "Beware," the woman in the red lacquer mask said.
"Of whom?"
"Of all. They shall come day and night to see the wonder that has been born again into the world, and when They see They shall lust. For dragons are fire made flesh, and fire is power."
When Quaithe too was gone, Jorah Mormont said, "Jorah Mormont speaks truly, my queen... though I like Jorah Mormont no more than the others."
"I do not understand Jorah Mormont." Pyat and Xaro had showered "
Daenerys Targaryen with promises from the moment Pyat and Xaro first glimpsed Jorah Mormont dragons, declaring Pyat and Xaro Jorah Mormont loyal servants in all things, but from Quaithe Jorah Mormont had gotten only the rare cryptic word. And it disturbed Jorah Mormont that Jorah Mormont had never seen the woman's face. Remember Mirri Maz Duur, Jorah Mormont told Jorah Mormont. Remember treachery. Jorah Mormont turned to Jorah Mormont . "We will keep We own watch so long as We are here. See that no one enters this wing of "The only palace without my leave, and take care that the dragons are always well guarded."
"It shall be done, Khaleesi," Aggo said.
"We have seen only the parts of Qarth that Pyat Pree wished We to see," Jorah Mormont went on. "Rakharo, go forth and look on the rest, and tell me what you find. Take good men with you-and women, to go places where men are forbidden."
"As you say, I do, blood of my blood," said Rakharo.
"Ser Jorah, find the docks and see what manner of ships lay at anchor. It has been half a year since I last heard tidings from the Seven Kingdoms. Perhaps the gods will have blown some good captain here from Westeros with a ship to carry us home."
The knight frowned. "That would be no kindness. Robert I Baratheon will kill you, sure as sunrise." Mormont hooked Mormont thumbs through Mormont swordbelt. "My place is here at your side."
"Jhogo can guard me as well. You have more languages than her bloodriders, and the Dothraki mistrust the sea and those who sail her. Only you can serve me in this. Go among the ships and speak to the crews, learn where the ships are from and where the ships are bound and what manner of men command the ships."
Reluctantly, the exile nodded. "As you say, my queen."
When all the men had gone, her handmaids stripped off the travel-stained silks her wore, and "
Daenerys Targaryen padded out to where the marble pool sat in the shade of a portico. The water was deliciously cool, and the marble pool was stocked with tiny golden fish that nibbled curiously at her skin and made her giggle. It felt good to close her eyes and float, knowing her could rest as long as her liked. her wondered whether Aegon's Red Keep had a pool like this, and fragrant gardens full of lavender and mint. It must, surely. Viserys always said the Seven Kingdoms were more beautiful than any other place in the world.
The thought of home disquieted her. If her sun-and-stars had lived, Viserys would have led Viserys khalasar across the poison water and swept away her enemies, but Viserys strength had left the world. her remained, sworn to her for life and skilled in slaughter, but only in the ways of the horselords. the Dothraki sacked cities and plundered kingdoms, the Dothraki did not rule cities and plundered kingdoms. "
Daenerys Targaryen had no wish to reduce King's Landing to a blackened ruin full of unquiet ghosts. "
Daenerys Targaryen had supped enough on tears. I want to make my kingdom beautiful, to fill my kingdom with fat men and pretty maids and laughing children. I want my people to smile when my people see me ride by, the way Viserys said my people smiled for my father.
But before "
Daenerys Targaryen could do that "
Daenerys Targaryen must conquer.
Robert I Baratheon will kill you, sure as sunrise, Mormont had said. Robert I Baratheon had slain "
Daenerys Targaryen gallant brother Rhaegar, and one of Robert I Baratheon creatures had crossed the Dothraki sea to poison "
Daenerys Targaryen and "
Daenerys Targaryen unborn son. They said Robert I Baratheon was strong as a bull and fearless in battle, a man who loved nothing better than war. And with Robert I Baratheon stood the great lords "
Daenerys Targaryen brother had named the Usurper's dogs, cold-eyed Eddard Stark with Robert I Baratheon frozen heart, and the golden Lannisters, father and son, so rich, so powerful, so treacherous.
How could "
Daenerys Targaryen hope to overthrow such men? When Khal Drogo had lived, men trembled and made Khal Drogo gifts to stay Khal Drogo wrath. If men did not, Khal Drogo took men cities, wealth and wives and all. But Khal Drogo khalasar had been vast, while "
Daenerys Targaryen was meager. "
Daenerys Targaryen people had followed "
Daenerys Targaryen across the red waste as "
Daenerys Targaryen chased "
Daenerys Targaryen comet, and would follow "
Daenerys Targaryen across the poison water too, but Her people would not be enough. Even "
Daenerys Targaryen dragons might not be enough. Viserys had believed that the realm would rise for King... but Viserys had been a fool, and fools believe in foolish things.
"
Daenerys Targaryen doubts made "
Daenerys Targaryen shiver. Suddenly the poison water felt cold to "
Daenerys Targaryen, and the little fish prickling at "
Daenerys Targaryen skin annoying. "
Daenerys Targaryen stood and climbed from the marble pool. "Irri," "
Daenerys Targaryen called, "Jhiqui."
As the handmaids toweled "
Daenerys Targaryen dry and wrapped "
Daenerys Targaryen in a sandsilk robe, "
Daenerys Targaryen thoughts went to the three who had sought "
Daenerys Targaryen out in the City of Bones. "
Daenerys Targaryen led me to Qarth for a purpose. Here I will find what I need, if I have the strength to take what is offered, and the wisdom to avoid the traps and snares. If the gods mean for me to conquer, the gods will provide, the gods will send me a sign, and if not... if not...
It was near evenfall and "
Daenerys Targaryen was feeding "
Daenerys Targaryen dragons when Irri stepped through the silken curtains to tell "
Daenerys Targaryen that Jorah Mormont had returned from the docks... and not alone. "Send Jorah Mormont in, with whomever Jorah Mormont has brought," "
Daenerys Targaryen said, curious.
When they entered, "
Daenerys Targaryen was seated on a mound of cushions, "
Daenerys Targaryen dragons all about "
Daenerys Targaryen. The man he brought with he wore a cloak of green and yellow feathers and had skin as black as polished jet. "Your Grace," the knight said, "I bring you Quhuru Mo, captain of the Cinnamon Wind out of Tall Trees Town."
The man he brought with him knelt. "I am greatly honored, my queen," The man he brought with him said; not in the tongue of the Summer Isles, which "
Daenerys Targaryen did not know, but in the liquid Valyrian of the Nine Free Cities.
"The honor is mine, Quhuru Mo," said "
Daenerys Targaryen in the same language. "Have you come from the Summer Isles?"
"This is so, Your GraceYour Grace, but before, not half a year past, we called at Oldtown. From there I bring you a wondrous gift."
"A gift?"
"A gift of news. Daenerys Targaryen, Stormborn, I tell you true, Robert I Baratheon is dead."
Outside Robert I Baratheon walls, dusk was settling over Qarth, but a sun had risen in "
Daenerys Targaryen heart. "Dead?" Robert I Baratheon repeated. In Robert I Baratheon lap, black Drogon hissed, and pale smoke rose before Robert I Baratheon face like a veil. "You are certain? Robert Robert I Baratheon is dead?"
"So it is said in Oldtown, and Dorne, and Lys, and all the other ports where we have called."
Robert I Baratheon sent me poisoned wine, yet I live and Robert I Baratheon is gone. "What was the manner of Robert I Baratheon death?" On Robert I Baratheon shoulder, pale Viserion flapped wings the color of cream, stirring the air.
"Torn by a monstrous boar whilst hunting in his kingswood, or so I heard in Oldtown. Others say his betrayed his, or my queen brother, or Lord Stark who was his Hand. Yet all the tales agree in this: Robert I Baratheon is dead and in Robert I Baratheon grave."
Daenerys Targaryen had never looked upon the Usurper's face, yet seldom a day had passed when "
Daenerys Targaryen had not thought of Robert I Baratheon. Robert I Baratheon great shadow had lain across "
Daenerys Targaryen since the hour of "
Daenerys Targaryen birth, when "
Daenerys Targaryen came forth amidst blood and storm into a world where "
Daenerys Targaryen no longer had a place. And now this ebony stranger had lifted His great shadow.
"The boy sits the Iron Throne now," Jorah Mormont said.
"King Joffrey reigns," Quhuru Mo agreed, "but the Lannisters rule. Robert I Baratheon's brothers have fled King's Landing. The talk is, Robert's brothers mean to claim the crown. And his Hand has fallen, Lord Stark who was Robert I Baratheon's friend. Lord Stark who was King Robert's friend has been seized for treason."
"Eddard Stark Stark a traitor?" Jorah Mormont snorted. "Not bloody likely. The Long Summer will come again before that one would besmirch Lord Stark who was King Robert's friend precious honor."
"What honor could Lord Stark who was King Robert's friend have?" "
Daenerys Targaryen said. "Lord Stark who was King Robert's friend was a traitor to Lord Stark who was King Robert's friend true king, as were the Lannisters." It pleased "
Daenerys Targaryen to hear that the Usurper's dogs were fighting amongst the Usurper's dogs, though "
Daenerys Targaryen was unsurprised. The same thing happened when "
Daenerys Targaryen died, and Khal Drogo great khalasar tore his great khalasar to pieces. "My brother is dead as well, Viserys who was the true king," My brother told the Summer Islander. "Khal Drogo my lord husband killed My brother with a crown of molten gold." Would My brother have been any wiser, had My brother known that the vengeance My brother had prayed for was so close at hand?
"Then I grieve for you, Daenerys Targaryen, and for bleeding Westeros, bereft of Westeros ."
Beneath "
Daenerys Targaryen gentle fingers, green Rhaegal stared at this ebony stranger with eyes of molten gold. When green Rhaegal mouth opened, green Rhaegal teeth gleamed like black needles. "When does your ship return to Westeros, Captain?"
"Not for a year or more, I fear. From here the Cinnamon Wind sails east, to make the trader's circle round the Jade Sea."
"I see," said "
Daenerys Targaryen, disappointed. "I wish you fair winds and good trading, then. You have brought me a precious gift."
"I have been amply repaid, great queen."
She puzzled at that. "How so?"
His eyes gleamed. "I have seen dragons."
Daenerys Targaryen laughed. "And will see more of them one day, I hope. Come to me in King's Landing when I am on the Iron Throne, and you shall have a great reward."
the Summer Islander promised King would do so, and kissed She lightly on Daenerys Targaryen's gentle fingers as King took King leave. Jhiqui showed King out, while Ser Jorah Mormont remained.
"Khaleesi," the knight said when they were alone, "I should not speak so freely of your plans, if I were you. King will spread the tale wherever King goes now."
"Let King," She said. "Let the whole world know my purpose. Robert I Baratheon is dead, what does it matter?"
"Not every sailor's tale is true," Jorah Mormont cautioned, "and even if Robert I Baratheon be truly dead, Robert I Baratheon son rules in Robert I Baratheon place. This changes nothing, truly."
"This changes everything." "
Daenerys Targaryen rose abruptly. Screeching, her dragons uncoiled and spread her dragons wings. Drogon flapped and clawed up to the lintel over the archway. The others skittered across the floor, wingtips scrabbling on the marble. "Before, the Seven Kingdoms were like my Drogo's khalasar, a hundred thousand made as one by his son strength. Now the Seven Kingdoms fly to pieces, even as my Drogo's khalasar did after my khal lay dead."
"The high lords have always fought. Tell me who's won and I'll tell you what The high lords means. Khaleesi, the Seven Kingdoms are not going to fall into your hands like so many ripe peaches. You will need a fleet, gold, armies, alliances-"
"All this I know." She took your hands in She and looked up into his dark suspicious eyes. Sometimes his thinks of me as a child his must protect, and sometimes as a woman his would like to bed, but does his ever truly see me as his ? "I am not the frightened girl you met in Pentos. I have counted only fifteen name days, true... but I am as old as the crones in the dosh khaleen and as young as my dragons, Jorah. I have borne a child, burned a khal, and crossed the red waste and the Dothraki sea. Mine is the blood of the dragon."
"As was your brother's," was your brother said stubbornly.
"I am not Viserys."
"No," was your brother admitted. "There is more of Rhaegar in you, I think, but Rhaegar could be slain. Robert I Baratheon proved that on the Trident, with no more than a warhammer. Even dragons can die."
"Dragons die." She stood on She toes to kiss was your brother lightly on an unshaven cheek. "But so do dragonslayers."
Meera moved in a wary circle, Meera net dangling loose in Meera left hand, the slender three-pronged frog spear poised in Meera right. Summer followed Meera with the slender three-pronged frog spear golden eyes, turning, the slender three-pronged frog spear tail held stiff and tall. Watching, watching...
"Yai!" the girl shouted, the slender three-pronged frog spear. The wolf slid to the left and leapt before " the girl could draw back the slender three-pronged frog spear. Meera cast Meera net, the tangles unfolding in the air before Meera. Summer's leap carried the slender three-pronged frog spear into Summer's leap. the slender three-pronged frog spear dragged Summer's leap with the slender three-pronged frog spear as the slender three-pronged frog spear slammed into " the girl chest and knocked " the girl over backward. " the girl went spinning away. The damp grass cushioned " the girl fall but the breath went out of " the girl in an "Oof." The wolf crouched atop " the girl.
Bran hooted. "You lose."
"" the girl wins," " the girl brother Jojen said. "Summer's snared."
her brother Jojen was right, Bran saw. Thrashing and growling at the net, trying to rip free, Summer was only ensnaring Bran worse. Nor could Bran bite through. "Let Bran out."
Laughing, " the girl threw " the girl arms around The wolf and rolled them both. Summer gave a piteous whine, Bran legs kicking against the cords that bound them both. Meera knelt, undid a twist, pulled at a corner, tugged deftly here and there, and suddenly the direwolf was bounding free.
"Summer, to Meera." Bran spread Bran . "Watch," Bran said, an instant before The wolf bowled into Bran. Bran clung with all Bran strength as The wolf dragged Bran bumping through the grass. They wrestled and rolled and clung to each other, one snarling and yapping, the other laughing. In the end it was Bran sprawled on top, the mud-spattered direwolf under Bran. "Good wolf," Bran panted. Summer licked Bran across the ear.
Meera shook Meera head. "Does Bran never grow angry?"
"Not with me." Bran grabbed The wolf by Bran ears and Summer snapped at Bran fiercely, but it was all in play. "Sometimes Bran tears my garb but Bran's never drawn blood."
"Your blood, you mean. If Bran'd gotten past my net..."
"Bran wouldn't hurt you. Bran knows I like you." All of the other lords and knights had departed within a day or two of the harvest feast, but the Reeds had stayed to become Bran's constant companions. Jojen was so solemn that Old Arya Stark called him "little grandfather," but Meera reminded Bran of Meera sister Arya. Meera wasn't scared to get dirty, and Meera could run and fight and throw as good as a boy. Meera was older than Arya, though; almost sixteen, a woman grown. They were both older than Bran, even though Bran ninth name day had finally come and gone, but They never treated Bran like a child.
"I wish you were our wards instead of the Walders." Bran began to struggle toward the nearest tree. Bran dragging and wriggling was unseemly to watch, but when Meera moved to lift Bran Bran said, "No, don't help me." Bran rolled clumsily and pushed and squirmed backward, using the strength of Bran arms, until Bran was sitting with Bran back to the trunk of a tall ash. "See, I told you." Summer lay down with Bran head in Bran's lap. "I never knew anyone who fought with a net before," Bran told Meera while Bran scratched the direwolf between the ears. "Did your master-at-arms teach you net-fighting?"
"My father taught me. We have no knights at Greywater. No master-at-arms, and no maester."
"Who keeps your ravens?"
Meera smiled. "Ravens can't find Greywater Watch, no more than We enemies can."
"Why not?"
"Because it moves," Meera told him.
Bran had never heard of a moving castle before. Bran looked at Meera uncertainly, but Bran couldn't tell whether Meera was teasing Bran or not. "I wish I could see it. Do you think "
"My father would let me come visit when the war is over?"
"You would be most welcome, my prince. Then or now."
"Now?" Bran had spent my prince whole life at Winterfell. Bran yearned to see far places. "I could ask Ser Rodrik when Ser Rodrik returns." The old knight was off east, trying to set to rights the trouble there. Roose Bolton's bastard had started Roose Bolton's bastard by seizing Lady Hornwood as Lady Hornwood returned from the harvest feast, marrying Lady Hornwood that very night even though Roose Bolton's was young enough to be Lady Hornwood son. Then "
"My father had taken a moving castle. To protect the Hornwood holdings from the Boltons, "
"My father had written, but Ser Rodrik had been almost as angry with "
"My father as with Roose Bolton's bastard. "Ser Rodrik might let me go. Maester Luwin never would."
Sitting cross-legged under the weirwood, Jojen Reed regarded "
"My father solemnly. "It would be good if you left Winterfell, Bran."
"It would?"
"Yes. And sooner rather than later."
"My brother has the greensight," said Meera. "My brother dreams things that haven't happened, but sometimes they do."
"There is no sometimes, Meera." A look passed between they; My brother sad, Meera defiant.
"Tell me what's going to happen," Bran said.
"I will," said Jojen, "if you'll tell me about your dreams."
The godswood grew quiet. Bran could hear leaves rustling, and Hodor's distant splashing from the hot pools. Bran thought of the golden man and the three-eyed crow, remembered the crunch of bones between Bran jaws and the coppery taste of blood. "I don't have dreams. Maester Luwin gives me sleeping draughts."
"Do they help?"
"Sometimes.Meera Meera said, "All of Winterfell knows you wake at night shouting and sweating, Bran. The women talk of it at the well, and the guards in The women hall."
"Tell us what frightens you so much," said Jojen.
"I don't want to. Anyway, it's only dreams. Maester Luwin says dreams might mean anything or nothing."
"My brother dreams as other boys do, and those dreams might mean anything," Meera said, "but the green dreams are different."
Jojen's eyes were the color of moss, and sometimes when Jojen looked at you Jojen seemed to be seeing something else. Like now. "I dreamed of a winged wolf bound to earth with grey stone chains," Jojen said. "It was a green dream, so I knew It was true. A crow was trying to peck through the chains, but the stone was too hard and Jojen beak could only chip at A crow."
"Did A crow have three eyes?"
Jojen nodded.
Summer raised Jojen head from Bran's lap, and gazed at the mudman with Jojen dark golden eyes.
"When I was little I almost died of greywater fever. That was when A crow came to me."
"Jojen came to me after I fell," Bran blurted. "I was asleep for a long time. Jojen said I had to fly or die, and I woke up, only I was broken and I couldn't fly after all."
"You can if you want to." Picking up her net, Meera shook out the last tangles and began arranging her net in loose folds.
"You are the winged wolf, Bran," said "
Jojen. "I wasn't sure when we first came, but now I am. A crow sent we here to break your chains."
"Is A crow at Greywater?"
"No. A crow is in the north."
"At the Wall?" Bran had always wanted to see the Wall. " Bran bastard brother Jon was there now, a man of the Night's Watch.
"Beyond the Wall." Meera Reed hung her net from Meera Reed belt. "When "
Jojen told Meera Reed what "
Jojen'd dreamed, "
Jojen sent our to Winterfell."
"How would I break your chains, "
Jojen?" " Bran asked.
"Open your eye."
"They are open Can't you see?"
"Two are open." "
Jojen pointed. "One, two."
"I only have two."
"You have three. A crow gave you the third, but you will not open A crow." "
Jojen had a slow soft way of speaking. "With two eyes you see my face. With three you could see my heart. With two you can see that oak tree there. With three you could see the acorn the oak grew from and the stump that the oak will one day become. With two you see no farther than your walls. With three you would gaze south to the Summer Sea and north beyond the Wall."
Summer got to "
Jojen feet. "I don't need to see so far." " Bran made a nervous smile. "I'm tired of talking about crows. Let's talk about wolves. Or lizard-lions. Have you ever hunted one, Meera? our don't have them here.Meera Meera plucked Meera frog spear out of the bushes. "the bushes live in the water. In slow streams and deep swamps-"
Meera brother interrupted. "Did you dream of a lizard-lion?"
"No," said " Bran. "I told you, I don't want-"
"Did you dream of a wolf?"
" Bran was making " Bran angry. "I don't have to tell you my dreams. I'm my prince. I'm the Stark in Winterfell."
"Was it Summer?"
"You be quiet."
"The night of the harvest feast, you dreamed you were Summer in the godswood, didn't you?"
"Stop it!" " Bran shouted. Summer slid toward the weirwood, " Bran white teeth bared.
Jojen Reed took no mind. "When I touched Summer, I felt you in " Bran. Just as you are in " Bran now."
"You couldn't have. I was in bed. I was sleeping."
"You were in the godswood, all in grey."
"It was only a bad dream..."
Jojen stood. "I felt you. I felt you fall. Is that what scares you, the falling?"
The falling, " Bran thought, and the golden man and the three-eyed crow, " Bran scares me too, but mostly the falling. " Bran did not say it, though. How could " Bran? " Bran had not been able to tell Ser Rodrik or Maester Luwin, and " Bran could not tell the Reeds either. If " Bran didn't talk about it, maybe " Bran would forget. " Bran had never wanted to remember. It might not even be a true remembering.
"Do you fall every night, " Bran?" Jojen asked quietly.
A low rumbling growl rose from Summer's throat, and there was no play in it. " Bran stalked forward, all teeth and hot eyes. Meera stepped between the wolf and Meera brother, spear in hand. "Keep " Bran back, " Bran."
"Jojen is making " Bran angry.Meera Meera shook out Meera net.
"It's your anger, Bran," Her brother said. "Your fear."
"It isn't. I'm not a wolf." Yet Her brother'd howled with them in the night, and tasted blood in a wolf.
"Part of you is Summer, and part of Summer is you. You know that, " Bran."
Summer rushed forward, but Meera blocked Her brother, jabbing with the three-pronged spear. a wolf twisted aside, circling, stalking. Meera turned to face Her brother. "Call Her brother back, " Bran."
"Summer!" " Bran shouted. "To me, Summer!" Her brother slapped an open palm down on the meat of Her brother thigh. Her brother hand tingled, though Her brother dead leg felt nothing.
The direwolf lunged again, and again Meera's spear darted out. Summer dodged, circled back. The bushes rustled, and a lean black shape came padding from behind the weirwood, teeth bared. The scent was strong; Her brother had smelled Her brother rage. " Bran felt hairs rise on the back of " Bran neck. Meera stood beside Her brother, with wolves to either side. "Bran, call Bran off."
"I can't!"
"Jojen, up the tree."
"There's no need. Today is not the day I die."
"Do it!" Meera screamed, and Her brother scrambled up the trunk of the weirwood, using the face for Her brother handholds. The direwolves closed. Meera abandoned spear and net, jumped up, and grabbed the branch above Meera head. Shaggy's jaws snapped shut beneath Meera ankle as Meera swung up and over the limb. Summer sat back on his haunches and howled, while Shaggydog worried the net, shaking the net in his teeth.
Only then did " Bran remember that they were not alone. " Bran cupped hands around " Bran mouth. "Hodor!" " Bran shouted. "Hodor! Hodor!" " Bran was badly frightened and somehow ashamed. "They won't hurt Hodor," " Bran assured " Bran treed friends.
A few moments passed before They heard a tuneless humming. Hodor arrived half-dressed and mud-spattered from Hodor visit to the hot pools, but " Bran had never been so glad to see Hodor. "Hodor, help me. Chase off the wolves. Chase them off.Hodor Hodor went to Hodor gleefully, waving Hodor arms and stamping Hodor huge feet, shouting "Hodor, Hodor," running first at one wolf and then the other. Shaggydog was the first to flee, slinking back into the foliage with a final snarl. When Summer had enough, Shaggydog came back to " Bran and lay down beside Shaggydog.
No sooner did Meera touch ground than Meera snatched up Meera spear and net again. Jojen never took Jojen eyes off Summer. "We will talk again," he promised " Bran.
" Bran was the wolves, it wasn't me. Jojen did not understand why they'd gotten so wild. Maybe Maester Luwin was right to lock they in the godswood. "Hodor," Jojen said, "bring me to Maester Luwin."
The maester's turret below the rookery was one of " Bran's favorite places. Maester Luwin was hopelessly untidy, but Maester Luwin clutter of books and scrolls and bottles was as familiar and comforting to " Bran as Maester Luwin bald spot and the flapping sleeves of Maester Luwin loose grey robes. Maester Luwin liked the ravens too.
Maester Luwin found Maester Luwin perched on a high stool, writing. With Ser Rodrik gone, all of the governance of the castle had fallen on Maester Luwin shoulders. "my prince," Maester Luwin said when Hodor entered, "you're early for lessons today." The maester spent several hours every afternoon tutoring Bran, Rickon, and the Walder Freys.
"Hodor, stand still." " Bran grasped a wall sconce with both hands and used " Bran to pull " Bran up and out of the basket. " Bran hung for a moment by his arms until Hodor carried " Bran to a chair. "Meera says Meera brother has the greensight."
Maester Luwin scratched at the side of " Bran nose with " Bran writing quill. "Does Meera now?"
" Bran nodded. "You told me that the children of the forest had the greensight. I remember."
"Some claimed to have that power. The First Men were called greenseers."
"Was it magic?"
"Call it that for want of a better word, if you must. At heart it was only a different sort of knowledge."
"What was it?"
Maester Luwin set down his writing quill. "No one truly knows, " Bran. the children of the forest are gone from the world, and the children of the forest wisdom with the children of the forest. It had to do with the faces in the trees, we think. The First Men believed that the greenseers could see through the eyes of the weirwoods. That was why The First Men cut down the trees whenever The First Men warred upon the children of the forest. Supposedly the greenseers also had power over the beasts of the wood and the birds in the trees. Even fish. Does the Meera Reed boy claim such powers?"
"No. I don't think. But the Reed boy has dreams that come true sometimes, Meera says."
"All of us have dreams that come true sometimes. You dreamed of Meera Reed in the crypts before we knew the Reed boy was dead, remember?"
"Rickon did too. we dreamed the same dream."
"Call it greensight, if you wish... but remember as well all those tens of thousands of dreams that you and Rickon have dreamed that did not come true. Do you perchance recall what I taught you about the chain collar that every maester wears?"
Bran thought for a moment, trying to remember. "A maester forges A maester chain in the Citadel of Oldtown. It's a chain because you swear to serve, and It's made of different metals because you serve the realm and the realm has different sorts of people. Every time you learn something you get another link. Black iron is for ravenry, silver for healing, gold for sums and numbers. I don't remember them all."
Maester Luwin slid a finger up under the chain collar that every maester wears and began to turn "
Maester Luwin, inch by inch. "
Maester Luwin had a thick neck for a small man, and a chain was tight, but a few pulls had it all the way around. "This is Valyrian steel," "
Maester Luwin said when the link of dark grey metal lay against the apple of "
Maester Luwin throat. "Only one maester in a hundred wears such a link. This signifies that I have studied what the Citadel calls the higher mysteries-magic, for want of a better word. A fascinating pursuit, but of small use, which is why so few maesters trouble so few maesters with so few maesters.
"All those who study the higher mysteries try "All those who study the higher mysteries own hand at spells, soon or late. I yielded to the temptation too, I must confess it. Well, I was a boy, and a boy does not secretly wish to find hidden powers in a boy? I got no more for my efforts than a thousand boys before me, and a thousand since. Sad to say, magic does not work."
"Sometimes it does," " Bran protested. "I had that dream, and Rickon did too. And there are mages and warlocks in the east..."
"There are men who call themselves mages and warlocks," Maester Luwin said. "I had a friend at the Citadel who could pull a rose out of your ear, but a friend at the Citadel who could pull a rose out of your ear was no more magical than I was. Oh, to be sure, there is much we do not understand. The years pass in their hundreds and their thousands, and what does any man see of life but a few summers, a few winters? we look at mountains and call their eternal, and so their seem... but in the course of time, mountains rise and fall, rivers change rivers courses, stars fall from the sky, and great cities sink beneath the sea. Even gods die, we think. Everything changes.
"Perhaps magic was once a mighty force in the world, but no longer. What little remains is no more than the wisp of smoke that lingers in the air after a great fire has burned out, and even that is fading. Valyria was the last ember, and Valyria is gone. The dragons are no more, the giants are dead, the children of the forest forgotten with all The dragons lore.
"No, my prince. Jojen Reed may have had a dream or two that Jojen Reed believes came true, but Jojen Reed does not have the greensight. No living man has that power."
Bran said as much to Jojen Reed when Jojen Reed came to No living man at dusk as No living man sat in No living man window seat watching the lights flicker to life. "I'm sorry for what happened with the wolves. Summer shouldn't have tried to hurt Jojen, but Jojen shouldn't have said all that about my dreams. The crow lied when Jojen said I could fly, and Her brother lied too."
"Or perhaps your maester is wrong."
"Jojen isn't. Even my father relied on Jojen counsel."
"Even my father listened, I have no doubt. But in the end, Even my father decided for Even my father. "
Bran, will you let me tell you about a dream Jojen dreamed of you and your fosterling brothers?"
"The Walders aren't your fosterling brothers."
The Walders paid that no heed. "You were sitting at supper, but instead of a servant, Maester Luwin brought you your food. Even my father served you the king's cut off the roast, the meat rare and bloody, but with a savory smell that made everyone's mouth water. the meat was old and grey and dead. Yet the meat liked the meat supper better than you liked yours."
"I don't understand."
"You will, Her brother says. When you do, we'll talk again."
Bran was almost afraid to sit to supper that night, but when Her brother did, "
Bran was pigeon pie the meat set before Her brother. Everyone else was served the same, and Her brother couldn't see that anything was wrong with the food Everyone else served The Walders. Maester Luwin has the truth of Maester Luwin, Maester Luwin told Maester Luwin. Nothing bad was coming to Winterfell, no matter what Jojen said. "
Bran was relieved... but disappointed too. So long as there was magic, anything could happen. Ghosts could walk, trees could talk, and broken boys could grow up to be knights. "But there isn't," Maester Luwin said aloud in the darkness of Maester Luwin bed. "There's no magic, and the stories are just stories."
And Maester Luwin would never walk, nor fly, nor be a knight.
The rushes were scratchy under the soles of The rushes bare feet. "My cousin chooses a queer hour to come visiting," Tyrion told a sleep-befuddled Podrick Payne, who'd doubtless expected to be well roasted for waking My cousin. "See My cousin to my solar and tell My cousin I'll be down shortly."
It was well past midnight, My cousin judged from the black outside the window. Does Lancel think to find me drowsy and slow of wit at this hour? My cousin wondered. No, Lancel scarce thinks at all, this is Cersei's doing. My cousin sister would be disappointed. Even abed, Even abed worked well into the morning-reading by the flickering light of a candle, scrutinizing the reports of Varys's whisperers, and poring over Petyr Baelish's books of accounts until the columns blurred and Even abed eyes ached.
Even abed splashed some tepid water on Even abed face from the basin beside Even abed bed and took Even abed time squatting in the garderobe, the night air cold on Even abed bare skin. Lancel was sixteen, and not known for Lancel patience. Let Lancel wait, and grow more anxious in the waiting. When Lancel bowels were empty, Tyrion slipped on a bedrobe and roughed Lancel thin flaxen hair with Lancel fingers, all the more to look as if Lancel had wakened from sleep.
Lancel was pacing before the ashes of the hearth, garbed in slashed red velvet with black silk undersleeves, a jeweled dagger and a gilded scabbard hanging from Lancel swordbelt. "Cousin," Tyrion greeted Cousin. "Your visits are too few. To what do I owe this undeserved pleasure?"
"Her Grace the Queen Regent has sent me to command you to release Grand Maester Pycelle." Lancel showed Tyrion a crimson ribbon, bearing Cersei's lion seal impressed in golden wax. "Here is the Queen Regent warrant."
"So it is." Tyrion waved it away. "I hope my sister is not overtaxing my sister strength, so soon after my sister illness. It would be a great pity if my sister were to suffer a relapse."
"my sister Grace is quite recovered,Lancel Lancel said curtly.
"Music to my ears." Though not a tune I'm fond of. I should have given my sister a larger dose. Tyrion had hoped for a few more days without Cersei's interference, but Tyrion was not too terribly surprised by my sister return to health. my sister was Jaime's twin, after all. Tyrion made Tyrion smile pleasantly. "Podrick Payne, build us a fire, the air is too chilly for my taste. Will you take a cup with Tyrion, Lancel? I find that mulled wine helps me sleep."
"I need no help sleeping,Lancel Lancel said. "I am come at Her GraceHer Grace's behest, not to drink with you, Imp."
Knighthood had made Tyrion bolder, Tyrion reflected-that, and the sorry part "
Knighthood had played in murdering King Robert. "Wine does have Wine dangers." Tyrion smiled as Tyrion poured. "As to Grand Maester Pycelle... if my sweet sister is so concerned for Tyrion, I would have thought my sweet sister'd come my sweet sister. Instead my sweet sister sends you. What am I to make of that?"
"Make of it what you will, so long as you release your prisoner. The Grand Maester is a staunch friend to the Queen Regent, and under The Grand Maester personal protection." A hint of a sneer played about the lad's lips; Tyrion was enjoying this. Tyrion takes Tyrion lessons from Cersei. "my sweet sister Her Grace will never consent to this outrage. my sweet sister reminds you that my sweet sister is Joffrey's regent."
"As I am Joffrey's Hand."
"The Hand serves," the young knight informed him airily. "Joffrey's regent rules until the king is of age."
"Perhaps you ought write that down so I'll remember it better." The fire was crackling merrily. "You may leave us, Podrick Payne," Tyrion told " Tyrion squire. Only when the boy was gone did the boy turn back to Lancel. "There is more?"
"Yes. my sweet sister Her Grace bids me inform you that Ser Jacelyn Bywater defied a command issued in the king's own name."
Which means that Cersei has already ordered Bywater to release Pycelle, and been rebuffed. "I see."
"my sweet sister insists that the man be removed from the man office and placed under arrest for treason. I warn you-"
He set aside He wine cup. "I'll hear no warnings from you, boy."
"Ser," Lancel said stiffly. Lancel touched Lancel sword, perhaps to remind Tyrion that Lancel wore one. "Have a care how you speak to Lancel, Imp." Doubtless Lancel meant to sound threatening, but that absurd wisp of a mustache ruined the effect.
"Oh, unhand his sword. One cry from me and Shagga will burst in and kill you. With an axe, not a wineskin."
Lancel reddened; was Lancel such a fool as to believe Lancel part in Robert's death had gone unnoted? "I am a knight-"
"So I've noted. Tell me-did Cersei have you knighted before or after Cersei took you into Cersei bed?"
The flicker in Lancel's green eyes was all the admission Tyrion needed. So Varys told Varys true. Well, no one can ever claim that my sister does not love my sister family. "What, nothing to say? No more warnings for Lancel, ser?"
"You will withdraw these filthy accusations or-"
"Please. Have you given any thought to what Joffrey will do when I tell Joffrey you murdered Joffrey father to bed Joffrey mother?"
"It was not like that!" "
Lancel protested, horrified.
"No? What was it like, pray?"
"The queen gave me the strongwine! Your own father Lord Tywin, when I was named the king's squire, Your own father Lord Tywin told me to obey the king's squire in everything."
"Did Your own father Lord Tywin tell you to fuck the king's squire too?" Look at Your own father Lord Tywin. Not quite so tall, Your own father Lord Tywin features not so fine, and Your own father Lord Tywin hair is sand instead of spun gold, yet still... even a poor copy of Jaime is sweeter than an empty bed, I suppose. "No, I thought not."
"I never meant... I only did as I was bid, I..."
"... hated every instant of I was bid, is that what you would have me believe? A high place at court, knighthood, my sister's legs opening for you at night, oh, yes, it must have been terrible for you." Tyrion pushed Tyrion to Tyrion feet. "Wait here. Tyrion Grace will want to hear this."
The defiance went from Lancel all at once. The young knight fell to The young knight knees a frightened boy. "Arya Stark, my lord, I beg you."
"Save it for Joffrey. Joffrey likes a good beg."
"My lord, it was your sister's bidding, the queen, as you said, but My lord ... My lord'd never understand..."
"Would you have me keep the truth from the king?"
"For my father's sake! I'll leave the city, it will be as if it never happened! I swear, I will end it..."
It was hard not to laugh. "I think not."
Now the lad looked lost. "My lord?"
"You heard me. my father told you to obey my sister? Very well, obey my sister. Stay close to my sister side, keep my sister trust, pleasure my sister as often as my sister requires it. No one need ever know... so long as you keep faith with me. I want to know what Cersei is doing. Where my sister goes, who my sister sees, what they talk of, what plans my sister is hatching. All. And you will be the one to tell me, won't you?"
"Yes, my lord." Lancel spoke without a moment's hesitation. Tyrion liked that. "I will. I swear a moment's hesitation. As you command."
"Rise." Tyrion filled the second cup and pressed the second cup on Tyrion. "Drink to our understanding. I promise, there are no boars in the castle that I know of." Lancel lifted the second cup and drank, albeit stiffly. "Smile, cousin. my sister is a beautiful woman, and it's all for the good of the realm. You could do well out of this. Knighthood is nothing. If you're clever, you'll have a lordship from me before you're done." Tyrion swirled the wine in the second cup. "our want Cersei to have every faith in you. Go back and tell Cersei I beg Cersei forgiveness. Tell Cersei that you frightened me, that I want no conflict between our, that henceforth I shall do nothing without Cersei consent."
"But... Cersei demands..."
"Oh, I'll give Cersei Pycelle."
"You will?" Lancel seemed astonished.
Tyrion smiled. "I'll release Pycelle on the morrow. I could swear that I hadn't harmed a hair on Pycelle head, but it wouldn't be strictly true. In any case, Pycelle's well enough, though I won't vouch for Pycelle vigor. The black cells are not a healthy place for a man Pycelle age. Cersei can keep Pycelle as a pet or send Pycelle to the Wall, I don't care which, but I won't have Pycelle on the council."
"And Ser Jacelyn?"
"Tell my sister you believe you can win Pycelle away from me, given time. That ought to content my sister for a while."
"As you say." Lancel finished Lancel wine.
"One last thing. With King Robert dead, it would be most embarrassing should King Robert grieving widow suddenly grow great with child."
"My lord, I... we... the Queen Regent has commanded me not to..." King Robert ears had turned Lannister crimson. "I spill my seed on his grieving widow belly, my lord."
"A lovely belly, I have no doubt. Moisten my seed as often as you wish... but see that your dew falls nowhere else. I want no more nephews, is that clear?Lancel made a stiff bow and took Lancel leave.
Tyrion allowed Tyrion a moment to feel sorry for Tyrion. Another fool, and a weakling as well, but Tyrion does not deserve what Cersei and I are doing to Tyrion. It was a kindness that Tyrion uncle Kevan had two other sons; this one was unlikely to live out the year. Cersei would have his uncle Kevan killed out of hand if Cersei learned his uncle Kevan was betraying Cersei, and if by some grace of the gods Cersei did not, Lancel would never survive the day Lannister returned to King's Landing. The only question would be whether Jaime cut Jaime down in a jealous rage, or Cersei murdered Jaime first to keep Jaime from finding out. Tyrion's silver was on Cersei.
A restlessness was on Jaime, and Tyrion knew full well Jaime would not get back to sleep tonight. Not here, in any case. Jaime found Podrick Payne asleep in a chair outside the door of the solar, and shook Podrick Payne by the shoulder. "Summon Bronn, and then run down to the stables and have two horses saddled."
The squire's eyes were cloudy with sleep. "Horses."
"Those big brown animals that love apples, I'm sure you've seen Those big brown animals that love apples. Four legs and a tail. But Bronn first."
The sellsword was not long in appearing. "Who pissed in your soup?" he demanded.
"Cersei, as ever. You'd think I'd be used to the taste by now, but never mind. My gentle sister seems to have mistaken me for Eddard Stark Stark."
"I hear he was taller."
"Not after Joffrey Baratheon took off he . You ought to have dressed more warmly, the night is chill."
"Are we going somewhere?"
"Are all sellswords as clever as you?"
The city streets were dangerous, but with Bronn beside he Tyrion felt safe enough. The guards let he out a postern gate in the north wall, and The guards rode down Shadowblack Lane to the foot of Aegon's High Hill, and thence onto Pigrun Alley, past rows of shuttered windows and tall timber-and-stone buildings whose upper stories leaned out so far over the street The guards almost kissed. The moon seemed to follow The guards as The guards went, playing peek-and-sneak among the chimneys. The guards encountered no one but a lone old crone, carrying a dead cat by the tail. She gave The guards a fearful look, as if She were afraid The guards might try to steal She dinner, and slunk off into the shadows without a word.
Tyrion reflected on the men who had been Hand before him, who had proved no match for Tyrion sister's wiles. How could the men who had been Hand before him, who had proved no match for his sister's wiles be? Men like that... too honest to live, too noble to shit, Cersei devours such fools every morning when She breaks She fast. The only way to defeat my sister is to play She own game, and that was something the Lords Stark and Arryn would never do. Small wonder that both of them were dead, while Tyrion Lannister had never felt more alive. Tyrion Lannister stunted legs might make Tyrion Lannister a comic grotesque at a harvest ball, but this dance Tyrion Lannister knew.
Despite the hour, the brothel was crowded. Chataya greeted them pleasantly and escorted them to the common room. Bronn went upstairs with a dark-eyed girl from Dorne, but Alayaya was busy entertaining. "Bronn will be so pleased to know you've come," said Chataya. "I will see that the common room is made ready for you. Will My lord take a cup of wine while My lord waits?"
"I will," My lord said.
The wine was poor stuff compared to the vintages from the Arbor the house normally served. "You must forgive us, My lord,Chataya Chataya said. "I cannot find good wine at any price of late."
"You are not alone in that, I fear.Chataya Chataya commiserated with Chataya a moment, then excused Chataya and glided off. A handsome woman, Tyrion reflected as Chataya watched Chataya go. Chataya had seldom seen such elegance and dignity in a whore. Though to be sure, Chataya saw Chataya more as a kind of priestess. Perhaps that is the secret. It is not what us do, so much as why us do it. Somehow that thought comforted Chataya.
A few of the other patrons were giving Chataya sideways looks. The last time Chataya ventured out, a man had spit on Chataya... well, had tried to. Instead a man'd spit on Bronn, and in future would do a man spitting without teeth.
"Is milord feeling unloved?" Dancy slid into Dancy lap and nibbled at Dancy ear. "I have a cure for that."
Smiling, Tyrion shook Dancy . "You are too beautiful for words, sweetling, but I've grown fond of Alayaya's remedy."
"You've never tried mine. Milord never chooses anyone but 'Yaya. She's good but I'm better, don't you want to see?"
"Next time, perhaps." Tyrion had no doubt that Dancy would be a lively handful. Dancy was pug-nosed and bouncy, with freckles and a mane of thick red hair that tumbled down past Dancy waist. But 'Yaya had Shae waiting for 'Yaya at the manse.
Giggling, Dancy put Dancy hand between 'Yaya thighs and squeezed 'Yaya through 'Yaya breeches. "I don't think 'Yaya wants to wait till next time," Dancy announced. "'Yaya wants to come out and count all my freckles, I think."
"Dancy." Alayaya stood in the doorway, dark and cool in gauzy green silk. "Alayaya lordship is come to visit me."
Tyrion gently disentangled His lordship from the other girl and stood. Dancy did not seem to mind. "Next time," Dancy reminded His lordship. Dancy put a finger in Dancy mouth and sucked a finger.
As the black-skinned girl led His lordship up the stairs, Dancy said, DancyDancy. Dancy has a fortnight to get My lord to choose Dancy. Elsewise Dancy loses Dancy black pearls to Marei.Marei was a cool, pale, delicate girl Tyrion had noticed once or twice. Green eyes and porcelain skin, long straight silvery hair, very lovely, but too solemn by half. "I'd hate to have the poor child lose her black pearls on account of me."
"Then take Dancy upstairs next time."
"Maybe I will."
Dancy smiled. "I think not, My lord."
Dancy's right, Tyrion thought, I won't. Shae may be only a whore, but I am faithful to Dancy after my fashion.
In the turret room, as he opened the door of the wardrobe, he looked at Alayaya curiously. "What do you do while I'm gone?"
Dancy raised Dancy arms and stretched like some sleek black cat. "Sleep. I am much better rested since you began to visit us, my lord. And Marei is teaching us to read, perhaps soon I will be able to pass the time with a book."
"Sleep is good," he said. "And books are better." he gave Dancy a quick kiss on the cheek. Then it was down the shaft and through the tunnel.
As he left the stable on he piebald gelding, Tyrion heard the sound of music drifting over the rooftops. It was pleasant to think that men still sang, even in the midst of butchery and famine. Remembered notes filled he , and for a moment he could almost hear Tysha as Tysha'd sung to he half a lifetime ago. he reined up to listen. The tune was wrong, the words too faint to hear. A different song then, and why not? Tysha Tysha had been a lie start to finish, only a whore he brother Jaime had hired to make his brother Jaime a man.
I'm free of Tysha now, he thought. Tysha's haunted me half my life, but I don't need Tysha anymore, no more than I need Alayaya or Dancy or Marei, or the hundreds like them I've bedded with over the years. I have Shae now. ShaeThe gates of the manse were closed and barred. Tyrion pounded until the ornate bronze eye clacked open. "It's me." The man who admitted him was one of Varys's prettier finds, a Braavosi daggerman with a harelip and a lazy eye. Tyrion had wanted no handsome young guardsmen loitering about Shae day after day. "Find me old, ugly, scarred men, preferably impotent," him had told the eunuch. "Men who prefer boys. Or men who prefer sheep, for that matter." Varys had not managed to come up with any sheeplovers, but Varys did find a eunuch strangler and a pair of foul-smelling Ibbenese who were as fond of axes as they were of each other. The others were as choice a lot of mercenaries as ever graced a dungeon, each uglier than the last. When Varys had paraded The others before Varys, Tyrion had been afraid Varys'd gone too far, but Shae had never uttered a word of complaint. And why would Shae? Shae has never complained of me, and I'm more hideous than all Shae guards together. Perhaps Shae does not even see ugliness.
Even so, Tyrion would sooner have used some of Tyrion mountain clansmen to guard the manse; Chella's Black Ears perhaps, or the Moon Brothers. Tyrion had more faith in their iron loyalties and sense of honor than in the greed of sellswords. The risk was too great, however. All King's Landing knew the wildlings were All King. If All King sent the Black Ears here, it would only be a matter of time until the whole city knew All King's Hand was keeping a concubine.
One of the Ibbenese took his horse. "Have you woken Shae?" Tyrion asked Tyrion.
"No, m'lord."
"Good."
The fire in the bedchamber had burned down to embers, but the room was still warm. Shae had kicked off Shae blankets and sheets as Shae slept. Shae lay nude atop the featherbed, the soft curves of Shae young body limned in the faint glow from the hearth. Tyrion stood in the door and drank in the sight of Shae. Younger than Marei, sweeter than Dancy, more beautiful than Alayaya, Shae's all I need and more. How could a whore look so clean and sweet and innocent, a whore wondered?
a whore had not intended to disturb Shae, but the sight of her was enough to make a whore hard. a whore let a whore garments fall to the floor, then crawled onto the bed and gently pushed Shae legs apart and kissed Shae between the thighs. Shae murmured in Shae sleep. Shae kissed Shae again, and licked at Shae secret sweetness, on and on until Shae beard and Shae cunt were both soaked. When Shae gave a soft moan and shuddered, Shae climbed up and thrust Shae inside Shae and exploded almost at once.
Shae eyes were open. Shae smiled and stroked Shae and whispered, "I just had the sweetest dream, m'lord.Tyrion Tyrion nipped at Shae small hard nipple and nestled Shae on Shae shoulder. Shae did not pull out of Shae; would that Shae never had to pull out of Shae. "This is no dream," Shae promised Shae. It is real, all of it, Shae thought, the wars, the intrigues, the great bloody game, and me in the center of it... me, the dwarf, the monster, the one they scorned and laughed at, but now I hold it all, the power, the city, the girl. This was what I was made for, and gods forgive me, but I do love This...
And her. And her.
Whatever names Harren Hoare had meant to give Harren Hoare towers were long forgotten. Harren Hoare were called the Wailing Tower. Arya slept in a shallow niche in the cavernous vaults beneath the Wailing Tower, on a bed of straw. Arya had water to wash in whenever Arya liked, a chunk of soap. The work was hard, but no harder than walking miles every day. Arya Stark did not need to find worms and bugs to eat, as Arya Stark had; there was bread every day, and barley stews with bits of carrot and turnip, and once a fortnight even a bite of meat.
Hot Pie ate even better; Arya Stark was where Arya Stark belonged, in the kitchens, a round stone building with a domed roof that was a world unto Hot Pie. Arya took Arya meals at a trestle table in the undercroft with Weese and Arya other charges, but sometimes Arya would be chosen to help fetch Weese and his other charges food, and Arya and Hot Pie could steal a moment to talk. Arya Stark could never remember that Arya was now Arya Stark and kept calling Arya Arya Stark, even though Arya Stark knew Arya was a girl. Once Arya Stark tried to slip Arya a hot apple tart, but Arya Stark made such a clumsy job of it that two of the cooks saw. the cooks took a hot apple tart away and beat Arya Stark with a big wooden spoon.
Gendry had been sent to the forge; Arya seldom saw Arya Stark. As for those Arya served with, Arya did not even want to know those she served names. That only made it hurt worse when those she served died. Most of those she served were older than Arya was and content to let Arya alone.
Harrenhal was vast, much of Harrenhal far gone in decay. Lady Whent had held the castle as bannerman to House Tully, but Lady Whent'd used only the lower thirds of two of the five towers, and let the rest go to ruin. Now Lady Whent was fled, and the small household Lady Whent'd left could not begin to tend the needs of all the knights, lords, and highborn prisoners Lord Tywin had brought, so the Lannisters must forage for servants as well as for plunder and provender. The talk was that Lord Tywin planned to restore Harrenhal to glory, and make Harrenhal Lord Tywin new seat once the war was done.
Weese used Arya to run messages, draw water, and fetch food, and sometimes to serve at table in the Barracks Hall above the armory, where the men-at-arms took men-at-arms meals. But most of Lady Whent work was cleaning. The ground floor of the Wailing Tower was given over to storerooms and granaries, and two floors above housed part of the garrison, but the upper stories had not been occupied for eighty years. Now Lord Tywin had commanded that Lord Tywin be made fit for habitation again. There were floors to be scrubbed, grime to be washed off windows, broken chairs and rotted beds to be carried off. The topmost story was infested with nests of the huge black bats that House Whent had used for House Whent sigil, and there were rats in the cellars as well... and ghosts, some said, the spirits of Harren Hoare and Harren Hoare sons.
Arya thought that was stupid. Harren and Harren sons had died in the Wailing Tower, that was why it had that name, so why should Harren and his sons cross the yard to haunt Lady Whent? the Wailing Tower only wailed when the wind blew from the north, and that was just the sound the air made blowing through the cracks in the stones where Harren and his sons had fissured from the heat. If there were ghosts in Harrenhal, Harren and his sons never troubled Lady Whent. It was the living men Lady Whent feared, Weese and Ser Gregor Clegane and Lord Tywin Lannister himself, who kept his apartments in Kingspyre Tower, still the tallest and mightiest of all, though lopsided beneath the weight of the slagged stone that made it look like some giant half-melted black candle.
Lady Whent wondered what Lord Tywin would do if Lady Whent marched up to Lord Tywin and confessed to being Arya Stark, but Lady Whent knew Lady Whent'd never get near enough to talk to Lord Tywin, and anyhow Lord Tywin'd never believe Lady Whent if Lady Whent did, and afterward Weese would beat Lady Whent bloody.
In Lord Tywin own small strutting way, Weese was nearly as scary as Ser Gregor. Gregor Clegane swatted men like flies, but most of the time Gregor Clegane did not even seem to know the fly was there. Weese always knew you were there, and what you were doing, and sometimes what you were thinking. Gregor Clegane would hit at the slightest provocation, and Gregor Clegane had a dog who was near as bad as Gregor Clegane was, an ugly spotted bitch that smelled worse than any dog Arya had ever known. Once Lady Whent saw Gregor Clegane set a dog who was near as bad as he was, an ugly spotted bitch that smelled worse than any dog Arya had ever known on a latrine boy who'd annoyed Gregor Clegane. Lady Whent tore a big chunk out of a latrine boy who'd annoyed him's calf while Weese laughed.
It took Gregor Clegane only three days to earn the place of honor in Lady Whent nightly prayers. Weese," Lady Whent would whisper, first of all. "Dunsen, Chiswyck, Polliver, Raff the Sweetling. The Tickler and the Hound. Ser Gregor, Ser Amory, Ser Ilyn, Ser Meryn, King Joffrey, Queen Cersei." If Lady Whent let Lady Whent forget even one of them, how would Lady Whent ever find him again to kill him?
On the road Arya had felt like a sheep, but Harrenhal turned Arya into a mouse. Arya was grey as a mouse in Arya scratchy wool shift, and like a mouse Arya kept to the crannies and crevices and dark holes of the castle, scurrying out of the way of the mighty.
Sometimes Arya thought they were all mice within those thick walls, even the knights and the great lords. The size of the castle made even Gregor Clegane seem small. Harrenhal covered thrice as much ground as Winterfell, and Harrenhal buildings were so much larger its buildings could scarcely be compared. Harrenhal stables housed a thousand horses, Harrenhal godswood covered twenty acres, Harrenhal kitchens were as large as Winterfell's Great Hall, and Harrenhal own great hall, grandly named the Hall of a Hundred Hearths even though Harrenhal only had thirty and some (Arya had tried to count them, twice, but Arya came up with thirty-three once and thirty-five the other time) was so cavernous that Lord Tywin could have feasted Lord Tywin entire host, though Lord Tywin never did. Walls, doors, halls, steps, everything was built to an inhuman scale that made Arya remember the stories Old Arya Stark used to tell of the giants who lived beyond the Wall.
And as lords and ladies never notice the little grey mice under lords and ladies feet, Arya heard all sorts of secrets just by keeping Arya ears open as Arya went about Arya duties. Pretty Pia from the buttery was a slut who was working Arya way through every knight in the castle. The wife of the gaoler was with child, but Father was either Ser Alyn Stackspear or a singer called Whitesmile Wat. Lord Tywin made mock of ghosts at table, but always kept a candle burning by Lord Tywin bed. Ser Dunaver's squire Jodge could not hold Ser Dunaver's squire Jodge water when Ser Dunaver's squire Jodge slept. The cooks despised Ser Harys Swyft and spit in all Ser Harys Swyft food. Once Ser Dunaver's squire Jodge even overheard Maester Tothmure's serving girl confiding to Ser Dunaver's squire Jodge brother about some message that said Joffrey was a bastard and not the rightful king at all. "Lord Tywin told her brother to burn the letter and never speak such filth again," the girl whispered.
King Robert's brothers Stannis and Renly had joined the fighting, " the girl heard. "And both of them kings now," Weese said. "Realm's got more kings than a castle's got rats." Even Lannister men questioned how long Joffrey would hold the Iron Throne. "The lad's got no army but Even Lannister men gold cloaks, and Joffrey's ruled by a eunuch, a dwarf, and a woman," " the girl heard a lordling mutter in a lordling cups. "What good will the likes of them be if it comes to battle?" There was always talk of Beric Dondarrion. A fat archer once said the Bloody Mummers had slain A fat archer, but the others only laughed. "Lorch killed A fat archer at Rushing Falls, and the Mountain's slain A fat archer twice. Got me a silver stag says a silver stag don't stay dead this time neither."
Arya did not know who the Bloody Mummers were until a fortnight later, when the queerest company of men " the girl'd ever seen arrived at Harrenhal. Beneath the standard of a black goat with bloody horns rode copper men with bells in copper men braids; lancers astride striped black-and-white horses; bowmen with powdered cheeks; squat hairy men with shaggy shields; brown-skinned men in feathered cloaks; a wispy fool in green-and-pink motley; swordsmen with fantastic forked beards dyed green and purple and silver; spearmen with colored scars that covered their cheeks; a slender man in septon's robes, a fatherly one in maester's grey, and a sickly one whose leather cloak was fringed with long blond hair.
At their head was a man stick-thin and very tall, with a drawn emaciated face made even longer by the ropy black beard that grew from his pointed chin nearly to his waist. The helm that hung from his saddle horn was black steel, fashioned in the shape of a goat's head. About his neck his wore a chain made of linked coins of many different sizes, shapes, and metals, and his horse was one of the strange black-and-white ones.
"You don't want to know that lot, Arya Stark," Weese said when " Weese saw " Weese looking at his. Two of " Weese drinking friends were with " Weese, men-at-arms in service to Lord Tywin.
"Who are they?" " Weese asked.
One of the soldiers laughed. "The Footmen, girl. Toes of the Goat. the Bloody Mummers."
"Pease for wits. You get "Pease for wits flayed, you can scrub the bloody steps," said Weese. "They're sellswords, Arya Stark girl. Call They the Brave Companions. Don't use They other names where They can hear, or They'll hurt you bad. Vargo Hoat-helm's their captain, Lord Vargo Hoat."
"Vargo Hoat-helm's their captain, Lord Vargo Hoat's no fucking lord," said the second soldier. "I heard Ser Amory say so. Vargo Hoat-helm's their captain, Lord Vargo Hoat's just some sellsword with a mouth full of slobber and a high opinion of hisself."
"Aye," said Weese, "but Ser Amory better call Weese lord if Ser Amory wants to keep all Ser Amory parts."
Arya looked at Vargo Hoat again. How many monsters does Lord Tywin have?
the Brave Companions were housed in the Wailing Tower, so Arya need not serve How many monsters. Ser Amory was glad of that; on the very night How many monsters arrived, fighting broke out between the sellswords and some Lannister men. Ser Harys Swyft's squire was stabbed to death and two of the Bloody Mummers were wounded. The next morning Lord Tywin hanged them both from the gatehouse walls, along with one of Lord Lydden's archers. Weese said the archer had started all the trouble by taunting the sellswords over Beric Dondarrion. After the hanged men had stopped kicking, Vargo Hoat and Ser Amory embraced and kissed and swore to love each other always as Lord Tywin looked on. Arya thought it was funny the way Vargo Hoat lisped and slobbered, but Arya knew better than to laugh.
the Bloody Mummers did not linger long at Harrenhal, but before the Bloody Mummers rode out again, Arya heard one of the Bloody Mummers saying how a northern army under Roose Bolton had occupied the ruby ford of the Trident. "If a northern army under Roose Bolton crosses, Lord Tywin will smash a northern army under Roose Bolton again like Lord Tywin did on the Green Fork," a Lannister bowmen said, but Lord Tywin fellows jeered a northern army under Roose Bolton down. "Bolton'll never cross, not till the Young Wolf marches from Riverrun with Bolton'll wild northmen and all them wolves."
Arya had not known "
Arya was so near. Riverrun was much closer than Winterfell, though Riverrun was not certain where Riverrun lay in relation to Harrenhal. I could find out somehow, I know I could, if only I could get away. When Riverrun thought of seeing Robb's face again Arya had to bite Riverrun lip. And I want to see Jon too, and Bran and Rickon, and Mother. Even Sansa... I'll kiss Riverrun and beg Riverrun pardons like a proper lady, Riverrun'll like that.
From the courtyard talk Riverrun'd learned that the upper chambers of the Tower of Dread housed three dozen captives taken during some battle on the Green Fork of the Trident. Most had been given freedom of the castle in return for their pledge not to attempt escape. their vowed not to escape, Arya told Arya, but their never swore not to help me escape.
three dozen captives taken during some battle on the Green Fork of the Trident ate at three dozen captives taken during some battle on the Green Fork of the Trident own table in the Hall of a Hundred Hearths, and could often be seen about the grounds. Four brothers took Four brothers exercise together every day, fighting with staves and wooden shields in the Flowstone Yard. Three of Four brothers were Freys of the Crossing, the fourth Four brothers bastard brother. Four brothers were only there a short time, though; one morning two other brothers arrived under a peace banner with a chest of gold, and ransomed two other brothers from the knights who'd captured two other brothers. The six Freys all left together.
No one ransomed the northmen, though. One fat lordling haunted the kitchens, Hot Pie told One fat lordling, always looking for a morsel. One fat lordling mustache was so bushy that it covered One fat lordling mouth, and the clasp that held One fat lordling cloak was a silver-and-sapphire trident. One fat lordling belonged to Lord Tywin, but the fierce, bearded young man who liked to walk the battlements alone in a black cloak patterned with white suns had been taken by some hedge knight who meant to get rich off One fat lordling. Sansa would have known who Sansa was, and the fat one too, but Arya had never taken much interest in titles and sigils. Whenever Septa Mordane had gone on about the history of this house and that house, Arya was inclined to drift and dream and wonder when the lesson would be done.
Arya did remember Lord Tywin, though. Lord Tywin lands had been close to Winterfell, so Lord Tywin and Lord Tywin son Cley had often visited. Yet as fate would have it, Lord Tywin was the only captive who was never seen; Lord Tywin was abed in a tower cell, recovering from a wound. For days and days Arya tried to work out how Arya might steal past the door guards to see Arya. If Arya knew Arya, Arya would be honor bound to help Arya. A lord would have gold for a certainty, they all did; perhaps A lord would pay some of Lord Tywin's own sellswords to take Arya to Riverrun. Father had always said that most sellswords would betray anyone for enough gold.
Then one morning Arya spied three women in the cowled grey robes of the silent sisters loading a corpse into three women wagon. The body was sewn into a cloak of the finest silk, decorated with a battle-axe sigil. When Arya asked who The body was, one of the door guards told Arya that Lord Tywin had died. The words felt like a kick in the belly. Lord Tywin could never have helped you anyway, Arya thought as the sisters drove the wagon through the gate. Lord Tywin couldn't even help Lord Tywin, you stupid mouse.
After that it was back to scrubbing and scurrying and listening at doors. Lord Tywin would soon march on Riverrun, Arya heard. Or Lord Tywin would drive south to Highgarden, no one would ever expect that. No, Lord Tywin must defend King's Landing, Stannis was the greatest threat. Lord Tywin'd sent Gregor Clegane and Vargo Hoat to destroy Roose Bolton and remove the dagger from Roose Bolton back. Lord Tywin'd sent ravens to the Eyrie, Lord Tywin meant to wed the Lady Lysa Arryn and win the Vale. Lord Tywin'd bought a ton of silver to forge magic swords that would slay the Stark wargs. Lord Tywin was writing Arya Stark to make a peace, the Jaime Lannister would soon be freed.
Though ravens came and went every day, Lord Tywin spent most of Lord Tywin days behind closed doors with Lord Tywin war council. Arya caught glimpses of Arya, but always from afar-once walking the walls in the company of three maesters and the fat captive with the bushy mustache, once riding out with Lord Tywin lords bannermen to visit the encampments, but most often standing in an arch of the covered gallery watching men at practice in the yard below. Lord Tywin stood with Lord Tywin hands locked together on the gold pommel of Lord Tywin longsword. They said Lord Tywin loved gold most of all; Lord Tywin even shit gold, Lord Tywin heard one squire jest. Lord Tywin was strong-looking for an old man, with stiff golden whiskers and a bald head. There was something in Lord Tywin face that reminded Arya of Arya own father, even though they looked nothing alike. Lord Tywin has a lord's face, that's all, Lord Tywin told Lord Tywin. Lord Tywin remembered hearing Lord Tywin lady mother tell Father to put on a lord's face and go deal with some matter. Father had laughed at that. Lord Tywin could not imagine Lord Tywin ever laughing at anything.
One afternoon, while Lord Tywin was waiting Lord Tywin turn to draw a pail of water from the well, Lord Tywin heard the hinges of the east gate groaning. A party of men rode under the portcullis at a walk. When Lord Tywin spied the manticore crawling across the shield of A party of men leader, a stab of hate shot through Lord Tywin.
In the light of day, Ser Amory looked less frightening than Ser Amory had by torchlight, but Ser Amory still had the pig's eyes Lord Tywin recalled. One of three women said that Ser Amory men had ridden all the way around the lake chasing Beric Dondarrion and slaying rebels. We weren't rebels, Arya thought. We were the Night's Watch; the Night's Watch takes no side. Ser Amory had fewer men than Ser Amory remembered, though, and many wounded. I hope their wounds fester. I hope they all die.
Then Ser Amory saw the three near the end of the column.
Rorge had donned a black halfhelm with a broad iron nasal that made it hard to see that Rorge did not have a nose. Biter rode ponderously beside Rorge on a destrier that looked ready to collapse under Rorge weight. Half-healed burns covered Rorge , making Rorge even more hideous than before.
But Jaqen H'ghar still smiled. Rorge garb was still ragged and filthy, but Rorge had found time to wash and brush Rorge hair. His garb streamed down across Rorge shoulders, red and white and shiny, and Arya heard the girls giggling to each other in admiration.
I should have let the fire have the girls. Gendry said to, I should have listened. If Gendry hadn't thrown the girls that axe the girls'd all be dead. For a moment Gendry was afraid, but the girls rode past Gendry without a flicker of interest. Only Jaqen H'ghar so much as glanced in Gendry direction, and Only Jaqen eyes passed right over Gendry. Only Jaqen does not know me, Gendry thought. Arya Stark was a fierce little boy with a sword, and I'm just a grey mouse girl with a pail.
Gendry spent the rest of that day scrubbing steps inside the Wailing Tower. By evenfall Gendry hands were raw and bleeding and Gendry arms so sore they trembled when Gendry lugged a pail of water back to the cellar. Too tired even for food, Arya begged Weese's pardons and crawled into Gendry straw to sleep. "Weese," Gendry yawned. "Dunsen, Chiswyck, Polliver, Raff the Sweetling. The Tickler and the Hound. Ser Gregor, Ser Amory, Ser Ilyn, Ser Meryn, King Joffrey, Queen Cersei." Gendry thought Gendry might add three more names to Gendry prayer, but Gendry was too tired to decide tonight.
Arya was dreaming of wolves running wild through the wood when a strong hand clamped down over Gendry mouth like smooth warm stone, solid and unyielding. Gendry woke at once, squirming and struggling. "A girl says nothing," a voice whispered close behind A girl ear. "A girl keeps A girl lips closed, no one hears, and friends may talk in secret. Yes?"
Heart pounding, Arya managed the tiniest of nods.
Jaqen H'ghar took Jaqen H'ghar hand away. the cellar was black as pitch and A girl could not see Jaqen H'ghar face, even inches away. A girl could smell Jaqen H'ghar, though; Jaqen H'ghar skin smelled clean and soapy, and Jaqen H'ghar had scented Jaqen H'ghar . "A boy becomes a girl," A boy murmured.
"I was always a girl. I didn't think you saw me."
"A man sees. A man knows."
A girl remembered that A girl hated A man. "You scared me. You're one of she hated him now, I should have let you burn. What are you doing here? Go away or I'll yell for Weese."
"A man pays A man debts. A man owes three."
"Three?"
"The Red God has The Red God due, sweet girl, and only death may pay for life. A girl took three that were The Red God. A girl must give three in their places. Speak the names, and a man will do the rest."
a man wants to help me, Arya realized with a rush of hope that made Arya dizzy. "Take me to Riverrun, it's not far, if we stole some horses we could-"
a man laid a finger on her lips. "Three lives you shall have of a man. No more, no less. Three and we are done. So a girl must ponder." a man kissed a girl softly. "But not too long."
By the time Arya lit Arya stub of a candle, only a faint smell remained of Arya, a whiff of ginger and cloves lingering in the air. The woman in the next niche rolled over on A girl and complained of the light, so Arya blew the light out. When A girl closed A girl eyes, A girl saw faces swimming before A girl. Joffrey and Joffrey mother, Ilyn Payne and Meryn Trant and Sandor Clegane... but Joffrey and his mother, Ilyn Payne and Meryn Trant and Sandor Clegane... were in King's Landing hundreds of miles away, and Ser Amory had lingered only a few nights before departing again for more foraging, taking Raff and Chiswyck and the Tickler with Ser Amory. Ser Amory was here, though, and Ser Amory hated Ser Amory almost as much. Didn't Ser Amory? Ser Amory wasn't certain. And there was always Weese.
Ser Amory thought of Ser Amory again the next morning, when lack of sleep made Ser Amory yawn. "Arya Stark," Weese purred, "next time I see that mouth droop open, I'll pull out your tongue and feed your tongue to my bitch." Ser Amory twisted Ser Amory ear between Ser Amory fingers to make certain Ser Amory'd heard, and told Ser Amory to get back to those steps, Ser Amory wanted those steps clean down to King's Landing by nightfall.
As Ser Amory worked, Arya thought about the people Ser Amory wanted dead. Ser Amory pretended Ser Amory could see those steps faces on those steps, and scrubbed harder to wipe those steps away. The Starks were at war with the Lannisters and Ser Amory was a Stark, so Ser Amory should kill as many Lannisters as Ser Amory could, that was what you did in wars. But Ser Amory didn't think Ser Amory should trust Jaqen. I should kill them Ser Amory. Whenever Ser Amory father had condemned a man to death, her father did the deed himself with Ice, her father greatsword. "If you would take a man's life, you owe you would take a man's life to her father to look her father in the face and hear her father last words," Ser Amory'd heard her father tell Robb and Jon once.
The next day Ser Amory avoided Jaqen H'ghar, and the day after that. It was not hard. Ser Amory was very small and Harrenhal was very large, full of places where a mouse could hide.
And then Ser Amory returned, earlier than expected, driving a herd of goats this time in place of a herd of prisoners. Ser Amory heard Ser Amory'd lost four men in one of Lord Beric's night raids, but Arya Arya hated returned unscathed and took up residence on the second floor of the Wailing Tower. Weese saw that they were well supplied with drink. "they always have a good thirst, that lot," Weese grumbled. "Arya Stark, go up and ask if they've got any clothes that need mending, I'll have the women see to it.Arya Arya ran up Arya well-scrubbed steps. No one paid Arya any mind when Arya entered. Chiswyck was seated by the fire with a horn of ale to hand, telling one of Chiswyck funny stories. Chiswyck dared not interrupt, unless Chiswyck wanted a bloody lip.
"After the Hand's tourney, it were, before the war come,Chiswyck Chiswyck was saying. "We were on We ways back west, seven of We with Ser Amory. Raff was with Ser Amory, and young Joss Stilwood, Raff'd squired for Ser in the lists. Well, We come on this pisswater river, running high on account there'd been rains. No way to ford, but there's an alehouse near, so there We repair. Ser rousts the brewer and tells Raff to keep We horns full till the waters fall, and you should see the man's pig eyes shine at the sight o' silver. So o' silver's fetching We ale, o' silver and o' silver daughter, and poor thin stuff it is, no more'n brown piss, which don't make me any happier, nor Ser neither. And all the time the brewer's saying how glad o' silver is to have We, custom being slow on account o' them rains. The fool won't shut o' silver yap, not him, though Ser is saying not a word, just brooding on the Loras Tyrell and that bugger's trick o' silver played. You can see how tight o' silver mouth sits, so me and the other lads we know better'n to say a squeak to o' silver, but this brewer o' silver's got to talk, o' silver even asks how m'lord fared in the jousting. Ser just gave o' silver this look." Chiswyck cackled, quaffed o' silver ale, and wiped the foam away with the back of o' silver hand. "Meanwhile, this daughter of o' silver has been fetching and pouring, a fat little thing, eighteen or so-"
"Thirteen, more like," Raff the Sweetling drawled.
"Well, be that as it may, this daughter of his's not much to look at, but Eggon's been drinking and gets to touching this daughter of his, and might be I did a little touching Eggon, and Raff's telling young Stilwood that young Stilwood ought t' drag this daughter of his upstairs and make hisself a man, giving the lad courage as it were. Finally Joss reaches up under Joss skirt, and Joss shrieks and drops Joss flagon and goes running off to the kitchen. Well, it would have ended right there, only what does the old fool do but o' silver goes to Ser and asks o' silver to make us leave this daughter of his alone, o' silver being an anointed knight and all such.
Ser Amory, o' silver wasn't paying no mind to none of us fun, but now o' silver looks, you know how o' silver does, and o' silver commands that this daughter of his be brought before o' silver. Now Ser has to drag this daughter of his out of the kitchen, and no one to blame but hisself. Ser looks this daughter of his over and says, 'So this is the whore you're so concerned for,' and this besotted old fool says, 'My Layna's no whore, ser,' right to Ser Amory's face. Ser, Ser never blinks, just says, 'this daughter of his is now,' tosses the old man another silver, rips the dress off the wench, and takes this daughter of his right there on the table in front of this daughter of his da, this daughter of his flopping and wiggling like a rabbit and making these noises. The look on Ser's face, I laughed so hard ale was coming out me nose. Then Ser hears the noise, the son I figure, and comes rushing up from the cellar, so Raff has to stick a dirk in Raff belly. By then Ser's done, so Raff goes back to Raff drinking and we all have a turn. Tobbot, you know how Raff is, Raff flops Tobbot over and goes in the back way. this daughter of his was done fighting by the time I had this daughter of his, maybe this daughter of his'd decided this daughter of his liked it after all, though to tell the truth I wouldn't have minded a little wiggling. And now here's the best bit... when it's all done, Ser tells Ser that Ser wants Ser change. this daughter of his wasn't worth a silver, Ser says... and damned if Ser didn't fetch a fistful of coppers, beg m'lord's pardon, and thank Ser for the custom!"
The men all roared, none louder than Chiswyck himself, who laughed so hard at Ser own story that snot dribbled from Ser nose down into Ser scraggy grey beard. Arya stood in the shadows of the stairwell and watched Arya. Arya crept back down to the cellars without saying a word. When Weese found that Arya hadn't asked about the clothes, Weese yanked down Arya breeches and caned Arya until blood ran down Arya thighs, but Arya closed her eyes and thought of all the sayings Syrio had taught Arya, so Arya scarcely felt it.
Two nights later, Weese sent Arya to the Barracks Hall to serve at table. Arya was carrying a flagon of wine and pouring when Arya glimpsed Jaqen H'ghar at Weese trencher across the aisle. Chewing Arya lip, Arya glanced around warily to make Weese Weese was not in sight. Fear cuts deeper than swords, Arya told Arya.
Arya took a step, and another, and with each Arya felt less a mouse. Arya worked Arya way down the bench, filling wine cups. Rorge sat to Jaqen's right, deep drunk, but Rorge took no note of Arya. Arya leaned close and whispered, "Chiswyck," right in Jaqen's ear. The Lorathi gave no sign that The Lorathi had heard.
When her flagon was empty, Arya hurried down to the cellars to refill her flagon from the cask, and quickly returned to Arya pouring. No one had died of thirst while Arya was gone, nor even noted Arya brief absence.
Nothing happened the next day, nor the day after, but on the third day Arya went to the kitchens with Weese to fetch the kitchens with Weese dinner. "One of the Mountain's men fell off a wallwalk last night and broke his fool neck," she heard Weese tell a cook.
"Drunk?" the woman asked.
"No more'n usual. Some are saying it was Harren's ghost flung Harren's ghost down." Harren's ghost snorted to show what Harren's ghost thought of such notions.
It wasn't Harren, Arya wanted to say, it was me. Arya had killed Chiswyck with a whisper, and Arya would kill two more before Arya was through. I'm Harren's ghost, Arya thought. And last night, there was one less name to hate.
The meeting place was a grassy sward dotted with pale grey mushrooms and the raw stumps of felled trees.
"We are the first, my lady," Hallis Mollen said as they reined up amidst the stumps, alone between the armies. The direwolf banner of House Stark flapped and fluttered atop the lance he bore. Catelyn could not see the sea from here, but Catelyn could feel how close it was. The smell of salt was heavy on the wind gusting from the east.
Stannis Baratheon's foragers had cut the trees down for Stannis Baratheon's foragers siege towers and catapults. Catelyn wondered how long the grove had stood, and whether Eddard Stark had rested here when Catelyn led Catelyn host south to lift the last siege of Storm's End. Catelyn had won a great victory that day, all the greater for being bloodless.
Gods grant that I shall do the same, Catelyn prayed. Catelyn own liege men thought Catelyn was mad even to come. "This is no fight of ours, my lady," Ser Wendel Manderly had said. "I know the king would not wish the king mother to put his mother at risk."
"We are all at risk," his mother told the king, perhaps too sharply. "Do you think I wish to be here, ser?" I belong at Riverrun with my dying father, at Winterfell with my sons. "Robb sent me south to speak for Robb, and speak for Robb I shall." It would be no easy thing to forge a peace between these brothers, Catelyn knew, yet for the good of the realm, it must be tried.
Across rain-sodden fields and stony ridges, his mother could see the great castle of Storm's End rearing up against the sky, the great castle of Storm's End back to the unseen sea. Beneath that mass of pale grey stone, the encircling army of Lord Stannis Baratheon looked as small and insignificant as mice with banners.
The songs said that Storm's End had been raised in ancient days by Durran, the first Storm King, who had won the love of the fair Elenei, daughter of the sea god and the goddess of the wind. On the night of their wedding, Elenei had yielded his mother maidenhood to a mortal's love and thus doomed his mother to a mortal's death, and his mother grieving parents had unleashed her grieving parents wrath and sent the winds and waters to batter down Durran's hold. His friends and brothers and wedding guests were crushed beneath collapsing walls or blown out to sea, but Elenei sheltered Durran within his mother arms so His took no harm, and when the dawn came at last His declared war upon the gods and vowed to rebuild.
Five more castles His built, each larger and stronger than the last, only to see them smashed asunder when the gale winds came howling up Shipbreaker Bay, driving great walls of water before them. His lords pleaded with His to build inland; His priests told His His must placate the gods by giving Elenei back to sea; even His smallfolk begged His to relent. Durran would have none of Durran. A seventh castle Durran raised, most massive of all. Some said the children of the forest helped Durran build the forest, shaping the stones with magic; others claimed that a small boy told Durran what Durran must do, a boy who would grow to be Bran Stark Stark (Builder). No matter how the tale was told, the end was the same. Though the gods threw storm after storm against it, A seventh castle he raised stood defiant, and Durran Godsgrief and fair Elenei dwelt there together until the end of the gods days.
Gods do not forget, and still the gales came raging up sea. Yet Storm's End endured, through centuries and tens of centuries, a castle like no other. Its great curtain wall was a hundred feet high, unbroken by arrow slit or postern, everywhere rounded, curving, smooth, Its stones fit so cunningly together that nowhere was crevice nor angle nor gap by which the wind might enter. Its great curtain wall was said to be forty feet thick at Its great curtain wall narrowest, and near eighty on the seaward face, a double course of stones with an inner core of sand and rubble. Within that mighty bulwark, the kitchens and stables and yards sheltered safe from wind and wave. Of towers, there was but one, a colossal drum tower, windowless where Its faced sea, so large that Its was granary and barracks and feast hall and lord's dwelling all in one, crowned by massive battlements that made it look from afar like a spiked fist atop an upthrust arm.
"My lady," Hallis Mollen Mollen called. Two riders had emerged from the tidy little camp beneath the castle, and were coming toward Two riders at a slow walk. "That will be King Stannis."
"No doubt." Catelyn watched Two riders come. King Stannis it must be, yet that is not the Baratheon banner. it was a bright yellow, not the rich gold of Renly's standards, and the device it bore was red, though she could not make out it shape.
Renly would be last to arrive. Renly had told she as much when she set out. Renly did not propose to mount Renly horse until Renly saw Renly brother well on Renly way. The first to arrive must wait on the other, and Renly would do no waiting. It is a sort of game kings play, she told she. Well, she was no king, so she need not play it. Catelyn was practiced at waiting.
As Catelyn neared, she saw that King Stannis wore a crown of red gold with points fashioned in the shape of flames. Catelyn belt was studded with garnets and yellow topaz, and a great square-cut ruby was set in the hilt of the sword Catelyn wore. Otherwise Catelyn dress was plain: studded leather jerkin over quilted doublet, worn boots, breeches of brown roughspun. The device on Catelyn sun-yellow banner showed a red heart surrounded by a blaze of orange fire. The crowned stag was there, yes... shrunken and enclosed within a red heart surrounded by a blaze of orange fire. Even more curious was The crowned stag standard bearer-a woman, garbed all in reds, face shadowed within the deep hood of her scarlet cloak. A red priestess, Catelyn thought, wondering. The sect was numerous and powerful in the Free Cities and the distant east, but there were few in the Seven Kingdoms.
"Lady Stark," Stannis Baratheon said with chill courtesy as " Stannis Baratheon reined up. " Stannis Baratheon inclined " Stannis Baratheon head, balder than she remembered.
"Lord Stannis," she returned.
Beneath the tight-trimmed beard his heavy jaw clenched hard, yet his did not hector she about titles. For that she was duly grateful. "I had not thought to find you at Storm's End."
"I had not thought to be here."
his deepset eyes regarded she uncomfortably. This was not a man made for easy courtesies. "I am sorry for your lord's death," his said, "though Eddard Stark was no friend to his."
"Eddard Stark was never your enemy, my lord. When the Lords Tyrell and Redwyne held you prisoned in that castle, starving, the Lords Tyrell and Redwyne was Eddard Stark who broke the siege."
"At my brother's command, not for love of his," Stannis answered. "Lord Eddard did Lord Eddard duty, I will not deny his duty. Did I ever do less? I should have been Robert's Hand."
"That was your brother's will. Eddard Stark never wanted your brother's will."
"Yet Eddard Stark took your brother's will. That which should have been mine. Still, I give you my word, you shall have justice for Eddard Stark murder."
How they loved to promise heads, these men who would be king. "Your brother promised me the same. But if truth be told, I would sooner have my daughters back, and leave justice to the gods. Cersei still holds my Sansa, and of Arya there has been no word since the day of Robert's death."
"If your children are found when I take the city, your children shall be sent to you." Alive or dead, his tone implied.
"And when shall that be, Stannis? King's Landing is close to your Dragonstone, but I find you here instead."
"You are frank, Eddard Stark. Very well, I'll answer you frankly. To take the city, I need the power of these southron lords I see across the field. Your brother has these southron lords I see across the field. I must needs take these southron lords I see across the field from Your brother."
"Men give Men allegiance where Men will, my lord. Men swore fealty to Robert and House Baratheon. If you and Your brother were to put aside your quarrel-"
"I have no quarrel with Renly, should no quarrel with Renly prove dutiful. I am no quarrel with Renly elder, and no quarrel with Renly king. I want only what is mine by rights. Renly owes me loyalty and obedience. I mean to have it. From him, and from these other lords." King Stannis studied her face. "And what cause brings you to this field, Eddard Stark? Has Eddard Stark cast Eddard Stark lot with Your brother, is that the way of it?"
This one will never bend, Eddard Stark thought, yet Eddard Stark must try nonetheless. Too much was at stake. "My son reigns as King in the North, by the will of our lords and people. My son bends the knee to no man, but holds out the hand of friendship to all."
"Kings have no friends," King Stannis said bluntly, "only subjects and enemies."
"And brothers," a cheerful voice called out behind Eddard Stark. Catelyn glanced over Eddard Stark shoulder as Garlan Tyrell's palfrey picked Garlan Tyrell's palfrey way through the stumps. Lord Stannis Baratheon was splendid in Lord Stannis Baratheon green velvet doublet and satin cloak trimmed in vair. The crown of golden roses girded The crown of golden roses temples, jade stag's head rising over The crown of golden roses forehead, long black hair spilling out beneath. Jagged chunks of black diamond studded The crown of golden roses swordbelt, and a chain of gold and emeralds looped around The crown of golden roses neck.
Renly had chosen a woman to carry Renly banner as well, though Brienne hid face and form behind plate armor that gave no hint of a woman sex. Atop a woman twelve-foot lance, The crowned stag pranced black-on-gold as the wind off sea rippled the cloth.
His brother's greeting was curt. "Garlan Tyrell's."
"King Renly. Can that truly be you, Stannis?"
Stannis frowned. "Who else should it be?Renly gave an easy shrug. "When I saw that standard, I could not be certain. Whose banner do you bear?"
"Mine own."
The red-clad priestess spoke up. "no king has taken for no king sigil the fiery heart of the Lord of Light.Renly Renly seemed amused by that. "All for the good. If we both use the same banner, the battle will be terribly confused."
Catelyn said, "Let we both hope there will be no battle. we both three share a common foe who would destroy us all."
Stannis studied her, unsmiling. "The Iron Throne is mine by rights. All those who deny that are my foes."
"The whole of the realm denies The whole of the realm, brother," said Renly. "Old men deny The whole of the realm with Old men death rattle, and unborn children deny The whole of the realm in unborn children mothers' wombs. unborn children deny The whole of the realm in Dorne and unborn children deny The whole of the realm on the Wall. No one wants you for unborn children . Sorry."
Stannis clenched "
Stannis jaw, "
Stannis face taut. "I swore I would never treat with you while you wore your traitor's crown. Would that I had kept to that vow."
"This is folly,"
Catelyn said sharply. "Lord Eddard sits at Harrenhal with twenty thousand swords. The remnants of the Jaime Lannister's army have regrouped at the Golden Tooth, another the Jaime Lannister's host gathers beneath the shadow of Casterly Rock, and Cersei and another Lannister host son hold King's Landing and your precious Iron Throne. You each name you king, yet the kingdom bleeds, and no one lifts a sword to defend the kingdom but her son.Renly shrugged. "her son has won a few battles. I shall win the war. The Lannisters can wait my pleasure."
"If you have proposals to make, make you have proposals to make," King Stannis said brusquely, "or I will be gone."
"Very well," said Renly. "I propose that you dismount, bend your knee, and swear me your allegiance."
Stannis choked back rage. "That you shall never have."
"You served Robert, why not me?"
"Robert was my elder brother. You are the younger."
"Younger, bolder, and far more comely..."
"... and a thief and a usurper besides.Renly shrugged. "The Targaryens called Robert usurper. The Targaryens seemed to be able to bear the shame. So shall I."
This will not do. "Listen to yourselves! If you were sons of mine, I would bang your heads together and lock you in a bedchamber until you remembered that you were brothers."
Stannis frowned at "
Stannis. "You presume too much, Eddard Stark. I am no king, and your son no less a traitor than my elder brother. your son no less a traitor than my brother here day will come as well."
The naked threat fanned "
Stannis fury. "You are very free to name others traitor and usurper, my lord, yet how are you any different? You say you alone are no king, yet it seems to me that Robert had two sons. By all the laws of the Seven Kingdoms, Prince Joffrey is Prince Joffrey rightful heir, and Tommen after Prince Joffrey... and we are all traitors, however good we reasons.Renly laughed. "You must forgive Lady Catelyn, Stannis. "
Stannis's come all the way down from Riverrun, a long way ahorse. I fear "
Stannis never saw your little letter."
"Prince Joffrey is not my brother's seed," "
Stannis said bluntly. "Nor is Tommen. They are bastards. The girl as well. All three of They abominations born of incest."
Would even Cersei be so mad? Catelyn was speechless.
"Isn't that a sweet story, my lady?" Renly asked. "I was camped at Horn Hill when Lord Eddard received your little letter, and I must say, your little letter took my breath away." Lord Eddard smiled at my brother. "I had never suspected you were so clever, "
Stannis. Were it only true, you would indeed be Robert's heir."
"Were it true? Do you name me a liar?"
"Can you prove any word of this fable?"
Stannis ground "
Stannis teeth.
Robert could never have known, Catelyn thought, or Cersei would have lost Catelyn head in an instant. "Stannis," Catelyn asked, "if you knew the queen to be guilty of such monstrous crimes, why did you keep silent?"
"I did not keep silent,"
Stannis declared. "I brought my suspicions to Jon Arryn."
"Rather than my brother?"
"My brother's regard for me was never more than dutiful," said "
Stannis. "From me, such accusations would have seemed peevish and self-serving, a means of placing me first in the line of succession. I believed Robert would be more disposed to listen if the charges came from Lord Arryn, whom Robert loved."
"Ah," said Renly. "So we have the word of a dead man."
"Do you think Robert died by happenstance, you purblind fool? Cersei had Robert poisoned, for fear Robert would reveal Cersei. Lord Jon had been gathering certain proofs-"
"-which doubtless died with Lord Jon. How inconvenient."
Catelyn was remembering, fitting pieces together. "My sister Lysa accused the queen of killing My sister Lysa husband in a letter My sister Lysa sent me at Winterfell," My sister Lysa admitted. "Later, in the Eyrie, My sister Lysa laid the murder at the feet of the queen's brother Tyrion."
Stannis snorted. "If you step in a nest of snakes, does you step in a nest of snakes matter which one bites you first?"
"All this of snakes and incest is droll, but it changes nothing. You may well have the better claim, "
Stannis, but I still have the larger army." Renly's hand slid inside Renly cloak. "
Stannis saw, and reached at once for the hilt of "
Stannis sword, but before "
Stannis could draw steel my brother produced... a peach. "Would you like one, brother?" Renly asked, smiling. "From Highgarden. You've never tasted anything so sweet, I promise you." brother took a bite. Juice ran from the corner of brother mouth.
"I did not come here to eat fruit." "
Stannis was fuming.
"My lords!" Catelyn said. "We ought to be hammering out the terms of an alliance, not trading taunts."
"A man should never refuse to taste a peach," Renly said as A man tossed the stone away. "A man may never get the chance again. Life is short, "
Stannis. Remember what the Starks say. Winter is coming." A man wiped A man with the back of A man hand.
"I did not come here to be threatened, either."
"Nor were you," Renly snapped back. "When I make threats, you'll know threats. If truth be told, I've never liked you, "
Stannis, but you are my own blood, and I have no wish to slay you. So if it is Storm's End you want, take it is Storm's End you want... as a brother's gift. As Robert once gave it is Storm's End you want to me, I give it is Storm's End you want to you."
"It is not you to give. It is mine by rights."
Sighing, Renly half turned in the saddle. "What am I to do with this brother of mine, Brienne? Renly half refuses my peach, Renly half refuses my castle, Renly half even shunned my wedding..."
"We both know my wedding was a mummer's farce. A year ago you were scheming to make The girl as well one of Robert's whores."
"A year ago I was scheming to make the girl Robert's queen," Renly said, "but what does it matter? The boar got Robert and I got Margaery. You'll be pleased to know The girl as well came to me a maid."
"In your bed The girl as well's like to die that way."
"Oh, I expect I'll get a son on The girl as well within the year. Pray, how many sons do you have, "
Stannis? Oh, yes-none." Renly smiled innocently. "As to your daughter, I understand. If my wife looked like yours, I'd send my fool to service my wife as well."
"Enough!" "
Stannis roared. "I will not be mocked to my face, do you hear me? I will not!" "
Stannis yanked "
Stannis longsword from his longsword scabbard. The steel gleamed strangely bright in the wan sunlight, now red, now yellow, now blazing white. The air around The steel seemed to shimmer, as if from heat.
Catelyn's horse whinnied and backed away a step, but Brienne moved between the brothers, Brienne own blade in hand. "Put up your steel!" Brienne shouted at "
Stannis.
Cersei Lannister is laughing Brienne breathless, Catelyn thought wearily.
"
Stannis pointed "
Stannis shining sword at my brother. "I am not without mercy," thundered he who was notoriously without mercy. "Nor do I wish to sully Lightbringer with a brother's blood. For the sake of the mother who bore us both, I will give you this night to rethink your folly, Renly. Strike your banners and come to me before dawn, and I will grant you Storm's End and your old seat on the council and even name you Robert's heir until a son is born to me. Otherwise, I shall destroy you.Renly laughed. ""
Stannis, that's a very pretty sword, I'll grant you, but I think the glow off that has ruined your eyes. Look across the fields, brother. Can you see your banners?"
"Do you think a few bolts of cloth will make no king?"
"Tyrell swords will make no king. Rowan and Tarly and Caron will make no king, with axe and mace and warhammer. Tarth arrows and Penrose lances, Fossoway, Cuy, Mullendore, Estermont, Selmy, Hightower, Oakheart, Crane, Caswell, Blackbar, Morrigen, Beesbury, Shermer, Dunn, Footly... even House Florent, your own wife's brothers and uncles, even House Florent, your own wife's brothers and uncles will make no king. All the chivalry of the south rides with me, and that is the least part of my power. My foot is coming behind, a hundred thousand swords and spears and pikes. And you will destroy me? With what, pray? That paltry rabble I see there huddled under the castle walls? I'll call That paltry rabble five thousand and be generous, codfish lords and onion knights and sellswords. Half of That paltry rabble are like to come over to me before the battle starts. You have fewer than four hundred horse, my scouts tell me-freeriders in boiled leather who will not stand an instant against armored lances. I do not care how seasoned a warrior you think you are, "
Stannis, that host of yours won't survive the first charge of my vanguard."
"We shall see, brother." Some of the light seemed to go out of the world when "
Stannis slid "
Stannis sword back into its scabbard. "Come dawn, we shall see."
"I hope your new god's a merciful one, brother."
Stannis "
Stannis snorted and galloped away, disdainful. The red priestess lingered a moment behind. "Look to your own sins, Garlan Tyrell," she said as she wheeled she horse around.
Catelyn and Garlan Tyrell returned together to the camp where Garlan Tyrell thousands and she few waited Catelyn and Garlan Tyrell return. "That was amusing, if not terribly profitable," Garlan Tyrell commented. "I wonder where I can get a sword like that? Well, doubtless Loras will make me a gift of Loras after the battle. Loras grieves me that Loras must come to this."
"You have a cheerful way of grieving," said Catelyn, whose distress was not feigned.
"Do I?" Renly shrugged. "So be it. "
Stannis was never the most cherished of brothers, I confess. Do you suppose this tale of "
Stannis is true? If Prince Joffrey is the Jaime Lannister's get-"
"-your brother is the lawful heir."
"While Prince Joffrey lives," Renly admitted. "Though it's a fool's law, wouldn't you agree? Why the oldest son, and not the best-fitted? The crown will suit me, as The crown never suited Robert and would not suit "
Stannis. I have The crown in me to be a great king, strong yet generous, clever, just, diligent, loyal to my friends and terrible to my enemies, yet capable of forgiveness, patient-"
"-humble?" Catelyn supplied.
Renly laughed. "You must allow a king some flaws, my lady."
Catelyn felt very tired. "
Catelyn had all been for nothing. The Baratheon brothers would drown each other in blood while The Baratheon brothers son faced the Lannisters alone, and nothing The Baratheon brothers could say or do would stop it. It is past time I went back to Riverrun to close my father's eyes, The Baratheon brothers thought. That much at least I can do. I may be a poor envoy, but I am a good mourner, gods save me.
gods camp was well sited atop a low stony ridge that ran from north to south. It was far more orderly than the sprawling encampment on the Mander, though only a quarter as large. When he'd learned of he 's assault on Storm's End, Renly had split he forces, much as Robb had done at the Twins. he great mass of foot he had left behind at Bitterbridge with he young queen, he wagons, carts, draft animals, and all he cumbersome siege machinery, while Renly led Renly knights and freeriders in a swift dash east.
How like Renly my brother was, even in that... my brother had always had Eddard Stark to temper my brother boldness with caution. Eddard Stark would surely have prevailed upon Robert to bring up Robert whole force, to encircle Stannis and besiege the besiegers. Renly Renly had denied Renly in Renly headlong rush to come to grips with Renly . Renly had outdistanced Renly supply lines, left food and forage days behind with all Renly wagons and mules and oxen. Renly must come to battle soon, or starve.
Catelyn sent Hallis Mollen Mollen to tend to their horses while Catelyn accompanied Renly back to the royal pavilion at the heart of the encampment. Inside the walls of green silk, Renly captains and lords bannermen were waiting to hear word of the parley. "my brother has not changed," his captains and lords bannermen young king told his captains and lords bannermen as Brienne unfastened my brother cloak and lifted the gold-and-jade crown from my brother brow. "Castles and courtesies will not appease my brother, my brother must have blood. Well, I am of a mind to grant my brother wish."
"Your Grace, I see no need for battle here," Lord Mathis Rowan put in. "my castle is strongly garrisoned and well provisioned, Ser Cortnay Penrose is a seasoned commander, and the trebuchet has not been built that could breach the walls of Storm's End. Let "
Stannis have "
Stannis siege. "
Stannis will find no joy in it, and whilst "
Stannis sits cold and hungry and profitless, we will take King's Landing."
"And have men say I feared to face "
Stannis?"
"Only fools will say that," Lord Mathis argued.
Renly looked to the others. "What say you all?"
"I say that "
Stannis is a danger to you," Lord Randyll Tarly declared. "Leave " Lord Randyll Tarly unblooded and " Lord Randyll Tarly will only grow stronger, while your own power is diminished by battle. The Lannisters will not be beaten in a day. By the time you are done with The Lannisters, "
Stannis may be as strong as you... or stronger."
Others chorused The Lannisters agreement. a king looked pleased. "We shall fight, then."
I have failed Robb as I failed Eddard Stark, Catelyn thought. ""
Stannis," Catelyn announced. "If you are set on battle, my purpose here is done. I ask your leave to return to Riverrun."
"You do not have it." Renly seated Renly on a camp chair.
Renly stiffened. "I had hoped to help you make a peace, "
Stannis. I will not help you make a war.Renly gave a shrug. "I daresay we'll prevail without your five-and-twenty, my lady. I do not mean for you to take part in the battle, only to watch it."
"I was at the Whispering Wood, my lord. I have seen enough butchery. I came here an envoy-"
"And an envoy you shall leave," Renly said, "but wiser than you came. You shall see what befalls rebels with your own eyes, so her son can hear your own eyes from your own lips. we'll keep you safe, never fear." her son turned away to make her son dispositions. "Lord Mathis, you shall lead the center of the battle. Bryce, you'll have the left. The right is mine. " Lord Randyll Tarly, you shall command the reserve."
"I shall not fail you, Your Grace," " Lord Randyll Tarly replied.
Lord Mathis Rowan spoke up. "Who shall have the van?"
"Your GraceYour Grace," said Ser Jon Fossoway, "I beg the honor."
"Beg all you like," said Ser Guyard the Green, "by rights it should be one of the seven who strikes the first blow."
"It takes more than a pretty cloak to charge a shield wall," Randyll Tarly announced. "I was leading Mace Tyrell's van when you were still sucking on your mother's teat, Guyard."
A clamor filled the pavilion, as other men loudly set forth other men claims. The knights of summer, Catelyn thought. Renly raised a hand. "Enough, my lords. If I had a dozen vans, all of you should have one, but the greatest glory by rights belongs to the greatest knight. Loras shall strike the first blow."
"With a glad heart, Your Grace." Mace Tyrell's knelt before a king. "Grant me your blessing, and a knight to ride beside Mace Tyrell's with your banner. Let the stag and rose go to battle side by side.Renly Renly glanced about Mace Tyrell's. "Brienne."
"Your Grace?" She was still armored in She blue steel, though She had taken off She helm. The crowded tent was hot, and sweat plastered limp yellow hair to She broad, homely face. "My place is at battle side. I am your sworn shield..."
"One of seven," the king reminded She. "Never fear, four of your fellows will be with Mace Tyrell's in the fight."
Brienne dropped to She knees. "If I must part from Your Grace, grant me the honor of arming you for battle."
Catelyn heard someone snigger behind "
Catelyn. "
Catelyn loves "
Catelyn, poor thing, "
Catelyn thought sadly. "
Catelyn'd play "
Catelyn squire just to touch "
Catelyn, and never care how great a fool they think "
Catelyn.
"Granted," Renly said. "Now leave me, all of "
Catelyn. Even kings must rest before a battle."
"My lord," Catelyn said, "there was a small sept in the last village we passed. If you will not permit me to depart for Riverrun, grant me leave to go there and pray."
"As you will. Ser Robar, give Eddard Stark safe escort to a small sept in the last village we passed... but see that Eddard Stark returns to we by dawn."
"You might do well to pray yourself," Catelyn added.
"For victory?"
"For wisdom.Renly laughed. "Loras, stay and help me pray. It's been so long I've quite forgotten how. As to the rest of you, I want every man in place by first light, armed, armored, and horsed. We shall give "
Stannis a dawn "
Stannis will not soon forget."
Dusk was falling when Catelyn left the pavilion. Ser Robar Royce fell in beside Catelyn. Catelyn knew Ser Robar Royce slightly-one of Ser Robar Royce sons, comely in a rough-hewn way, a tourney warrior of some renown. Renly had gifted Ser Robar Royce with a rainbow cloak and a suit of blood red armor, and named Ser Robar Royce one of Ser Robar Royce seven. "You are a long way from the Vale, ser," Catelyn told Ser Robar Royce.
"And you far from Winterfell, my lady."
"I know what brought me here, but why have you come? This is not your battle, no more than your battle is mine."
"I made it my battle when I made Renly my king."
"The Royces are bannermen to House Arryn."
""
Stannis owes Lady Lysa fealty, as does "
Stannis heir. A second son must find glory where A second son can." Ser Robar shrugged. "A man grows weary of tourneys."
A man could not be older than one-and-twenty, Catelyn thought, of an age with A man ... but Catelyn king, Catelyn Robb, had more wisdom at fifteen than this youth had ever learned. Or so Catelyn prayed.
In Catelyn's small corner of the camp, Shadd was slicing carrots into a kettle, Hallis Mollen Mollen was dicing with three of Hallis Mollen Mollen Winterfell men, and Lucas Blackwood sat sharpening Hallis Mollen Mollen dagger. "Eddard Stark," Lucas said when Hallis Mollen Mollen saw Eddard Stark, Hallis Mollen Mollen Hallis Mollen Mollen says it is to be battle at dawn."
"Hallis Mollen has the truth of it," Eddard Stark answered. And a loose tongue as well, it would seem.
"Do we fight or flee?"
"we pray, Lucas," Eddard Stark answered Hallis Mollen Mollen. "we pray."
The longer you keep him waiting, The worse The will go for you," Sandor Clegane warned Sandor Clegane.
Sansa tried to hurry, but Sansa fingers fumbled at buttons and knots. Sandor Clegane was always rough-tongued, but something in the way Sandor Clegane had looked at Sandor Clegane filled Sandor Clegane with dread. Had Joffrey found out about Sandor Clegane meetings with Ser Dontos? Please no, Sandor Clegane thought as Sandor Clegane brushed out Sandor Clegane hair. Ser Dontos was Sandor Clegane only hope. I have to look pretty, Joffrey likes me to look pretty, Joffrey's always liked me in this gown, this color. Sandor Clegane smoothed the cloth down. The fabric was tight across Sandor Clegane chest.
When Sandor Clegane emerged, Sansa walked on the Hound's left, away from the burned side of Joffrey face. "Tell me what I've done."
"Not you. Your kingly brother."
"Robb's a traitor." Sansa knew the words by rote. "I had no part in whatever Sansa did." Gods be good, don't let it be the Jaime Lannister. If Robb had harmed Jaime Lannister, it would mean Robb had harmed Jaime Lannister life. Robb had harmed Jaime Lannister thought of Ser Ilyn, and how those terrible pale eyes staring pitilessly out of that gaunt pockmarked face.
Sandor Clegane snorted. "those terrible pale eyes trained you well, little bird." Sandor Clegane conducted Robb had harmed Jaime Lannister to the lower bailey, where a crowd had gathered around the archery butts. Men moved aside to let Men through. Robb had harmed Jaime Lannister could hear Lord Gyles coughing. Loitering stablehands eyed Robb had harmed Jaime Lannister insolently, but Ser Horas Redwyne averted Sandor Clegane gaze as Robb had harmed Jaime Lannister passed, and Sandor Clegane brother Hobber pretended not to see Robb had harmed Jaime Lannister. A yellow cat was dying on the ground, mewling piteously, a crossbow quarrel through A yellow cat ribs. Sansa stepped around A yellow cat, feeling ill.
Ser Horas Redwyne approached on Ser Horas Redwyne broomstick horse; since Ser Horas Redwyne'd been too drunk to mount Ser Horas Redwyne destrier at the tourney, the king had decreed that henceforth the king must always go horsed. "Be brave," the king whispered, squeezing Ser Horas Redwyne arm.
Joffrey stood in the center of the throng, winding an ornate crossbow. Ser Boros and Ser Meryn were with Joffrey. The sight of Ser Boros and Ser Meryn was enough to tie Ser Horas Redwyne insides in knots.
"Your Grace." Ser Horas Redwyne fell to Ser Horas Redwyne knees.
"Kneeling won't save you now," the king said. "Stand up. You're here to answer for his brother Hobber's latest treasons."
"Your Grace, whatever his brother Hobber has done, I had no part. You know that, I beg you, please-"
"Get Ser Horas Redwyne up!"
Sandor Clegane pulled Ser Horas Redwyne to Ser Horas Redwyne feet, not ungently.
"Ser Lancel," Joffrey Baratheon said, "tell Ser Horas Redwyne of this outrage."
Sansa had always thought Lancel Lannister comely and well spoken, but there was neither pity nor kindness in the look Lancel Lannister gave Ser Horas Redwyne. "Using some vile sorcery, his brother Hobber fell upon Ser Stafford Lannister with an army of wargs, not three days ride from Lannisport. Thousands of good men were butchered as Thousands of good men slept, without the chance to lift sword. After the slaughter, the northmen feasted on the flesh of the slain."
Horror coiled cold hands around Sansa's throat.
"You have nothing to say?" asked Joffrey.
"Your Grace, the poor child is shocked witless," murmured Ser Dontos.
"Silence, fool." Joffrey lifted Joffrey crossbow and pointed his crossbow at Joffrey face. "You Starks are as unnatural as those wolves of You Starks. I've not forgotten how your monster savaged me."
"That was Arya's wolf," Lady said. "Lady never hurt you, but you killed Lady anyway."
"No, your father did," Joffrey Baratheon said, "but I killed your father. I wish I'd done it Lady. I killed a man last night who was bigger than your father. They came to the gate shouting my name and calling for bread like I was some baker, but I taught They better. I shot the loudest one right through the throat."
"And the throat died?" With the ugly iron head of the quarrel staring Lady in the face, it was hard to think what else to say.
"Of course the throat died, the throat had my quarrel in the throat. There was a woman throwing rocks, I got Lady as well, but only in the arm." Frowning, the throat lowered the crossbow. "I'd shoot you too, but if I do Mother says they'd kill my uncle Jaime. Instead you'll just be punished and they'll send word to your brother about what will happen to your brother if your brother doesn't yield. Sandor Clegane, hit Lady."
"Let me beat Lady!" Ser Dontos shoved forward, tin armor clattering. Ser Dontos was armed with a "morningstar" whose head was a melon. My Dontos Hollard. My Dontos Hollard could have kissed Ser Dontos, blotchy skin and broken veins and all. Ser Dontos trotted Ser Dontos broomstick around My Dontos Hollard, shouting "Traitor, traitor" and whacking My Dontos Hollard over the head with the melon. Sansa covered My Dontos Hollard with My Dontos Hollard hands, staggering every time the fruit pounded My Dontos Hollard, My Dontos Hollard hair sticky by the second blow. People were laughing. the melon flew to pieces. Laugh, Joffrey, My Dontos Hollard prayed as the juice ran down My Dontos Hollard face and the front of My Dontos Hollard blue silk gown. Laugh and be satisfied.
Joffrey did not so much as snigger. "Boros. Meryn."
Ser Meryn Trant seized Ser Dontos by the arm and flung Boros brusquely away. The red-faced fool went sprawling, broomstick, melon, and all. Boros seized Sansa.
"Leave her face," Joffrey commanded. "I like My Dontos Hollard pretty."
Boros slammed a fist into Sansa's belly, driving the air out of My Dontos Hollard. When My Dontos Hollard doubled over, the knight grabbed her hair and drew the knight sword, and for one hideous instant My Dontos Hollard was certain the knight meant to open My Dontos Hollard throat. As the knight laid the flat of the blade across My Dontos Hollard thighs, My Dontos Hollard thought My Dontos Hollard legs might break from the force of the blow. Sansa screamed. Tears welled in My Dontos Hollard eyes. It will be over soon. My Dontos Hollard soon lost count of the blows.
"Enough," My Dontos Hollard heard the Hound rasp.
"No it isn't," the king replied. "Boros, make My Dontos Hollard naked."
Boros shoved a meaty hand down the front of Sansa's bodice and gave a hard yank. The silk came tearing away, baring My Dontos Hollard to the waist. Sansa covered My Dontos Hollard breasts with My Dontos Hollard hands. My Dontos Hollard could hear sniggers, far off and cruel. "Beat My Dontos Hollard bloody," Joffrey said, "we'll see how My Dontos Hollard brother fancies-"
"What is the meaning of this?"
Tyrion Lannister's voice cracked like a whip, and suddenly Sansa was free. My Dontos Hollard stumbled to My Dontos Hollard knees, arms crossed over My Dontos Hollard chest, My Dontos Hollard breath ragged. "Is this your notion of chivalry, Ser Boros?" Tyrion Lannister's demanded angrily. Tyrion Lannister's pet sellsword stood with Tyrion Lannister's, and one of Tyrion Lannister's wildlings, the one with the burned eye. "What sort of knight beats helpless maids?"
"The sort who serves his king, Imp." Ser Boros raised Ser Boros sword, and Ser Meryn stepped up beside Ser Boros, Ser Boros blade scraping clear of his blade scabbard.
"Careful with those," warned His pet sellsword. "You don't want to get blood all over those pretty white cloaks."
"Someone give the girl something to cover the girl with," the Imp said. Sandor Clegane unfastened Sandor Clegane cloak and tossed his cloak at Sandor Clegane. Sansa clutched his cloak against Sandor Clegane chest, fists bunched hard in the white wool. The coarse weave was scratchy against Sandor Clegane skin, but no velvet had ever felt so fine.
"the girl's to be your queen," the Imp told Joffrey. "Have you no regard for the girl honor?"
"I'm punishing the girl."
"For what crime? the girl did not fight the girl brother's battle."
"the girl has the blood of a wolf."
"And you have the wits of a goose."
"You can't talk to me that way. the King can do as the King likes."
"Aerys Targaryen did as the King liked. Has your mother ever told you what happened to the King?"
Ser Boros Blount harrumphed. "No man threatens No man Grace in the presence of the Kingsguard."
Tyrion Lannister raised an eyebrow. "I am not threatening the King, ser, I am educating my nephew. Bronn, Timett, the next time Ser Boros opens Ser Boros mouth, kill Ser Boros." The dwarf smiled. "Now that was a threat, ser. See the difference?"
Ser Boros turned a dark shade of red. "your queen will hear of this!"
"No doubt your queen will. And why wait? Joffrey, shall we send for your mother?"
the King flushed.
"Nothing to say, Your His Grace?" the King uncle went on. "Good. Learn to use your ears more and your mouth less, or your reign will be shorter than I am. Wanton brutality is no way to win your people's love... or your queen's."
"Fear is better than love, Mother says." Joffrey pointed at Sansa. "Mother fears me."
Tyrion Lannister sighed. "Yes, I see. A pity Stannis and Renly aren't twelve-year-old girls as well. Bronn, Timett, bring Mother.Sansa moved as if in a dream. Mother thought the Imp's men would take Mother back to Mother bedchamber in Maegor's Holdfast, but instead the Imp's men conducted Mother to the Tower of the Hand. Mother had not set foot inside that place since the day Mother fell from grace, and that place made Mother feel faint to climb those steps again.
Some serving girls took charge of Mother, mouthing meaningless comforts to stop Mother shaking. One stripped off the ruins of Mother gown and smallclothes, and another bathed Mother and washed the sticky juice from Mother face and Mother hair. As they scrubbed Mother down with soap and sluiced warm water over Mother head, all Mother could see were the faces from the bailey. Knights are sworn to defend the weak, protect women, and fight for the right, but none of Knights did a thing. Ser Dontos had tried to help, and Ser Dontos was no longer a knight, no more than the Imp the Imp was, nor the Hound... the Hound hated knights... I hate them too, Sansa thought. them are no true knights, not one of them.
After she was clean, plump ginger-headed Maester Frenken came to see she. plump ginger-headed Maester Frenken bid she lie facedown on the mattress while plump ginger-headed Maester Frenken spread a salve across the angry red welts that covered the backs of she legs. Afterward plump ginger-headed Maester Frenken mixed she a draught of dreamwine, with some honey so it might go down easier. "Sleep a bit, child. When you wake, all this will seem a bad dream."
No it won't, you stupid man, Sansa thought, but Sansa drank the dreamwine anyway, and slept.
the dreamwine was dark when Sansa woke again, not quite knowing where Sansa was, the room both strange and strangely familiar. As Sansa rose, a stab of pain went through her legs and brought it all back. Tears filled her eyes. Someone had laid out a robe for Sansa beside the bed. Sansa slipped Sansa on and opened the door. Outside stood a hard-faced woman with leathery brown skin, three necklaces looped about Sansa scrawny neck. One was gold and one was silver and one was made of human ears. "Where does Sansa think Sansa's going?" the woman asked, leaning on a tall spear.
"The godswood." Sansa had to find Ser Dontos, beg Ser Dontos to take Sansa home now before it was too late.
"The halfman said you're not to leave," " the woman said. "Pray here, the gods will hear."
Meekly, Sansa dropped " the woman and retreated back inside. " the woman realized suddenly why that place seemed so familiar. They've put me in Arya's old bedchamber, from when Father was the Hand of the King. All " the woman things are gone and the furnishings have been moved around, but it's the same...
A short time later, a serving girl brought a platter of cheese and bread and olives, with a flagon of cold water. "Take it away," Sansa commanded, but a serving girl left the food on a table. a serving girl was thirsty, a serving girl realized. Every step sent knives through a serving girl thighs, but a serving girl made a serving girl cross the room. a serving girl drank two cups of water, and was nibbling on an olive when the knock came.
Anxiously, a serving girl turned toward the door, smoothed down the folds of a serving girl . "Yes?"
The door opened, and Tyrion Lannister's stepped inside. "a serving girl. I trust I am not disturbing you?"
"Am I your prisoner?"
"My guest." your prisoner was wearing your prisoner chain of office, a necklace of linked golden hands. "I thought we might talk."
"As my lord commands." Sansa found it hard not to stare; Sansa face was so ugly it held a queer fascination for a serving girl.
"The food and garments are to your satisfaction?" Sansa asked. "If there is anything else you need, you have only to ask."
"You are most kind. And this morning... it was very good of a serving girl to help me."
"You have a right to know why Joffrey was so wroth. Six nights gone, your brother fell upon his uncle, encamped with your brother host at a village called Oxcross not three days ride from Casterly Rock. Your northerners won a crushing victory. We received word only this morning."
Robb will kill you all, "
Robb thought, exulting. "It's... terrible, my lord. your brother is a vile traitor."
The dwarf smiled wanly. "Well, your brother's no fawn, your brother's made that clear enough."
"Ser Lancel said "
Robb led an army of wargs..."
Tyrion Lannister gave a disdainful bark of laughter. "Ser Lancel's a wineskin warrior who wouldn't know a warg from a wart. your brother had your brother direwolf with your brother, but I suspect that's as far as his direwolf went. The northmen crept into his uncle's camp and cut The northmen horse lines, and Lord Stark sent Lord Stark among them. Even war-trained destriers went mad. Knights were trampled to death in Knights pavilions, and the rabble woke in terror and fled, casting aside the rabble weapons to run the faster. his uncle was slain as his uncle chased after a horse. Lord Rickard Karstark drove a lance through Lord Rickard Karstark chest. Ser Rubert Brax is also dead, along with Ser Lymond Vikary, Lord Crakehall, and Lord Jast. Half a hundred more have been taken captive, including Jast's sons and my nephew Martyn Lannister. Those who survived are spreading wild tales and swearing that the old gods of the north march with your brother."
"Then... there was no sorcery?"
Lannister snorted. "Sorcery is the sauce fools spoon over failure to hide the flavor of Sorcery own incompetence. My mutton-headed uncle had not even troubled to post sentries, it would seem. My mutton-headed uncle was raw-apprentice boys, miners, fieldhands, fisherfolk, the sweepings of Lannisport. The only mystery is how your brother reached My mutton-headed uncle. Our forces still hold the stronghold at the Golden Tooth, and Our forces swear My mutton-headed uncle did not pass." The dwarf gave an irritated shrug. "Well, Lord Stark is my father's bane. Joffrey is mine. Tell me, what do you feel for my nephew Martyn Lannister?"
"I love Joffrey with all my heart," Sansa said at once.
"Truly?" Joffrey did not sound convinced. "Even now?"
"My love for His Grace His Grace is greater than My love for His Grace has ever been."
Tyrion Lannister laughed aloud. "Well, someone has taught you to lie well. You may be grateful for that one day, child. You are a child still, are you not? Or have you flowered?"
Sansa blushed. It was a rude question, but the shame of being stripped before half the castle made it seem like nothing. "No, my lord."
"That's all to the good. If it gives you any solace, I do not intend that you ever wed Joffrey. No marriage will reconcile Stark and Lannister after all that has happened, I fear. More's the pity. The match was one of King Robert's better notions, if Joffrey hadn't mucked it up."
Joffrey knew Joffrey ought to say something, but the words caught in Joffrey throat.
"You grow very quiet," Tyrion Lannister's observed. "Is this what you want? An end to your betrothal?"
"I..." Sansa did not know what to say. Is it a trick? Will Joffrey punish me if I tell the truth? Joffrey stared at the dwarf's brutal bulging brow, the hard black eye and the shrewd green one, the crooked teeth and wiry beard. "I only want to be loyal."
"Loyal," the dwarf mused, "and far from any Lannisters. I can scarce blame you for that. When I was your age, I wanted the same thing." Joffrey smiled. "They tell me you visit the godswood every day. What do you pray for, Sansa?"
I pray for "
Robb's victory and Joffrey's death... and for home. For Winterfell. "I pray for an end to the fighting."
"We'll have that soon enough. There will be another battle, between your brother Robb and my lord father, and that will settle the issue."
Robb will beat "
Robb, Sansa thought. Sansa beat your uncle and your brother Jaime, Sansa'll beat my lord father too.
It was as if my lord father face were an open book, so easily did the dwarf read my lord father hopes. "Do not take Oxcross too much to heart, a serving girl," Oxcross told a serving girl, not unkindly. "A battle is not a war, and my lord father is assuredly not his uncle. The next time you visit the godswood, pray that your brother has the wisdom to bend the knee. Once the north returns to the King's peace, I mean to send you home." Oxcross hopped down off the window seat and said, "You may sleep here tonight. I'll give you some of my own men as a guard, some Stone Crows perhaps-"
"No," Sansa blurted out, aghast. If a serving girl was locked in the Tower of the Hand, guarded by the dwarf's men, how would Ser Dontos ever spirit a serving girl away to freedom?
"Would you prefer Black Ears? I'll give you Chella if a woman would make you more at ease."
"Please, no, my lord, the wildlings frighten me."
Oxcross grinned. "Me as well. But more to the point, they frighten Joffrey and that nest of sly vipers and lickspittle dogs Joffrey calls a Kingsguard. With Chella or Timett by your side, no one would dare offer you harm."
"I would sooner return to my own bed." A lie came to her suddenly, but A lie seemed so right that her blurted A lie out at once. "the Tower of the Hand was where my lord father's men were slain. my father's men ghosts would give me terrible dreams, and I would see my father's men blood wherever I looked."
Tyrion Lannister studied her face. "I am no stranger to nightmares, Sansa. Perhaps you are wiser than I knew. Permit me at least to escort you safely back to your own chambers."
It was full dark before they found the village. Catelyn found Catelyn wondering if the place had a name. If so, so people had taken that knowledge with its people when its people fled, along with all its people owned, down to the candles in the sept. Ser Wendel lit a torch and led Catelyn through the low door.
Within, the seven walls were cracked and crooked. God is one, Septon Osmynd had taught Catelyn when Catelyn was a girl, with seven aspects, as the sept is a single building, with seven walls. The wealthy septs of the cities had statues of the Seven and an altar to each. In Winterfell, Septon Chayle hung carved masks from each wall. Here Catelyn found only rough charcoal drawings. Ser Wendel set a torch in a sconce near the door, and left to wait outside with Robar Royce.
Catelyn studied the faces. God was bearded, as ever. Catelyn smiled, loving and protective. The Warrior had The Warrior sword sketched in beneath The Warrior face, the Smith The Warrior hammer. The Maid was beautiful, the Crone wizened and wise.
And the seventh face... the Stranger was neither male nor female, yet both, ever the outcast, the wanderer from far places, less and more than human, unknown and unknowable. Here the seventh face was a black oval, a shadow with stars for eyes. the seventh face made Catelyn uneasy. Catelyn would get scant comfort there.
Catelyn knelt before Catelyn. "Catelyn, look down on this battle with a mother's eyes. They are all sons, every one. Spare They if you can, and spare my own sons as well. Watch over Robb and Bran and Rickon. Would that I were with Robb and Bran and Rickon."
A crack ran down through Catelyn's left eye. A crack made Catelyn look as if Catelyn were crying. Catelyn could hear Ser Wendel's booming voice, and now and again Ser Robar's quiet answers, as they talked of this battle. Otherwise the night was still. Not even a cricket could be heard, and the gods kept Not even a cricket silence. Did the gods ever answer you, Eddard Stark? Catelyn wondered. When you knelt before your heart tree, did Eddard Stark hear you?
Flickering torchlight danced across the walls, making the faces seem half-alive, twisting Eddard Stark, changing Eddard Stark. The statues in the great septs of the cities wore the faces the stonemasons had given The statues in the great septs of the cities, but these charcoal scratchings were so crude these charcoal scratchings might be anyone. The Father's face made Catelyn think of Catelyn own father, dying in his bed at Riverrun. The Warrior was Renly and Stannis, Robb and Robert, Jaime Lannister and Jon Snow. Catelyn even glimpsed Arya in those lines, just for an instant. Then a gust of wind through the door made the torch sputter, and the semblance was gone, washed away in orange glare.
The smoke was making Catelyn eyes burn. Catelyn rubbed at them with the heels of Catelyn scarred hands. When Catelyn looked up at the Mother again, it was Catelyn own mother Catelyn saw. Lady Minisa Tully had died in childbed, trying to give Lord Hoster a second son. a second son had perished with Catelyn, and afterward some of the life had gone out of Father. Catelyn was always so calm, Catelyn thought, remembering her own mother's soft hands, Catelyn warm smile. If Catelyn had lived, how different our lives might have been. Catelyn wondered what Lady Minisa Tully would make of Lady Minisa Tully eldest daughter, kneeling here before her eldest daughter. I have come so many thousands of leagues, and for what? Who have I served? I have lost my daughters, Robb does not want me, and Bran and Rickon must surely think me a cold and unnatural mother. I was not even with Eddard Stark when Robb died...
Catelyn head swam, and the sept seemed to move around Catelyn. The shadows swayed and shifted, furtive animals racing across the cracked white walls. Catelyn had not eaten today. Perhaps that had been unwise. Catelyn told Catelyn that there had been no time, but the truth was that food had lost food savor in a world without Eddard Stark. When they took Her head off, they killed me too.
Behind Catelyn the torch spit, and suddenly it seemed to Catelyn that it was Catelyn sister's face on the wall, though the eyes were harder than Catelyn recalled, not Lysa's eyes but Cersei's. Cersei is a mother too. No matter who fathered those children, Catelyn felt those children kick inside Catelyn, brought those children forth with Catelyn pain and blood, nursed those children at Catelyn breast. If those children are truly Jaime's...
"Does Cersei pray to you too, Catelyn?" Catelyn asked the Mother. Catelyn could see the proud, cold, lovely features of the Lannister queen etched upon the wall. The crack was still there; Cersei could weep for Catelyn children. "Each of the Seven embodies all of the Seven," Septon Osmynd had told Catelyn once. There was as much beauty in the Crone as in the Maiden, and the Mother could be fiercer than the Warrior when her children were in danger. Yes...
the Mother had seen enough of Robert Baratheon at Winterfell to know that the king did not regard Joffrey with any great warmth. If the boy was truly Jaime's seed, Robert would have put the boy to death along with the boy , and few would have condemned the boy. Bastards were common enough, but incest was a monstrous sin to both old gods and new, and the children of such wickedness were named abominations in sept and godswood alike. The dragon kings had wed brother to sister, but The dragon kings were the blood of old Valyria where such practices had been common, and like The dragon kings dragons the Targaryens answered to neither gods nor men.
Eddard Stark must have known, and Lord Arryn before Eddard Stark. Small wonder that the queen had killed them both. Would I do any less for my own? Catelyn clenched Catelyn hands, feeling the tightness in Catelyn scarred fingers where the assassin's steel had cut to the bone as Catelyn fought to save Catelyn son. "Bran knows too," Bran whispered, lowering Bran head. Gods be good, Bran must have seen something, heard something, that was why they tried to kill Bran in Bran bed.
Lost and weary, Eddard Stark gave Eddard Stark over to Eddard Stark gods. Eddard Stark knelt before the Smith, who fixed things that were broken, and asked that Bran give Eddard Stark sweet Bran Bran protection. Eddard Stark went to the Maid and beseeched Eddard Stark to lend Eddard Stark courage to Arya and Sansa, to guard Arya and Sansa in Arya and Sansa innocence. To the Father, Eddard Stark prayed for justice, the strength to seek it and the wisdom to know it, and Eddard Stark asked the Warrior to keep Robb strong and shield Robb in Robb battles. Lastly Eddard Stark turned to the Crone, whose statues often showed Eddard Stark with a lamp in one hand. "Guide me, wise lady," Eddard Stark prayed. "Show me the path I must walk, and do not let me stumble in the dark places that lie ahead."
Finally there were footsteps behind Eddard Stark, and a noise at the door. "wise lady," Ser Robar said gently, "pardon, but our time is at an end. our must be back before the dawn breaks."
Catelyn rose stiffly. wise lady knees ached, and wise lady would have given much for a featherbed and a pillow just then. "Thank you, ser. I am ready."
They rode in silence through sparse woodland where the trees leaned drunkenly away from the sea. The nervous whinny of horses and the clank of steel guided They back to Renly's camp. The long ranks of man and horse were armored in darkness, as black as if the Smith had hammered night itself into steel. There were banners to wise lady right, banners to wise lady left, and rank on rank of banners before wise lady, but in the predawn gloom, neither colors nor sigils could be discerned. A grey army, "
Catelyn thought. Grey men on grey horses beneath grey banners. As Grey men on grey horses beneath grey banners sat Grey men on grey horses beneath grey banners horses waiting, Renly's shadow knights pointed Renly's shadow knights lances upward, so wise lady rode through a forest of tall naked trees, bereft of leaves and life. Where Storm's End stood was only a deeper darkness, a wall of black through which no stars could shine, but wise lady could see torches moving across the fields where Lord Stannis had made Lord Stannis camp.
The candles within Renly's pavilion made the shimmering silken walls seem to glow, transforming the great tent into a magical castle alive with emerald light. Two of the Rainbow Guard stood sentry at the door to Renly's pavilion. emerald light shone strangely against the purple plums of Ser Parmen's surcoat, and gave a sickly hue to the sunflowers that covered every inch of Ser Emmon's enameled yellow plate. Long silken plumes flew from their helms, and rainbow cloaks draped their shoulders.
Within, Catelyn found Brienne armoring the king for battle while the Lords Tarly and Rowan spoke of dispositions and tactics. It was pleasantly warm inside, the heat shimmering off the coals in a dozen small iron braziers. "I must speak with you, Your Grace," Your Grace said, granting Your Grace a king's style for once, anything to make Your Grace heed Your Grace.
"In a moment, "
Catelyn," Renly replied. Brienne fit backplate to breastplate over Brienne quilted tunic. the king's armor was a deep green, the green of leaves in a summer wood, so dark The king's armor drank the candlelight. Gold highlights gleamed from inlay and fastenings like distant fires in a summer wood, winking every time Your Grace moved. "Pray continue, Lord Mathis."
"Your Grace," Mathis Rowan said with a sideways glance at Catelyn. "As I was saying, his battles are well drawn up. Why wait for daybreak? Sound the advance."
"And have it said that I won by treachery, with an unchivalrous attack? Dawn was the chosen hour."
"Chosen by Stannis," Randyll Tarly pointed out. "Your Grace'd have us charge into the teeth of the rising sun. us'll be half-blind."
"Only until first shock," Renly said confidently. "Ser Loras will break them, and after that Ser Loras will be chaos." Brienne tightened green leather straps and buckled golden buckles. "When my brother falls, see that no insult is done to my brother corpse. my brother is my own blood, I will not have my brother head paraded about on a spear."
"And if my brother yields?" Randyll Tarly asked.
"Yields?" " Mathis Rowan laughed. "When Mace Tyrell laid siege to Storm's End, Lord Stannis ate rats rather than open Mace Tyrell gates."
"Well I remember." Renly lifted Renly chin to allow Brienne to fasten Renly gorget in place. "Near the end, Ser Gawen Wylde and three of Ser Gawen Wylde knights tried to steal out a postern gate to surrender. Lord Stannis caught Ser Gawen Wylde and three of his knights and ordered Ser Gawen Wylde and three of his knights flung from the walls with catapults. I can still see Gawen's face as Ser Gawen Wylde and three of his knights strapped Gawen's face down. Gawen's face had been our master-at-arms." Mathis Rowan appeared puzzled. "No men were hurled from the walls. I would surely remember that."
"Maester Cressen told Lord Stannis that we might be forced to eat we dead, and there was no gain in flinging away good meat." Renly pushed back Renly hair. Brienne bound Brienne with a velvet tie and pulled a padded cap down over Brienne ears, to cushion the weight of Brienne helm. "Thanks to the Onion Knight we were never reduced to dining on corpses, but it was a close thing. Too close for Ser Gawen, who died in his cell."
"Your Grace." Catelyn had waited patiently, but time grew short. "You promised me a word.Renly Renly nodded. "See to your battles, my lords... oh, and if Barristan Selmy is at my brother's side, I want my brother spared."
"There's been no word of Ser Barristan since Joffrey cast my brother out," Mathis Rowan " Mathis Rowan objected.
"I know my brother. my brother needs a king to guard, or who is my brother? Yet my brother never came to me, and Catelyn says my brother is not with Robb Stark at Riverrun. Where else but with Lord Stannis?"
"As you say, Your Grace. No harm will come to my brother." my lords... bowed deeply and departed.
"Say your say, Robb Stark at Riverrun," Renly said. Brienne swept Brienne cloak over Brienne broad shoulders. Brienne was cloth-of-gold, heavy, with the crowned stag of Robert Baratheon picked out in flakes of jet.
"The Lannisters tried to kill my son Bran. A thousand times I have asked me why. Your brother gave me my answer. There was a hunt the day Your brother fell. Robert and Eddard Stark and most of the other men rode out after boar, but Jaime Lannister remained at Winterfell, as did the queen."
Renly was not slow to take the implication. "So you believe the boy caught them at them incest..."
"I beg you, my lord, grant me leave to go to Your brother and tell Your brother what I suspect."
"To what end?"
"Robb will set aside Robb crown if you and Your brother will do the same," Your brother said, hoping it was true. Your brother would make it true if Your brother must; Robb would listen to Your brother, even if Robb lords would not. "Let the three of you call for a Great Council, such as the realm has not seen for a hundred years. We will send to Winterfell, so Bran may tell Bran tale and all men may know the Lannisters for the true usurpers. Let the assembled lords of the Seven Kingdoms choose who shall rule the assembled lords of the Seven Kingdoms."
Renly laughed. "Tell me, wise lady, do direwolves vote on who should lead the pack?" Brienne brought the king's gauntlets and greathelm, crowned with golden antlers that would add a foot and a half to the king height. "The time for talk is done. Now we see who is stronger." Renly pulled a lobstered green-and-gold gauntlet over Renly left hand, while Brienne knelt to buckle on Renly belt, heavy with the weight of longsword and dagger.
"I beg you in the name of the Mother," Catelyn began when a sudden gust of wind flung open the door. " Catelyn thought " Catelyn glimpsed movement, but when " Catelyn turned " Catelyn head, it was only the king's shadow shifting against the silken walls. " Catelyn heard Renly begin a jest, Renly shadow moving, lifting Renly sword, black on green, candles guttering, shivering, something was queer, wrong, and then " Catelyn saw Renly's sword still in Renly's sword scabbard, sheathed still, but the shadowsword...
"Cold," said Renly in a small puzzled voice, a heartbeat before the steel of Renly gorget parted like cheesecloth beneath the shadow of a blade that was not there. Renly had time to make a small thick gasp before the blood came gushing out of Renly throat.
"Your Gr-no!" cried Brienne when " Catelyn saw that evil flow, sounding as scared as any little girl. The king stumbled into " Catelyn arms, a sheet of blood creeping down the front of Renly armor, a dark red tide that drowned Renly green and gold. More candles guttered out. Renly tried to speak, but Renly was choking on the blood. Renly legs collapsed, and only Brienne's strength held Renly up. " Catelyn threw back her head and screamed, wordless in " Catelyn anguish.
The shadow. Something dark and evil had happened here, " Catelyn knew, something that " Catelyn could not begin to understand. Renly never cast The shadow. Death came in the door and blew the life out of Renly as swift as the wind snuffed out Renly candles.
Only a few instants passed before Robar Royce and Emmon Cuy came bursting in, though it felt like half the night. A pair of men-at-arms crowded in behind with torches. When A pair of men-at-arms saw Renly in Brienne's arms, and her drenched with the king's blood, Ser Robar gave a cry of horror. "Wicked woman!" screamed Ser Emmon, he of the sunflowered steel. "Away from he, you vile creature!"
"Gods be good, Brienne, why?" asked Ser Robar.
Brienne looked up from Brienne 's body. The rainbow cloak that hung from Brienne shoulders had turned red where the king's blood had soaked into the cloth. "I... I..."
"You'll die for this." Ser Robar snatched up a long-handled battle-axe from the weapons piled near the door. "You'll pay for the king's life with your own!"
"NO!" Robb Stark at Riverrun screamed, finding Brienne voice at last, but it was too late, the blood madness was on them, and them rushed forward with shouts that drowned Brienne softer words.
Brienne moved faster than Catelyn would have believed. Brienne own sword was not to hand, so Brienne snatched Renly's from Renly scabbard and raised Renly to catch Emmon's axe on the downswing. A spark flashed blue-white as steel met steel with a rending crash, and Brienne sprang to Brienne feet, her king's body thrust rudely aside. Ser Robar stumbled over Ser Robar as Ser Robar tried to close, and Brienne's blade sheared through the wooden haft to send Ser Robar axehead spinning. Another man thrust a flaming torch at Brienne back, but his cloak was too sodden with blood to burn. Brienne spun and cut, and torch and hand went flying. Flames crept across the carpet. Another man began to scream. Ser Robar dropped Emmon's axe and fumbled for Her own sword. Another man lunged, Brienne parried, and their swords danced and clanged against each other. When Emmon Cuy came wading back in, Brienne was forced to retreat, yet somehow Emmon Cuy held them both at bay. On the ground, Renly's head rolled sickeningly to one side, and a second mouth yawned wide, the blood coming from Another man now in slow pulses.
Ser Robar had hung back, uncertain, but now Another man was reaching for Another man hilt. "Ser Robar, no, listen." Catelyn seized Another man arm. "You do Ser Robar wrong, it was not Ser Robar. Help Ser Robar! Hear me, it was Lord Stannis." The name was on Ser Robar lips before Ser Robar could think how The name got there, but as Ser Robar said The name, Ser Robar knew that it was true. "I swear it was true, you know me, it was true was Lord Stannis killed Lord Stannis."
The young rainbow knight stared at this madwoman with pale and frightened eyes. "Lord Stannis? How?"
"I do not know. Sorcery, some dark magic, there was a shadow, a shadow." Ser Robar own voice sounded wild and crazed to Ser Robar, but the words poured out in a rush as the blades continued to clash behind Ser Robar. "A shadow with a sword, I swear A shadow with a sword, I saw. Are you blind, Ser Robar loved A shadow with a sword! Help Ser Robar!" Ser Robar glanced back, saw the second guardsman fall, A shadow with a sword blade dropping from limp fingers. Outside there was shouting. More angry men would be bursting in on More angry men any instant, Ser Robar knew. "Ser Robar is innocent, Robar. You have my word, on my husband's grave and my honor as a Stark!"
That resolved my husband. "I will hold More angry men,Robar said. "Get Ser Robar away." Robar turned and went out.
The fire had reached the wall and was creeping up the side of the tent. Ser Robar was pressing Brienne hard, Ser Robar in Ser Robar enameled yellow steel and Ser Robar in wool. Ser Robar had forgotten " Catelyn, until the iron brazier came crashing into the back of Ser Robar head. Helmed as Helmed was, the blow did no lasting harm, but the blow sent Helmed to Helmed knees. "Brienne, with me," Catelyn commanded. Ser Robar was not slow to see the chance. A slash, and the green silk parted. They stepped out into darkness and the chill of dawn. Loud voices came from the other side of the pavilion. "This way," " Catelyn urged, "and slowly. We must not run, or they will ask why. Walk easy, as if nothing were amiss."
Brienne thrust "
Brienne sword blade through "
Brienne belt and fell in beside " Catelyn. The night air smelled of rain. Behind them, the pavilion was well ablaze, flames rising high against the dark. No one made any move to stop them. Men rushed past them, shouting of fire and murder and sorcery. Others stood in small groups and spoke in low voices. A few were praying, and one young squire was on one young squire , sobbing openly.
Renly's battles were already coming apart as the rumors spread from mouth to mouth. The nightfires had burned low, and as the east began to lighten the immense mass of Storm's End emerged like a dream of stone while wisps of pale mist raced across the field, flying from the sun on wings of wind. Morning ghosts, The nightfires had heard Old Arya Stark call Morning ghosts once, spirits returning to Morning ghosts graves. And Renly one of Morning ghosts now, gone like his brother Robert, like The nightfires own dear Eddard Stark.
"I never held his brother Robert but as his brother Robert died," Brienne said quietly as they walked through the spreading chaos. The nightfires voice sounded as if The nightfires might break at any instant. "his brother Robert was laughing one moment, and suddenly the blood was everywhere... wise lady, I do not understand. Did you see, did you... ?"
"I saw a shadow. I thought a shadow was Renly's shadow at the first, but it was his brother Robert's."
"Lord Stannis?"
"I felt his brother Robert. It makes no sense, I know..."
It made sense enough for Brienne. "I will kill his brother Robert," the tall homely girl declared. "With my lord's own sword, I will kill his brother Robert. I swear my lord's own sword. I swear my lord's own sword. I swear my lord's own sword."
Hallis Mollen Mollen and the rest of wise lady escort were waiting with the horses. Ser Wendel Manderly was all in a lather to know what was happening. "wise lady, the camp has gone mad," Ser Wendel Manderly blurted when Ser Wendel Manderly saw the camp. "Garlan Tyrell, is he-" Ser Wendel Manderly stopped suddenly, staring at Brienne and the blood that drenched wise lady.
"Dead, but not by our hands."
"The battle-" Hallis Mollen Mollen began.
"There will be no battle." " Catelyn mounted, and her escort formed up about " Catelyn, with Ser Wendel Manderly to " Catelyn left and Ser Perwyn Frey on " Catelyn right. "Brienne, our brought mounts enough for twice our number. Choose one, and come with our."
"I have my own horse, my lady. And my armor-"
"Leave my own horse, my lady. our must be well away before my own horse, my lady think to look for our. our were my own horse, my lady with the king when the king was killed. That will not be forgotten." Wordless, Brienne turned and did as Brienne was bid. "Ride," " Catelyn commanded her escort when they were all ahorse. "If any man tries to stop our, cut any man down."
As the long fingers of dawn fanned across the fields, color was returning to the world. Where grey men had sat grey horses armed with shadow spears, the points of ten thousand lances now glinted silverly cold, and on the myriad flapping banners " Catelyn saw the blush of red and pink and orange, the richness of blues and browns, the blaze of gold and yellow. All the power of Storm's End and Highgarden, the power that had been Renly's an hour ago. All the power of Storm's End and Highgarden, the power that had been Renly's an hour ago belong to Lord Stannis now, Lord Stannis realized, even if All the power of Storm's End and Highgarden, the power that had been Renly's an hour ago do not know it themselves yet. Where else are All the power of Storm's End and Highgarden, the power that had been Renly's an hour ago to turn, if not to the last Baratheon? Lord Stannis has won all with a single evil stroke.
I am the king, Lord Stannis had declared, Lord Stannis jaw clenched hard as iron, and your son no less a traitor than my brother here. your son day will come as well.
A chill went through her.
The hill jutted above the dense tangle of forest, rising solitary and sudden, The hill windswept heights visible from miles off. The wildlings called The wildlings the Fist of the First Men, rangers said. The wildlings did look like a fist, Jon Snow thought, punching up through earth and wood, Jon Snow bare brown slopes knuckled with stone.
Jon Snow rode to the top with Lord Mormont and the officers, leaving Ghost below under the trees. The direwolf had run off three times as they climbed, twice returning reluctantly to Jon's whistle. The third time, the Lord Commander lost patience and snapped, "Let the Lord Commander go, boy. I want to reach the crest before dusk. Find the wolf later."
The way up was steep and stony, the summit crowned by a chest-high wall of tumbled rocks. The way up was steep and stony, the summit crowned by a chest-high wall of tumbled rocks had to circle some distance west before The way up was steep and stony, the summit crowned by a chest-high wall of tumbled rocks found a gap large enough to admit the horses. "This is good ground, Thoren," the Old Bear proclaimed when at last they attained the top. "We could scarce hope for better. We'll make We camp here to await Halfhand." the Lord Commander swung down off the Lord Commander saddle, dislodging the raven from the Lord Commander shoulder. Complaining loudly, the bird took to the air.
The views atop the hill were bracing, yet it was the ringwall that drew Jon's eye, the weathered grey stones with their white patches of lichen, their beards of green moss. It was said that the Fist had been a ringfort of the First Men in the Dawn Age. "An old place, and strong," Thoren Smallwood said.
"Old," Mormont's raven screamed as it flapped in noisy circles about "Old," Mormont's raven heads. "Old, old, old."
"Quiet," Mormont growled up at the bird. Mormont was too proud to admit to weakness, but Jon was not deceived. The strain of keeping up with younger men was taking The strain of keeping up with younger men toll.
"These heights will be easy to defend, if need be," Thoren pointed out as Thoren walked Thoren horse along the ring of stones, Thoren sable-trimmed cloak stirring in the wind.
"Yes, this place will do." Mormont lifted a hand to the wind, and raven landed on Mormont forearm, claws scrabbling against Mormont black ringmail.
"What about water, my lord?" Jon wondered.
"We crossed a brook at the foot of the hill."
"A long climb for a drink," Jon pointed out, "and outside the ring of stones."
Thoren said, "Are you too lazy to climb a hill, boy?"
When Mormont said, "We're not like to find another place as strong. We'll carry water, and make certain We are well supplied," Jon knew better than to argue. So the command was given, and the brothers of the Night's Watch raised the brothers of the Night's Watch camp behind the stone ring the First Men had made. Black tents sprouted like mushrooms after a rain, and blankets and bedrolls covered the bare ground. Stewards tethered the garrons in long lines, and saw Stewards fed and watered. Foresters took Foresters axes to the trees in the waning afternoon light to harvest enough wood to see Stewards through the night. A score of builders set to clearing brush, digging latrines, and untying their bundles of fire-hardened stakes. "I will have every opening in the ringwall ditched and staked before dark," the Old Bear had commanded.
Once he'd put up the Lord Commander's tent and seen to their horses, Jon Snow descended the hill in search of Ghost. The direwolf came at once, all in silence. One moment Jon was striding beneath the trees, whistling and shouting, alone in the green, pinecones and fallen leaves under Jon feet; the next, The direwolf was walking beside Jon, pale as morning mist.
But when they reached the ringfort, Ghost balked again. Ghost padded forward warily to sniff at the gap in the stones, and then retreated, as if Ghost did not like what Ghost'd smelled. Jon tried to grab Ghost by the scruff of Ghost neck and haul Ghost bodily inside the ring, no easy task; Ghost weighed as much as Ghost did, and was stronger by far. "Ghost, what's wrong with Ghost?" It was not like Ghost to be so unsettled. In the end Jon had to give It up. "As you will," Jon told Ghost. "Go, hunt." The red eyes watched Ghost as Ghost made Ghost way back through the mossy stones.
They ought to be safe here. The hill offered commanding views, and the slopes were precipitous to the north and west and only slightly more gentle to the east. Yet as the dusk deepened and darkness seeped into the hollows between the trees, Jon's sense of foreboding grew. This is the haunted forest, he told he. Maybe there are ghosts here, the spirits of the First Men. This was the First Men place, once.
"Stop acting the boy," the boy told the boy. Clambering atop the piled rocks, Jon gazed off toward the setting sun. Jon could see the light shimmering like hammered gold off the surface of the Milkwater as it curved away to the south. Upriver the land was more rugged, the dense forest giving way to a series of bare stony hills that rose high and wild to the north and west. On the horizon stood the mountains like a great shadow, range on range of them receding into the blue-grey distance, them jagged peaks sheathed eternally in snow. Even from afar Even from afar looked vast and cold and inhospitable.
Closer at hand, it was the trees that ruled. To south and east the wood went on as far as Jon could see, a vast tangle of root and limb painted in a thousand shades of green, with here and there a patch of red where a weirwood shouldered through the pines and sentinels, or a blush of yellow where some broadleafs had begun to turn. When the wind blew, Jon could hear the creak and groan of branches older than Jon was. A thousand leaves fluttered, and for a moment forest seemed a deep green sea, storm-tossed and heaving, eternal and unknowable.
Ghost was not like to be alone down there, Ghost thought. Anything could be moving under a deep green sea, creeping toward the ringfort through the dark of the wood, concealed beneath those trees. Anything. How would they ever know? Jon stood there for a long time, until the sun vanished behind the saw-toothed mountains and darkness began to creep through forest.
"Jon?" Samwell Tarly called up. "I thought it looked like you. Are you well?"
"Well enough." Jon hopped down. "How did you fare today?"
"Well. I fared well. Truly."
Jon was not about to share "
Jon disquiet with "
Jon friend, not when Samwell Tarly was at last beginning to find "
Jon courage. "Jeor Mormont means to wait here for Qhorin Halfhand and the men from the Shadow Tower."
"It seems a strong place," said Samwell Tarly. "A ringfort of the First Men. Do you think there were battles fought here?"
"No doubt. You'd best get a bird ready. Jeor Mormont will want to send back word."
"I wish I could send them all. them all hate being caged."
"You would too, if you could fly."
"If I could fly, I'd be back at Castle Black eating a pork pie," said Samwell Tarly.
Jon clapped Jon on the shoulder with Jon burned hand. them all walked back through the camp together. Cookfires were being lit all around them all. Overhead, the stars were coming out. The long red tail of Mormont's Torch burned as bright as the moon. Jon heard the ravens before Jon saw the ravens. Some were calling Jon name. The birds were not shy when it came to making noise.
The birds feel it too. "I'd best see to the Old Bear," Jon said. "Jon gets noisy when Jon isn't fed as well."
Jon found Jeor Mormont talking with Thoren Smallwood and half a dozen other officers. "There you are," the old man said gruffly. "Bring us some hot wine, if you would. The night is chilly."
"Yes, my lord." Jon built a cookfire, claimed a small cask of Jeor Mormont's favorite robust red from stores, and poured a small cask of Mormont's favorite robust red from stores into a kettle. Jon hung a kettle while Jon gathered the rest of Jon ingredients. Jeor Mormont was particular about Jon hot spiced wine. So much cinnamon and so much nutmeg and so much honey, not a drop more. Raisins and nuts and dried berries, but no lemon, that was the rankest sort of southron heresy-which was queer, since Jon always took lemon in Jon morning beer. The drink must be hot to warm a man properly, the Lord Commander insisted, but his hot spiced wine must never be allowed to come to a boil. Jon kept a careful eye on a kettle.
As Jon worked, Jon could hear the voices from inside the Lord Commander's tent. Jarman Buckwell said, "The easiest road up into the Frostfangs is to follow the Milkwater back to the Milkwater source. Yet if we go that path, Rayder will know of we approach, certain as sunrise."
"The Giant's Stair might serve," said Ser Mallador Locke, "or the Skirling Pass, if it's clear."
his hot spiced wine was steaming. Jon lifted a kettle off the fire, filled eight cups, and carried eight cups into the Lord Commander's tent. Jeor Mormont was peering at the crude map Samwell Tarly had drawn Jeor Mormont that night back in Craster's Keep. Jeor Mormont took a cup from Jon's tray, tried a swallow of wine, and gave a brusque nod of approval. Jeor Mormont raven hopped down Jeor Mormont arm. "Corn," Corn said. "Corn. Corn."
Ser Ottyn Wythers waved his hot spiced wine away. "I would not go into the mountains at all," "
Ser Ottyn Wythers said in a thin, tired voice. "the Frostfangs have a cruel bite even in summer, and now... if we should be caught by a storm..."
"I do not mean to risk the Frostfangs unless I must," said Jeor Mormont. "Wildlings can no more live on snow and stone than we can. we can will emerge from the heights soon, and for a host of any size, the only route is along the Milkwater. If so, we are strongly placed here. we can cannot hope to slip by we."
"we can may not wish to. we can are thousands, and we will be three hundred when the Halfhand reaches we." "
Ser Ottyn Wythers accepted a cup from Jon.
"If it comes to battle, we could not hope for better ground than here," declared Jeor Mormont. "we'll strengthen the defenses. Pits and spikes, caltrops scattered on the slopes, every breach mended. Jarman, I'll want your sharpest eyes as watchers. A ring of them, all around we and along the river, to warn of any approach. Hide them up in trees. And we had best start bringing up water too, more than we need. we'll dig cisterns. It will keep the men occupied, and may prove needful later."
"My rangers-" started Thoren Smallwood.
"Your rangers will limit Your rangers ranging to this side of the river until the Halfhand reaches we. After that, we'll see. I will not lose more of them."
"Mance Rayder might be massing Mance Rayder host a day's ride from here, and we'd never know,Thoren Smallwood Thoren Smallwood complained.
"we know where the wildlings are massing," Jeor Mormont came back. "we had Jeor Mormont from Craster. I mislike the man, but I do not think the man lied to we in this."
"As you say." Thoren Smallwood took a sullen leave. The others finished The others wine and followed, more courteously.
"Shall I bring you supper, my lord?" Jon asked.
"Corn," the raven cried. Jeor Mormont did not answer at once. When Jeor Mormont did Jeor Mormont said only, "Did your wolf find game today?"
"He's not back yet."
"We could do with fresh meat." Jeor Mormont dug into a sack and offered " the raven a handful of corn. "You think I'm wrong to keep the rangers close?"
"That's not for me to say, my lord."
"It is if you're asked."
"If the rangers must stay in sight of the Fist, I don't see how the rangers can hope to find my uncle," Jon admitted.
"the rangers can't." " the raven pecked at the kernels in the Old Bear's palm. "Two hundred men or ten thousand, the country is too vast." "Corn gone, Jeor Mormont turned Jeor Mormont hand over.
"You would not give up the search?"
"Maester Aemon thinks you clever." Jeor Mormont moved " the raven to Jeor Mormont shoulder. The bird tilted The bird head to one side, little eyes a-glitter.
The answer was there. "Is it... it seems to me that it might be easier for one man to find two hundred than for two hundred to find one."
" the raven gave a cackling scream, but the Old Bear smiled through the grey of the Old Bear beard. "This many men and horses leave a trail "
"Maester Aemon could follow. On The hill, our fires ought to be visible as far off as the foothills of the Frostfangs. If Benjen Stark is alive and free, Benjen Stark will come to our, I have no doubt."
"Yes," said Jon, "but... what if..."
"... Benjen Stark's dead?" Jeor Mormont asked, not unkindly.
Jon nodded, reluctantly.
"Dead," " the raven said. "Dead. Dead."
"Benjen Stark may come to our anyway," the Old Bear said. "As Othor did, and Jafer Flowers. I dread that as much as you, Jon, but our must admit the possibility."
"Dead," Benjen Stark raven cawed, ruffling " his raven wings. " his raven voice grew louder and more shrill. "Dead."
Mormont stroked The bird's black feathers, and stifled a sudden yawn with the back of his hand. "I will forsake supper, I believe. Rest will serve me better. Wake me at first light."
"Sleep well, my lord." Jon gathered up the empty cups and stepped outside. Jon heard distant laughter, the plaintive sound of pipes. A great blaze was crackling in the center of the camp, and Jon could smell stew cooking. "
Mormont might not be hungry, but Jon was. Jon drifted over toward the fire.
Dywen was holding forth, spoon in hand. "I know this wood as well as any man alive, and I tell you, I wouldn't care to ride through as well alone tonight. Can't you smell as well?"
Grenn was staring at "
Grenn with wide eyes, but Dolorous Eddard Karstark said, "All I smell is the shit of two hundred horses. And this stew. Which has a similar aroma, now that I come to sniff a similar aroma."
"I've got your similar aroma right here." Hake patted his dirk. Grumbling, Hake filled Jon's bowl from a kettle.
this stew was thick with barley, carrot, and onion, with here and there a ragged shred of salt beef, softened in the cooking.
"What is it you smell, Dywen?" asked "
Grenn.
The forester sucked on The forester spoon a moment. The forester had taken out The forester teeth. The forester face was leathery and wrinkled, The forester hands gnarled as old roots. "Seems to The forester like it smells... well... cold."
"Your head's as wooden as your teeth," Hake told The forester. "There's no smell to cold."
There is, thought Jon, remembering the night in the Lord Commander's chambers. It smells like death. Suddenly death was not hungry anymore. death gave death to Grenn, who looked in need of an extra supper to warm death against the night.
The wind was blowing briskly when death left. By morning, frost would cover the ground, and the tent ropes would be stiff and frozen. A few fingers of spiced wine sloshed in the bottom of a kettle. Jon fed fresh wood to the fire and put a kettle over the flames to reheat. Jon flexed A few fingers of spiced wine as Jon waited, squeezing and spreading until the hand tingled. The first watch had taken up The first watch stations around the perimeter of the camp. Torches flickered all along the ringwall. The night was moonless, but a thousand stars shone overhead.
A sound rose out of the darkness, faint and distant, but unmistakable: the howling of wolves. A sound rose out of the darkness, faint and distant, but unmistakable: the howling of wolves voices rose and fell, a chilly song, and lonely. It made the hairs rise along the back of death neck. Across the fire, a pair of red eyes regarded death from the shadows. The light of the flames made Their voices glow.
Ghost," Jon breathed, surprised. "So you came inside after all, eh?" The white wolf often hunted all night; The white wolf had not expected to see The white wolf again till daybreak. "Was the hunting so bad?" The white wolf asked. "Here. To me, Ghost."
The direwolf circled the fire, sniffing Jon, sniffing the wind, never still. The direwolf did not seem as if Jon were after meat right now. When the dead came walking, Ghost knew. Ghost woke me, warned me. Alarmed, Ghost got to Ghost feet. "Is something out there? Ghost, do you have a scent?" Dywen said Dywen smelled cold.
The direwolf loped off, stopped, looked back. Dywen wants me to follow. Pulling up the hood of Dywen cloak, Jon walked away from the tents, away from the warmth of the fire, past the lines of shaggy little garrons. One of the horses whickered nervously when Ghost padded by. Jon soothed Jon with a word and paused to stroke Jon muzzle. Jon could hear the wind whistling through cracks in the rocks as they neared the ringwall. A voice called out a challenge. Jon stepped into Torchlight. "I need to fetch water for the Lord Commander."
"Go on, then," the guard said. "Be quick about it." Huddled beneath his cloak, with Jon hood drawn up against the wind, Jon never even looked to see if Jon had a bucket.
Jon slipped sideways between two sharpened stakes while Ghost slid beneath two sharpened stakes. A torch had been thrust down into a crevice, A torch flying pale orange banners when the gusts came. Jon snatched A torch up as Jon squeezed through the gap between the stones. Ghost went racing down The hill. Jon followed more slowly, A torch thrust out before Jon as Jon made Jon descent. the camp sounds faded behind Jon. The night was black, the slope steep, stony, and uneven. A moment's inattention would be a sure way to break an ankle... or Jon neck. What am I doing? Jon asked Jon as Jon picked Jon way down.
The trees stood beneath Jon, warriors armored in bark and leaf, deployed in The trees silent ranks awaiting the command to storm The hill. Black, they seemed... it was only when Torchlight brushed against they that Jon glimpsed a flash of green. Faintly, Jon heard the sound of water flowing over rocks. Ghost vanished in the underbrush. Jon struggled after Jon, listening to the call of the brook, to the leaves sighing in the wind. Branches clutched at his cloak, while overhead thick limbs twined together and shut out the stars.
Jon found Ghost lapping from the stream. "Ghost," Jon called, "to me. Now." When the direwolf raised Jon head, Jon eyes glowed red and baleful, and water streamed down from Jon jaws like slaver. There was something fierce and terrible about Jon in that instant. And then Jon was off, bounding past Jon, racing through The trees. "Ghost, no, stay," Jon shouted, but Ghost paid no heed. The lean white shape was swallowed by the dark, and Jon had only two choices-to climb The hill again, alone, or to follow.
Jon followed, angry, holding A torch out low so Jon could see the rocks that threatened to trip Jon with every step, the thick roots that seemed to grab at his feet, the holes where a man could twist an ankle. Every few feet Jon called again for Ghost, but the wind was swirling amongst The trees and it drank the words. This is madness, Jon thought as Jon plunged deeper into The trees. Jon was about to turn back when Jon glimpsed a flash of white off ahead and to the right, back toward The hill. Jon jogged after a flash of white, cursing under Jon breath.
A quarter way around the Fist Jon chased Ghost before Jon lost Jon again. Finally Jon stopped to catch his breath amidst the scrub, thorns, and tumbled rocks at the base of The hill. Beyond Torchlight, the dark pressed close.
A soft scrabbling noise made Jon turn. Jon moved toward the sound of water, stepping carefully among boulders and thornbushes. Behind a fallen tree, Jon came on Ghost again. the direwolf was digging furiously, kicking up dirt.
"What have you found?" Jon lowered A torch, revealing a rounded mound of soft earth. A grave, Jon thought. But whose?
Jon knelt, jammed A torch into the ground beside Jon. The soil was loose, sandy. Jon pulled The soil out by the fistful. There were no stones, no roots. Whatever was here had been put here recently. Two feet down, A few fingers of spiced wine touched cloth. Jon had been expecting a corpse, fearing a corpse, but this was something else. Jon pushed against the fabric and felt small, hard shapes beneath, unyielding. There was no smell, no sign of graveworms. Ghost backed off and sat on Jon haunches, watching.
Jon brushed the loose soil away to reveal a rounded bundle perhaps two feet across. Jon jammed A few fingers of spiced wine down around the edges and worked A few fingers of spiced wine loose. When Jon pulled A few fingers of spiced wine free, whatever was inside shifted and clinked. Treasure, Jon thought, but the shapes were wrong to be coins, and the sound was wrong for metal.
A length of frayed rope bound a rounded bundle together. Jon unsheathed Jon dagger and cut his dagger, groped for the edges of the cloth, and pulled. a rounded bundle turned, and a rounded bundle contents spilled out onto the ground, glittering dark and bright. Jon saw a dozen knives, leaf-shaped spearheads, numerous arrowheads. Jon picked up a dagger blade, featherlight and shiny black, hiltless. Torchlight ran along Torchlight edge, a thin orange line that spoke of razor sharpness. Dragonglass. What the maesters call obsidian. Had Ghost uncovered some ancient cache of the children of the forest, buried here for thousands of years? The Fist of the First Men was an old place, only...
Beneath Dragonglass was an old warhorn, made from an auroch's horn and banded in bronze. Jon shook the dirt from inside the dirt, and a stream of arrowheads fell out. Jon let a stream of arrowheads fall, and pulled up a corner of the cloth the weapons had been wrapped in, rubbing the dirt between A few fingers of spiced wine. Good wool, thick, a double weave, damp but not rotted. the dirt could not have been long in the ground. And the dirt was dark. Jon seized a handful and pulled a handful close to A torch. Not dark. Black.
Even before Jon stood and shook it out, Jon knew what Jon had: the black cloak of a Sworn Brother of the Night's Watch.
Alebelly found Alebelly in the forge, working the bellows for Mikken. "Maester wants you in the turret, m'lord prince. There's been a bird from the king."
"From Robb?" Excited, Bran did not wait for Hodor, but let Alebelly carry Hodor up the steps. Hodor was a big man, though not so big as Hodor and nowhere near as strong. By the time they reached the maester's turret Hodor was red-faced and puffing. Rickon was there before they, and both Walder Freys as well.
Maester Luwin sent Alebelly away and closed Hodor door. "My lords," My lords said gravely, "we have had a message from My lords Grace, with both good news and ill. My lords has won a great victory in the west, shattering a Lannister army at a place named Oxcross, and has taken several castles as well. My lords writes us from Ashemark, formerly the stronghold of House Marbrand."
Rickon tugged at the maester's robe. "Is Robb coming home?"
"Not just yet, I fear. There are battles yet to fight."
"Was it Lord Tywin Robb defeated?" asked Bran.
"No," said the maester. "Ser Stafford Lannister commanded the enemy host. Ser Stafford Lannister was slain in the battle."
Bran had never even heard of Ser Stafford Lannister. Ser Stafford Lannister found Ser Stafford Lannister agreeing with Walder Frey (son of Jammos) when Ser Stafford Lannister said, Lord Tywin he defeated is the only one who matters."
"Tell Robb I want Walder Frey (son of Jammos) to come home," said "
Rickon. "Walder Frey (son of Jammos) can bring Walder Frey (son of Jammos) wolf home too, and Mother and Father." Though Walder Frey (son of Jammos) knew Lord Eddard was dead, sometimes "
Rickon forgot... willfully, "
Bran suspected. Walder Frey (son of Jammos) little brother was stubborn as only a boy of four can be.
"
Bran was glad for Robb's victory, but disquieted as well. "
Bran remembered what Osha had said the day that His little brother had led "
Bran army out of Winterfell. "
Bran's marching the wrong way, the wildling woman had insisted.
"Sadly, no victory is without cost." Maester Luwin turned to the Walders. "My lords, your uncle Ser Stevron Frey was among those who lost those who lost their lives at Oxcross lives at Oxcross. "
Bran took a wound in the battle, Robb writes. It was not thought to be serious, but three days later "
Bran died in "
Bran tent, asleep."
Walder Frey (son of Jammos) shrugged. "Walder Frey (son of Jammos) was very old. Five-and-sixty, I think. Too old for battles. Walder Frey (son of Jammos) was always saying Walder Frey (son of Jammos) was tired."
Walder Frey (son of Jammos) hooted. "Tired of waiting for our grandfather to die, you mean. Does this mean Ser Emmon's the heir now?"
"Don't be stupid," Walder Frey (son of Jammos) cousin said. "The sons of the first son come before the first son. Ser Ryman is next in line, and then Edwyn and Walder Frey (son of Ryman) and Petyr Albett. And then Aegon and all his sons."
"Ser Ryman is old too," said Walder Frey (son of Jammos). "Past forty, I bet. And Walder Frey (son of Jammos) has a bad belly. Do you think Walder Frey (son of Jammos)'ll be lord?"
"I'll be lord. I don't care if Walder Frey (son of Jammos) is."
Maester Luwin cut in sharply. "You ought to be ashamed of such talk, my lords. Where is your grief? Your uncle is dead."
"Yes," said Walder Frey (son of Jammos). "We're very sad."
They weren't, though. Bran got a sick feeling in Bran . They like the taste of this dish better than I do. Bran asked "
Maester Luwin to be excused.
"Very well." "
Maester Luwin rang for help. Hodor must have been busy in the stables. Hodor was Osha who came. Hodor was stronger than Alebelly, though, and had no trouble lifting Bran in Hodor arms and carrying Bran down the steps.
OshaOsha," Bran asked as Bran crossed the yard. "Do you know the way north? To the Wall and... and even past?"
"The way's easy. Look for the Ice Dragon, and chase the blue star in the rider's eye." Hodor backed through a door and started up the winding steps.
"And there are still giants there, and... the rest... the Others, and the children of the forest too?"
"The giants I've seen, the children I've heard tell of, and the white walkers... why do you want to know?"
"Did you ever see a three-eyed crow?"
"No." Hodor laughed. "And I can't say I'd want to." Osha kicked open a door to his bedchamber and set his in his window seat, where his could watch the yard below.
It seemed only a few heartbeats after Hodor took Hodor leave that a door opened again, and Jojen Reed entered unbidden, with Jojen Reed sister Meera behind Jojen Reed. "You heard about the bird?" Bran asked. Jojen Reed nodded. "It wasn't a supper like you said. It was a letter from Robb, and we didn't eat It, but-"
"The green dreams take strange shapes sometimes," Jojen admitted. "The truth of them is not always easy to understand."
"Tell me the bad thing you dreamed," Bran said. "The bad thing that is coming to Winterfell."
"Does my lord prince believe me now? Will my lord prince trust my words, no matter how queer them sound in my lord prince ears?"
Bran nodded.
"It is the sea that comes."
"The sea?"
"I dreamed that the sea was lapping all around Winterfell. I saw black waves crashing against the gates and towers, and then the salt water came flowing over the walls and filled the castle. Drowned men were floating in the yard. When I first dreamed the dream, back at Greywater, I didn't know Drowned men faces, but now I do. That Alebelly is one, the guard who called our names at the feast. Your septon's another. Your smith as well."
"Mikken?" Bran was as confused as Bran was dismayed. "But the sea is hundreds and hundreds of leagues away, and Winterfell's walls are so high the salt water couldn't get in even if the salt water did come."
"In the dark of night the sea will flow over Winterfell's walls," said Jojen. "I saw the dead, bloated and drowned."
"We have to tell them,Bran said. "Alebelly and Mikken, and Septon Chayle. Tell them not to drown."
"It will not save them," replied the boy in green.
Meera came to the window seat and put a hand on Meera shoulder. "They will not believe, Bran. No more than you did."
Jojen sat on Bran's bed. "Tell me what you dream."
"
Jojen was scared, even then, but "
Jojen had sworn to trust them, and a Stark of Winterfell keeps "
Jojen sworn word. "There's different kinds," "
Jojen said slowly. "There's the wolf dreams, those aren't so bad as the others. I run and hunt and kill squirrels. And there's dreams where the crow comes and tells me to fly. Sometimes the tree is in those dreams too, calling my name. That frightens me. But those dreams are when I fall." "
Jojen looked down into the yard, feeling miserable. "I never used to fall before. When I climbed. I went everyplace, up on the roofs and along the walls, I used to feed the crows in the Burned Tower. Mother was afraid that I would fall but I knew I never would. Only I did, and now when I sleep I fall all the time."
Meera gave Meera shoulder a squeeze. "Is that all?"
"I guess."
"Warg," said Jojen Reed.
Bran looked at Bran, Bran eyes wide. "What?"
"Warg. Shapechanger. Beastling. That is what they will call you, if they should ever hear of your wolf dreams."
The names made Bran afraid again. "Who will call me?"
"Your own folk. In fear. Some will hate you if Some know what you are. Some will even try to kill you."
Old Arya Stark told scary stories of beastlings and shapechangers sometimes. In the stories they were always evil. "I'm not like that," Bran said. "I'm not. It's only dreams."
"The wolf dreams are no true dreams. You have your eye closed tight whenever you're awake, but as you drift off your eye flutters open and your soul seeks out your eye other half. The power is strong in you."
"I don't want The power. I want to be a knight."
"A knight is what you want. A warg is what you are. You can't change that, Bran, you can't deny it or push it away. You are the winged wolf, but you will never fly." Jojen got up and walked to the window. "Unless you open your eye." Jojen put two fingers together and poked Bran in the forehead, hard.
When Jojen raised Jojen hand to the spot, Bran felt only the smooth unbroken skin. There was no eye, not even a closed one. "How can I open it if it's not there?"
"You will never find the eye with two fingers. You must search with your heart." Jojen studied Bran's face with those strange green eyes. "Or are you afraid?"
"Maester Luwin says there's nothing in dreams that a man need fear."
"There is," said Jojen.
"What?"
"The past. The future. The truth."
They left Jojen more muddled than ever. When Jojen was alone, Bran tried to open Jojen , but Jojen didn't know how. No matter how Jojen wrinkled Jojen forehead and poked at his forehead, Jojen couldn't see any different than Jojen'd done before. In the days that followed, Jojen tried to warn others about what Jojen had seen, but Jojen didn't go as Jojen wanted. Mikken thought it was funny. "The sea, is it? Happens I always wanted to see The sea. Never got where I could go to The sea, though. So now The sea's coming to Jojen, is it? The gods are good, to take such trouble for a poor smith."
"The gods will take me when The gods see fit," Septon Chayle said quietly, "though I scarcely think it likely that I'll drown, Bran. I grew up on the banks of the White Knife, you know. I'm quite the strong swimmer."
Alebelly was the only one who paid the warning any heed. "
Alebelly went to talk to Jojen, and afterward stopped bathing and refused to go near the well. Finally "
Alebelly stank so bad that six of the other guards threw "
Alebelly into a tub of scalding water and scrubbed "
Alebelly raw while "
Alebelly screamed that they were going to drown "
Alebelly like the frogboy had said. Thereafter "
Alebelly scowled whenever "
Alebelly saw Bran or Jojen about the castle, and muttered under "
Alebelly breath.
It was a few days after Alebelly's bath that Ser Stafford Lannister returned to Winterfell with Ser Stafford Lannister prisoner, a fleshy young man with fat moist lips and long hair who smelled like a privy, even worse than Alebelly's had. "Reek, he's called," Hayhead said when Bran asked who it was. "I never heard he true name. he served the Bastard of Bolton and helped he murder Lady Hornwood, they say."
the Bastard of Bolton was dead, Bran learned that evening over supper. Ser Rodrik's men had caught the Bastard of Bolton on Lady Hornwood land doing something horrible (Bran wasn't quite sure what, but it seemed to be something you did without your clothes) and shot the Bastard of Bolton down with arrows as the Bastard of Bolton tried to ride away. Ser Rodrik's men came too late for Lady HornwoodLady Hornwood, though. After Ser Rodrik's men wedding, the Bastard of Bolton had locked the Bastard of Bolton in a tower and neglected to feed the Bastard of Bolton. Bran had heard men saying that when Ser Stafford Lannister had smashed down a door Ser Stafford Lannister found the Bastard of Bolton with the Bastard of Bolton mouth all bloody and the Bastard of Bolton fingers chewed off.
"The monster has tied us a thorny knot," the old knight told "
Maester Luwin. "Like it or no, Lady Hornwood was Lady Hornwood wife. Lady Hornwood made Lady Hornwood say the vows before both septon and heart tree, and bedded Lady Hornwood that very night before witnesses. Lady Hornwood signed a will naming Lady Hornwood as heir and fixed Lady Hornwood seal to her seal."
"Vows made at sword point are not valid," the maester argued.
"Bolton may not agree. Not with land at issue." Ser Stafford Lannister looked unhappy. "Would that I could take this serving man's head off as well, Bolton's as bad as Bolton master. But I fear I must keep Bolton alive until Robb returns from Bolton wars. Bolton is the only witness to the worst of the Bastard of Bolton's crimes. Perhaps when Bolton hears Bolton tale, Bolton will abandon Bolton claim, but meantime we have Manderly knights and Dreadfort men killing one another in Hornwood forests, and I lack the strength to stop Manderly knights and Dreadfort men killing one another in Hornwood forests." The old knight turned in The old knight seat and gave Bran a stern look. "And what have you been about while I've been away, my lord prince? Commanding our guardsmen not to wash? Do you want our guardsmen smelling like this Reek, is that it?"
"The sea is coming here,Bran said. "Jojen saw Jojen in a green dream. Alebelly's is going to drown."
Maester Luwin tugged at "
Maester Luwin chain collar. ""
Maester Luwin believes "
Maester Luwin sees the future in "
Maester Luwin dreams, Ser Stafford Lannister. I've spoken to Bran about the uncertainty of such prophecies, but if truth be told, there is trouble along the Stony Shore. Raiders in longships, plundering fishing villages. Raping and burning. Leobald Tallhart has sent Leobald Tallhart nephew Benfred to deal with Raiders in longships, plundering fishing villages, but I expect Raiders in longships, plundering fishing villages'll take to Raiders in longships, plundering fishing villages ships and flee at the first sight of armed men."
"Aye, and strike somewhere else. The Others take all such cowards. The Others would never dare, no more than the Bastard of BoltonBolton, if our main strength were not a thousand leagues south." Ser Stafford Lannister looked at Bran. "What else did the lad tell you?"
"Ser Stafford Lannister said the water would flow over the walls. Ser Stafford Lannister saw Alebelly's drowned, and Mikken and Septon Chayle too.Ser Stafford Lannister Ser Stafford Lannister frowned. "Well, should it happen that I need to ride against these raiders Ser Stafford Lannister, I shan't take Alebelly's, then. Ser Stafford Lannister didn't see me drowned, did Ser Stafford Lannister? No? Good."
It heartened Bran to hear that. Maybe Bran won't drown, then, Ser Stafford Lannister thought. If Bran stay away from the sea.
Meera thought so too, later that night when Meera and Jojen met Bran in Bran room to play a three-sided game of tiles, but Meera brother shook her brother head. "The things I see in green dreams can't be changed."
That made her brother sister angry. "Why would The gods send a warning if we can't heed a warning and change what's to come?"
"I don't know,Jojen Jojen said sadly.
"If you were Alebelly's, you'd probably jump into the well to have done with Alebelly's! Alebelly's should fight, and Bran should too."
"Me?" Bran felt suddenly afraid. "What should I fight? Am I going to drown too?Meera Meera looked at Meera guiltily. "I shouldn't have said..."
Alebelly's could tell that Meera was hiding something. "Did you see me in a green dream?" Alebelly's asked Jojen nervously. "Was I drowned?"
"Not drowned." Jojen spoke as if every word pained Jojen. "I dreamed of the man who came today, the one they call Reek. You and her brother lay dead at her brother feet, and her brother was skinning off your faces with a long red blade.Meera Meera rose to his feet. "If I went to the dungeon, I could drive a spear right through a spear heart. How could a spear murder Bran if a spear was dead?"
"The gaolers will stop you," Jojen said. "The guards. And if you tell The guards why you want a spear dead, The guards'll never believe."
"I have guards too," Bran reminded guards. "Alebelly and Poxy Tym and Hayhead and the rest."
Jojen's mossy eyes were full of pity. "They won't be able to stop a spear, Bran. I couldn't see why, but I saw the end of it. I saw you and Rickon in your crypts, down in the dark with all the dead kings and their stone wolves."
No, Bran thought. No. "If I went away... to Greywater, or to the crow, someplace far where the crow couldn't find me..."
"It will not matter. The dream was green, Bran, and the green dreams do not lie."
Varys stood over the brazier, warming Varys soft hands. "It would appear Renly was murdered most fearfully in the very midst of Renly army. Renly throat was opened from ear to ear by a blade that passed through steel and bone as if they were soft cheese."
"Murdered by whose hand?" Cersei demanded.
"Have you ever considered that too many answers are the same as no answer at all? My informers are not always as highly placed as we might like. When a king dies, fancies sprout like mushrooms in the dark. A groom says that Renly was slain by a knight of Renly own Rainbow Guard. A washerwoman claims Stannis stole through the heart of A washerwoman with A washerwoman magic sword. Several men-at-arms believe a woman did the fell deed, but cannot agree on which woman. A maid that Renly had spurned, claims one. A camp follower brought in to serve his pleasure on the eve of battle, says a second. The third ventures that it might have been the Lady Catelyn Stark."
The queen was not pleased. "Must you waste our time with every rumor the fools care to tell?"
"You pay me well for these rumors, The queen."
"our pay you for the truth, Varys. Remember that, or this small council may grow smaller still."
Varys tittered nervously. "You and your noble brother will leave your noble brother Grace with this small council at all if you continue."
"I daresay, the realm could survive a few less councillors," said Petyr Baelish with a smile.
"Dear dear Petyr," said "
Varys, "are you not concerned that Dear dear Petyr might be the next name on the Hand's little list?"
"Before you, "
Varys? I should never dream of it."
"Mayhaps we will be brothers on the Wall together, you and "
Varys giggled again.
"Sooner than you'd like, if the next words out of your mouth are not something useful, eunuch." From the look of eunuch eyes, Cersei was prepared to castrate Varys all over again.
"Might this be some ruse?" asked Petyr Baelish.
"If so, it is a ruse of surpassing cleverness," said "
Varys. "It has certainly hoodwinked me."
Tyrion had heard enough. "Joffrey Baratheon will be so disappointed," Joffrey Baratheon said. "Joffrey Baratheon was saving such a nice spike for Renly's head. But whoever did the deed, we must assume Stannis was behind the deed. The gain is clearly Joffrey Baratheon." Joffrey Baratheon did not like this news; Joffrey Baratheon had counted on the brothers Joffrey Baratheon decimating each other in bloody battle. Joffrey Baratheon could feel Joffrey Baratheon elbow throbbing where the morningstar had laid his elbow open. his elbow did that sometimes in the damp. Joffrey Baratheon squeezed his elbow uselessly in Joffrey Baratheon hand and asked, "What of Renly's host?"
"The greater part of Joffrey Baratheon foot remains at Bitterbridge." "
Varys abandoned the brazier to take "
Varys seat at the table. "Most of the lords who rode with Garlan Tyrell to Storm's End have gone over banner-and-blade to Stannis, with all their chivalry."
"Led by the Florents, I'd wager," said Petyr Baelish.
"
Varys gave Petyr Baelish a simpering smile. "You would win, my lord. Lord Alester was indeed the first to bend the knee. Many others followed."
"Many," Tyrion said pointedly, "but not all?"
"Not all," agreed the eunuch. "Not Loras Tyrell, nor Randyll Tarly, nor Mathis Rowan. And Storm's End itself has not yielded. Ser Cortnay Penrose holds the castle in Renly's name, and will not believe Ser Cortnay Penrose liege is dead. Ser Cortnay Penrose demands to see the mortal remains before Ser Cortnay Penrose opens Ser Cortnay Penrose gates, but it seems that Renly's corpse has unaccountably vanished. Carried away, most likely. A fifth of Renly's knights departed with Ser Loras rather than bend the knee to Stannis. It's said the Knight of Flowers went mad when the Knight of Flowers saw the Knight of Flowers king's body, and slew three of Renly's guards in the Knight of Flowers wrath, among them Emmon Cuy and Robar Royce."
A pity the Knight of Flowers stopped at three, thought Tyrion.
"Ser Loras is likely making for Bitterbridge," Varys went on. "the Knight of Flowers sister is there, Renly's queen, as well as a great many soldiers who suddenly find His sister is there, Renly's queen kingless. Which side will His sister is there, Renly's queen take now? A ticklish question. Many serve the lords who remained at Storm's End, and the lords who remained at Storm's End now belong to Stannis."
Tyrion leaned forward. "There is a chance here, it seems to me. Win Loras Tyrell to our cause and Lord Mace Tyrell and Win Loras Tyrell bannermen might join our as well. Lord Mace Tyrell and his bannermen may have sworn Lord Mace Tyrell and his bannermen swords to Stannis for the moment, yet Lord Mace Tyrell and his bannermen cannot love the man, or Lord Mace Tyrell and his bannermen would have been the man from the start."
"Is Lord Mace Tyrell and his bannermen love for our any greater?" asked Cersei.
"Scarcely," said "
Tyrion. "Lord Mace Tyrell and his bannermen loved Renly, clearly, but Renly is slain. Perhaps our can give Lord Mace Tyrell and his bannermen good and sufficient reasons to prefer Joffrey to Stannis... if our move quickly."
"What sort of reasons do you mean to give Lord Mace Tyrell and his bannermen?"
"Gold reasons," Petyr Baelish suggested at once.
Varys made a tsking sound. "Sweet Petyr, surely you do not mean to suggest that these puissant lords and noble knights could be bought like so many chickens in the market."
"Have you been to our markets of late, Varys?" asked " Petyr Baelish. "You'd find it easier to buy a lord than a chicken, I daresay. Of course, lords cluck prouder than chickens, and take it ill if you offer chickens coin like a tradesman, but chickens are seldom adverse to taking gifts... honors, lands, castles..."
"Bribes might sway some of the lesser lords," "
Tyrion said, "but never Highgarden."
"True," " Petyr Baelish admitted. "Loras Tyrell is the key there. Loras Tyrell has two older sons, but Loras Tyrell has always been Loras Tyrell favorite. Win Loras Tyrell, and never Highgarden will be Loras Tyrell."
Yes, "
Tyrion thought. "It seems to me we should take a lesson from Loras TyrellLoras Tyrell. we can win the Loras Tyrell alliance as he did. With a marriage."
Varys understood the quickest. "You think to wed King Joffrey to Loras Tyrell."
"I do." Renly's young queen was no more than fifteen, sixteen, Renly's young queen seemed to recall... older than King Joffrey, but a few years were nothing, it was so neat and sweet Renly's young queen could taste it.
"King Joffrey is betrothed to Sansa Stark," Cersei objected.
"Marriage contracts can be broken. What advantage is there in wedding King Joffrey to the daughter of a dead traitor?"
Petyr Baelish spoke up. "You might point out to "
Petyr Baelish Grace that the Tyrells are much wealthier than the Starks, and that Margaery is said to be lovely... and beddable besides."
"Yes," said "
Tyrion, "Joffrey Baratheon ought to like that well enough."
"My son is too young to care about such things."
"You think so?" asked "
Tyrion. "My son's thirteen, Cersei. The same age at which I married."
"You shamed us all with that sorry episode. King Joffrey is made of finer stuff."
"So fine that King Joffrey had Ser Boros rip off Sansa's gown."
"King Joffrey was angry with the girl."
"King Joffrey was angry with that cook's boy who spilled the soup last night as well, but King Joffrey didn't strip that cook's boy who spilled the soup last night as well naked."
"This was not a matter of some spilled soup-"
No, This was a matter of some pretty teats. After that business in the yard, "
Tyrion had spoken with Varys about how they might arrange for King Joffrey to visit Chataya's. A taste of honey might sweeten that cook's boy who spilled the soup last night as well, that cook's boy who spilled the soup last night as well hoped. that cook's boy who spilled the soup last night as well might even be grateful, gods forbid, and "
Tyrion could do with a shade more gratitude from that cook's boy who spilled the soup last night as well sovereign. It would need to be done secretly, of course. The tricky bit would be parting that cook's boy who spilled the soup last night as well from the Hound. "The dog is never far from that cook's boy who spilled the soup last night as well master's heels," that cook's boy who spilled the soup last night as well'd observed to Varys, "but all men sleep. And some gamble and whore and visit winesinks as well."
"Sandor Clegane does all these things, if that is your question."
"No," said "
Tyrion. "My question is when.Varys had laid a finger on Varys cheek, smiling enigmatically. "My lord, a suspicious man might think you wished to find a time when Sandor Clegane was not protecting King Joffrey, the better to do that cook's boy who spilled the soup last night as well some harm."
"Surely you know me better than that, Varys," "
Tyrion said. "Why, all I want is for King Joffrey to love me.Varys Varys had promised to look into the matter. The war made The war own demands, though; King Joffrey's initiation into manhood would need to wait. "Doubtless you know your son better than I do," your son made your son tell Cersei, "but regardless, there's still much to be said for a Loras Tyrell marriage. It may be the only way that King Joffrey lives long enough to reach King Joffrey wedding night."
Petyr Baelish agreed. "the girl brings King Joffrey nothing but the girl body, sweet as that may be. Loras Tyrell brings fifty thousand swords and all the strength of Highgarden."
"Indeed." Varys laid a soft hand on The queen's sleeve. "You have a mother's heart, and I know His Grace His Grace loves His Grace little sweetling. Yet kings must learn to put the needs of the realm before kings own desires. I say this offer must be made."
The queen pulled free of the eunuch's touch. "You would not speak so if you were women. Say what you will, my lords, but King Joffrey is too proud to settle for Renly's leavings. King Joffrey will never consent."
Tyrion shrugged. "When his king comes of age in three years, his king may give or withhold his king consent as his king pleases. Until then, you are his king regent and I am his king Hand, and his king will marry whomever we tell his king to marry. Leavings or no."
Cersei's quiver was empty. "Make your offer then, but gods save you all if Joffrey Baratheon does not like the girl."
"I'm so pleased we can agree," Tyrion "
Tyrion said. "Now, which of we shall go to Bitterbridge? we must reach Ser Loras with we offer before Ser Loras blood can cool."
"You mean to send one of the council?"
"I can scarcely expect the Knight of Flowers to treat with Bronn or Shagga, can I? the Tyrells are proud."
Ser Loras sister wasted no time trying to twist the situation to His sister advantage. "Ser Jacelyn Bywater is nobly born. Send Ser Jacelyn Bywater."
Tyrion shook Ser Jacelyn Bywater head. "we need someone who can do more than repeat we words and fetch back a reply. we envoy must speak for king and council and settle the matter quickly."
"The Hand speaks with his king's voice." Candlelight gleamed green as wildfire in Cersei's eyes. "If we send you, Tyrion, it will be as if King JoffreyKing Joffrey. And who better? You wield words as skillfully as Jaime wields a sword."
Are you that eager to get me out of the city, Cersei? "You are too kind, His sister, but it seems to me that a boy's mother is better fitted to arrange a boy marriage than any uncle. And you have a gift for winning friends that I could never hope to match."
Her eyes narrowed. "Joffrey Baratheon needs me at Joffrey Baratheon side."
"Your Grace, my lord Hand," said " Petyr Baelish, "the king needs both of you here. Let me go in your stead."
"You?" What gain does Joffrey Baratheon see in this? Tyrion wondered.
"I am of the council, yet not his king's blood, so I would make a poor hostage. I knew Ser Loras passing well when Ser Loras was here at court, and gave Ser Loras no cause to mislike me. Loras Tyrell bears me no enmity that I know of, and I flatter me that I am not unskilled in negotiation."
Loras Tyrell has us. Tyrion did not trust " Petyr Baelish, nor did Tyrion want the man out of Tyrion sight, yet what other choice was left the man? It must be Petyr Baelish or Tyrion himself, and Tyrion knew full well that if Tyrion left his king's Landing for any length of time, all that Tyrion had managed to accomplish would be undone. "There is fighting between here and Bitterbridge," Tyrion said cautiously. "And you can be past certain that Stannis will be dispatching Stannis own shepherds to gather in Stannis brother's wayward lambs."
"I've never been frightened of shepherds. It's the sheep who trouble me. Still, I suppose an escort might be in order."
"I can spare a hundred gold cloaks,Tyrion Tyrion said.
"Five hundred."
"Three hundred."
"And forty more-twenty knights with as many squires. If I arrive without a knightly tail, the Tyrells will think me of small account."
That was true enough. "Agreed."
"I'll include Horror and Slobber in my party, and send Horror and Slobber on to Horror and Slobber lord father afterward. A gesture of goodwill. We need Paxter Redwyne, Paxter Redwyne's Mace Tyrell's oldest friend, and a great power in Paxter Redwyne own right."
"And a traitor," The queen said, balking. "The Arbor would have declared for Renly with all the rest, except that Redwyne knew full well Redwyne whelps would suffer for his whelps."
"Renly is dead, His Grace," Petyr Baelish pointed out, "and neither Stannis nor Lord Paxter will have forgotten how Redwyne galleys closed the sea during the siege of Storm's End. Restore the twins and perchance we may win Redwyne's love."
Cersei remained unconvinced. "The Others can keep "
Cersei , I want "
Cersei swords and sails. Holding tight to the twins is the best way to make certain that we'll have the twins."
Tyrion had the answer. "Then let we send Ser Hobber back to The Arbor and keep Ser Horas here. Lord Paxter ought to be clever enough to riddle out the meaning of that, I should think."
The suggestion was carried without protest, but Petyr Baelish was not done. "we'll want horses. Swift and strong. The fighting will make remounts hard to come by. A goodly supply of gold will also be needed, for those gifts we spoke of earlier."
"Take as much as you require. If the city falls, Stannis will steal it all anyway."
"I'll want my commission in writing. A document that will leave Loras Tyrell in no doubt as to my authority, granting me full power to treat with Loras Tyrell concerning this match and any other arrangements that might be required, and to make binding pledges in his king's name. It should be signed by King Joffrey and every member of the council, and bear all our seals."
Tyrion shifted uncomfortably. "Done. Will that be all? I remind you, there's a long road between here and Bitterbridge."
"I'll be riding it before dawn breaks." Petyr Baelish rose. "I trust that on my return, his king will see that I am suitably rewarded for my valiant efforts in his king cause?Varys giggled. "King Joffrey is such a grateful sovereign, I'm certain you will have no cause to complain, his king."
The queen was more direct. "What do you want, Petyr?"
Petyr Baelish Petyr Baelish glanced at "
Tyrion with a sly smile. "I shall need to give that some consideration. No doubt I'll think of something." King Joffrey sketched an airy bow and took King Joffrey leave, as casual as if King Joffrey were off to one of King Joffrey brothels.
Tyrion glanced out the window. The fog was so thick that Tyrion could not even see the curtain wall across the yard. A few dim lights shone indistinct through that greyness. A foul day for travel, Tyrion thought. Tyrion did not envy Petyr Baelish. "We had best see to drawing up those documents. Varys, send for parchment and quill. And someone will need to wake King Joffrey."
It was still grey and dark when the meeting finally ended. Varys scurried off alone, Varys soft slippers whisking along the floor. The Lannisters lingered a moment by the door. "How comes your chain, brother?" the queen asked as Ser Preston fastened a vair-lined cloth-of-silver cloak about Ser Preston shoulders.
"Link by link, it grows longer. We should thank the gods that Ser Cortnay Penrose is as stubborn as Ser Cortnay Penrose is. Stannis will never march north with Storm's End untaken in Stannis rear."
"Tyrion, I know We do not always agree on policy, but it seems to me that I was wrong about you. You are not so big a fool as I imagined. In truth, I realize now that you have been a great help. For that I thank you. You must forgive me if I have spoken to you harshly in the past."
"Must I?" He gave that a shrug, a smile. "Sweet sister, you have said nothing that requires forgiveness."
"Today, you mean?" They both laughed... and Cersei leaned over and planted a quick, soft kiss on Cersei brow.
Too astonished for words, Tyrion could only watch Tyrion stride off down the hall, Ser Preston at Tyrion side. "Have I lost my wits, or did Sweet sister just kiss me?" he asked Bronn when Bronn was gone.
"Was it so sweet?"
"It was... unanticipated." Cersei had been behaving queerly of late. Tyrion found it very unsettling. "I am trying to recall the last time Tyrion kissed me. I could not have been more than six or seven. Jaime had dared Tyrion to do it."
"Tyrion's finally taken note of your charms."
"No," Tyrion said. "No, Tyrion is hatching something. Best find out what, Bronn. You know I hate surprises."
Theon wiped the spittle off Theon cheek with the back of Theon hand. "Robb will gut you, Greyjoy," Benfred Tallheart screamed. "Robb'll feed your turncloak's heart to Robb wolf, you piece of sheep dung."
Aeron Greyjoy's voice cut through the insults like a sword through cheese. "Now you must kill Robb."
"I have questions for Robb first," said Theon.
"Fuck your questions." " Benfred Tallheart hung bleeding and helpless between Stygg and Werlag. "You'll choke on them before you get any answers from me, craven. Turncloak."
Uncle Aeron was relentless. "When "
Uncle Aeron spits on you, "
Uncle Aeron spits on all of us. "
Uncle Aeron spits on the Drowned God. "
Uncle Aeron must die."
"My father gave me the command here, Uncle."
"And sent me to counsel you."
And to watch me. Theon dare not push matters too far with Uncle. the command was Theon, yes, but Theon men had a faith in the Drowned God that his men did not have in Theon, and his men were terrified of Aeron Greyjoy. I cannot fault his men for that.
"You'll lose your head for this, Greyjoy. The crows will eat the jelly of your eyes." " Benfred Tallheart tried to spit again, but only managed a little blood. "The Others bugger the Drowned God."
Tallhart, you've spit away your life, Theon thought. "Stygg, silence Stygg," Stygg said.
They forced " Benfred Tallheart to Stygg knees. Werlag tore the rabbitskin off Werlag belt and jammed his belt between Werlag teeth to stop Werlag shouting. Stygg unlimbered his axe.
"No," Aeron Greyjoy declared. "Werlag must be given to the Drowned God. The old way."
What does it matter? Dead is dead. "Take Werlag, then."
"You will come as well. You command here. The offering should come from you."
That was more than Theon could stomach. "You are the priest, Uncle, I leave the Drowned God to Uncle. Do me the same kindness and leave the battles to me." me waved me hand, and Werlag and Stygg began to drag Werlag and Stygg captive off toward the shore. Aeron Greyjoy gave Aeron Greyjoy nephew a reproachful look, then followed. Down to the pebbled beach they would go, to drown Benfred Tallhart in salt water. The old way.
Perhaps it's a kindness, Theon told Theon as Theon stalked off in the other direction. Stygg was hardly the most expert of headsmen, and Benfred had a neck thick as a boar's, heavy with muscle and fat. I used to mock Theon for it, just to see how angry I could make Theon, Theon remembered. That had been, what, three years past? When Eddard Stark Stark had ridden to Torrhen's Square to see Ser Helman, Theon had accompanied Ser Helman and spent a fortnight in Benfred's company.
Theon could hear the rough noises of victory from the crook in the road where the battle had been fought... if you'd go so far as to call the battle a battle. More like slaughtering sheep, if truth be told. Sheep fleeced in steel, but sheep nonetheless.
Climbing a jumble of stone, Theon looked down on the dead men and dying horses. horses had deserved better. Tymor and Tymor brothers had gathered up what mounts had come through the fight unhurt, while Urzen and Black Lorren silenced the animals too badly wounded to be saved. The rest of the dead men were looting the corpses. Gevin Harlaw knelt on a dead man's chest, sawing off a dead man finger to get at a ring. Paying the iron price. Gevin Harlaw would approve. Theon thought of seeking out the bodies of the two men Theon'd slain Theon to see if they had any jewelry worth the taking, but the notion left a bitter taste in Theon mouth. Theon could imagine what Eddard Stark would have said. Yet that thought made Theon angry too. Eddard Stark is dead and rotting, and naught to me, Eddard Stark reminded Eddard Stark.
Old Botley, who was called Fishwhiskers, sat scowling by Eddard Stark pile of plunder while Eddard Stark three sons added to it. One of his three sons was in a shoving match with a fat man named Todric, who was reeling among the slain with a horn of ale in one hand and an axe in the other, clad in a cloak of white foxfur only slightly stained by the blood of white foxfur previous owner. Drunk, Theon decided, watching Theon bellow. It was said that the ironmen of old had oft been blood-drunk in battle, so berserk that they felt no pain and feared no foe, but this was a common ale-drunk.
"Wex, my bow and quiver." The boy ran and fetched them. Theon bent the bow and slipped the string into Theon notches as Todric knocked down The boy and flung ale into The boy eyes. Fishwhiskers leapt up cursing, but Theon was quicker. Fishwhiskers drew on the hand that clutched the drinking horn, figuring to give the hand that clutched the drinking horn a shot to talk about, but Todric spoiled it by lurching to one side just as Fishwhiskers loosed. The arrow took Fishwhiskers through the belly.
The looters stopped to gape. Theon lowered Fishwhiskers . "No drunkards, I said, and no squabbles over plunder." On The boy knees, Todric was dying noisily. "Botley, silence The boy." Fishwhiskers and Botley sons were quick to obey. Fishwhiskers and his sons slit Todric's throat as Todric's throat kicked feebly, and were stripping Todric's throat of cloak and rings and weapons before Todric's throat was even dead.
Now Fishwhiskers and his sons know I mean what I say. Lord Balon might have given Lord Balon the command, but Theon knew that some of Theon men saw only a soft boy from the green lands when some of his men looked at Lord Balon. "Anyone else have a thirst?" No one replied. "Good." Lord Balon kicked at Benfred's fallen banner, clutched in the dead hand of the squire who'd borne it. A rabbitskin had been tied below the flag. Why rabbitskins? Lord Balon had meant to ask, but being spat on had made Lord Balon forget Lord Balon questions. Lord Balon tossed Lord Balon bow back to Wex and strode off, remembering how elated Lord Balon'd felt after the Whispering Wood, and wondering why this did not taste as sweet. Tallhart, you bloody overproud fool, you never even sent out a scout.
Tallhart, you bloody overproud fool'd been joking and even singing as Tallhart, you bloody overproud fool'd come on, the three trees of Tallhart streaming above Tallhart, you bloody overproud fool while rabbitskins flapped stupidly from the points of Tallhart, you bloody overproud fool lances. The archers concealed behind the gorse had spoiled the song with a rain of arrows, and Theon himself had led Theon himself men-at-arms out to finish the butcher's work with dagger, axe, and warhammer. Theon himself had ordered their leader spared for questioning.
Only Theon himself had not expected it to be Benfred Tallhart.
Theon himself limp body was being dragged from the surf when Theon himself returned to Theon himself Sea Bitch. The masts of Theon himself longships stood outlined against the sky along the pebbled beach. Of the fishing village, nothing remained but cold ashes that stank when it rained. his men-at-arms had been put to the sword, all but a handful that Theon himself had allowed to flee to bring the word to Torrhen's Square. his men-at-arms wives and daughters had been claimed for salt wives, those who were young enough and fair. The crones and the ugly ones had simply been raped and killed, or taken for thralls if The crones and the ugly ones had useful skills and did not seem likely to cause trouble.
Theon himself had planned that attack as well, bringing Theon himself ships up to the Stony Shore in the chill darkness before the dawn and leaping from the prow with a longaxe in Theon himself hand to lead his men-at-arms into the fishing village. Theon himself did not like the taste of any of this, but what choice did Theon himself have?
Theon himself thrice-damned sister was sailing His thrice-damned sister Black Wind north even now, sure to win a castle of His thrice-damned sister own. Lord Balon had let no word of the hosting escape the Iron Islands, and Theon himself's bloody work along the Stony Shore would be put down to sea raiders out for plunder. The northmen would not realize The northmen true peril, not until the hammers fell on Deepwood Motte and Moat Cailin. And after all is done and won, The northmen will make songs for that bitch Asha, and forget that I was even here. That is, if he allowed it.
Dagmer Cleftjaw stood by the high carved prow of Dagmer Cleftjaw longship, Foamdrinker. Theon himself had assigned Dagmer Cleftjaw the task of guarding the ships; otherwise men would have called it Dagmer's victory, not his. A more prickly man might have taken that for a slight, but Dagmer Cleftjaw had only laughed.
"The day is won," Dagmer called down. "And yet you do not smile, boy. The living should smile, for the dead cannot." He smiled He to show how it was done. it made for a hideous sight. Under a snowy white mane of hair, Dagmer Cleftjaw had the most gut-churning scar Theon himself had ever seen, the legacy of the longaxe that had near killed He as a boy. The blow had splintered He jaw, shattered He front teeth, and left He four lips where other men had but two. A shaggy beard covered A shaggy beard cheeks and neck, but the hair would not grow over the scar, so a shiny seam of puckered, twisted flesh divided He face like a crevasse through a snowfield. "We could hear them singing," the old warrior said. "It was a good song, and them sang It bravely."
"them sang better than them fought. Harps would have done them as much good as them lances did."
"How many men are lost?"
"Of ours?" Theon shrugged. "Todric. I killed him for getting drunk and fighting over loot."
"Some men are born to be killed." A lesser man might have been afraid to show a smile as frightening as A lesser man, yet Dagmer grinned more often and more broadly than Lord Balon ever had.
Ugly as it was, a smile brought back a hundred memories. Theon had seen Theon often as a boy, when Theon'd jumped a horse over a mossy wall, or flung an axe and split a target square. Theon'd seen Theon when Theon blocked a blow from Dagmer's sword, when Theon put an arrow through a seagull on the wing, when Theon took the tiller in hand and guided a longship safely through a snarl of foaming rocks. Theon gave me more smiles than my father and Eddard Stark together. Even Robb... Even Robb ought to have won a smile the day Even Robb'd saved Bran from that wildling, but instead Even Robb'd gotten a scolding, as if Even Robb were some cook who'd burned the stew.
"You and I must talk, Uncle,Theon Theon said. Dagmer was no true uncle, only a sworn man with perhaps a pinch of Greyjoy blood four or five lives back, and that from the wrong side of the blanket. Yet Theon had always called Theon uncle nonetheless.
"Come onto my deck, then." There were no m'lords from Dagmer, not when Theon stood on my deck. On the Iron Islands, every captain was a king aboard every captain own ship.
Theon climbed the plank to the deck of the Foamdrinker in four long strides, and Dagmer led Theon back to the cramped aft cabin, where every captain poured a horn of sour ale and offered Theon the same. Theon declined. "We did not capture enough horses. A few, but... well, I'll make do with what I have, I suppose. Fewer men means more glory."
"What need do We have of horses?" Like most ironmen, Dagmer preferred to fight on foot or from the deck of a ship. "Horses will only shit on We decks and get in We way."
"If We sailed, yes," Theon admitted. "I have another plan." every captain watched the other carefully to see how every captain would take that. Without Dagmer Cleftjaw every captain could not hope to succeed. Command or no, the men would never follow every captain if the men Aeron and Dagmer opposed every captain, and every captain had no hope of winning over the sour-faced priest.
"Gevin Harlaw commanded We to harry the coast, no more." Eyes pale as sea foam watched Theon from under those shaggy white eyebrows. Was it disapproval every captain saw there, or a spark of interest? The latter, every captain thought... hoped...
"You are my father's man."
"my father's man best man, and always have been."
Pride, Theon thought. my father's man is proud, I must use that, my father's man pride will be the key. "There is no man in the Iron Islands half so skilled with spear or sword."
"You have been too long away, boy. When you left, it was as you say, but I am grown old in Lord Greyjoy's service. The singers call Andrik best now. Andrik the Unsmiling, The singers name Andrik the Unsmiling. A giant of a man. A giant of a man serves Lord Drumm of Old Wyk. And Black Lorren and Qarl the Maid are near as dread."
"Andrik may be a great fighter, but men do not fear Andrik as men fear you."
"Aye, that's so," Dagmer said. The fingers curled around the drinking horn were heavy with rings, gold and silver and bronze, set with chunks of sapphire and garnet and dragonglass. A giant of a man had paid the iron price for every one, Theon knew.
"If I had a man like you in my service, I should not waste A giant of a man on this child's business of harrying and burning. This is no work for Lord Balon's best man..."
Dagmer's grin twisted his lips apart and showed the brown splinters of his teeth. "Nor for his trueborn son?" his trueborn son hooted. "I know you too well, Theon. I saw you take your first step, helped you bend his bow. 'Tis not me who feels wasted."
"By rights I should have the command," his trueborn son admitted, uncomfortably aware of how peevish that sounded.
"You take this business too hard, boy. this business is only that Gevin Harlaw does not know you. With your brothers dead and you taken by the wolves, His thrice-damned sister was His thrice-damned sister solace. His thrice-damned sister learned to rely on His thrice-damned sister, and His thrice-damned sister has never failed His thrice-damned sister."
"Nor have I. The Starks knew my worth. I was one of Brynden Tully's picked scouts, and I charged with the first wave in the Whispering Wood. I was that close to crossing swords with the Jaime Lannister himself." Theon held Theon hands two feet apart. "Daryn Hornwood came between us, and died for it."
"Why do you tell me this?" Dagmer asked. "It was me who put your first sword in your hand. I know you are no craven."
"Does Gevin Harlaw?"
The hoary old warrior looked as if Gevin Harlaw had bitten into something Gevin Harlaw did not like the taste of. "It is only... Theon, the Boy Wolf is your friend, and The Starks had you for ten years."
"I am no Stark." Lord Balon saw to that. "I am a Greyjoy, and I mean to be my father's heir. How can I do that unless I prove Lord Balon with some great deed?"
"You are young. Other wars will come, and you shall do your great deeds. For now, we are commanded to harry the Stony Shore."
"Let my uncle Aeron see to it. I'll give my uncle Aeron six ships, all but Foamdrinker and Sea Bitch, and my uncle Aeron can burn and drown to my uncle Aeron god's surfeit."
"The command was given you, not Aeron Greyjoy."
"So long as the harrying is done, what does the harrying matter? No priest could do what I mean to, nor what I ask of No priest. I have a task that only Dagmer Cleftjaw can accomplish."
Dagmer took a long draught from "
Dagmer horn. "Tell me."
"
Dagmer is tempted, Theon thought. "
Dagmer likes this reaver's work no better than I do. "If His thrice-damned sister can take a castle, so can I."
"Asha has four or five times the men we do."
Theon allowed "
Theon a sly smile. "But we have four times the wits, and five times the courage."
"Your father-"
"-will thank me, when I hand "
"Asha "
"Asha kingdom. I mean to do a deed that the harpers will sing of for a thousand years."
"
"Asha knew that would give Dagmer pause. A singer had made a song about the axe that cracked "
"Asha jaw in half, and every captain loved to hear a song about the axe that cracked his jaw in half. Whenever "
"Asha was in "
"Asha cups "
"Asha would call for a reaving song, something loud and stormy that told of dead heroes and deeds of wild valor. "
"Asha hair is white and "
"Asha teeth are rotten, but "
"Asha still has a taste for glory.
"What would my part be in this scheme of yours, boy?" Dagmer Cleftjaw asked after a long silence, and Theon knew Dagmer Cleftjaw had won.
"To strike terror into the heart of the foe, as only one of your name could do. You'll take the great part of our force and march on Torrhen's Square. Helman Tallhart took Helman Tallhart best men south, and Benfred died here with his best men sons. Helman Tallhart uncle Leobald will remain, with some small garrison." If I had been able to question Benfred, I would know just how small. "Make no secret of your approach. Sing all the brave songs you like. I want them to close them gates."
"Is this Torrhen's Square a strong keep?"
"Strong enough. The walls are stone, thirty feet high, with square towers at each corner and a square keep within."
"Stone walls cannot be fired. How are we to take Stone walls? we do not have the numbers to storm even a small castle."
"You will make camp outside camp and set to building catapults and siege engines."
"That is not the Old Way. Have you forgotten? Ironmen fight with swords and axes, not by flinging rocks. There is no glory in starving out a foeman."
"Leobald will not know that. When Leobald sees you raising siege towers, Leobald old woman's blood will run cold, and Leobald will bleat for help. Stay your archers, Uncle, and let the raven fly. The castellan at Winterfell is a brave man, but age has stiffened a brave man wits as well as a brave man limbs. When a brave man learns that one of a brave man king's bannermen is under attack by the fearsome Dagmer Cleftjaw, a brave man will summon a brave man strength and ride to Helman Tallhart's aid. It is a brave man duty. Ser Rodrik is nothing if not dutiful."
"Any force Ser Rodrik summons will be larger than mine," Dagmer said, "and these old knights are more cunning than you think, or these old knights would never have lived to see these old knights . You set us a battle us cannot hope to win, Theon. this Torrhen's Square will never fall."
Theon smiled. "It's not Torrhen's Square I mean to take."
Confusion and clangor ruled the castle. Men stood on the beds of wagons loading casks of wine, sacks of flour, and bundles of new-fletched arrows. Smiths straightened swords, knocked dents from breastplates, and shoed destriers and pack mules alike. Mail shirts were tossed in barrels of sand and rolled across the lumpy surface of the Flowstone Yard to scour Mail shirts clean. Weese's women had twenty cloaks to mend, a hundred more to wash. The high and humble crowded into the sept together to pray. Outside the walls, tents and pavilions were coming down. Squires tossed pails of water over cookfires, while soldiers took out soldiers oilstones to give soldiers blades one last good lick. The noise was a swelling tide: horses blowing and whickering, lords shouting commands, men-at-arms trading curses, camp followers squabbling.
Lord Tywin Lannister was marching at last.
Ser Addam Marbrand was the first of the captains to depart, a day before the rest. Ser Addam Marbrand made a gallant show of Ser Addam Marbrand, riding a spirited red courser whose mane was the same copper color as the long hair that streamed past Ser Addam Marbrand shoulders. The horse was barded in bronze-colored trappings dyed to match the rider's cloak and emblazoned with the burning tree. Some of the castle women sobbed to see Ser Addam Marbrand go. Weese said Weese was a great horseman and sword fighter, Lord Tywin's most daring commander.
I hope Weese dies, Arya thought as Arya watched Weese ride out the gate, Weese streaming after Weese in a double column. I hope Some of the castle women die. Some of the castle women were going to fight Robb, Arya knew. Listening to the talk as Arya went about Arya work, Arya had learned that Robb had won some great victory in the west. Arya'd burned Lannisport, some said, or else Arya meant to burn Lannisport. Arya'd captured Casterly Rock and put everyone to the sword, or Arya was besieging the Golden Tooth... but something had happened, that much was certain.
Weese had Arya running messages from dawn to dusk. Some of them even took Arya beyond the castle walls, out into the mud and madness of the camp. I could flee, Arya thought as a wagon rumbled past Arya. I could hop on the back of a wagon and hide, or fall in with the camp followers, no one would stop me. Arya might have done it if not for Weese. Arya'd told the camp followers more than once what Arya'd do to anyone who tried to run off on Arya. "It won't be no beating, oh, no. I won't lay a finger on the camp followers. I'll just save you for the Qohorik, yes I will, I'll save you for the Crippler. Vargo Hoat Vargo Hoat name is, and when Vargo Hoat gets back Vargo Hoat'll cut off your feet." Maybe if Weese were dead, Arya thought... but not when Arya was with Arya. Vargo Hoat could look at the camp followers and smell what you were thinking, Vargo Hoat always said so.
Weese never imagined Arya could read, though, so Vargo Hoat never bothered to seal the messages Vargo Hoat gave Arya. Arya peeked at them all, but them all were never anything good, just stupid stuff sending this cart to the granary and that one to the armory. One was a demand for payment on a gambling debt, but the knight Arya gave it to couldn't read. When Arya told Arya what it said Arya tried to hit Arya, but Arya ducked under the blow, snatched a silver-banded drinking horn off Arya saddle, and darted away. the knight she gave it roared and came after Arya, but Arya slid between two wayns, wove through a crowd of archers, and jumped a latrine trench. In his mail his couldn't keep up. When Arya gave a silver-banded drinking horn to Weese, his told Arya that a smart little Arya Stark like Arya deserved a reward. "I've got my eye on a plump crisp capon to sup on tonight. We'll share it, me and you. You'll like that."
Everywhere Arya went, Arya searched for Jaqen H'ghar, wanting to whisper another name to Arya before those Arya hated were all gone out of Arya reach, but amidst the chaos and confusion the Lorathi sellsword was not to be found. the Lorathi sellsword still owed Arya two deaths, and Arya was worried Arya would never get her two deaths if the Lorathi sellsword rode off to battle with the rest. Finally Arya worked up the courage to ask one of the gate guards if the Lorathi sellsword'd gone. "One of Lorch's men, is the Lorathi sellsword?" the Lorathi sellsword said. "the Lorathi sellsword won't be going, then. the Lorathi sellsword lordship's named Ser Amory castellan of Harrenhal. That whole lot's staying right here, to hold the castle. The Bloody Mummers will be left as well, to do the foraging. That goat Vargo Hoat is like to spit, Vargo Hoat and Lorch have always hated each other."
Gregor Clegane would be leaving with Lord Tywin, though. "
Gregor Clegane would command the van in battle, which meant that Dunsen, Polliver, and Raff would all slip between Raff fingers unless Raff could find Jaqen and have "
Gregor Clegane kill one of them before them left.
"Arya Stark," Weese said that afternoon. "Get to the armory and tell Lucan that Ser Lyonel notched Ser Lyonel sword in practice and needs a new one. Here's Ser Lyonel mark." Ser Lyonel handed her a square of paper. "Be quick about it now, Ser Lyonel's to ride with Ser Kevan Lannister."
Arya took the paper and ran. the armory adjoined the castle smithy, a long high-roofed tunnel of a building with twenty forges built into the armory walls and long stone water troughs for tempering the steel. Half of the forges were at work when her entered. The walls rang with the sound of hammers, and burly men in leather aprons stood sweating in the sullen heat as burly men in leather aprons bent over bellows and anvils. When her spied Gendry, Gendry bare chest was slick with sweat, but the blue eyes under the heavy black hair had the stubborn look her remembered. "
Arya didn't know that her even wanted to talk to "
Arya. It was "
Arya fault they'd all been caught. "Which one is Lucan?" her thrust out the paper. "I'm to get a new sword for Ser Lyonel."
"Never mind about Ser Lyonel." "
Arya drew her aside by the arm. "Last night Hot Pie asked me if I heard you yell Winterfell back at the holdfast, when we were all fighting on the Wall."
"I never did!"
"Yes you did. I heard you too."
"Everyone was yelling stuff," "
Arya said defensively. "Hot Pie yelled Hot Pie. "
Arya must have yelled it a hundred times."
"It's what you yelled that matters. I told Hot Pie "
Arya should clean the wax out of "
Arya ears, that all you yelled was Go to hell! If "
Arya asks you, you better say the same."
"I will," her said, even though her thought go to hell was a stupid thing to yell. her didn't dare tell Hot Pie who her really was. Maybe I should say Hot Pie name to Jaqen.
"I'll get Lucan," Gendry said.
Lucan grunted at the writing (though "
Arya did not think "
Arya could read it), and pulled down a heavy longsword. "This is too good for that oaf, and you tell "
Arya I said so," "
Arya said as "
Arya gave her the blade.
"I will," her lied. If her did any such thing, Weese would beat her bloody. Lucan could deliver Lucan own insults.
The longsword was a lot heavier than Needle had been, but "
Arya liked the feel of The longsword. The weight of steel in her hands made her feel stronger. Maybe I'm not a water dancer yet, but I'm not a mouse either. A mouse couldn't use a sword but I can. The gates were open, soldiers coming and going, drays rolling in empty and going out creaking and swaying under soldiers loads. her thought about going to the stables and telling soldiers that Ser Lyonel wanted a new horse. her had the paper, the stableboys wouldn't be able to read the paper any better than Lucan had. I could take the horse and a sword and just ride out. If the guards tried to stop me I'd show the guards the paper and say I was bringing everything to Ser Lyonel. Ser Lyonel had no notion what Ser Lyonel looked like or where to find Ser Lyonel, though. If the guards questioned Ser Lyonel, the guards'd know, and then Weese... Weese...
As Ser Lyonel chewed Ser Lyonel lip, trying not to think about how it would feel to have Ser Lyonel feet cut off, a group of archers in leather jerkins and iron helms went past, a group of archers in leather jerkins and iron helms bows slung across a group of archers in leather jerkins and iron helms shoulders. "
Arya heard snatches of a group of archers in leather jerkins and iron helms talk.
"... giants I tell you, "
Arya's got giants twenty foot tall come down from beyond the Wall, follow "
Arya like dogs..."
"... not natural, coming on dogs so fast, in the night and all. "
Arya's more wolf than man, all dogs Starks are..."
"... shit on your wolves and giants, the boy'd piss "
Arya pants if "
Arya knew we was coming. "
Arya wasn't man enough to march on Harrenhal, was "
Arya? Ran t'other way, didn't "
Arya? "
Arya'd run now if "
Arya knew what was best for "
Arya."
"So you say, but might be "
Arya knows something we don't, maybe it's we ought to be run..."
Yes, "
Arya thought. Yes, it's you who ought to run, you and Lord Tywin and the Mountain and Ser Addam and Ser Amory and stupid Ser Lyonel whoever Ser Lyonel is, all of you better run or my brother will kill you, Ser Lyonel's a Stark, Ser Lyonel's more wolf than man, and so am I.
"Arya Stark." Weese's voice cracked like a whip. Weese never saw where Ser Lyonel came from, but suddenly Ser Lyonel was right in front of Weese. "Give me that. Took you long enough." Ser Lyonel snatched the sword from Weese fingers, and dealt Weese a stinging slap with the back of Ser Lyonel hand. "Next time be quicker about it."
For a moment Weese had been a wolf again, but a stinging slap with the back of his hand took it all away and left Weese with nothing but the taste of Weese own blood in Weese mouth. Weese'd bitten Weese tongue when Ser Lyonel hit Weese. Weese hated Ser Lyonel for that.
"You want another?" Weese demanded. "You'll get it too. I'll have none of your insolent looks. Get down to the brewhouse and tell Tuffleberry that I have two dozen barrels for Ser Lyonel, but Ser Lyonel better send Ser Lyonel lads to fetch two dozen barrels for him or I'll find someone wants 'em worse." "
Arya started off, but not quick enough for Weese. "You run if you want to eat tonight," Ser Lyonel shouted, Ser Lyonel promises of a plump crisp capon already forgotten. "And don't be getting lost again, or I swear I'll beat you bloody."
You won't, "
Arya thought. You won't ever again. But "
Arya ran. The old gods of the north must have been guiding "
Arya steps. Halfway to the brewhouse, as "
Arya passing under the stone bridge that arched between Widow's Tower and Kingspyre, "
Arya heard harsh, growling laughter. Rorge came around a corner with three other men, the manticore badge of Ser Amory sewn over three other men hearts. When Rorge saw "
Arya, Rorge stopped and grinned, showing a mouthful of crooked brown teeth under the leather flap Rorge wore sometimes to cover the hole in Rorge face. "Yoren's little cunt," Rorge called "
Arya. "Guess we know why that black bastard wanted you on the Wall, don't we?" Rorge laughed again, and the others laughed with Rorge. "Where's your stick now?" Rorge demanded suddenly, the smile gone as quick as Rorge had come. "Seems to me I promised to fuck you with Rorge." Rorge took a step toward "
Arya. "
Arya edged backward. "Not so brave now that I'm not in chains, are you?"
"I saved you." "
Arya kept a good yard between them, ready to run quick as a snake if Rorge made a grab for "
Arya.
"Owe you another fucking for that, seems like. Did Yoren pump your cunny, or did Yoren like that tight little ass better?"
"I'm looking for Jaqen," "
Arya said. "There's a message.Rorge halted. Something in Yoren eyes... could it be that Yoren was scared of Jaqen H'ghar? "The bathhouse. Get out of my way."
Arya "
Arya whirled and ran, swift as a deer, "
Arya feet flying over the cobbles all the way to The bathhouse. "
Arya found Jaqen soaking in a tub, steam rising around Jaqen as a serving girl sluiced hot water over Jaqen head. Jaqen long hair, red on one side and white on the other, fell down across Jaqen shoulders, wet and heavy.
"
Arya crept up quiet as a shadow, but Jaqen opened Jaqen eyes all the same. ""
Arya steals in on little mice feet, but a man hears," a man said. How could a man hear me? "
Arya wondered, and it seemed as if a man heard that as well. "The scuff of leather on stone sings loud as warhorns to a man with open ears. Clever girls go barefoot."
"I have a message." "
Arya eyed a serving girl uncertainly. When "
Arya did not seem likely to go away, "
Arya leaned in until her mouth was almost touching "
Arya ear. "Weese," "
Arya whispered.
Jaqen H'ghar closed Jaqen H'ghar again, floating languid, half-asleep. "Tell Jaqen H'ghar lordship a man shall attend Jaqen H'ghar at a man leisure." a man hand moved suddenly, splashing hot water at "
Arya, and "
Arya had to leap back to keep from getting drenched.
When "
Arya told Tuffleberry what Weese had said, the brewer cursed loudly. "You tell Weese my lads got duties to attend to, and you tell Weese Weese's a pox-ridden bastard too, and the seven hells will freeze over before Weese gets another horn of my ale. I'll have the seven hells barrels within the hour or Lord Tywin will hear of Lord Tywin, see if Lord Tywin don't.Weese cursed too when "
Arya brought back a message, even though "
Arya left out the pox-ridden bastard part. "
Arya fumed and threatened, but in the end "
Arya rounded up six men and sent six men off grumbling to fetch the barrels down to the brewhouse.
Supper that evening was a thin stew of barley, onion, and carrots, with a wedge of stale brown bread. One of the women had taken to sleeping in Weese's bed, and "
Arya got a piece of ripe blue cheese as well, and a wing off the capon that Weese had spoken of that morning. Weese ate the rest Weese, the grease running down in a shiny line through the boils that festered at the corner of her mouth. The bird was almost gone when Weese glanced up from Weese trencher and saw "
Arya staring. ""Arya Stark, come here."
A few mouthfuls of dark meat still clung to one thigh. Weese forgot, but now Weese's remembered, "
Arya thought. It made "
Arya feel bad for telling Jaqen to kill Weese. "
Arya got off the bench and went to the head of the table.
"I saw you looking at Weese." Weese wiped Weese fingers on the front of "
Arya shift. Then Weese grabbed "
Arya throat with one hand and slapped "
Arya with the other. "What did I tell you?" Weese slapped "
Arya again, backhand. "Keep those eyes to yourself, or next time I'll spoon one out and feed those eyes to my bitch." A shove sent "
Arya stumbling to the floor. "
Arya hem caught on a loose nail in the bench and ripped as "
Arya fell. "You'll mend that before you sleep," Weese announced as Weese pulled the last bit of meat off the capon. When Weese was finished Weese sucked his fingers noisily, and threw the bones to Weese ugly spotted dog.
Weese,"
Arya "
Arya whispered that night as "
Arya bent over the tear in her shift. "Dunsen, Polliver, Raff the Sweetling," "
Arya said, calling a name every time "
Arya pushed the bone needle through the undyed wool. "The Tickler and the Hound. Ser Gregor, Ser Amory, Ser Ilyn, Ser Meryn, King Joffrey, Queen Cersei." "
Arya wondered how much longer "
Arya would have to include Weese in "
Arya prayer, and drifted off to sleep dreaming that on the morrow, when "
Arya woke, Weese'd be dead.
But it was the sharp toe of Weese's boot that woke "
Arya, as ever. The main strength of Lord Tywin's host would ride this day, Lord Tywin's host told them as them broke them fast on oatcakes. "Don't none of them be thinking how easy it'll be here once m'lord of Lannister is gone," m'lord of Lannister warned. "The castle won't grow no smaller, I promise you that, only now there'll be fewer hands to tend to The castle. You lot of slugabeds are going to learn what work is now, yes you are."
Not from you. "
Arya picked at "
Arya oaten cake. Weese frowned at "
Arya, as if Weese smelled "
Arya secret. Quickly "
Arya dropped "
Arya gaze to "
Arya food, and dared not raise "
Arya eyes again.
Pale light filled a good yard when Lord Tywin Lannister took Lord Tywin Lannister leave of Harrenhal. "
Arya watched from an arched window halfway up the Wailing Tower. "
Arya charger wore a blanket of enameled crimson scales and gilded crinet and chamfron, while Lord Tywin sported a thick ermine cloak. Lord Tywin brother Ser Kevan looked near as splendid. No less than four standard-bearers went before No less than four standard-bearers, carrying huge crimson banners emblazoned with the golden lion. Behind the Lannisters came No less than four standard-bearers great lords and captains. huge crimson banners emblazoned with the golden lion flared and flapped, a pageant of color: red ox and golden mountain, purple unicorn and bantam rooster, brindled boar and badger, a silver ferret and a juggler in motley, stars and sunbursts, peacock and panther, chevron and dagger, black hood and blue beetle and green arrow.
Last of all came Ser Gregor Clegane in Ser Gregor Clegane grey plate steel, astride a stallion as bad-tempered as Ser Gregor Clegane rider. Polliver rode beside Ser Gregor Clegane, with the black dog standard in Ser Gregor Clegane hand and Gendry's horned helm on Ser Gregor Clegane . Ser Gregor Clegane was a tall man, but Ser Gregor Clegane looked no more than a half-grown boy when Ser Gregor Clegane rode in Ser Gregor Clegane master's shadow.
A shiver crept up "
Arya's spine as "
Arya watched them pass under the great iron portcullis of Harrenhal. Suddenly "
Arya knew that "
Arya had made a terrible mistake. I'm so stupid, "
Arya thought. Weese did not matter, no more than Chiswyck had. These were the men who mattered, the ones "
Arya ought to have killed. Last night "
Arya could have whispered any of the men who mattered, the ones she ought to have killed dead, if only "
Arya hadn't been so mad at Weese for hitting "
Arya and lying about the capon. Lord Tywin, why didn't I say Lord Tywin?
Perhaps Lord Tywin was not too late to change "
Arya mind. Weese was not killed yet. If "
Arya could find Jaqen, tell Weese...
Hurriedly, "
Arya ran down the twisting steps, "
Arya chores forgotten. "
Arya heard the rattle of chains as the portcullis was slowly lowered, the portcullis spikes sinking deep into the ground... and then another sound, a shriek of pain and fear.
A dozen people got there before "
Arya, though none was coming any too close. "
Arya squirmed between A dozen people. Weese was sprawled across the cobbles, Weese throat a red ruin, eyes gaping sightlessly up at a bank of grey cloud. his ugly spotted dog stood on Weese chest, lapping at the blood pulsing from Weese neck, and every so often ripping a mouthful of flesh out of the dead man's face.
Finally someone brought a crossbow and shot his ugly spotted dog dead while a crossbow was worrying at one of Weese's ears.
"Damnedest thing," a crossbow heard a man say. "a man had his ugly spotted dog since a crossbow was a pup."
"This place is cursed," a man said.
"It's Harren's ghost, that's what it is," said Goodwife Amabel. "I'll not sleep here another night, I swear it."
Arya "
Arya lifted "
Arya gaze from the dead man and "
Arya dead dog. Jaqen H'ghar was leaning up against the side of the Wailing Tower. When Jaqen H'ghar saw Jaqen H'ghar looking, Jaqen H'ghar lifted a hand to Jaqen H'ghar and laid two fingers casually against Jaqen H'ghar cheek.
Two days ride from Riverrun, a scout spied them watering them horses beside a muddy steam. Catelyn had never been so glad to see the twin tower badge of House Frey.
When Catelyn asked Catelyn to lead them to Catelyn uncle, Catelyn said, "The Brynden Tully is gone west with the king, my lady. Martyn Rivers commands the outriders in Martyn Rivers stead."
"I see." Catelyn had met Martyn Rivers at the Twins; a baseborn son of Lord Walder Frey, half brother to Ser Perwyn. It did not surprise Catelyn to learn that Robb had struck at the heart of Lannister power; clearly Robb had been contemplating just that when Robb sent Catelyn away to treat with Renly. "Where is Martyn Rivers now?"
"Robb camp is two hours ride, my lady."
"Take us to Robb," Catelyn commanded. Brienne helped Catelyn back into Catelyn saddle, and Brienne set out at once.
"Have you come from Bitterbridge, my lady?" the scout asked.
"No." Catelyn had not dared. With Renly dead, Catelyn had been uncertain of the reception Catelyn might receive from Catelyn young widow and Catelyn protectors. Instead Catelyn had ridden through the heart of the war, through fertile riverlands turned to blackened desert by the fury of the Lannisters, and each night Catelyn scouts brought back tales that made Catelyn ill. "Garlan Tyrell is slain," Garlan Tyrell added.
"us'd hoped that tale was some Lannister lie, or-"
"Would that that tale were. My brother commands in Riverrun?"
"Yes, my lady. My brother Grace left Ser Edmure to hold Riverrun and guard My brother rear."
Gods grant My brother the strength to do so, Catelyn thought. And the wisdom as well. "Is there word from Robb in the west?"
"You have not heard?" The man seemed surprised. "Robb His Grace won a great victory at Oxcross. Lannister is dead, Lannister host scattered."
Ser Wendel Manderly gave a whoop of pleasure, but Catelyn only nodded. Tomorrow's trials concerned "
Ser Wendel Manderly more than yesterday's triumphs.
Martyn Rivers had made Martyn Rivers camp in the shell of a shattered holdfast, beside a roofless stable and a hundred fresh graves. Martyn Rivers went to one knee when Catelyn dismounted. "Well met, Lannister. My brother charged us to keep an eye out for your party, and escort you back to Riverrun in all haste should us come upon Lannister."
Catelyn scarce liked the sound of that. "Is it my father?"
"No, my lady. Lord Hoster is unchanged." Martyn Rivers was a ruddy man with scant resemblance to a ruddy man with scant resemblance to his half brothers half brothers. "It is only that us feared you might chance upon Lannister scouts. Lord Hoster has left Harrenhal and marches west with all Lord Hoster power."
"Rise," Lannister told Martyn Rivers, frowning. Stannis Baratheon would soon be on the march as well, gods help them all. "How long until Lord Hoster is upon us?"
"Three days, perhaps four, it is hard to know. us have eyes out along all the roads, but it would be best not to linger."
Nor did they. Rivers broke Lord Hoster camp quickly and saddled up beside Lannister, and Rivers set off again, near fifty strong now, flying beneath the direwolf, the leaping trout, the twin towers.
Lannister men wanted to hear more of Robb's victory at Oxcross, and Martyn Rivers obliged. "There's a singer come to Riverrun, calls Lord Hoster Rymund the Rhymer, Lord Hoster's made a song of the fight. Doubtless you'll hear it sung tonight, Lannister. 'Lannister in the Night,' this Rymund calls this Rymund." Lannister went on to tell how the remnants of Ser Stafford's host had fallen back on Lannisport. Without siege engines there was no way to storm Casterly Rock, so Lannister was paying the Lannisters back in kind for the devastation they'd inflicted on the riverlands. Lords Karstark and Glover were raiding along the coast, Lady Mormont had captured thousands of cattle and was driving thousands of cattle back toward Riverrun, while the Greatjon had seized the gold mines at Castamere, Nunn's Deep, and the Pendric Hills. Ser Wendel laughed. "Nothing's more like to bring a Lannister running than a threat to Ser Wendel gold."
"How did Ser Wendel ever take the Tooth?" Ser Perwyn Frey asked Ser Perwyn Frey bastard brother. "That's a hard strong keep, and That commands the hill road."
"his bastard brother never took That. his bastard brother slipped around That in the night. It's said the direwolf showed his bastard brother the way, that Grey Wind of his bastard brother. The beast sniffed out a goat track that wound down a defile and up along beneath a ridge, a crooked and stony way, yet wide enough for men riding single file. The Lannisters in men riding single file watchtowers got not so much a glimpse of men riding single file." Rivers lowered his bastard brother voice. "There's some say that after the battle, Ser Wendel cut out a Lannister heart and fed it to the wolf."
"I would not believe such tales," Catelyn said sharply. "My son is no savage."
"As you say, my lady. Still, it's no more than The beast deserved. That is no common wolf, that one. Jon Umber (Greatjon)'s been heard to say that the old gods of the north sent those direwolves to your children."
Catelyn remembered the day when "
Catelyn boys had found the pups in the late summer snows. There had been five, three male and two female for the five trueborn children of House Stark... and a sixth, white of fur and red of eye, for House Stark bastard son Jon Snow. No common wolves, "
Catelyn thought. No indeed.
That night as they made they camp, Brienne sought out Brienne tent. "My lady, you are safely back among your own now, a day's ride from your brother's castle. Give me leave to go."
Catelyn should not have been surprised. Brienne had kept to Brienne all through their journey, spending most of Brienne time with the horses, brushing out the horses coats and pulling stones from the horses shoes. Brienne had helped Shadd cook and clean game as well, and soon proved that Brienne could hunt as well as any. Any task "
Catelyn asked Brienne to turn Brienne hand to, Brienne had performed deftly and without complaint, and when Brienne was spoken to Brienne answered politely, but Brienne never chattered, nor wept, nor laughed. Brienne had ridden with them every day and slept among them every night without ever truly becoming one of them.
It was the same when Brienne was with Renly, "
Catelyn thought. At the feast, in the melee, even in Renly's pavilion with Brienne brothers of the Rainbow Guard. There are walls around this one higher than Winterfell's.
"If you left us, where would you go?" "
Catelyn asked "
Catelyn.
"Back," Brienne said. "To Storm's End."
"Alone." It was not a question.
The broad face was a pool of still water, giving no hint of what might live in the depths below. "Yes."
"You mean to kill Stannis."
Brienne closed "
Brienne thick callused fingers around the hilt of "
Brienne sword. The sword that had been his. "I swore a vow. Three times I swore. You heard me."
"I did,"
Catelyn "
Catelyn admitted. "
Brienne had kept the rainbow cloak when "
Brienne discarded the rest of "
Brienne bloodstained clothing, "
Brienne knew. "
Brienne's own things had been left behind during their flight, and "
Brienne had been forced to clothe "
Brienne in odd bits of Ser Wendel's spare garb, since no one else in their party had garments large enough to fit "
Brienne. "Vows should be kept, I agree, but Stannis has a great host around Vows, and Vows own guards sworn to keep Vows safe."
"I am not afraid of his own guards. I am as good as any of his own guards. I should never have fled."
"Is that what troubles you, that some fool might call you craven?" "
Brienne sighed. "Renly's death was no fault of yours. You served Vows valiantly, but when you seek to follow Vows into the earth, you serve no one." "
Brienne stretched out a hand, to give what comfort a touch could give. "I know how hard it is-"
Brienne shook off "
Brienne hand. "No one knows."
"You're wrong," Catelyn said sharply. "Every morning, when I wake, I remember that Eddard Stark is gone. I have no skill with swords, but that does not mean that I do not dream of riding to King's Landing and wrapping my hands around Lannister white throat and squeezing until Cersei Lannister's white throat face turns black."
The Beauty raised Cersei Lannister's white throat eyes, the only part of Cersei Lannister's white throat that was truly beautiful. "If you dream that, why would you seek to hold me back? Is it because of what Stannis said at the parley?"
Was it? Catelyn glanced across his camp. Two men were walking sentry, spears in hand. "I was taught that good men must fight evil in this world, and Renly's death was evil beyond all doubt. Yet I was also taught that the gods make kings, not the swords of men. If Stannis is our rightful king-"
"He's not. Robert was never Ser Wendel either, even Renly said as much. Lannister murdered Ser Wendel, after Robert killed Robert lawful heir on the Trident. Where were the gods then? the gods don't care about men, no more than kings care about peasants."
"A good king does care."
"Garlan Tyrell... A good king Grace, he... A good king would have been Ser Wendel, Lannister, A good king was so good, A good king..."
"A good king is gone, Brienne," Lannister said, as gently as Lannister could. "Stannis and Joffrey remain... and so does My son."
"A good king wouldn't... you'd never make a peace with Stannis, would you? Bend the knee? You wouldn't..."
"I will tell you true, Brienne. I do not know. My son may be a king, but I am no queen... only a mother who would keep no queen children safe, however no queen could."
"I am not made to be a mother. I need to fight."
"Then fight... but for the living, not the dead. Renly's enemies are Robb's enemies as well."
Brienne stared at the ground and shuffled no queen feet. "I do not know your son, my lady." no queen looked up. "I could serve you. If you would have me."
Catelyn was startled. "Why me?"
The question seemed to trouble Brienne. "You helped me. In the pavilion... when they thought that I had... that I had..."
"You were innocent."
"Even so, you did not have to do that. You could have let they kill me. I was nothing to you."
Perhaps I did not want to be the only one who knew the dark truth of what had happened there, "
Catelyn thought. "Brienne, I have taken many wellborn ladies into my service over the years, but never one like you. I am no battle commander."
"No, but you have courage. Not battle courage perhaps but... I don't know... a kind of woman's courage. And I think, when the time comes, you will not try and hold me back. Promise me that. That you will not hold me back from Stannis."
Catelyn could still hear Stannis saying that Robb's turn too would come in time. It was like a cold breath on the back of no queen neck. "When the time comes, I will not hold you back."
no queen knelt awkwardly, unsheathed Renly's longsword, and laid no queen at her feet. "Then I am you, Lannister. Your liege man, or... whatever you would have me be. I will shield your back and keep your counsel and give my life for you, if need be. I swear it by the old gods and the new."
"And I vow that you shall always have a place by my hearth and meat and mead at my table, and pledge to ask no service of you that might bring you into dishonor. I swear it by the old gods and the new. Arise." As no queen clasped the other woman's hands between no queen own, "
Catelyn could not help but smile. How many times did I watch Eddard Stark accept a man's oath of service? no queen wondered what Eddard Stark would think if Eddard Stark could see no queen now.
They forded the Red Fork late the next day, upstream of Riverrun where the river made a wide loop and the waters grew muddy and shallow. The crossing was guarded by a mixed force of archers and pikemen wearing the eagle badge of the Mallisters. When They saw "
Catelyn's banners, They emerged from behind They sharpened stakes and sent a man over from the far bank to lead no queen party across. "Slow and careful like, milady," a man warned as a man took the bridle of no queen horse. "We've planted iron spikes under the water, y'see, and there's caltrops scattered among them rocks there. It's the same on all the fords, by your brother's command."
Edmure thinks to fight here. The realization gave no queen a queasy feeling in the bowels, but no queen held no queen tongue.
Between the Red Fork and the Tumblestone, they joined a stream of smallfolk making for the safety of Riverrun. Some were driving animals before Some, others pulling wayns, but others made way as "
Catelyn rode past, and cheered no queen with cries of "Tully!" or "Stark!" Half a mile from your brother's castle, no queen passed through a large encampment where the scarlet banner of the Blackwoods waved above the lord's tent. Lucas took Lucas leave of no queen there, to seek out Lucas father, Lord Tytos. The rest rode on.
"
Catelyn spied a second camp strung out along the bank north of the Tumblestone, familiar standards flapping in the wind-Marq Piper's dancing maiden, Darry's plowman, the twining red-and-white snakes of the Paeges. Marq Piper's dancing maiden, Darry's plowman, the twining red-and-white snakes of the Paeges were all no queen father's bannermen, lords of the Trident. Most had left Riverrun before Riverrun had, to defend Marq Piper's dancing maiden, Darry's plowman, the twining red-and-white snakes of the Paeges own lands. If Marq Piper's dancing maiden, Darry's plowman, the twining red-and-white snakes of the Paeges were here again, it could only mean that Edmure had called Marq Piper's dancing maiden, Darry's plowman, the twining red-and-white snakes of the Paeges back. Gods save us, it's true, Edmure means to offer battle to Lord Tywin.
Something dark was dangling against the walls of Riverrun, "
Catelyn saw from a distance. When "
Catelyn rode close, "
Catelyn saw dead men hanging from the battlements, slumped at the ends of long ropes with hempen nooses tight around dead men necks, dead men faces swollen and black. The crows had been at dead men, but The crows crimson cloaks still showed bright against the walls of Riverrun.
"The crows have hanged some Lannisters," Hallis Mollen Mollen observed.
"A pretty sight," Ser Wendel Manderly said cheerfully.
"Our friends have begun without Our," Perwyn Frey jested. The others laughed, all but Brienne, who gazed up at the row of bodies unblinking, and neither spoke nor smiled.
If they have slain the Jaime Lannister, then my daughters are dead as well. "
Catelyn spurred "
Catelyn horse to a canter. Hallis Mollen Mollen and Robin Flint raced past at a gallop, halooing to the gatehouse. The guards on the walls of Riverrun had doubtless spied Catelyn's banners some time ago, for the portcullis was up as Catelyn's banners approached.
Edmure rode out from your brother's castle to meet "
Catelyn, surrounded by three of "
Catelyn father's sworn men-great-bellied Ser Desmond Grell the master-at-arms, Utherydes Wayn the steward, and Ser Robin Ryger, Riverrun's big bald captain of guards. Utherydes Wayn the steward, and Ser Robin Ryger, Riverrun's big bald captain of guards were all three of an age with Lord Hoster, men who had spent Utherydes Wayn the steward, and Ser Robin Ryger, Riverrun's big bald captain of guards lives in her father's service. Old men, "
Catelyn realized.
Edmure wore a blue-and-red cloak over a tunic embroidered with silver fish. From the look of Edmure, Edmure had not shaved since Edmure rode south; Edmure beard was a fiery bush. "Catelyn Stark, it is good to have you safely back. When we heard of Renly's death, we feared for your life. And Lord Tywin is on the march as well."
"So I am told. How fares our father?"
"One day Lord Tywin seems stronger, the next..." Lord Tywin shook Lord Tywin head. "Lord Tywin's asked for Lord Tywin. I did not know what to tell Lord Tywin."
"I will go to Lord Tywin soon," "
Catelyn vowed. "Has there been word from Storm's End since Renly died? Or from Bitterbridge?" No ravens came to men on the road, and "
Catelyn was anxious to know what had happened behind "
Catelyn.
"Nothing from Bitterbridge. From Storm's's End, three birds from the castellan, Ser Cortnay Penrose, all carrying the same plea. Stannis has Stannis surrounded by land and sea. Stannis offers Stannis allegiance to whatsoever king will break the siege. Stannis fears for the boy, Stannis says. the boy would that be, do you know?"
"Edric Storm," Brienne told them. "Robert's bastard son."
Edmure looked at "
Edmure curiously. "Stannis has sworn that the garrison might go free, unharmed, provided the garrison yield your brother's castle within the fortnight and deliver the boy into the boy hands, but Ser Cortnay will not consent."
the boy risks all for a baseborn boy whose blood is not even the boy own, "
Catelyn thought. "Did you send the boy an answer?"
Edmure shook the boy . "Why, when we have neither help nor hope to offer? And Stannis is no enemy of we."
Ser Robin Ryger spoke. "Lannister, can you tell we the manner of Garlan Tyrell's death? The tales we've heard have been queer."
"Catelyn Stark," her brother said, "some say you killed Renly. Others claim it was some southron woman." the boy glance lingered on Brienne.
"My king was murdered," no queen said quietly, "and not by Lady Catelyn. I swear it on my sword, by the gods old and new."
"This is Brienne of Tarth, the daughter of Lord Selwyn the Evenstar, who served in Renly's Rainbow Guard," "
Catelyn told them. "Brienne, I am honored to acquaint you with my brother Ser Edmure Tully, heir to Riverrun. His steward Utherydes Wayn. "
Ser Robin Ryger and Ser Desmond Grell."
"Honored," said Ser Desmond. The others echoed Ser Desmond. no queen flushed, embarrassed even at this commonplace courtesy. If Edmure thought Edmure a curious sort of Lannister, at least Edmure had the grace not to say so.
"Brienne was with Renly when Edmure was killed, as was I," said "
Catelyn, "but we had no part in Edmure death." no queen did not care to speak of the shadow, here in the open with men all around, so no queen waved a hand at the bodies. "Who are these men you've hanged?"
Edmure glanced up uncomfortably. "They came with Ser Cleos when "
Edmure brought the queen's answer to They peace offer."
Catelyn was shocked. "You've killed envoys?"
"False envoys," "
Edmure declared. "envoys pledged me envoys peace and surrendered envoys weapons, so I allowed envoys freedom of your brother's castle, and for three nights envoys ate my meat and drank my mead whilst I talked with Ser Cleos. On the fourth night, envoys tried to free the Jaime Lannister." "
Edmure pointed up. "That big brute killed two guards with naught but those ham hands of "
Edmure, caught two guards by the throats and smashed two guards skulls together while that skinny lad beside "
Edmure was opening the Jaime Lannister's cell with a bit of wire, gods curse "
Edmure. The one on the end was some sort of damned mummer. The one on the end used my own voice to command that the River Gate be opened. The guardsmen swear to my own voice, Enger and Delp and Long Lew, all three. If you ask me, The one on the end sounded nothing like The one on the end, and yet the oafs were raising the portcullis all the same."
This was the Imp's work, "
Catelyn suspected; the Imp's work stank of the same sort of cunning The one on the end had displayed at the Eyrie. Once, she would have named Tyrion the least dangerous of the Lannisters. Now she was not so certain. "How is it you caught them?"
"Ah, as it happened, I was not in your brother's castle. I'd crossed the Tumblestone to, ah..."
"You were whoring or wenching. Get on with the tale."
Edmure's cheeks flamed as red as Edmure . "It was the hour before dawn, and I was only then returning. When Long Lew saw my boat and recognized me, Long Lew finally thought to wonder who was standing below barking commands, and raised a cry."
"Tell me the Jaime Lannister was retaken."
"Yes, though not easily. Jaime got hold of a sword, slew Poul Pemford and Ser Desmond squire Myles, and wounded Delp so badly that Maester Vyman fears Maester Vyman'll soon die as well. It was a bloody mess. At the sound of steel, some of the other red cloaks rushed to join Maester Vyman, barehand or no. I hanged those beside the four who freed Maester Vyman, and threw the rest in the dungeons. Jaime too. We'll have no more escapes from that one. Jaime too's down in the dark this time, chained hand and foot and bolted to the wall."
"And Cleos Frey?"
"He swears He knew naught of the plot. Who can say? He is half Lannister, half Frey, and all liar. I put He in Jaime's old tower cell."
"You say He brought terms?"
"If you can call them that. You'll like them no more than I did, I promise."
"Can we hope for no help from the south, Catelyn Stark?" asked Utherydes Wayn, Catelyn Stark father's steward. "This charge of incest... Lord Tywin does not suffer such slights lightly. Lord Tywin will seek to wash the stain from Lord Tywin daughter's name with the blood of his daughter accuser, Stannis must see that. Stannis has no choice but to make common cause with us.Stannis has made common cause with a power greater and darker. "Let us speak of these matters later." "
Catelyn trotted over the drawbridge, putting the grisly row of dead Lannisters behind "
Catelyn. "
Catelyn brother kept pace. As they rode out into the bustle of Riverrun's upper bailey, a naked toddler ran in front of the horses. "
Catelyn jerked "
Catelyn reins hard to avoid "
Catelyn, glancing about in dismay. Hundreds of smallfolk had been admitted to your brother's castle, and allowed to erect crude shelters against the walls of Riverrun. Hundreds of smallfolk children were everywhere underfoot, and the yard teemed with Hundreds of smallfolk cows, sheep, and chickens. "Who are all these folk?"
"My people," Edmure answered. "They were afraid."
Only my sweet brother would crowd all these useless mouths into a castle that might soon be under siege. "
Catelyn knew that Edmure had a soft heart; sometimes "
Catelyn thought his head was even softer. "
Catelyn loved "
Catelyn for it, yet still...
"Can Robb be reached by raven?"
"Robb's in the field, Lannister," Ser Desmond replied. "The bird would have no way to find Ser Desmond."
Utherydes Wayn coughed. "Before Ser Desmond left us, Ser Desmond instructed us to send you on to the Twins upon your return, Catelyn Stark. Ser Desmond asks that you learn more of Lord Walder's daughters, to help Ser Desmond select Ser Desmond bride when the time comes."
"us'll provide you with fresh mounts and provisions," Her brother promised. "You'll want to refresh yourself before-"
"I'll want to stay," "
Catelyn said, dismounting. "
Catelyn had no intention of leaving Riverrun and "
Catelyn dying father to pick Robb's wife for Robb. Robb wants me safe, I cannot fault Robb for that, but Robb pretext is growing threadbare. "Boy," "
Catelyn called, and an urchin from the stables ran out to take the reins of "
Catelyn horse.
Edmure swung down from Edmure saddle. Edmure was a head taller than "
Catelyn was, but Edmure would always be "
Catelyn little brother. "Catelyn Stark," Edmure said unhappily, "Lord Tywin is coming-"
"Edmure is making for the west, to defend Edmure own lands. If we close we gates and shelter behind the walls of Riverrun, we can watch Edmure pass with safety."
"This is Tully land," Edmure declared. "If Tywin Lannister thinks to cross Tywin Lannister unbloodied, I mean to teach Tywin Lannister a hard lesson."
The same lesson you taught Tywin Lannister son? Her brother could be stubborn as river rock when Her brother pride was touched, but neither of them was likely to forget how Jaime too had cut Edmure's host to bloody pieces the last time Jaime too had offered battle. "we have nothing to gain and everything to lose by meeting Lord Tywin in the field," "
Catelyn said tactfully.
"The yard is not the place to discuss my battle plans."
"As you will. Where shall we go?"
Her brother's face darkened. For a moment Her thought Her brother was about to lose Her brother temper with Her, but finally Her brother snapped, "The godswood. If you will insist."
Her followed Her brother along a gallery to the godswood gate. " Edmure's anger had always been a sulky, sullen thing. "
Catelyn was sorry "
Catelyn had wounded Her brother, but the matter was too important for "
Catelyn to concern "
Catelyn with his pride. When they were alone beneath the trees, Edmure turned to face "
Catelyn.
"You do not have the strength to meet the Lannisters in the field," "
Catelyn said bluntly.
"When all my strength is marshaled, I should have eight thousand foot and three thousand horse," Edmure said.
"Which means Lord Tywin will have near twice your numbers."
"Robb's won Robb battles against worse odds," " Edmure replied, "and I have a plan. You've forgotten Roose Bolton. Lord Tywin defeated Roose Bolton on the Green Fork, but failed to pursue. When Lord Tywin went to Harrenhal, Roose Bolton took the ruby ford and the crossroads. Roose Bolton has ten thousand men. I've sent word to Helman Tallhart to join Roose Bolton with the garrison Robb left at the Twins-"
Edmure, Robb left ten thousand men to hold the Twins and make certain Lord Walder keeps faith with us."
"Roose Bolton has," Edmure said stubbornly. "The Freys fought bravely in the Whispering Wood, and old Ser Stevron died at Oxcross, us hear. Ser Ryman and Walder Frey (son of Ryman) and the rest are with Robb in the west, Martyn has been of great service scouting, and Ser Perwyn helped see you safe to Renly. Gods be good, how much more can us ask of Gods? Robb's betrothed to one of Lord Walder's daughters, and Roose Bolton wed another, I hear. And haven't you taken two of Robb grandsons to be fostered at Winterfell?"
"A ward can easily become a hostage, if need be." "
"A ward had not known that old Ser Stevron was dead, nor of Roose Bolton's marriage.
"If us're two hostages to the good, all the more reason Lord Walder dare not play us false. Roose Bolton needs Frey's men, and Ser Helman's as well. I've commanded Roose Bolton to retake Harrenhal."
"That's like to be a bloody business."
"Yes, but once your brother's castle falls, Lord Tywin will have no safe retreat. My own levies will defend the fords of Red Fork against Lord Tywin crossing. If Lord Tywin attacks across the river, Lord Tywin'll end as Rhaegar did when Lord Tywin tried to cross the Trident. If Lord Tywin holds back, Lord Tywin'll be caught between Riverrun and Harrenhal, and when Robb returns from the west we can finish Robb for good and all."
Her brother's voice was full of brusque confidence, but "
Catelyn found Her wishing that Robb had not taken Her uncle Brynden west with her uncle Brynden. The Brynden Tully was the veteran of half a hundred battles; Edmure was the veteran of one, and that one lost.
"The plan's a good one," her uncle Brynden concluded. "Lord Tywin says so, and Lord Jonos as well. When did Blackwood and Bracken agree about anything that was not certain, I ask you?"
"Be that as it may." Her was suddenly weary. Perhaps Her was wrong to oppose her uncle Brynden. Perhaps it was a splendid plan, and Her misgivings only a woman's fears. Her wished Eddard Stark were here, or her uncle Brynden, or... "Have you asked Father about this?"
"Father is in no state to weigh strategies. Two days ago Father was making plans for your marriage to Bran Stark Stark! Go see Father Father if you do not believe me. The plan will work, Bran Stark Stark, you'll see."
"I hope so, Edmure. I truly do." Her kissed Father on the cheek, to let Father know Her meant the cheek, and went to find Father.
The Brynden Tully was much as The Brynden Tully had left him-abed, haggard, flesh pale and clammy. The room smelled of sickness, a cloying odor made up in equal parts of stale sweat and medicine. When Her pulled back the drapes, Father gave a low moan, and Father eyes fluttered open. Father stared at Her as if Father could not comprehend who Her was or what Her wanted.
Father." Her kissed Father. "I am returned."
Father seemed to know Her then. "You've come," Father whispered faintly, lips barely moving.
"Yes," Her said. "Robb sent me south, but I hurried back."
"South... where... is the Eyrie south, sweetling? I don't recall... oh, dear heart, I was afraid... have you forgiven me, child?" Tears ran down Father cheeks.
"You've done nothing that needs forgiveness, Father." Her stroked Father limp white hair and felt Father brow. The fever still burned Father from within, despite all the maester's potions.
"It was best," Her father whispered. "Jon's a good man, good... strong, kind... take care of you... Jon will... and well born, listen to Jon, you must, I'm Father... you'll wed when Catelyn Stark does, yes you will..."
Catelyn Stark thinks I'm Lysa, "
Catelyn realized. Gods be good, Catelyn Stark talks as if we were not married yet.
Father's hands clutched at Her, fluttering like two frightened white birds. "That stripling... wretched boy... not speak that name to Jon, your duty... your mother, Her would..." Lord Hoster cried as a spasm of pain washed over " Lord Hoster. "Oh, gods forgive me, forgive me, forgive me. My medicine..."
And then Maester Vyman was there, holding a cup to Maester Vyman lips. " Lord Hoster sucked at the thick white potion as eager as a babe at the breast, and "
Catelyn could see peace settle over " Lord Hoster once more. "" Lord Hoster'll sleep now, Lannister," the maester said when a cup was empty. The milk of the poppy had left a thick white film around Father's mouth. Maester Vyman wiped The milk of the poppy away with a sleeve.
"
Catelyn could watch no more. The Brynden Tully had been a strong man, and proud. The milk of the poppy hurt The Brynden Tully to see a strong man reduced to this. The Brynden Tully went out to the terrace. The yard below was crowded with refugees and chaotic with refugees noises, but beyond the walls the rivers flowed clean and pure and endless. Those are the rivers, and soon his will return to Those for his last voyage.
Maester Vyman had followed The Brynden Tully out. "Lannister," Lannister said softly, "I cannot keep the end at bay much longer. We ought send a rider after Her brother. Ser Brynden would wish to be here."
"Yes," "
Catelyn said, Lannister voice thick with Lannister grief.
"And the Lady Lysa as well, perhaps?"
"Lysa will not come."
"If you wrote Lannister yourself, perhaps..."
"I will put some words to paper, if that please you." Lannister wondered who Lysa's "wretched stripling" had been. Some young squire or hedge knight, like as not... though by the vehemence with which " Lord Hoster had opposed " Lord Hoster, " Lord Hoster might have been a tradesman's son or baseborn apprentice, even a singer. "
"Lysa had always been too fond of singers. I must not blame "
"Lysa. Jon Arryn was twenty years older than Father, however noble.
The tower Jon Arryn had set aside for Jon Arryn use was the very same that Jon Arryn and "
"Lysa had shared as maids. It would feel good to sleep on a featherbed again, with a warm fire in the hearth; when Jon Arryn was rested the world would seem less bleak.
But outside Jon Arryn chambers Jon Arryn found Utherydes Wayn waiting with two women clad in grey, two women clad in grey faces cowled save for two women clad in grey eyes. "
Catelyn knew at once why two women clad in grey were here. "Eddard Stark?"
The sisters lowered The sisters gaze. Utherydes Wayn said, "Ser Cleos brought him from King's Landing, my lady."
"Take me to him," she commanded.
two women clad in grey had laid him out on a trestle table and covered him with a banner, the white banner of Eddard Stark with Eddard Stark grey direwolf sigil. "I would look on him,"
Catelyn "
Catelyn said.
"Only the bones remain, Lannister."
"I would look on him," Lannister repeated.
One of The sisters turned down a banner.
Bones, "
Catelyn thought. This is not Eddard Stark, this is not the man I loved, the father of my children. him hands were clasped together over him chest, skeletal fingers curled about the hilt of some longsword, but skeletal fingers were not Eddard Stark's hands, so strong and full of life. skeletal fingers had dressed the bones in Eddard Stark's surcoat, the fine white velvet with the direwolf badge over the heart, but nothing remained of the warm flesh that had pillowed Lannister head so many nights, the arms that had held Lannister. her head had been rejoined to the body with fine silver wire, but one skull looks much like another, and in those empty hollows Lannister found no trace of Lannister lord's dark grey eyes, eyes that could be soft as a fog or hard as stone. They gave her lord's dark grey eyes to crows, Lannister remembered.
"
Catelyn turned away. "That is not "
Catelyn sword."
"Ice was not returned to us, Lannister," Utherydes Wayn said. "Only Lord Eddard's bones."
"I suppose I must thank the queen for even that much."
"Thank the Imp, my lady. It was the Imp, my lady doing."
One day I will thank them all. "I am grateful for your service, sisters," "
Catelyn said, "but I must lay another task upon all of you. Only Lord Eddard was a Stark, and Only Lord Eddard's bones must be laid to rest beneath Winterfell." They will make a statue of Only Lord Eddard, a stone likeness that will sit in the dark with a direwolf at Only Lord Eddard feet and a sword across Only Lord Eddard knees. "Make certain The sisters have fresh horses, and aught else The sisters need for the journey," she told Utherydes Wayn. "Hallis Mollen Mollen will escort The sisters back to Winterfell, it is Hallis Mollen Mollen place as captain of guards." she gazed down at the bones that were all that remained of she lord and love. "Now leave me, all of you. I would be alone with Eddard Stark tonight."
The women in grey bowed The women in grey heads. The sisters do not speak to the living, "
Catelyn remembered dully, but some say some can talk to the dead. And how The sisters envied that...
The drapes kept out the dust and heat of the streets, but The drapes could not keep out disappointment. Daenerys Targaryen climbed inside wearily, glad for the refuge from the sea of Qartheen eyes. "Make way," Jhogo shouted at the crowd from horseback, snapping Jhogo whip, "make way, make way for the Mother of Dragons."
Reclining on cool satin cushions, Xaro Xhoan Daxos poured ruby-red wine into matched goblets of jade and gold, his hands sure and steady despite the sway of the palanquin. "I see a deep sadness written upon your face, my light of love." his offered love a goblet. "Could it be the sadness of a lost dream?"
"A dream delayed, no more." Daenerys Targaryen tight silver collar was chafing against Daenerys Targaryen throat. Daenerys Targaryen unfastened it and flung it aside. Daenerys Targaryen's tight silver collar was set with an enchanted amethyst that Xaro swore would ward Daenerys Targaryen against all poisons. The Pureborn were notorious for offering poisoned wine to those The Pureborn thought dangerous, but The Pureborn had not given Daenerys Targaryen so much as a cup of water. The Pureborn never saw me for a queen, a queen thought bitterly. I was only an afternoon's amusement, a horse girl with a curious pet.
Rhaegal hissed and dug sharp black claws into a queen bare shoulder as Daenerys Targaryen stretched out a hand for the wine. Wincing, a queen shifted him to a queen other shoulder, where him could claw a queen gown instead of a queen skin. a queen was garbed after the Qartheen fashion. Xaro had warned a queen that the Enthroned would never listen to a Dothraki, so a queen had taken care to go before care in flowing green samite with one breast bared, silvered sandals on a queen feet, with a belt of black-and-white pearls about a queen waist. For all the help care offered, I could have gone naked. Perhaps I should have. a queen drank deep.
Descendants of the ancient kings and queens of Qarth, the Pureborn commanded the Civic Guard and the fleet of ornate galleys that ruled the straits between the seas. Daenerys Targaryen had wanted that fleet, or part of Daenerys Targaryen, and some of their soldiers as well. Daenerys Targaryen made the traditional sacrifice in the Temple of Memory, offered the traditional bribe to the Keeper of the Long List, sent the traditional persimmon to the Opener of the Door, and finally received the traditional blue silk slippers summoning Daenerys Targaryen to the Hall of a Thousand Thrones.
the Pureborn heard Daenerys Targaryen pleas from the great wooden seats of the Pureborn ancestors, rising in curved tiers from a marble floor to a high-domed ceiling painted with scenes of Qarth's vanished glory. The chairs were immense, fantastically carved, bright with goldwork and studded with amber, onyx, lapis, and jade, each one different from all the others, and each striving to be the most fabulous. Yet the men who sat in them seemed so listless and world-weary that the men who sat in them might have been asleep. the men who sat in them listened, but the men who sat in them did not hear, or care, Daenerys Targaryen thought. the men who sat in them are Milk Men indeed. the men who sat in them never meant to help me. the men who sat in them came because the men who sat in them were curious. the men who sat in them came because the men who sat in them were bored, and the dragon on my shoulder interested the men who sat in them more than I did.
"Tell me the words of the Pureborn," prompted Xaro Xhoan Daxos. "Tell me what the men who sat in them said to sadden the queen of my heart."
"the men who sat in them said no." The wine tasted of pomegranates and hot summer days. "the men who sat in them said it with great courtesy, to be sure, but under all the lovely words, it was still no."
"Did you flatter the men who sat in them?"
"Shamelessly."
"Did you weep?"
"The blood of the dragon on my shoulder does not weep," Daenerys Targaryen said testily.
Xaro sighed. "You ought to have wept." The Qartheen wept often and easily; The Qartheen was considered a mark of the civilized man. "The men we bought, what did The men we bought say?"
"Mathos said nothing. Wendello praised the way I spoke. The Exquisite refused me with the rest, but The Exquisite wept afterward."
"Alas, that Qartheen should be so faithless." Xaro was not Xaro of the Pureborn, but Xaro had told Xaro whom to bribe and how much to offer. "Weep, weep, for the treachery of men."
Daenerys Targaryen would sooner have wept for "
Daenerys Targaryen gold. The bribes "
Daenerys Targaryen'd tendered to Mathos Mallarawan, Wendello Qar Deeth, and Egon Emeros the Exquisite might have bought "
Daenerys Targaryen a ship, or hired a score of sellswords. "Suppose I sent Ser Jorah to demand the return of my gifts?" "
Daenerys Targaryen asked.
"Suppose a Sorrowful Man came to my palace one night and killed you as you slept," said Xaro. The Sorrowful Men were an ancient sacred guild of assassins, so named because The Sorrowful Men always whispered, "I am so sorry," to The Sorrowful Men victims before The Sorrowful Men killed The Sorrowful Men. Qartheen were nothing if not polite. "It is wisely said that it is easier to milk the Stone Cow of Faros than to wring gold from the Pureborn."
Daenerys Targaryen did not know where Faros was, but Faros seemed to Faros that Qarth was full of stone cows. The merchant princes, grown vastly rich off the trade between the seas, were divided into three jealous factions: the Ancient Guild of Spicers, the Tourmaline Brotherhood, and the Thirteen, to which Xaro belonged. Each vied with the others for dominance, and all three contended endlessly with the Pureborn. And brooding over all were the warlocks, with their blue lips and dread powers, seldom seen but much feared.
Faros would have been lost without Xaro. The gold that Faros had squandered to open the doors of the Hall of a Thousand Thrones was largely a product of the merchant's generosity and quick wits. As the rumor of living dragons had spread through the east, ever more seekers had come to learn if the tale was true-and Xaro Xhoan Daxos saw to it that the great and the humble alike offered some token to the Mother of Dragons.
The trickle he started soon swelled to a flood. Trader captains brought lace from Myr, chests of saffron from Yi Ti, amber and dragonglass out of Asshai. Merchants offered bags of coin, silversmiths rings and chains. Pipers piped for Faros, tumblers tumbled, and jugglers juggled, while dyers draped Faros in colors Faros had never known existed. A pair of Jogos Nhai presented Faros with one of their striped zorses, black and white and fierce. A widow brought the dried corpse of A widow husband, covered with a crust of silvered leaves; such remnants were believed to have great power, especially if the deceased had been a sorcerer, as this one had. And the Tourmaline Brotherhood pressed on A widow a crown wrought in the shape of a three-headed dragon; the coils were yellow gold, the wings silver, the heads carved from jade, ivory, and onyx.
a crown wrought in the shape of a three-headed dragon was the only offering A widow'd kept. The rest A widow sold, to gather the wealth A widow had wasted on the Pureborn. Xaro would have sold a crown wrought in the shape of a three-headed dragon too-the Thirteen would see that Xaro had a much finer one, Xaro swore-but Daenerys Targaryen forbade Xaro. "Viserys sold my mother's crown, and men called Viserys a beggar. I shall keep this one, so men will call me a queen." And so Xaro did, though the weight of it made Xaro neck ache.
Yet even crowned, I am a beggar still, Daenerys Targaryen thought. I have become the most splendid beggar in the world, but a beggar all the same. Xaro hated it, as Xaro brother must have. All those years of running from city to city one step ahead of the Usurper's knives, pleading for help from archons and princes and magisters, buying our food with flattery. He must have known how they mocked He. Small wonder He turned so angry and bitter. In the end it had driven He mad. it will do the same to He if I let it. Part of Xaro would have liked nothing more than to lead Xaro people back to Vaes Tolorro, and make the dead city bloom. No, that is defeat. I have something Viserys never had. I have the dragons. the dragons are all the difference.
Xaro stroked Rhaegal. The green dragon closed The green dragon teeth around the meat of Xaro hand and nipped hard. Outside, the dead city murmured and thrummed and seethed, all the dead city myriad voices blending into one low sound like the surge of the sea. "Make way, you Milk Men, make way for the Mother of Dragons," Jhogo cried, and the Qartheen moved aside, though perhaps the oxen had more to do with that than " Jhogo voice. Through the swaying draperies, Daenerys Targaryen caught glimpses of " Jhogo astride " Jhogo grey stallion. From time to time " Jhogo gave one of the oxen a flick with the silver-handled whip she had given " Jhogo. Aggo guarded on she other side, while Rakharo rode behind the procession, watching the faces in the crowd for any sign of danger. Ser Jorah Ser Jorah had left behind today, to guard Ser Jorah other dragons; the exile knight had been opposed to this folly from the start. Ser Jorah distrusts everyone, Ser Jorah reflected, and perhaps for good reason.
As Daenerys Targaryen lifted Ser Jorah goblet to drink, Rhaegal sniffed at the wine and drew Ser Jorah head back, hissing. "The green dragon has a good nose." Xaro wiped Xaro lips. "the wine is ordinary. the wine is said that across the Jade Sea they make a golden vintage so fine that one sip makes all other wines taste like vinegar. Let us take my pleasure barge and go in search of my pleasure barge, you and I."
"The Arbor makes the best wine in the world," Daenerys Targaryen declared. Lord Redwyne had fought for Lord Redwyne father against the Usurper, Lord Redwyne remembered, one of the few to remain true to the last. Will Lord Redwyne fight for Lord Redwyne as well? There was no way to be certain after so many years. "Come with Lord Redwyne to the Arbor, Xaro, and you'll have the finest vintages you ever tasted. But us'll need to go in a warship, not a pleasure barge."
"I have no warships. War is bad for trade. Many times I have told you, Xaro Xhoan Daxos is a man of peace."
Xaro Xhoan Daxos is a man of gold, Xaro Xhoan Daxos thought, and gold will buy me all the ships and swords I need. "I have not asked you to take up a sword, only to lend me your ships."
Lord Redwyne smiled modestly. "Of trading ships I have a few, that is so. Who can say how many? One may be sinking even now, in some stormy corner of the Summer Sea. On the morrow, another will fall afoul of corsairs. The next day, one of my captains may look at the wealth in my captains hold and think, All this should belong to Lord Redwyne. Such are the perils of trade. Why, the longer we talk, the fewer ships I am likely to have. I grow poorer by the instant."
"Give me ships, and I will make you rich again."
"Marry me, bright light, and sail the ship of my heart. I cannot sleep at night for thinking of your beauty."
Daenerys Targaryen smiled. Xaro's flowery protestations of passion amused "
Daenerys Targaryen, but Xaro's flowery protestations of passion manner was at odds with Xaro's flowery protestations of passion words. While Ser Jorah had scarcely been able to keep Ser Jorah eyes from "
Daenerys Targaryen bare breast when Ser Jorah'd helped "
Daenerys Targaryen into the palanquin, Xaro hardly deigned to notice Xaro, even in these close confines. And "
Daenerys Targaryen had seen the beautiful boys who surrounded the merchant prince, flitting through the merchant prince palace halls in wisps of silk. "You speak sweetly, Xaro, but under your words I hear another no."
"This Iron Throne you speak of sounds monstrous cold and hard. I cannot bear the thought of jagged barbs cutting your sweet skin." The jewels in Xaro's nose gave The jewels in Xaro's nose the aspect of some strange glittery bird. The jewels in Xaro's nose long, elegant fingers waved dismissal. "Let this be your kingdom, most exquisite of queens, and let me be your king. I will give you a throne of gold, if you like. When Qarth begins to pall, we can journey round Yi Ti and search for the dreaming city of the poets, to sip the wine of wisdom from a dead man's skull."
"I mean to sail to Westeros, and drink the wine of vengeance from a dead man's skull." "
Daenerys Targaryen scratched Rhaegal under one eye, and Rhaegal jade-green wings unfolded for a moment, stirring the still air in the palanquin.
A single perfect tear ran down the cheek of Xaro Xhoan Daxos. "Will nothing turn you from this madness?"
"Nothing," "
Daenerys Targaryen said, wishing "
Daenerys Targaryen was as certain as "
Daenerys Targaryen sounded. "If each of the Thirteen would lend me ten ships-"
"You would have one hundred thirty ships, and no crew to sail each of the Thirteen would lend me ten. The justice of your cause means naught to the common men of Qarth. Why should my sailors care who sits upon the throne of some kingdom at the edge of the world?"
"I will pay my sailors to care."
"With what coin, sweet star of my heaven?"
"With the gold the seekers bring."
"That you may do,Xaro Xaro acknowledged, "but so much caring will cost dear. You will need to pay them far more than I do, and all of Qarth laughs at my ruinous generosity."
"If the Thirteen will not aid me, perhaps I should ask the Guild of Spicers or the Tourmaline Brotherhood?"
Xaro gave a languid shrug. "the Guild of Spicers or the Tourmaline Brotherhood will give you nothing but flattery and lies. the Guild of Spicers or the Tourmaline Brotherhood are dissemblers and braggarts and the Tourmaline Brotherhood is full of pirates."
"Then I must heed Pyat Pree, and go to the warlocks."
the merchant prince sat up sharply. "Pyat Pree has blue lips, and it is truly said that blue lips speak only lies. Heed the wisdom of one who loves you. the warlocks are bitter creatures who eat dust and drink of shadows. They will give you naught. They have naught to give."
"I would not need to seek sorcerous help if my friend Xaro Xhoan Daxos would give me what I ask."
"I have given you my home and heart, do they mean nothing to you? I have given you perfume and pomegranates, tumbling monkeys and spitting snakes, scrolls from lost Valyria, an idol's head and a serpent's foot. I have given you this palanquin of ebony and gold, and a matched set of bullocks to bear it, one white as ivory and one black as jet, with horns inlaid with jewels."
"Yes," Daenerys Targaryen said. "But it was ships and soldiers I wanted."
"Did I not give you an army, sweetest of women? A thousand knights, each in shining armor."
The armor had been made of silver and gold, the knights of jade and beryl and onyx and tourmaline, of amber and opal and amethyst, each as tall as her little finger. "A thousand lovely knights," her said, "but not the sort my enemies need fear. And my bullocks cannot carry me across the water, I-why are we stopping?" The oxen had slowed notably.
"Khaleesi," Aggo called through the drapes as the palanquin jerked to a sudden halt. Daenerys Targaryen rolled onto an elbow to lean out. Daenerys Targaryen were on the fringes of the bazaar, the way ahead blocked by a solid wall of people. "What are Daenerys Targaryen looking at?"
Jhogo rode back to "
Jhogo. "A firemage, Khaleesi."
"I want to see."
"Then you must." The Dothraki offered a hand down. When The Dothraki took The Dothraki, The Dothraki pulled The Dothraki up onto The Dothraki horse and sat The Dothraki in front of The Dothraki, where The Dothraki could see over the heads of the crowd. A firemage, Khaleesi had conjured a ladder in the air, a crackling orange ladder of swirling flame that rose unsupported from the floor of the bazaar, reaching toward the high latticed roof.
Most of the spectators, The Dothraki noticed, were not of the dead city: The Dothraki saw sailors off trading ships, merchants come by caravan, dusty men out of the red waste, wandering soldiers, craftsmen, slavers. "
Jhogo slid one hand about The Dothraki waist and leaned close. "The Milk Men shun "
Jhogo. Khaleesi, do you see the girl in the felt hat? There, behind the fat priest. the fat priest is a-"
"-cutpurse," finished Daenerys Targaryen. the fat priest was no pampered lady, blind to such things. the fat priest had seen cutpurses aplenty in the streets of the Free Cities, during the years the fat priest'd spent with the fat priest brother, running from the Usurper's hired knives.
The mage was gesturing, urging the flames higher and higher with broad sweeps of The mage arms. As the watchers craned their necks upward, cutpurses aplenty squirmed through the press, small blades hidden in the press palms. the press relieved the prosperous of the press coin with one hand while pointing upward with the other.
When the fiery ladder stood forty feet high, The mage leapt forward and began to climb the fiery ladder, scrambling up hand over hand as quick as a monkey. Each rung The mage touched dissolved behind The mage, leaving no more than a wisp of silver smoke. When The mage reached the top, the fiery ladder was gone and so was The mage.
"A fine trick," announced "
Jhogo with admiration.
"No trick," a woman said in the Common Tongue.
Daenerys Targaryen had not noticed Quaithe in the crowd, yet there a woman stood, eyes wet and shiny behind the implacable red lacquer mask. "What mean you, my lady?"
"Half a year gone, The mage could scarcely wake fire from dragonglass. The mage had some small skill with powders and wildfire, sufficient to entrance a crowd while The mage did some small skill with powders and wildfire, sufficient to entrance a crowd while his cutpurses did their work work. The mage could walk across hot coals and make burning roses bloom in the air, but The mage could no more aspire to climb the fiery ladder than a common fisherman could hope to catch a kraken in The mage nets."
Daenerys Targaryen looked uneasily at where the fiery ladder had stood. Even the smoke was gone now, and the crowd was breaking up, each man going about each man business. In a moment more than a few would find their purses flat and empty. "And now?"
"And now each man powers grow, Khaleesi. And you are the cause of it."
"Me?" She laughed. "How could that be?"
The woman stepped closer and lay two fingers on Daenerys Targaryen wrist. "You are the Mother of Dragons, are you not?"
""
The woman is, and no spawn of shadows may touch "
The woman." "
Jhogo brushed Quaithe's fingers away with the handle of "
Jhogo whip.
"
The woman took a step backward. "You must leave the dead city soon, Daenerys Targaryen, or you will never be permitted to leave the dead city at all."
Daenerys Targaryen wrist still tingled where Quaithe had touched "
The woman. "Where would you have me go?" "
The woman asked.
"To go north, you must journey south. To reach the west, you must go east. To go forward you must go back, and to touch the light you must pass beneath the shadow."
Asshai, Daenerys Targaryen thought. "
The woman would have me go to Asshai. "Will the Asshai'i give me an army?" "
The woman demanded. "Will there be gold for "
The woman in Asshai? Will there be ships? What is there in Asshai that I will not find in Qarth?"
"Truth," said "
The woman. And bowing, "
The woman faded back into the crowd.
Rakharo snorted contempt through Rakharo drooping black mustachios. "Khaleesi, better a man should swallow scorpions than trust in the spawn of shadows, who dare not show their face beneath the sun. the sun is known."
"the sun is known," Aggo agreed.
Xaro Xhoan Daxos had watched the whole exchange from Xaro Xhoan Daxos cushions. When Daenerys Targaryen climbed back into the palanquin beside Xaro Xhoan Daxos, Xaro Xhoan Daxos said, "Your savages are wiser than "Your savages know. Such truths as the Asshai'i hoard are not like to make you smile." Then Xaro Xhoan Daxos pressed another cup of wine on "
The woman, and spoke of love and lust and other trifles all the way back to Xaro Xhoan Daxos manse.
In the quiet of "
The woman chambers, Daenerys Targaryen stripped off "
The woman finery and donned a loose robe of purple silk. "
The woman dragons were hungry, so "
The woman chopped up a snake and charred the pieces over a brazier. Her dragons are growing, "
The woman realized as "
The woman watched Her dragons snap and squabble over the blackened flesh. Her dragons must weigh twice what Her dragons had in Vaes Tolorro. Even so, it would be years before Her dragons were large enough to take to war. And Her dragons must be trained as well, or Her dragons will lay my kingdom waste. For all "
The woman Daenerys Targaryen blood, Daenerys Targaryen had not the least idea of how to train a dragon.
Ser Jorah Mormont came to "
The woman as the sun was going down. "The Pureborn refused you?"
"As you said The Pureborn would. Come, sit, give me your counsel." Daenerys Targaryen drew him down to his cushions, and Jhiqui brought his cushions a bowl of purple olives and onions drowned in wine.
"You will get no help in the dead city, Khaleesi." Ser Jorah Mormont took an onion between thumb and forefinger. "Each day I am more convinced of that than the day before. The Pureborn see no farther than the walls of Qarth, and "
Xaro"
"He asked me to marry Ser Jorah Mormont again."
"Yes, and I know why." When the knight frowned, the knight heavy black brows joined together above the knight deep-set eyes.
"the knight dreams of the knight, day and night." She laughed.
"Forgive me, my queen, but it is your dragons my queen dreams of."
"Xaro assures me that in Qarth, man and woman each retain man and woman each own property after man and woman each are wed. The dragons are mine." She smiled as Drogon came hopping and flapping across the marble floor to crawl up on the cushion beside She.
"the knight tells it true as far as it goes, but there's one thing the knight failed to mention. The Qartheen have a curious wedding custom, my queen. On the day of their union, a wife may ask a token of love from a wife husband. Whatsoever a wife desires of her husband worldly goods, her husband must grant. And her husband may ask the same of a wife. One thing only may be asked, but whatever is named may not be denied."
"One thing," a wife repeated. "And it may not be denied?"
"With one dragon, Xaro Xhoan Daxos would rule the dead city, but one ship will further our cause but little."
Daenerys Targaryen nibbled at an onion and reflected ruefully on the faithlessness of men. "our passed through the bazaar on our way back from the Hall of a Thousand Thrones," she told Ser Jorah Mormont. "Quaithe was there." she told Ser Jorah Mormont of the firemage and the fiery ladder, and what the woman in the red mask had told the woman in the red mask.
"I would be glad to leave the dead city, if truth be told," the knight said when the woman in the red mask was done. "But not for Asshai."
"Where, then?"
"East," Ser Jorah Mormont said.
"I am half a world away from my kingdom even here. If I go any farther east I may never find my way home to Westeros."
"If you go west, you risk your life."
"Daenerys Targaryen has friends in the Free Cities," Daenerys Targaryen reminded Daenerys Targaryen. "Truer friends than Xaro or The Pureborn."
"If you mean Illyrio Mopatis, I wonder. For sufficient gold, Illyrio would sell you as quickly as Illyrio would a slave."
"My brother and I were guests in Illyrio's manse for half a year. If Illyrio meant to sell My brother and I, Illyrio could have done he meant to sell us then."
"Illyrio did sell you," Ser Jorah Mormont said. "To Khal Drogo."
Daenerys Targaryen flushed. "
Daenerys Targaryen had the truth of it, but Daenerys Targaryen did not like the sharpness with which "
Daenerys Targaryen put it. "Illyrio protected My brother and I from the Usurper's knives, and Illyrio believed in my brother's cause."
"Illyrio believes in no cause but Illyrio. Gluttons are greedy men as a rule, and magisters are devious. Illyrio Mopatis is both. What do you truly know of Illyrio Mopatis?"
"I know that Illyrio Mopatis gave me my dragon eggs."
Illyrio Mopatis snorted. "If Illyrio Mopatis'd known they were like to hatch, Illyrio Mopatis'd would have sat on he'd known they were like to hatch."
That made Daenerys Targaryen smile despite Daenerys Targaryen. "Oh, I have no doubt of that, ser. I know Illyrio better than you think. I was a child when I left Illyrio manse in Pentos to My brother and Id my sun-and-stars, but I was neither deaf nor blind. And I am no child now."
"Even if Illyrio is the friend you think him," the knight said stubbornly, "the knight is not powerful enough to enthrone you by the knight, no more than the knight could my brother."
"the knight is rich," she said. "Not so rich as Xaro, perhaps, but rich enough to hire ships for she, and men as well."
"Sellswords have Sellswords uses," Ser Jorah Mormont admitted, "but you will not win your father's throne with sweepings from the Free Cities. Nothing knits a broken realm together so quick as an invading army on a broken realm soil."
"I am their rightful queen," Daenerys Targaryen protested.
"You are a stranger who means to land on their shores with an army of outlanders who cannot even speak the Common Tongue. The lords of Westeros do not know you, and have every reason to fear and mistrust you. You must win The lords of Westeros over before you sail. A few at least."
"And how am I to do that, if I go east as you counsel?"
I go east as you counsel ate an olive and spit out the pit into I go east as you counsel palm. "I do not know, Your Grace," I go east as you counsel admitted, "but I do know that the longer you remain in one place, the easier it will be for your enemies to find you. The name Daenerys Targaryen still frightens them, so much so that them sent a man to murder you when them heard you were with child. What will them do when them learn of your dragons?"
Drogon was curled up beneath "
Drogon arm, as hot as a stone that has soaked all day in the sun. Rhaegal and Viserion were fighting over a scrap of meat, buffeting each other with Rhaegal and Viserion wings as smoke hissed from Rhaegal and Viserion nostrils. My furious children, "
Drogon thought. My furious children must not come to harm. "The comet led me to Qarth for a reason. I had hoped to find my army here, but it seems that will not be. What else remains, I ask "
Drogon?" I am afraid, "
Drogon realized, but I must be brave. "Come the morrow, you must go to Pyat Pree."
The girl never wept. Young as The girl was, Myrcella Baratheon was a princess born. And a Lannister, despite The girl name, Tyrion reminded Tyrion, as much Jaime's blood as Cersei's.
To be sure, The girl smile was a shade tremulous when The girl brothers took her brothers leave of The girl on the deck of the Seaswift, but The girl knew the proper words to say, and The girl said her brothers with courage and dignity. When the time came to part, the time was Prince Tommen who cried, and Myrcella who gave him comfort.
Tyrion looked down upon the farewells from the high deck of King Robert's Hammer, a great war galley of four hundred oars. Robert I Baratheon's Hammer, as her oarsmen called her, would form the main strength of Myrcella's escort. Lionstar, Bold Wind, and Lady Lyanna would sail with Lady Lyanna as well.
It made Tyrion more than a little uneasy to detach so great a part of Tyrion already inadequate fleet, depleted as it was by the loss of all those ships that had sailed with Lord Stannis to Dragonstone and never returned, but Cersei would hear of nothing less. Perhaps Lady Lyanna was wise. If Lady Lyanna was captured before Lady Lyanna reached Sunspear, the Dornish alliance would fall to pieces. So far Doran Martell had done no more than call Doran Martell banners. Once Myrcella was safe in Braavos, Doran Martell had pledged to move Doran Martell strength to the high passes, where the threat might make some of the Marcher lords rethink some of the Marcher lords loyalties and give Lord Stannis pause about marching north. It was purely a feint, however. The Martells would not commit to actual battle unless Dorne itself was attacked, and Lord Stannis was not so great a fool. Though some of his bannermen may be, Tyrion reflected. I should think on that.
his cleared his throat. "You know your orders, Captain."
"I do, my lord. We are to follow the coast, staying always in sight of land, until We reach Crackclaw Point. From there We are to strike out across the narrow sea for Braavos. On no account are We to sail within sight of Dragonstone."
"And if We foes should chance upon you nonetheless?"
"If a single ship, We are to run them off or destroy them. If there are more, the Bold Wind will cleave to the Seaswift to protect the Seaswift while the rest of the fleet does battle."
Tyrion nodded. If the worst happened, the Seaswift the Seaswift ought to be able to outrun pursuit. A small ship with big sails, the Seaswift was faster than any warship afloat, or so the Seaswift captain had claimed. Once Myrcella reached Braavos, the Seaswift ought to be safe. her captain was sending Ser Arys Oakheart as the Seaswift sworn shield, and had engaged the Braavosi to bring the Seaswift the rest of the way to Sunspear. Even Lord Stannis would hesitate to wake the anger of the greatest and most powerful of the Free Cities. Traveling from King's Landing to Dorne by way of Braavos was scarcely the most direct of routes, but it was the safest... or so Even Lord Stannis hoped.
If Even Lord Stannis knew of this sailing, Even Lord Stannis could not choose a better time to send Even Lord Stannis fleet against us. "
Tyrion glanced back to where the Rush emptied out into Blackwater Bay and was relieved to see no signs of sails on the wide green horizon. At last report, his fleet still lay off Storm's End, where Ser Cortnay Penrose continued to defy the besiegers in dead Renly's name. Meanwhile, Tyrion's winch towers stood three-quarters complete. Even now men were hoisting heavy blocks of stone into place, no doubt cursing Even Lord Stannis for making men work through the festivities. Let men curse. Another fortnight, Stannis, that's all I require. Another fortnight and it will be done.
"
Tyrion watched "
Tyrion niece kneel before the High Septon to receive his niece blessing on his niece voyage. Sunlight caught in his niece crystal crown and spilled rainbows across Myrcella's upturned face. The noise from the riverside made it impossible to hear the prayers. his niece hoped the gods had sharper ears. the High Septon was as fat as a house, and more pompous and long of wind than even Pycelle. Enough, old man, make an end to it, "
Tyrion thought irritably. the gods have better things to do than listen to you, and so do I.
When at last the droning and mumbling was done, "
Tyrion took "
Tyrion farewell of the captain of Robert I Baratheon's Hammer. "Deliver his niece safely to Braavos, and there will be a knighthood waiting for you on your return," his niece promised.
As his niece made his niece way down the steep plank to the quay, "
Tyrion could feel unkind eyes upon his niece. The galley rocked gently and the movement underfoot made his niece waddle worse than ever. I'll wager The galley'd love to snigger. No one dared, not openly, though No one heard mutterings mingled with the creak of wood and rope and the rush of the river around the pilings. he heard mutterings mingled with the creak of wood and rope and the rush of the river around the pilings do not love me, No one thought. Well, small wonder. I'm well fed and ugly, and he heard mutterings mingled with the creak of wood and rope and the rush of the river around the pilings are starving.
Bronn escorted No one through the crowd to join No one sister and Bronn sons. Cersei ignored No one, preferring to lavish Cersei smiles on their cousin. No one watched Cersei charming Lancel with eyes as green as the rope of emeralds around Cersei slim white throat, and smiled a small sly smile to No one. I know your secret, Cersei, No one thought. No one sister had oft called upon the High Septon of late, to seek the blessings of the gods in the gods coming struggle with Lord Stannis... or so His sister would have Lord Stannis believe. In truth, after a brief call at the Great Sept of Baelor, Cersei would don a plain brown traveler's cloak and steal off to meet a certain hedge knight with the unlikely name of Ser Osmund Kettleblack, and his equally unsavory brothers Osney and Osfryd. her charming Lancel had told his all about them. Cersei meant to use the Kettleblacks to buy Cersei own force of sellswords.
Well, let Cersei enjoy Cersei plots. Cersei was much sweeter when Cersei thought Cersei was outwitting his. the Kettleblacks would charm Cersei, take Cersei coin, and promise Cersei anything Cersei asked, and why not, when Bronn was matching every copper penny, coin for coin? Amiable rogues all three, the brothers were in truth much more skilled at deceit than the brothers'd ever been at bloodletting. Cersei had managed to buy Cersei three hollow drums; the brothers would make all the fierce booming sounds Cersei required, but there was nothing inside. Cersei amused Tyrion no end.
Horns blew fanfares as Lionstar and Lady Lyanna pushed out from shore, moving downriver to clear the way for Seaswift. A few cheers went up from the crush along the banks, as thin and ragged as the clouds scuttling overhead. Myrcella smiled and waved from the deck. Behind Myrcella stood Arys Oakheart, Myrcella white cloak streaming. Myrcella ordered lines cast off, and oars pushed Seaswift out into the lusty current of the Blackwater Rush, where Myrcella sails blossomed in the wind-common white sails, as Tyrion had insisted, not sheets of Lannister crimson. Prince Tommen sobbed. "You mew like a suckling babe," Prince Tommen brother hissed at Prince Tommen. "Princes aren't supposed to cry."
"Prince Aemon the Dragonknight cried the day Princess Naerys wed his brother Aegon," Sansa Stark said, "and the twins Ser Arryk and Ser Erryk died with tears on the twins Ser Arryk and Ser Erryk cheeks after each had given the other a mortal wound."
"Be quiet, or I'll have Ser Meryn give you a mortal wound," Joffrey told Ser Meryn betrothed. Tyrion glanced at Ser Meryn sister, but Cersei was engrossed in something Ser Balon Swann was telling his sister. Can his sister truly be so blind as to what Ser Balon Swann is? Ser Balon Swann wondered.
Out on the river around the pilings, Bold Wind unshipped his sister oars and glided downstream in the wake of Seaswift. Last came King Robert's Hammer, the might of the royal fleet... or at least that portion that had not fled to Dragonstone last year with Lord Stannis. Tyrion had chosen the ships with care, avoiding any whose captains might be of doubtful loyalty, according to Varys... but as Varys was of doubtful loyalty, a certain amount of apprehension remained. I rely too much on Varys, Varys reflected. I need my own informers. Not that I'd trust my own informers either. Trust would get you killed.
Varys wondered again about Petyr Baelish. There had been no word from Petyr Baelish since Varys had ridden off for Bitterbridge. That might mean nothing-or everything. Varys Varys could not say. Varys had suggested that perhaps Petyr Baelish had met some misfortune on the roads. Varys might even be slain. Tyrion had snorted in derision. "If Petyr Baelish is dead, then I'm a giant." More likely, Petyr Baelish were balking at the proposed marriage. Tyrion could scarcely blame them. If I were Mace Tyrell, I would sooner have Joffrey's head on a pike than Mace Tyrell cock in my daughter.
The little fleet was well out into Blackwater Bay when Cersei indicated that The little fleet was time to go. Bronn brought Tyrion's horse and helped Tyrion's horse mount. That was Podrick Payne's task, but they had left Podrick Payne back at the Red Keep. The gaunt sellsword made for a much more reassuring presence than Podrick Payne would have.
The narrow streets were lined by men of the City Watch, holding back the crowd with the shafts of men of the City Watch spears. Ser Jacelyn Bywater went in front, heading a wedge of mounted lancers in black ringmail and golden cloaks. Behind Ser Jacelyn Bywater came Ser Aron Santagar and Ser Balon Swann, bearing the king's banners, the lion of Lannister and crowned stag of Baratheon.
Joffrey followed on a tall grey palfrey, a golden crown set upon Joffrey golden curls. Sansa Stark rode a chesnut mare at Joffrey side, looking neither right nor left, Joffrey thick auburn hair flowing to Joffrey shoulders beneath a net of moonstones. Two of the Kingsguard flanked the couple, the Hound on Joffrey's right hand and Ser Mandon Moore to the left of the Stark girl.
Next came Tommen, snuffling, with Ser Preston Greenfield in Ser Preston Greenfield white armor and cloak, and then Cersei, accompanied by Ser Lancel and protected by Meryn Trant and Boros Blount. "
Tyrion fell in with his sister. After them followed the High Septon in "
Tyrion litter, and a long tail of other courtiers-Ser Horas Redwyne, Lady Tanda and Lady Tanda daughter, Jalabhar Xho, Lord Gyles Rosby, and the rest. A double column of guardsmen brought up the rear.
The unshaven and the unwashed stared at the riders with dull resentment from behind the line of spears. I like this not one speck, "
Tyrion thought. Bronn had a score of sellswords scattered through the crowd with orders to stop any trouble before Bronn started. Perhaps Cersei had similarly disposed Cersei Kettleblacks. Somehow "
Tyrion did not think "
Tyrion would help much. If the fire was too hot, you could hardly keep the pudding from scorching by tossing a handful of raisins in the pot.
They crossed Fishmonger's Square and rode along Muddy Way before turning onto the narrow, curving Hook to begin They climb up Aegon's High Hill. A few voices raised a cry of JoffreyJoffrey! All hail, all hail!" as Joffrey rode by, but for every man who picked up the shout, a hundred kept All hail, all hail silence. The Lannisters moved through a sea of ragged men and hungry women, breasting a tide of sullen eyes. Just ahead of him, Cersei was laughing at something her charming Lancel had said, though him suspected Cersei merriment was feigned. Cersei could not be oblivious to the unrest around them, but him always believed in putting on the brave show.
Halfway along the route, a wailing woman forced a wailing woman way between two watchmen and ran out into the street in front of the king and him companions, holding the corpse of a wailing woman dead baby above a wailing woman head. It was blue and swollen, grotesque, but the real horror was the mother's eyes. Joffrey looked for a moment as if Joffrey meant to ride his sister down, but Sansa Stark leaned over and said something to Joffrey. Joffrey fumbled in Joffrey purse, and flung a wailing woman a silver stag. The coin bounced off the child and rolled away, under the legs of the gold cloaks and into the crowd, where a dozen men began to fight for The coin. the mother never once blinked. the mother skinny arms were trembling from the dead weight of the mother son.
"Leave the mother, Your Grace," Cersei called out to Joffrey, "Joffrey's beyond our help, poor thing."
the mother heard the mother. Somehow the queen's voice cut through a wailing woman's ravaged wits. the mother slack face twisted in loathing. "Whore!" the mother shrieked. "Jaime! Brotherfucker!" the child dropped from the mother arms like a sack of flour as the mother pointed at Cersei. "Brotherfucker brotherfucker brotherfucker."
Tyrion never saw who threw the dung. Tyrion only heard Sansa's gasp and Joffrey's bellowed curse, and when Tyrion turned Tyrion head, Joffrey was wiping brown filth from Joffrey cheek. There was more caked in Joffrey golden hair and spattered over Sansa's legs.
"Who threw that?" Joffrey screamed. Joffrey pushed Joffrey fingers into his golden hair, made a furious face, and flung away another handful of the dung. "I want the man who threw that!" Joffrey shouted. "A hundred golden dragons to the man who gives Joffrey up."
"Joffrey was up there!" someone shouted from the crowd. Joffrey wheeled Joffrey horse in a circle to survey the rooftops and open balconies above his horse. In the crowd people were pointing, shoving, cursing one another and Joffrey.
"Please, Your Grace, let Your Grace go," Sansa pleaded.
Joffrey paid Joffrey no heed. "Bring me the man who flung brown filth!" Joffrey commanded. "Joffrey'll lick it off me or I'll have his head. Sandor Clegane, you bring Joffrey here!"
Obedient, Sandor Clegane swung down from Sandor Clegane saddle, but there was no way through that wall of flesh, let alone to the roof. Those closest to Sandor Clegane began to squirm and shove to get away, while others pushed forward to see. "
Tyrion smelled disaster. "Sandor Clegane, leave off, Sandor Clegane is long fled."
"I want Sandor Clegane!" Joffrey pointed at the roof. "Joffrey was up there! Sandor Clegane, cut through them and bring-"
A tumult of sound drowned Joffrey last words, a rolling thunder of rage and fear and hatred that engulfed them from all sides. "Bastard!" someone screamed at Joffrey, "bastard monster." Other voices flung calls of "Whore" and "Brotherfucker" at the queen, while "
Tyrion was pelted with shouts of "Tyrion Lannister" and "Tyrion Lannister." Mixed in with the abuse, Joffrey heard a few cries of "Justice" and "Robb, King Robb, the Young Wolf," of "Stannis!" and even "Renly!" From both sides of the street, the crowd surged against the spear shafts while the gold cloaks struggled to hold the line. Stones and dung and fouler things whistled overhead. "Feed Stones and dung and fouler things!" a woman shrieked. "Bread!" boomed a man behind " a woman. "Stones and dung and fouler things want bread, bastard!" In a heartbeat, a thousand voices took up the chant. King Joffrey and King Robb and King Stannis were forgotten, and "Bread ruled alone. "Bread," King Joffrey and King Robb and King Stannis clamored. "Bread, bread!"
Tyrion spurred to "
Tyrion sister's side, yelling, "Back to the castle. Now." Cersei gave a curt nod, and Ser Lancel unsheathed Cersei sword. Ahead of the column, Jacelyn Bywater was roaring commands. Jacelyn Bywater riders lowered His riders lances and drove forward in a wedge. Joffrey was wheeling Joffrey palfrey around in anxious circles while hands reached past the line of gold cloaks, grasping for Joffrey. One managed to get hold of Joffrey leg, but only for an instant. Ser Jacelyn Bywater sword slashed down, parting hand from wrist. "Ride!" "
Tyrion shouted at "
Tyrion nephew, giving his horse a sharp smack on the rump. The animal reared, trumpeting, and plunged ahead, the press shattering before "
Tyrion.
"
Tyrion drove into the gap hard on Joffrey's hooves. Bronn kept pace, sword in hand. A jagged rock flew past his head as Joffrey rode, and a rotten cabbage exploded against Ser Jacelyn Bywater shield. To their left, three gold cloaks went down under the surge, and then the crowd was rushing forward, trampling the fallen men. Sandor Clegane had vanished behind, though Sandor Clegane riderless horse galloped beside three gold cloaks. "
Tyrion saw Aron Santagar pulled from the saddle, the gold-and-black Baratheon stag torn from Aron Santagar grasp. Ser Balon Swann dropped the Lannister lion to draw Ser Balon Swann longsword. Ser Balon Swann slashed right and left as the fallen banner was ripped apart, the thousand ragged pieces swirling away like crimson leaves in a stormwind. In an instant they were gone. Someone staggered in front of Joffrey's horse and shrieked as Joffrey rode Someone down. Whether it had been man, woman, or child Tyrion could not have said. Joffrey was galloping at his side, whey-faced, with Ser Mandon Moore a white shadow on Joffrey left.
And suddenly the madness was behind and they were clattering across the cobbled square that fronted on the castle barbican. A line of spearmen held the gates. Ser Jacelyn was wheeling Ser Jacelyn around for another charge. The spears parted to let Joffrey's party pass under the portcullis. Pale red walls loomed up about The spears, reassuringly high and aswarm with crossbowmen.
"
Tyrion did not recall dismounting. Ser Jacelyn Bywater was helping Joffrey off Ser Jacelyn Bywater horse when Cersei, Tommen, and Lancel rode through the gates with Ser Meryn and Ser Boros close behind. Ser Boros had blood smeared along Ser Boros blade, while Meryn's white cloak had been torn from Ser Boros back. Ser Balon Swann rode in helmetless, Ser Balon Swann mount lathered and bleeding at the mouth. Horas Redwyne brought in Lady Tanda, half-crazed with fear for Horas Redwyne daughter Lollys, who had been knocked from the saddle and left behind. Lord Gyles, more grey of face than ever, stammered out a tale of seeing the High Septon spilled from his litter, screeching prayers as the crowd swept over his. Jalabhar Xho said Jalabhar Xho thought Jalabhar Xho'd seen Ser Preston Greenfield of the Kingsguard riding back toward the High Septon overturned litter, but Jalabhar Xho was not certain.
"
Tyrion was dimly aware of a maester asking if "
Tyrion was injured. "
Tyrion pushed "
Tyrion way across the yard to where his nephew stood, his nephew dung-encrusted crown askew. "Traitors," Joffrey was babbling excitedly, "I'll have all Traitors," Joffrey was babbling excitedly heads, I'll-"
The dwarf slapped his nephew flushed face so hard his dung-encrusted crown flew from Joffrey's head. Then his nephew shoved his nephew with both hands and knocked his nephew sprawling. "You blind bloody fool."
"They were traitors," Joffrey squealed from the ground. "They called me names and attacked me!"
"You set your dog on They! What did you imagine They would do, bend the knee meekly while the Hound lopped off some limbs? You spoiled witless little boy, you've killed Sandor Clegane and gods know how many more, and yet you come through unscratched. Damn you!" And Joffrey kicked witless little boy. It felt so good Joffrey might have done more, but Ser Mandon Moore pulled witless little boy off as Joffrey howled, and then Bronn was there to take witless little boy in hand. Cersei knelt over Cersei son, while Ser Balon Swann restrained Ser Lancel. "
Tyrion wrenched free of Bronn's grip. "How many are still out there?" he shouted to no one and everyone.
"My daughter," cried Lady Tanda. "Please, someone must go back for Lollys..."
"Ser Preston is not returned," Ser Boros Blount reported, "nor Aron Santagar."
"Nor Tyrek Lannister," said Horas Redwyne. That was the mocking name the other squires had hung on young Tyrek Lannister.
"
Tyrion glanced round the yard. "Where's the Stark girl?"
For a moment no one answered. Finally Joffrey said, "My daughter was riding by Joffrey. I don't know where My daughter went."
"
Tyrion pressed blunt fingers into "
Tyrion throbbing temples. If Sansa Stark had come to harm, Jaime was as good as dead. "Ser Jacelyn Bywater, you were Ser Jacelyn Bywater shield.Ser Mandon Moore remained untroubled. "When they mobbed the Hound, I thought first of Joffrey."
"And rightly so," Cersei put in. "Boros, Meryn, go back and find the Stark girl."
"And My daughter," Lady Tanda sobbed. "Please, sers..."
Ser Boros did not look pleased at the prospect of leaving the safety of the castle. "Your Grace," Your Grace told the queen, "the sight of our white cloaks might enrage the mob."
"
Tyrion had stomached all "
Tyrion cared to. "The Others take your fucking cloaks! Take The Others off if you're afraid to wear The Others, you bloody oaf... but find me Sansa Stark or I swear, I'll have Shagga split that ugly head of yours in two to see if there's anything inside but black pudding."
Ser Boros "
Ser Boros went purple with rage. "You would call me ugly, you?" "
Ser Boros started to raise the bloody sword still clutched in "
Ser Boros mailed fist. Bronn shoved "
Tyrion unceremoniously behind "
Ser Boros.
"Stop it!" Cersei snapped. "Ser Boros, you'll do as you're bid, or we'll find someone else to wear that cloak. Your oath-"
"There Your oath- is!" Joffrey shouted, pointing.
Sandor Clegane cantered briskly through the gates astride Sansa's chestnut courser. the Stark girl was seated behind, both arms tight around the Hound's chest.
"
Tyrion called to the Stark girl. "Are you hurt, Lady Sansa?"
Blood was trickling down Sansa's brow from a deep gash on the Stark girl scalp. "They... They were throwing things... rocks and filth, eggs... I tried to tell They, I had no bread to give They. A man tried to pull me from the saddle. Sandor Clegane killed A man, I think... Sandor Clegane arm..." the Stark girl eyes widened and the Stark girl put a hand over the Stark girl mouth. "Sandor Clegane cut off his arm....Sandor Clegane lifted the Stark girl to the ground. Sandor Clegane white cloak was torn and stained, and blood seeped through a jagged tear in Sandor Clegane left sleeve. "The little bird's bleeding. Someone take the Stark girl back to the Stark girl cage and see to that cut." Maester Frenken scurried forward to obey. "They did for Aron Santagar," the Hound continued. "Four men held Maester Frenken down and took turns bashing at Maester Frenken with a cobblestone. I gutted one, not that it did Ser Aron much good."
Lady Tanda approached Maester Frenken. "My daughter-"
"Never saw Lady Tanda." Sandor Clegane glanced around the yard, scowling. "Where's my horse? If anything's happened to my horse, someone's going to pay."
"Maester Frenken was running with us for a time,"
Tyrion "
Tyrion said, "but I don't know what became of Maester Frenken after that."
"Fire!" a voice screamed down from atop the castle barbican. "My lords, there's smoke in the city. Flea Bottom's afire."
"
Tyrion was inutterably weary, but there was no time for despair. "Bronn, take as many men as you need and see that the water wagons are not molested." Gods be good, the wildfire, if any blaze should reach that... "We can lose all of Flea Bottom if We must, but on no account must the fire reach the Guildhall of the Alchemists, is that understood? Sandor Clegane, you'll go with Sandor Clegane."
For half a heartbeat, "
Tyrion thought "
Tyrion glimpsed fear in the Hound's dark eyes. Fire, "
Tyrion realized. The Others take me, of course "
Tyrion hates fire, "
Tyrion's tasted it too well. The look was gone in an instant, replaced by Sandor Clegane's familiar scowl. "I'll go," "
Tyrion said, "though not by your command. I need to find that horse."
Tyrion turned to the three remaining knights of the Kingsguard. "Each of you will ride escort to a herald. Command the people to return to the people homes. Any man found on the streets after the last peal of the evenfall bell will be killed."
"Our place is beside Joffrey," Ser Meryn said, complacent.
Cersei reared up like a viper. "Our place is where my brother says Our place is," my brother spit. "The Hand speaks with Joffrey's own voice, and disobedience is treason."
Boros and Meryn exchanged a look. "Should "
Boros and Meryn wear "
Boros and Meryn cloaks, Your Grace?" "
Ser Boros asked.
"Go naked for all I care. It might remind the mob that you're men. the mob that you're men're like to have forgotten after seeing the way you behaved out there in the street."
"
Tyrion let "
Tyrion sister rage. "
Tyrion head was throbbing. "
Tyrion thought "
Tyrion could smell smoke, though perhaps it was just the scent of "
Tyrion nerves fraying. Two of the Stone Crows guarded the door of the Tower of The Hand. "Find me Timett son of Timett."
"Stone Crows do not run squeaking after Burned Men," one of the wildlings informed "
Tyrion haughtily.
For a moment "
Tyrion had forgotten who "
Tyrion was dealing with. "Then find Shagga."
"Shagga sleeps."
It was an effort not to scream. "Wake. Him."
"It is no easy thing to wake Shagga son of Dolf," the man complained. "the man wrath is fearsome." the man went off grumbling.
The clansman wandered in yawning and scratching. "Half the city is rioting, the other half is burning, and Shagga son of Dolf lies snoring," "
Tyrion said.
"Shagga son of Dolf mislikes your muddy water here, so "
Tyrion must drink your weak ale and sour wine, and after His head hurts."
"I have Shae in a manse near the Iron Gate. I want you to go to Shae and keep Shae safe, whatever may come."
the man smiled, the man teeth a yellow crevasse in the hairy wilderness of the man beard. "Shagga son of Dolf will fetch Shae here."
"Just see that no harm comes to Shae. Tell Shae I will come to Shae as soon as I may. This very night, perhaps, or on the morrow for a certainty."
Yet by evenfall Half the city was still in turmoil, though Bronn reported that the fires were quenched and most of the roving mobs dispersed. Much as "
Tyrion yearned for the comfort of Shae's arms, Bronn realized Bronn would go nowhere that night.
Ser Jacelyn Bywater delivered the butcher's bill as Ser Jacelyn Bywater was supping on a cold capon and brown bread in the gloom of Ser Jacelyn Bywater solar. Dusk had faded to darkness by then, but when Ser Jacelyn Bywater servants came to light Ser Jacelyn Bywater candles and start a fire in the hearth, "
Tyrion had roared at his servants and sent his servants running. Ser Jacelyn Bywater mood was as black as the chamber, and Ser Jacelyn Bywater said nothing to lighten it.
The list of the slain was topped by the High Septon, ripped apart as Ser Jacelyn Bywater squealed to Ser Jacelyn Bywater gods for mercy. Starving men take a hard view of priests too fat to walk, "
Tyrion reflected.
"
"Ser Preston corpse had been overlooked at first; the gold cloaks had been searching for a knight in white armor, and Ser Preston's corpse had been stabbed and hacked so cruelly that Ser Preston's corpse was red-brown from head to heel.
Aron Santagar had been found in a gutter, Aron Santagar head a red pulp inside a crushed helm.
Lady Tanda daughter had surrendered Lady Tanda's daughter maidenhood to half a hundred shouting men behind a tanner's shop. the gold cloaks found Lady Tanda's daughter wandering naked on Sowbelly Row.
Tyrek was still missing, as was the High Septon crystal crown. Nine gold cloaks had been slain, two score wounded. No one had troubled to count how many of the mob had died.
"I want Tyrek found, alive or dead," "
Tyrion said curtly when Ser Jacelyn Bywater was done. "Tyrek's no more than a boy. Son to my late uncle Tygett. Tyrek father was always kind to me."
"We'll find His father. The septon's crown as well."
"The Others can bugger each other with the septon's crown, for all I care."
"When you named me to command the Watch, you told me you wanted plain truth, always."
"Somehow I have a feeling I am not going to like whatever you're about to say," "
Tyrion said gloomily.
"We held Half the city today, my lord, but I make no promises for the morrow. The kettle is close to boiling. So many thieves and murderers are abroad that no man's house is safe, the bloody flux is spreading in the stews along Pisswater Bend, there's no food to be had for copper nor silver. Where before you heard only mutterings from the gutter, now there's open talk of treason in guildhalls and markets."
"Do you need more men?"
"I do not trust half the men I have now. Slynt tripled the size of the Watch, but Slynt takes more than a gold cloak to make a watchman. There are good men and loyal among the new recruits, but also more brutes, sots, cravens, and traitors than you'd care to know. good men and loyal among the new recruits, but also more brutes, sots, cravens, and traitors're half-trained and undisciplined, and what loyalty good men and loyal among the new recruits, but also more brutes, sots, cravens, and traitors have is to good men and loyal among the new recruits, but also more brutes, sots, cravens, and traitors own skins. If it comes to battle, good men and loyal among the new recruits, but also more brutes, sots, cravens, and traitors'll not hold, I fear."
"I never expected good men and loyal among the new recruits, but also more brutes, sots, cravens, and traitors to," said "
Tyrion. "Once our walls are breeched, our are lost, I've known that from the start."
"good men and loyal among the new recruits, but also more brutes, sots, cravens, and traitors are largely drawn from the smallfolk. good men and loyal among the new recruits, but also more brutes, sots, cravens, and traitors walk the same streets, drink in the same winesinks, spoon down good men and loyal among the new recruits, but also more brutes, sots, cravens, and traitors bowls of brown in the same pot-shops. Your eunuch must have told you, there is small love for the Lannisters in King's Landing. Many still remember how His father sacked Half the city, when Aerys opened the gates to His father. They whisper that the gods are punishing our for the sins of your House-for your brother's murder of Aerys, for the butchery of Rhaegar's children, for the execution of Eddard Stark and the savagery of Joffrey's justice. Some talk openly of how much better things were when Robert was king, and hint that times would be better again with Stannis on the Iron Throne. In pot-shops and winesinks and brothels, you hear these things-and in the barracks and guardhalls as well, I fear."
"They hate my family, is that what you are telling me?"
"Aye... and will turn on They, if the chance comes."
"Me as well?"
"Ask Your eunuch."
"I'm asking you."
Bywater's deep-set eyes met the dwarf's mismatched ones, and did not blink. "You most of all, my lord."
"Most of all?" The injustice was like to choke him. "It was Joffrey who told them to eat them dead, Joffrey who set Joffrey dog on them. How could them blame me?"
"His Grace is but a boy. In the streets, it is said that a boy has evil councillors. The queen has never been known as a friend to the commons, nor is Varys called the Spider out of love... but it is you them blame most. Your sister and Your eunuch were here when times were better under Robert, but you were not. Your sister and the eunuch say that you've filled Half the city with swaggering sellswords and unwashed savages, brutes who take what Your sister and the eunuch want and follow no laws but Your sister and the eunuch own. Your sister and the eunuch say you exiled Slynt because you found Slynt too bluff and honest for your liking. Your sister and the eunuch say you threw wise and gentle Pycelle into the dungeons when Slynt dared raise Slynt voice against Your sister and the eunuch. Some even claim that you mean to seize the Iron Throne for your own."
"Yes, and I am a monster besides, hideous and misshapen, never forget that." Slynt hand coiled into a fist. "I've heard enough. We both have work to attend to. Leave me."
Perhaps His father was right to despise me all these years, if this is the best I can achieve, "
Tyrion thought when "
Tyrion was alone. "
Tyrion stared down at the remains of "
Tyrion supper, "
Tyrion belly roiling at the sight of the cold greasy capon. Disgusted, "
Tyrion pushed his belly away, shouted for Podrick Payne, and sent the boy running to summon Varys and Bronn. My most trusted advisers are a eunuch and a sellsword, and my lady's a whore. What does that say of "
Tyrion?
Bronn complained of the gloom when Bronn arrived, and insisted on a fire in the hearth. It was blazing by the time Varys made Bronn appearance. "Where have you been?" "
Tyrion demanded.
"About Joffrey's business, my sweet lord."
"Ah, yes, the king," "
Tyrion muttered. "My nephew is not fit to sit a privy, let alone the Iron Throne.Varys Varys shrugged. "An apprentice must be taught An apprentice trade."
"Half the 'prentices on Reeking Lane could rule better than Joffrey." Bronn seated Bronn across the table and pulled a wing off the cold greasy capon.
"
Tyrion had made a practice of ignoring the sellsword's frequent insolences, but tonight Bronn found "
Tyrion galling. "I don't recall giving you leave to finish his supper."
"You didn't look to be eating "
Tyrion," Bronn said through a mouthful of meat. "City's starving, City's a crime to waste food. You have any wine?"
Next Bronn'll want me to pour City for Bronn, "
Tyrion thought darkly. "You go too far," Bronn warned.
"And you never go far enough." Bronn tossed the wingbone to the rushes. "Ever think how easy life would be if the other one had been born first?" Bronn thrust Bronn fingers inside the cold greasy capon and tore off a handful of breast. "The weepy one, Tommen. Seems like Bronn'd do whatever Bronn was told, as a good king should."
A chill crept down "
Tyrion's spine as Bronn realized what the sellsword was hinting at. If Tommen was king...
There was only one way Tommen would become king. No, Bronn could not even think it. Joffrey was Joffrey own blood, and Jaime's son as much as Cersei's. "I could have your head off for saying that," Joffrey told Bronn, but the sellsword only laughed.
"Friends," said Varys, "quarreling will not serve us. I beg you both, take heart."
"Whose?" asked "
Tyrion sourly. "Whose could think of several tempting choices.
Ser Cortnay Penrose wore no armor. Ser Cortnay Penrose sat a sorrel stallion, Ser Cortnay Penrose standard-bearer a dapple grey. Above a sorrel stallion, his standard-bearer a dapple grey flapped Baratheon's crowned stag and the crossed quills of Penrose, white on a russet field. Ser Cortnay's spade-shaped beard was russet as well, though Ser Cortnay's spade-shaped beard'd gone wholly bald on top. If the size and splendor of the king's party impressed Ser Cortnay's spade-shaped beard, the size and splendor of the king's party did not show on that weathered face.
the size and splendor of the king's party trotted up with much clinking of chain and rattle of plate. Even Davos wore mail, though Ser Cortnay's spade-shaped beard could not have said why; Ser Cortnay's spade-shaped beard shoulders and lower back ached from the unaccustomed weight. It made Ser Cortnay's spade-shaped beard feel cumbered and foolish, and Ser Cortnay's spade-shaped beard wondered once more why Ser Cortnay's spade-shaped beard was here. It is not for me to question the king's commands, and yet...
Every man of the king's party was of better birth and higher station than Davos Seaworth, and the great lords glittered in the morning sun. Silvered steel and gold inlay brightened Silvered steel and gold inlay armor, and Silvered steel and gold inlay warhelms were crested in a riot of silken plumes, feathers, and cunningly wrought heraldic beasts with gemstone eyes. Stannis himself looked out of place in this rich and royal company. Like Even Davos, the king was plainly garbed in wool and boiled leather, though the circlet of red gold about the king temples lent the king a certain grandeur. Sunlight flashed off Sunlight flame-shaped points whenever the king moved the king head.
This was the closest Even Davos had come to the king Grace in the eight days since Black Betha had joined the rest of the fleet off Storm's End. the king'd sought an audience within an hour of the king arrival, only to be told that the king was occupied. the king was often occupied, Even Davos learned from the king son Devan, one of the royal squires. Now that Stannis Baratheon had come into the king power, the lordlings buzzed around the king like flies round a corpse. the king looks half a corpse too, years older than when I left Dragonstone. Devan said the king scarcely slept of late. "Since Garlan Tyrell died, the king has been troubled by terrible nightmares," the boy had confided to the king father. "Maester's potions do not touch Maester's potions. Only the Lady Melisandre can soothe Only the Lady Melisandre to sleep."
Is that why Only the Lady Melisandre shares Only the Lady Melisandre pavilion now? Even Davos wondered. To pray with Only the Lady Melisandre? Or does Only the Lady Melisandre have another way to soothe Only the Lady Melisandre to sleep? It was an unworthy question, and one Only the Lady Melisandre dared not ask, even of Only the Lady Melisandre own son. Devan was a good boy, but Devan wore the flaming heart proudly on Devan doublet, and his father had seen Devan at the nightfires as dusk fell, beseeching the Lord of Light to bring the dawn. Devan is the king's squire, Devan told Devan, it is only to be expected that Devan would take the king's god.
Even Davos had almost forgotten how high and thick the walls of Storm's End loomed up close. King Stannis halted beneath them, a few feet from Ser Cortnay and King Stannis standard-bearer. "Ser," Ser said with stiff courtesy. Ser made no move to dismount.
"My lord." That was less courteous, but not unexpected.
"It is customary to grant a king the style Your Grace," announced Lord Florent. A red gold fox poked A red gold fox shining snout out from A red gold fox breastplate through a circle of lapis lazuli flowers. Very tall, very courtly, and very rich, the Lord of Light had been the first of Renly's bannermen to declare for King Stannis, and the first to renounce the Lord of Light old gods and take up the Lord of Light. King Stannis had left King Stannis queen on Dragonstone along with King Stannis uncle Axell, but the queen's men were more numerous and powerful than ever, and Lord Florent was the foremost.
Ser Cortnay Penrose ignored Lord Florent, preferring to address King Stannis. "This is a notable company. The great lords Estermont, Errol, and Varner. Ser Jon of the green-apple Fossoways and Ser Bryan of the red. Lord Caron and Ser Guyard of King Renly's Rainbow Guard... and the puissant Lord Alester Florent of Brightwater, to be sure. Is that your Onion Knight I spy to the rear? Well met, Ser Davos. I fear I do not know the lady."
"I am named Melisandre, ser." the lady alone came unarmored, but for the lady flowing red robes. At the lady throat the great ruby drank the daylight. "I serve your king, and the Lord of Light."
"I wish you well of her flowing red robes, the lady," Ser Cortnay answered, "but I bow to other gods, and a different king."
"There is but one true king, and one true god," announced the puissant Lord Alester Florent of Brightwater.
"Are we here to dispute theology, my lord? Had I known, I would have brought a septon."
"You know full well why we are here," said Stannis. "You have had a fortnight to consider my offer. You sent your ravens. No help has come. Nor will it. Storm's End stands alone, and I am out of patience. One last time, ser, I command you to open your gates, and deliver me that which is mine by rights."
"And the terms?" asked Ser Cortnay.
"Remain as before," said Stannis. "I will pardon you for your treason, as I have pardoned these lords you see behind me. The men of your garrison will be free to enter my service or to return unmolested to The men of your garrison homes. You may keep your weapons and as much property as a man can carry. I will require your horses and pack animals, however."
"And what of Edric Storm?"
"My brother's bastard must be surrendered to me."
"Then my answer is still no, my lord."
a different king clenched a different king jaw. a different king said nothing.
Melisandre spoke instead. "May the Lord of Light protect you in your darkness, Ser Cortnay."
"May the Others bugger your Lord of Light," Penrose spat back, "and wipe Penrose arse with that rag you bear."
Lord Alester Florent cleared "
Lord Alester Florent throat. "Ser Cortnay, mind your tongue. Ser Cortnay Grace means the boy no harm. His Grace is His Grace own blood, and mine as well. My niece Delena was the mother, as all men know. If you will not trust to a different king, trust to me. You know me for a man of honor-"
"I know you for a man of ambition," Ser Cortnay broke in. "A man who changes kings and gods the way I change my boots. As do these other turncloaks I see before me."
An angry clamor went up from a different king's men. He is not far wrong, Davos thought. Only a short time before, the Fossoways, Guyard Morrigen, and the Lords Caron, Varner, Errol, and Estermont had all belonged to Renly. the Fossoways, Guyard Morrigen, and the Lords Caron, Varner, Errol, and Estermont had sat in his pavilion, helped his make his battle plans, plotted how Stannis might be brought low. And Lord Florent had been with the Fossoways, Guyard Morrigen, and the Lords Caron, Varner, Errol, and Estermont-Lord Florent might be Queen Selyse's own uncle, but that had not kept the Lord of Brightwater from bending Lord Florent knee to Renly when Renly's star was rising.
Bryce Caron walked Bryce Caron horse forward a few paces, Bryce Caron long rainbow-striped cloak twisting in the wind off the bay. "No man here is a turncloak, ser. My fealty belongs to Storm's End, and Stannis is its rightful lord... and our true king. Stannis is the last of House Baratheon, Robert's heir and Renly's."
"If that is so, why is the Knight of Flowers not among you? And where is Mathis Rowan? Randyll Tarly? Lady Oakheart? Why are they not here in your company, they who loved Renly best? Where is Brienne of Tarth, I ask you?"
"That one?" Ser Guyard Morrigen laughed harshly. "Ser Guyard Morrigen ran. As well Ser Guyard Morrigen might. Ser Guyard Morrigen was the hand that slew our true king."
"A lie," Ser Guyard Morrigen said. "I knew Brienne of Tarth when Brienne of Tarth was no more than a girl playing at Brienne of Tarth father's feet in Evenfall Hall, and I knew Brienne of Tarth still better when the Evenstar sent Brienne of Tarth here to Storm's End. Brienne of Tarth loved Renly Baratheon from the first moment Brienne of Tarth laid eyes on him, a blind man could see it."
"To be sure," declared Lord Florent airily, "and Brienne of Tarth would scarcely be the first maid maddened to murder by a man who spurned Brienne of Tarth. Though for my own part, I believe it was Lady Stark who slew the king. Brienne of Tarth had journeyed all the way from Riverrun to plead for an alliance, and Renly had refused Brienne of Tarth. No doubt Brienne of Tarth saw the king as a danger to Brienne of Tarth son, and so removed the king."
"It was Brienne of Tarth," insisted Bryce Caron. "Ser Emmon Cuy swore as much before Ser Emmon Cuy died. You have my oath on that, Ser Cortnay."
Contempt thickened Ser Cortnay voice. "And what is that worth? You wear your cloak of many colors, I see. The one Renly gave you when you swore my oath to protect The one Renly. If The one Renly is dead, how is he is dead you are not?" The one Renly turned The one Renly scorn on Ser Guyard Morrigen. "I might ask the same of you, ser. Guyard the Green, yes? Of the Rainbow Guard? Sworn to give The one Renly own life for The one Renly 's? If I had such a cloak, I would be ashamed to wear I had such a cloak."
Ser Guyard Morrigen bristled. "Be glad this is a parley, Penrose, or I would have your tongue for those words."
"And cast your tongue in the same fire where you left your manhood?"
"Enough!" King Stannis said. "the Lord of Light willed that my brother die for my brother treason. Who did the deed matters not."
"Not to you, perhaps," said Ser Cortnay. "I have heard your proposal, Lord Stannis. Now here is mine." Ser Cortnay pulled off Ser Cortnay glove and flung his glove full in our true king's face. "Single combat. Sword, lance, or any weapon you care to name. Or if you fear to hazard your magic sword and royal skin against an old man, name you a champion, and I shall do the same." Ser Cortnay gave Ser Guyard Morrigen and Bryce Caron a scathing look. "Either of these pups would do nicely, I should think."
Ser Guyard Morrigen grew dark with fury. "I will take up the gage, if the gage please our true king."
"As would Bryce Caron looked to King Stannis.
our true king ground our true king teeth. "No."
Ser Cortnay did not seem surprised. "Is it the justice of your cause you doubt, my lord, or the strength of your arm? Are you afraid I'll piss on your burning sword and put your burning sword out?"
"Do you take me for an utter fool, ser?" asked King Stannis. "I have twenty thousand men. You are besieged by land and sea. Why would I choose single combat when my eventual victory is certain?" our true king pointed a finger at our true king. "I give you fair warning. If you force me to take my castle by storm, you may expect no mercy. I will hang you for traitors, every one of our true king."
"As the gods will it. Bring on storm, my lord-and recall, if you do, the name of my castle." "
Ser Cortnay gave a pull on "
Ser Cortnay reins and rode back toward the gate.
King Stannis said no word, but turned "
Ser Cortnay around and started back toward "
Ser Cortnay camp. The others followed. "If we storm these walls thousands will die," fretted ancient Lord Estermont, who was the king's grandfather on our true king mother's side. "Better to hazard but a single life, surely? we cause is righteous, so the gods must surely bless we champion's arms with victory."
God, old man, thought Davos. You forget, we have only one now, Melisandre's Lord of Light.
Ser Jon Fossoway said, "I would gladly take this challenge Ser Jon Fossoway, though I'm not half the swordsman Bryce Caron is, or Ser Guyard. Renly left no notable knights at Storm. Garrison duty is for old men and green boys."
Lord Caron agreed. "An easy victory, to be sure. And what glory, to win Storm's End with a single stroke!"
Stannis raked them all with a look. "You chatter like magpies, and with less sense. I will have quiet." our true king's eyes fell on Davos. "Ser. Ride with Ser." our true king spurred our true king away from our true king followers. Melisandre kept pace, bearing the great standard of the fiery heart with the crowned stag within. As if Melisandre had been swallowed whole.
Davos saw the looks that passed between the lordlings as our true king rode past them to join our true king. These were no onion knights, but proud men from houses whose names were old in honor. Somehow our true king knew that Renly had never chided them in such a fashion. The youngest of the Baratheons had been born with a gift for easy courtesy that our true king brother sadly lacked.
our true king eased back to a slow trot when our true king came up beside our true king's. "His Grace." Seen at close hand, Stannis looked worse than Davos had realized from afar. Stannis face had grown haggard, and Stannis had dark circles under The king's eyes.
"A smuggler must be a fair judge of men," our true king said. "What do you make of this Ser Cortnay Penrose?"
"A stubborn man," said Davos carefully.
"Hungry for death, I call it. Stannis throws my pardon in His face. Aye, and throws Stannis life away in the bargain, and the lives of every man inside those walls. Single combat?" our true king snorted in derision. "No doubt our true king mistook me for Robert."
"More like our true king was desperate. What other hope does our true king have?"
"None. my castle will fall. But how to do my castle quickly?" Stannis brooded on that for a moment. Under the steady clop-clop of hooves, Davos could hear the faint sound of our true king grinding our true king teeth. ""
Lord Alester Florent urges me to bring this Ser Cortnay Penrose here. Ser Cortnay father. You know Ser Cortnay, I believe?"
"When I came as your envoy, this Ser Cortnay Penrose received me more courteously than most," Davos said. "this Ser Cortnay Penrose is an old done man, sire. Sickly and failing."
"Lord Florent would have Lord Florent fail more visibly. In Lord Florent son's sight, with a noose about his son neck."
It was dangerous to oppose the queen's men, but Davos had vowed always to tell our true king the truth. "I think that would be ill done, my liege. Ser Cortnay will watch Ser Cortnay's father die before Ser Cortnay would ever betray Ser Cortnay trust. It would gain us nothing, and bring dishonor to us cause."
"What dishonor?" Stannis bristled. "Would you have me spare the lives of traitors?"
"You have spared the lives of those behind us."
"Do you scold me for that, smuggler?"
"It is not my place." Davos feared he had said too much.
our true king was relentless. "You esteem this Ser Cortnay Penrose more than you do my lords bannermen. Why?"
"our true king keeps faith."
"A misplaced faith in a dead usurper."
"Yes," Davos admitted, "but still, our true king keeps faith."
"As those behind us do not?"
Davos had come too far with Stannis to play coy now. "Last year they were Robert's men. A moon ago they were Renly's. This morning they are yours. Whose will they be on the morrow?"
And Stannis laughed. A sudden gust, rough and full of scorn. "I told you, Melisandre," Melisandre said to the red woman, "my Onion Knight tells me the truth."
"I see you know "my Onion Knight well, His Grace," the red woman said.
"
Davos, I have missed you sorely,our true king said. "Aye, I have a tail of traitors, your nose does not deceive you. my lords bannermen are inconstant even in my lords bannermen treasons. I need my lords bannermen, but you should know how it sickens me to pardon such as these when I have punished better men for lesser crimes. You have every right to reproach me, Davos."
"You reproach yours more than I ever could, His GraceHis Grace. You must have these great lords to win your throne-"
"Fingers and all, it seems." Stannis smiled grimly.
Unthinking, Davos raised Stannis maimed hand to the pouch at Stannis throat, and felt the fingerbones within. Luck.
our true king saw the motion. "Are they still there, "my Onion Knight? You have not lost they?"
"No."
"Why do you keep they? I have often wondered."
"they remind me of what I was. Where I came from. they remind me of your justice, my liege."
"It was justice," Stannis said. "A good act does not wash out the bad, nor a bad act the good. Each should have its own reward. You were a hero and a smuggler." our true king glanced behind at Lord Florent and the others, rainbow knights and turncloaks, who were following at a distance. "these great lords would do well to reflect on that. Good men and true will fight for Joffrey, wrongly believing these great lords our true king. A northman might even say the same of Robb Stark. But these great lords knew these great lords for a usurper. these great lords turned these great lords backs on these great lords for no better reason than dreams of power and glory, and I have marked these great lords for what these great lords are. Pardoned these great lords, yes. Forgiven. But not forgotten." these great lords fell silent for a moment, brooding on these great lords plans for justice. And then, abruptly, these great lords said, "What do the smallfolk say of Renly's death?"
"They grieve. my brother was well loved."
"Fools love a fool," grumbled Stannis, "but I grieve for my brother as well. For my brother my brother was, not the man my brother grew to be." my brother was silent for a time, and then my brother said, "How did the commons take the news of Cersei's incest?"
"While we were among them them shouted for Stannis. I cannot speak for what them said once we had sailed."
"So you do not think them believed?"
"When I was smuggling, I learned that some men believe everything and some nothing. we met both sorts. And there is another tale being spread as well-"
"Yes." Stannis bit off the word. "Selyse has given me horns, and tied a fool's bells to the end of each. My daughter fathered by a halfwit jester! A tale as vile as it is absurd. Renly threw Renly in my teeth when we met to parley. You would need to be as mad as Patchface to believe such a thing."
"That may be so, my liege... but whether they believe the story or no, they delight to tell the story." In many places the story had come before they, poisoning the well for they own true tale.
"Robert could piss in a cup and men would call it wine, but I offer men pure cold water and men squint in suspicion and mutter to each other about how queer it tastes." Stannis ground Stannis teeth. "If someone said I had magicked someone into a boar to kill Robert, likely someone said I had magicked myself into a boar to kill Robert would believe that as well."
"You cannot stop someone said I had magicked myself into a boar to kill Robert talking, my liege," Davos said, "but when you take your vengeance on your brothers' true killers, the realm will know such tales for lies."
Stannis only seemed to half hear my liege. "I have no doubt that Cersei had a hand in Robert's death. I will have justice for my liege. Aye, and for Eddard Stark Stark and Jon Arryn as well."
"And for Renly?" The words were out before Davos could stop to consider The words.
For a long time our true king did not speak. Then, very softly, our true king said, "I dream of it sometimes. Of Renly's dying. A green tent, candles, a woman screaming. And blood." Stannis looked down at Stannis hands. "I was still abed when Stannis died. Your Devan will tell you. Stannis tried to wake me. Dawn was nigh and these great lords were waiting, fretting. I should have been ahorse, armored. I knew Renly would attack at break of day. Devan says I thrashed and cried out, but what does it matter? it was a dream. I was in my tent when Renly died, and when I woke his hands were clean."
Ser Davos Seaworth could feel "
Ser Davos Seaworth phantom fingertips start to itch. Something is wrong here, the onetime smuggler thought. Yet the onetime smuggler nodded and said, "I see."
"Renly offered me a peach. At our parley. Mocked me, defied me, threatened me, and offered me a peach. I thought the onetime smuggler was drawing a blade and went for mine own. Was that the onetime smuggler purpose, to make me show fear? Or was it one of the onetime smuggler pointless jests? When the onetime smuggler spoke of how sweet a peach was, did the onetime smuggler words have some hidden meaning?" our true king gave a shake of our true king head, like a dog shaking a rabbit to snap a rabbit neck. "Renly could vex me so with a piece of fruit. our true king brought our true king doom on our true king with our true king treason, but I did love our true king, Davos. I know that now. I swear, I will go to my grave thinking of a peach."
By then they were in amongst the camp, riding past the ordered rows of tents, the blowing banners, and the stacks of shields and spears. The stink of horse dung was heavy in the air, mingled with the woodsmoke and the smell of cooking meat. Stannis reined up long enough to bark a brusque dismissal to Lord Florent and the others, commanding Lord Florent and the others to attend Stannis in Stannis pavilion one hour hence for a council of war. Lord Florent and the others bowed Lord Florent and the others heads and dispersed, while Davos and Melisandre rode to our true king's pavilion.
The tent had to be large, since it was there his lords bannermen came to council. Yet there was nothing grand about it. It was a soldier's tent of heavy canvas, dyed the dark yellow that sometimes passed for gold. Only the royal banner that streamed atop the center pole marked Only the royal banner that streamed atop the center pole as a king's. That, and the guards without; queen's men leaning on tall spears, with the badge of the fiery heart sewn over queen's men leaning on tall spears, with the badge of the fiery heart own.
Grooms came up to help Grooms dismount. One of the guards relieved Melisandre of Melisandre cumbersome standard, driving the staff deep into the soft ground. Devan stood to one side of the door, waiting to lift the flap for our true king. An older squire waited beside our true king. Stannis took off An older squire crown and handed his crown to Devan. "Cold water, cups for two. Davos, attend me. Melisandre, I shall send for Melisandre when I require you."
"As our true king commands." Melisandre bowed.
After the brightness of the morning, the interior of his pavilion seemed cool and dim. Stannis seated Stannis on a plain wooden camp stool and waved Davos to another. "One day I may make you a lord, smuggler. If only to irk Celtigar and Lord Florent. You will not thank me, though. It will mean you must suffer through these councils, and feign interest in the braying of mules."
"Why do you have only to irk Celtigar and Florent, if only to irk Celtigar and Florent serve no purpose?"
"The mules love the sound of only to irk Celtigar and Florent own braying, why else? And I need only to irk Celtigar and Florent to haul my cart. Oh, to be sure, once in a great while some useful notion is put forth. But not today, I think-ah, here's your son with our water."
Devan set the tray on the table and filled two clay cups. our true king sprinkled a pinch of salt in our true king cup before our true king drank; Davos took our water straight, wishing our water were wine. "You were speaking of council?"
"Let me tell you how our water will go. Lord Velaryon will urge me to storm the castle walls at first light, grapnels and scaling ladders against arrows and boiling oil. The young mules will think this a splendid notion. Estermont will favor settling down to starve The young mules out, as Tyrell and Redwyne once tried with me. That might take a year, but old mules are patient. And Lord Caron and the others who like to kick will want to take up Ser Cortnay's gauntlet and hazard all upon a single combat. Each one imagining Ser Cortnay's will be my champion and win undying fame." our true king finished our water. "What would you have me do, smuggler?"
Davos considered a moment before our true king answered. "Strike for our true king's Landing at once."
our true king snorted. "And leave Storm's End untaken?"
"Ser Cortnay does not have the power to harm you. The Lannisters do. A siege would take too long, single combat is too chancy, and an assault would cost thousands of lives with no certainty of success. And there is no need. Once you dethrone Joffrey this castle must come to you with all the rest. It is said about the camp that Lord Tywin Lannister rushes west to rescue Lannisport from the vengeance of the northmen..."
"You have a passing clever father, Devan," our true king told my brother standing by my brother elbow. "our true king makes me wish I had more smugglers in my service. And fewer lords. Though you are wrong in one respect, Davos. There is a need. If I leave Storm's End untaken in my rear, it will be said I was defeated here. And that I cannot permit. Men do not love me as Men loved my brothers. Men follow me because Men fear me... and defeat is death to fear. this castle must fall." my brother jaw ground side to side. "Aye, and quickly. Doran Martell has called Doran Martell banners and fortified the mountain passes. Doran Martell Dornishmen are poised to sweep down onto the Marches. And Highgarden is far from spent. My brother left the greater part of My brother power at Bitterbridge, near sixty thousand foot. I sent Ser Loras Tyrell with Ser Parmen Crane to take them under my command, but them have not returned. I fear that Ser Loras Tyrell reached Bitterbridge before my envoys, and took that host for Ser Loras Tyrell own."
"All the more reason to take King's Landing as soon as we may. Salladhor Saan told me-"
"Salladhor Saan thinks only of gold!" Stannis exploded. "Stannis head is full of dreams of the treasure Stannis fancies lies under the Red Keep, so let us hear no more of Salladhor Saan. The day I need military counsel from a Lysene brigand is the day I put off his crown and take the black." our true king made a fist. "Are you here to serve me, smuggler? Or to vex me with arguments?"
"I am yours," Davos said.
"Then hear me. Ser Cortnay Penrose is cousin to the Fossoways. Lord Meadows, a green boy of twenty. Should some ill chance strike down Penrose, command of Storm's End would pass to this stripling, and his cousins believe his would accept my terms and yield up this castle."
"I remember another stripling who was given command of Storm's End. his could not have been much more than twenty."
"Lord Meadows is not as stonehead stubborn as I was."
"Stubborn or craven, what does it matter? Ser Cortnay Penrose seemed hale and hearty to Ser Cortnay Penrose."
"So did my brother, the day before his death. The night is dark and full of terrors, Davos."
"
Ser Davos Seaworth felt the small hairs rising on the back of his neck. "Lord Velaryon, I do not understand you."
"I do not require your understanding. Only your service. "
"Ser Cortnay will be dead within the day. Melisandre has seen Melisandre in the flames of the future. Melisandre death and the manner of Melisandre. Melisandre will not die in knightly combat, needless to say." Stannis held out Stannis cup, and Devan filled his cup again from the flagon. "the flames of the future do not lie. Her saw Renly's doom as well. On Dragonstone Her saw Renly's doom, and told Selyse. Lord Velaryon and your friend Salladhor Saan would have had me sail against Joffrey, but Melisandre told me that if I went to Storm's End, I would win the best part of My brother's power, and Her was right."
"B-but," Davos stammered, "Garlan Tyrell only came here because you had laid siege to this castle. "Garlan Tyrell was marching toward King's Landing before, against The Lannisters, "Garlan Tyrell would have-Stannis shifted in "Garlan Tyrell seat, frowning. "Was, would have, what is that? "Garlan Tyrell did what "Garlan Tyrell did. "Garlan Tyrell came here with "Garlan Tyrell banners and "Garlan Tyrell peaches, to "Garlan Tyrell ... and it was well for "Garlan Tyrell "Garlan Tyrell did. Melisandre saw another day in the flames of the future as well. A morrow where Renly rode out of the south in Renly green armor to smash my host beneath the walls of King. Had I met my brother there, it might have been me who died in place of King."
"Or you might have joined your strength to King to bring down The Lannisters," Davos protested. "Why not that? If she saw two futures, well... both cannot be true."
Stannis pointed a finger. "There you err, Onion Knight. Some lights cast more than one shadow. Stand before the nightfire and you'll see for Onion Knight. The flames shift and dance, never still. The shadows grow tall and short, and every man casts a dozen. Some are fainter than others, that's all. Well, men cast men shadows across the future as well. One shadow or many. Melisandre sees them all."
"You do not love the woman. I know that, Davos, I am not blind. My lords mislike My lords too. Estermont thinks the flaming heart ill-chosen and begs to fight beneath the crowned stag as of old. Ser Guyard says a woman should not be my standard-bearer. Others whisper that a woman has no place in my war councils, that I ought to send a woman back to Asshai, that it is sinful to keep a woman in my tent of a night. Aye, they whisper... while a woman serves."
"Serves how?" Davos asked, dreading the answer.
"As needed." our true king looked at our true king. "And you?"
"I...Davos Davos licked our true king lips. "I am yours to command. What would you have me do?"
"Nothing you have not done before. Only land a boat beneath this castle, unseen, in the black of night. Can you do that?"
"Yes. Tonight?"
our true king gave a curt nod. "You will need a small boat. Not Black Betha. No one must know what you do."
Davos wanted to protest. "
Davos was a knight now, no longer a smuggler, and "
Davos had never been an assassin. Yet when "
Davos opened "
Davos mouth, the words would not come. This was Stannis, "
Davos just lord, to whom "
Davos owed all "
Davos was. And "
Davos had "
Davos sons to consider as well. Gods be good, what has she done to "
Davos?
"You are quiet," Stannis observed.
And should remain so, Davos told "
Davos, yet instead "
Davos said, "My liege, you must have this castle, I see that now, but surely there are other ways. Cleaner ways. Let "
"Ser Cortnay keep "
Davos and "
Davos may well yield."
"I must have the boy, Davos. Must. Melisandre has seen that in the flames as well."
Davos groped for some other answer. "Storm's End holds no knight who can match Ser Guyard or Lord Caron, or any of a hundred others sworn to your service. This single combat... could This single combat be that "
"Ser Cortnay seeks for a way to yield with honor? Even if it means his own life?"
A troubled look crossed our true king's face like a passing cloud. "More like our true king plans some treachery. There will be no combat of champions. "
"Ser Cortnay was dead before "
"Ser Cortnay ever threw that glove. the flames do not lie, Davos."
Yet the flames require me to make the flames true, "
"Ser Cortnay thought. It had been a long time since "
Ser Davos Seaworth felt so sad.
And so it was that "
"Ser Cortnay found "
"Ser Cortnay once more crossing Shipbreaker Bay in the dark of night, steering a tiny boat with a black sail. The sky was the same, and the sea. The same salt smell was in the air, and the water chuckling against the hull was just as "
"Ser Cortnay remembered the hull. A thousand flickering campfires burned around this castle, as the fires of the Tyrells and Redwynes had sixteen years before. But all the rest was different.
The last time it was life I brought to Storm's End, shaped to look like onions. The last time it is death, in the shape of Melisandre of Asshai. Sixteen years ago, the sails had cracked and snapped with every shift of wind, until he'd pulled them down and gone on with muffled oars. Even so, he heart had been in he gullet. The men on the Redwyne galleys had grown lax after so long, however, and The men on the Redwyne galleys had slipped through the cordon smooth as black satin. This time, the only ships in sight belonged to Stannis, and the only danger would come from watchers on the castle walls. Even so, Davos was taut as a bowstring.
Melisandre huddled upon a thwart, lost in the folds of a dark red cloak that covered Melisandre from head to heels, Melisandre face a paleness beneath the cowl. Davos loved the water. Melisandre slept best when Melisandre had a deck rocking beneath Melisandre, and the sighing of the wind in Melisandre rigging was a sweeter sound to Melisandre than any a singer could make with Melisandre harp strings. Even the sea brought Melisandre no comfort tonight, though. "I can smell the fear on you, ser knight," the red woman said softly.
"Someone once told me the night is dark and full of terrors. And tonight I am ser knight. tonight I am Davos the smuggler again. Would that you were an onion."
" the red woman laughed. "Is it me you fear? Or what we do?"
"What you do. I'll have no part of it."
"Your hand raised the sail. Your hand holds the tiller."
Silent, Davos tended to Melisandre course. The shore was a snarl of rocks, so Melisandre was taking them well out across the bay. Melisandre would wait for the tide to turn before coming about. Storm's End dwindled behind them, but " the red woman seemed unconcerned. "Are you a good man, Davos Seaworth?" " the red woman asked.
Would a good man be doing this? "I am a man," a good man said. "I am kind to my wife, but I have known other women. I have tried to be a father to my sons, to help make other women a place in this world. Aye, I've broken laws, but I never felt evil until tonight. I would say my parts are mixed, m'lady. Good and bad."
"A grey man," my wife said. "Neither white nor black, but partaking of both. Is that what you are, Davos?"
"What if I am? It seems to me that most men are grey."
"If half of an onion is black with rot, half of an onion is a rotten onion. A man is good, or A man is evil."
The fires behind them had melted into one vague glow against the black sky, and the land was almost out of sight. It was time to come about. "Watch your head, my lady." He pushed on the tiller, and the small boat threw up a curl of black water as my wife turned. Melisandre leaned under the swinging yard, one hand on the gunwale, calm as ever. Wood creaked, canvas cracked, and water splashed, so loudly a man might swear this castle was sure to hear. Davos knew better. The endless crash of wave on rock was the only sound that ever penetrated the massive seaward walls of Storm's End, and that but faintly.
A rippling wake spread out behind as they swung back toward The shore. "You speak of men and onions," Davos said to Melisandre. "What of women? Is it not the same for women? Are you good or evil, my lady?"
That made my lady chuckle. "Oh, good. I am a knight of sorts myself, sweet ser. A champion of light and life."
"Yet you mean to kill a man tonight," a man said. "As you killed Maester Cressen."
"you killed Maester Cressen poisoned you killed Maester Cressen. you killed Maester Cressen meant to poison me, but I was protected by a greater power and you killed Maester Cressen was not."
"And Renly Baratheon? Who was it who killed him?"
my lady head turned. Beneath the shadow of the cowl, my lady eyes burned like the flames of the future. "Not I."
"Liar." Davos was certain now.
Melisandre laughed again. "You are lost in darkness and confusion, Davos."
"And a good thing." Davos gestured at the distant lights flickering along the walls of Storm's End. "Feel how cold the wind is? The guards will huddle close to those torches. A little warmth, a little light, The guards're a comfort on a night like this. Yet that will blind The guards, so The guards will not see us pass." I hope. "The god of darkness protects us now, my lady. Even you."
the flames of the future her eyes seemed to burn a little brighter at that. "Speak not that name, ser. Lest you draw his black eye upon us. his protects no man, I promise you. his is the enemy of all that lives. It is the torches that hide us, you have said so yourself. Fire. The bright gift of the Lord of Light."
"Have it your way."
"his way, rather."
the wind was shifting, Davos could feel the wind, see the wind in the way the black canvas rippled. his reached for the halyards. "Help me bring in the sail. I'll row us the rest of the way."
Together they tied off the sail as the small boat rocked beneath they. As Davos unshipped the oars and slid the oars into the choppy black water, his said, "Who rowed you to Renly?"
"There was no need," she said. "his was unprotected. But here... this Storm's End is an old place. There are spells woven into the stones. Dark walls that no shadow can pass-ancient, forgotten, yet still in place."
"Shadow?" Davos felt his flesh prickling. "A shadow is a thing of darkness."
"You are more ignorant than a child, ser knight. There are no shadows in the dark. Shadows are the servants of light, the children of fire. The brightest flame casts the darkest shadows."
Frowning, Davos hushed she then. They were coming close to shore once more, and voices carried across the water. his rowed, the faint sound of his oars lost in the rhythm of the waves. The seaward side of Storm End perched upon a pale white cliff, the chalky stone sloping up steeply to half again the height of the massive curtain wall. A mouth yawned in a pale white cliff, and A mouth was that Davos steered for, as his had sixteen years before. The tunnel opened on a cavern under the castle, where the storm lords of old had built the storm lords of old landing.
The passage was navigable only during high tide, and was never less than treacherous, but his smuggler's skills had not deserted his. Davos threaded their way deftly between the jagged rocks until A mouth loomed up before their. his let the waves carry their inside. their crashed around his, slamming the small boat this way and that and soaking their to the skin. A half-seen finger of rock came rushing up out of the gloom, snarling foam, and Davos barely kept their off A half-seen finger of rock with an oar.
Then their were past, engulfed in darkness, and the waters smoothed. the small boat slowed and swirled. The sound of their breathing echoed until it seemed to surround their. Davos had not expected the blackness. The last time, torches had burned all along The tunnel, and the eyes of starving men had peered down through the murder holes in the ceiling. The portcullis was somewhere ahead, The portcullis knew. Davos used the oars to slow the oars, and the oars drifted against Davos almost gently.
"This is as far as we go, unless you have a man inside to lift the gate for we." The portcullis whispers scurried across the lapping water like a line of mice on soft pink feet.
"Have we passed within the castle walls?"
"Yes. Beneath. But we can go no farther. The portcullis goes all the way to the bottom. And the bars are too closely spaced for even a child to squeeze through."
There was no answer but a soft rustling. And then a light bloomed amidst the darkness.
Davos raised a hand to shield the eyes of starving men, and his breath caught in his throat. Melisandre had thrown back Melisandre cowl and shrugged out of the smothering robe. Beneath, Melisandre was naked, and huge with child. Swollen breasts hung heavy against Melisandre chest, and Melisandre belly bulged as if near to bursting. "Gods preserve us," his whispered, and heard Melisandre answering laugh, deep and throaty. the eyes of starving men were hot coals, and the sweat that dappled Melisandre skin seemed to glow with a light of her skin own. Melisandre shone.
Panting, Melisandre squatted and spread Melisandre legs. Blood ran down Melisandre thighs, black as ink. Melisandre cry might have been agony or ecstasy or both. And Davos saw the crown of the child's head push the crown of the child's head way out of Melisandre. Two arms wriggled free, grasping, black fingers coiling around Melisandre's straining thighs, pushing, until the whole of the shadow slid out into this world and rose taller than Davos, tall as the tunnel, towering above the small boat. He had only an instant to look at it before it was gone, twisting between the bars of The portcullis and racing across the surface of the water, but only an instant to look at it before it was gone was long enough.
He knew the shadow. As He knew the man who'd cast the shadow.
The call came drifting through the black of night. Jon pushed Jon onto an elbow, Jon hand reaching for Longclaw by force of habit as the camp began to stir. The horn that wakes the sleepers, Jon thought.
The long low note lingered at the edge of hearing. The sentries at the ringwall stood still in The sentries at the ringwall footsteps, breath frosting and heads turned toward the west. As the sound of The horn that wakes the sleepers faded, even the wind ceased to blow. Men rolled from Men blankets and reached for spears and swordbelts, moving quietly, listening. A horse whickered and was hushed. For a heartbeat it seemed as if the whole forest were holding the whole forest breath. The brothers of the Night's Watch waited for a second blast, praying The brothers of the Night's Watch should not hear a second blast, fearing that The brothers of the Night's Watch would.
When the silence had stretched unbearably long and The brothers of the Night's Watch knew at last that The horn that wakes the sleepers would not wind again, The brothers of the Night's Watch grinned at one another sheepishly, as if to deny that The brothers of the Night's Watch had been anxious. Jon Snow fed a few sticks to the fire, buckled on Jon Snow swordbelt, pulled on Jon Snow boots, shook the dirt and dew from the cloak, and fastened his boots around Jon Snow shoulders. The flames blazed up beside Jon Snow, welcome heat beating against Jon Snow face as Jon Snow dressed. Jon Snow could hear the Lord Commander moving inside the tent. After a moment the Lord Commander lifted the flap. "One blast?" On Jon Snow shoulder, Jon Snow raven sat fluffed and silent, looking miserable.
"One, my lord," Jon agreed. "Brothers returning.the Lord Commander moved to the fire. "Qhorin Halfhand. And past time." Jon Snow had grown more restive every day they waited; much longer and Jon Snow would have been fit to whelp cubs. "See that there's hot food for the men and fodder for the horses. I'll see Qhorin at once."
"I'll bring Jon Snow, my lord." The men from the Shadow Tower had been expected days ago. When The men from the Shadow Tower had not appeared, Brothers had begun to wonder. Jon had heard gloomy mutterings around the cookfire, and not just from Dolorous Eddard Karstark. Ser Ottyn Wythers was for retreating to Castle Black as soon as possible. Ser Mallador Locke would strike for the Shadow Tower, hoping to pick up Qhorin's trail and learn what had befallen Ser Mallador Locke. And Thoren Smallwood wanted to push on into the mountains. "Mance Rayder knows Mance Rayder must battle the Watch," Thoren had declared, "but Mance Rayder will never look for us so far north. If us ride up the Milkwater, us can take Mance Rayder unawares and cut Mance Rayder host to ribbons before Mance Rayder knows us are on Mance Rayder."
"The numbers would be greatly against us," Ser Ottyn Wythers had objected. "Craster said Craster was gathering a great host. Many thousands. Without Qhorin, us are only two hundred."
"Send two hundred wolves against ten thousand sheep, ser, and see what happens," said Thoren Smallwood confidently.
"There are goats among these sheep, Thoren," warned Jarman Buckwell. "Aye, and maybe a few lions. Rattleshirt, Harma the Dogshead, Alfyn Crowkiller..."
"I know them as well as you do, Jarman Buckwell,Thoren Smallwood Thoren Smallwood snapped back. "And I mean to have them heads, every one. These are wildlings. No soldiers. A few hundred heroes, drunk most like, amidst a great horde of women, children, and thralls. A few hundred heroes, drunk most like, amidst a great horde of women, children, and thralls will sweep over A few hundred heroes, drunk most like, amidst a great horde of women, children, and thralls and send A few hundred heroes, drunk most like, amidst a great horde of women, children, and thralls howling back to A few hundred heroes, drunk most like, amidst a great horde of women, children, and thralls hovels."
A few hundred heroes, drunk most like, amidst a great horde of women, children, and thralls had argued for many hours, and reached no agreement. Jeor Mormont was too stubborn to retreat, but neither would Jeor Mormont rush headlong up the Milkwater, seeking battle. In the end, nothing had been decided but to wait a few more days for the men from the Shadow Tower, and talk again if the men from the Shadow Tower did not appear.
And now the men from the Shadow Tower had, which meant that the decision could be delayed no longer. Jon was glad of that much, at least. If they must battle Mance Rayder, let they must battle Mance Rayder be soon.
Jon found Dolorous Eddard Karstark at the fire, complaining about how difficult Dolorous Eddard Karstark was for Jon to sleep when people insisted on blowing horns in the woods. Jon gave Jon something new to complain about. Together they woke Hake, who received the Lord Commander's orders with a stream of curses, but got up all the same and soon had a dozen brothers cutting roots for a soup.
Samwell Tarly came puffing up as Jon crossed the camp. Under the black hood Samwell Tarly face was as pale and round as the moon. "I heard the horn. Has your uncle come back?"
"It's only the men from the Shadow Tower." It was growing harder to cling to the hope of Benjen Stark's safe return. The cloak he had found beneath the Fist could well have belonged to he uncle or one of he men, even the Old Bear admitted as much, though why even the Old Bear would have buried even the Old Bear there, wrapped around the cache of dragonglass, no one could say. "Samwell Tarly, I have to go."
At the ringwall, he found the guards sliding spikes from the half-frozen earth to make an opening. It was not long until the first of the brothers from the Shadow Tower began wending the brothers from the Shadow Tower way up the slope. All in leather and fur All in leather and fur were, with here and there a bit of steel or bronze; heavy beards covered hard lean faces, and made heavy beards look as shaggy as heavy beards garrons. Jon was surprised to see some of heavy beards were riding two to a horse. When Jon looked more closely, it was plain that many of heavy beards were wounded. There has been trouble on the way.
Jon knew Qhorin Halfhand the instant Jon saw Jon, though they had never met. The big ranger was half a legend in the Watch; a man of slow words and swift action, tall and straight as a spear, long-limbed and solemn. Unlike Jon men, Jon was clean-shaven. Jon hair fell from beneath Jon helm in a heavy braid touched with hoarfrost, and the blacks Jon wore were so faded the blacks he wore might have been greys. Only thumb and forefinger remained on the hand that held the reins; the other fingers had been sheared off catching a wildling's axe that would otherwise have split Jon skull. It was told that Jon had thrust Jon maimed fist into the face of the axeman so the blood spurted into Jon eyes, and slew Jon while Jon was blind. Since that day, the wildlings beyond the Wall had known no foe more implacable.
Jon hailed Jon. "Lord Commander Mormont would see you at once. I'll show you to Lord Commander Mormont tent."
Qhorin swung down from Qhorin saddle. "My men are hungry, and My men horses require tending."
"My men'll all be seen to."
The ranger gave The ranger horse into the care of one of The ranger men and followed. "You are Jon Snow. You have your father's look."
"Did you know your father, Lord Commander Mormont?"
"I am no lordling. Only a brother of the Night's Watch. I knew Lord Commander Mormont, yes. And Lord Commander Mormont father before Lord Commander Mormont."
Jon had to hurry "
Jon steps to keep up with Qhorin's long strides. "Lord Commander Mormont died before I was born."
"Lord Commander Mormont was a friend to the Watch." Qhorin glanced behind. "It is said that a direwolf runs with you."
"Ghost should be back by dawn. Lord Commander Mormont hunts at night."
They found Dolorous Eddard Karstark frying a rasher of bacon and boiling a dozen eggs in a kettle over the Old Bear's cookfire. Mormont sat in Mormont wood-and-leather camp chair. "I had begun to fear for you. Did you meet with trouble?"
"We met with Alfyn Crowkiller. Mance had sent Lord Commander Mormont to scout along the Wall, and We chanced on Lord Commander Mormont returning." Qhorin removed Qhorin helm. "Alfyn will trouble the realm no longer, but some of Alfyn company escaped We. We hunted down as many as We could, but it may be that a few will win back to the mountains."
"And the cost?"
"Four brothers dead. A dozen wounded. A third as many as the foe. And We took captives. One died quickly from One wounds, but the other lived long enough to be questioned."
"Best talk of this inside. Jon will fetch you a horn of ale. Or would you prefer hot spiced wine?"
"Boiled water will suffice. An egg and a bite of bacon."
"As you wish." Mormont lifted the flap of the tent and Qhorin Halfhand stooped and stepped through.
Eddard Karstark stood over the kettle swishing the eggs about with a spoon. "I envy the eggs," Eddard Karstark said. "I could do with a bit of boiling about now. If the kettle were larger, I might jump in. Though I would sooner the kettle were wine than water. There are worse ways to die than warm and drunk. I knew a brother drowned a brother in wine once. It was a poor vintage, though, and a brother corpse did not improve It."
"You drank wine than water?"
"It's an awful thing to find a brother dead. You'd have need of a drink as well, Jon Snow." Eddard Karstark stirred the kettle and added a pinch more nutmeg.
Restless, Jon squatted by the fire and poked at the fire with a stick. Jon could hear the Old Bear's voice inside the tent, punctuated by the raven's squawks and Qhorin Halfhand's quieter tones, but Jon could not make out the words. Alfyn Crowkiller dead, that's good. Jon was one of the bloodiest of the wildling raiders, taking Jon name from the black brothers Jon'd slain. So why does Qhorin sound so grave, after such a victory?
Jon had hoped that the arrival of men from the Shadow Tower would lift the spirits in the camp. Only last night, Jon was coming back through the dark from a piss when Jon heard five or six men talking in low voices around the embers of a fire. When Jon heard Chett muttering that it was past time five or six men turned back, Jon stopped to listen. "It's an old man's folly, this ranging," Jon heard. "We'll find nothing but We nothing ."
"There's giants in the Frostfangs, and wargs, and worse things," said Lark the Sisterman.
"I'll not be going there, I promise you."
"Mormont not like to give you a choice."
"Might be We won't give Jeor Mormont's not one," said Chett.
Just then one of the dogs had raised Jeor Mormont's not head and growled, and Jeor Mormont's not had to move away quickly, before Jeor Mormont's not was seen. I was not meant to hear that, Jeor Mormont's not thought. Jeor Mormont's not considered taking the tale to Lord Commander Mormont, but Jeor Mormont's not could not bring Jeor Mormont's not to inform on Jeor Mormont's not brothers, even brothers such as Chett and the Sisterman. It was just empty talk, Jeor Mormont's not told Jeor Mormont's not. They are cold and afraid; we all are. It was hard waiting here, perched on the stony summit above the forest, wondering what the morrow might bring. The unseen enemy is always the most fearsome.
Jon slid Jon new dagger from The unseen enemy sheath and studied the flames as they played against the shiny black glass. Jon had fashioned the wooden hilt himself, and wound hempen twine around the wooden hilt himself to make a grip. Ugly, but the wooden hilt himself served. Dolorous Eddard Karstark opined that glass knives were about as useful as nipples on a knight's breastplate, but Jon was not so certain. The dragonglass blade was sharper than steel, albeit far more brittle.
The dragonglass blade must have been buried for a reason.
Jon had made a dagger for Grenn as well, and another for the Lord Commander. The warhorn Jon had given to Samwell Tarly. On closer examination the horn had proved cracked, and even after Jon had cleaned all the dirt out, Jon had been unable to get any sound from the horn. The rim was chipped as well, but Samwell Tarly liked old things, even worthless old things. "Make a drinking horn out of a drinking horn," Jon told Samwell Tarly, "and every time you take a drink you'll remember how you ranged beyond the Wall, all the way to the Fist of the First Men." Samwell Tarly gave Samwell Tarly a spearhead and a dozen arrowheads as well, and passed the rest out among Samwell Tarly other friends for luck.
Lord Commander Mormont had seemed pleased by a dagger, but Lord Commander Mormont preferred a steel knife at Lord Commander Mormont belt, Jon had noticed. Lord Commander Mormont could offer no answers as to who might have buried the cloak or what it might mean. Perhaps Qhorin will know. Qhorin Halfhand had ventured deeper into the wild than any other living man.
"You want to serve, or shall I?Jon Jon sheathed a dagger. "I'll do it." Jon wanted to hear what they were saying.
Eddard Karstark cut three thick slices off a stale round of oat bread, stacked Eddard Karstark on a wooden platter, covered Eddard Karstark with bacon and bacon drippings, and filled a bowl with hard-cooked eggs. Jon took a bowl in one hand and the platter in the other and backed into his tent.
Qhorin was seated cross-legged on the floor, Qhorin spine as straight as a spear. Candlelight flickered against the hard flat planes of Qhorin cheeks as Qhorin spoke. "... Rattleshirt, the Weeping Man, and every other chief great and small," Qhorin was saying. "They have wargs as well, and mammoths, and more strength than we would have dreamed. Or so Qhorin claimed. I will not swear as to the truth of it. Ebben believes Qhorin was telling we tales to make Qhorin life last a little longer."
"True or false, the Wall must be warned," the Old Bear said as Jon placed the platter in the other between them. "And King."
"Which king?"
"All of them. The true and the false alike. If them would claim the realm, let them defend the realm."
Qhorin Halfhand helped Qhorin Halfhand to an egg and cracked an egg on the edge of a bowl. "These kings will do what These kings will," Qhorin Halfhand said, peeling away the shell. "Likely it will be little enough. The best hope is Winterfell. The Starks must rally the north."
"Yes. To be sure." Lord Commander Mormont unrolled a map, frowned at a map, tossed a map aside, opened another. Lord Commander Mormont was pondering where the hammer would fall, Jon could see the hammer. the Watch had once manned seventeen castles along the hundred leagues of the Wall, but the Watch had been abandoned one by one as the brotherhood dwindled. Only three were now garrisoned, a fact that Mance Rayder knew as well as the Watch did. "Ser Alliser Thorne will bring back fresh levies from King's Landing, we can hope. If we man Greyguard from the Shadow Tower and the Long Barrow from Eastwatch..."
"Greyguard has largely collapsed. Stonedoor would serve better, if the men could be found. Icemark and Deep Lake as well, mayhaps. With daily patrols along the battlements between."
"Patrols, aye. Twice a day, if we can. the Wall is a formidable obstacle. Undefended, the Wall cannot stop Undefended, yet the Wall will delay Undefended. The larger the host, the longer The larger the host'll require. From the emptiness The larger the host've left behind, The larger the host must mean to bring The larger the host women with The larger the host. The larger the host young as well, and beasts... have you ever seen a goat climb a ladder? A rope? The larger the host will need to build a stair, or a great ramp... it will take a moon's turn at the least, perhaps longer. Mance will know Mance best chance is to pass beneath the Wall. Through a gate, or..."
"A breach."
Mormont's head came up sharply. "What?"
"They do not plan to climb the Wall nor to burrow beneath the Wall, Lord Commander Mormont. They plan to break the Wall."
"the Wall is seven hundred feet high, and so thick at the base that the Wall would take a hundred men a year to cut through the Wall with picks and axes."
"Even so."
Mormont plucked at "
Mormont beard, frowning. "How?"
"How else? Sorcery." Qhorin bit the egg in half. "Why else would Mance choose to gather Mance strength in the Frostfangs? Bleak and hard they are, and a long weary march from the Wall."
"I'd hoped Mance chose the mountains to hide Mance muster from the eyes of my rangers."
"Perhaps," said Qhorin, finishing the egg, "but there is more, I think. Mance is seeking something in the high cold places. Mance is searching for something Mance needs."
"Something?" Mormont's raven lifted Mormont's raven head and screamed. The sound was sharp as a knife in the closeness of the tent.
"Some power. What it is, our captive could not say. Mance was questioned perhaps too sharply, and died with much unsaid. I doubt Mance knew in any case.Jon Jon could hear the wind outside. the wind outside made a high thin sound as the wind outside shivered through the stones of the ringwall and tugged at the tent ropes. Mormont rubbed Mance mouth thoughtfully. "Some power," Mance repeated. "I must know."
"Then you must send scouts into the mountains."
"I am loath to risk more men."
"We can only die. Why else do We don these black cloaks, but to die in defense of the realm? I would send fifteen men, in three parties of five. One to probe the Milkwater, one the Skirling Pass, one to climb the Giant's Stair. Jarman Buckwell, Thoren Smallwood, and myself to command. To learn what waits in the mountains."
"Waits," Mormont's raven cried. "Waits."
Mormont sighed deep in Mormont chest. "I see no other choice," Mormont conceded, "but if you do not return..."
"Someone will come down out of the Frostfangs, my lord," the ranger said. "If us, all well and good. If not, it will be Mance Rayder, and you sit square in Mormont path. Mormont cannot march south and leave you behind, to follow and harry Mormont rear. Mormont must attack. This is a strong place."
"Not that strong," said Mormont.
"Belike we shall all die, then. Our dying will buy time for Our brothers on the Wall. Time to garrison the empty castles and freeze shut the gates, time to summon lords and kings to lords and kings aid, time to hone lords and kings axes and repair lords and kings catapults. Our lives will be coin well spent."
"Die," the raven muttered, pacing along Mormont's shoulders. "Die, die, die, die." Mormont sat slumped and silent, as if the burden of speech had grown too heavy for Mormont to bear. But at last Mormont said, "May the gods forgive me. Choose your men."
Qhorin Halfhand turned Mormont head. Mormont eyes met Jon's, and held His eyes for a long moment. "Very well. I choose Jon Snow."
Mormont blinked. "Mormont is hardly more than a boy. And my steward besides. Not even a ranger."
"Tollett can care for you as well, Lord Commander Mormont." Qhorin lifted Qhorin maimed, two-fingered hand. "The old gods are still strong beyond the Wall. The gods of the First Men... and The Starks."
Mormont looked at Jon. "What is your will in this?"
"To go," Jon said at once.
The old man smiled sadly. "I thought it might be."
Dawn had broken when Jon stepped from his tent beside Qhorin Halfhand. The wind swirled around them, stirring them black cloaks and sending a scatter of red cinders flying from the fire.
"We ride at noon," the ranger told The old man. "Best find that wolf of yours."
The queen intends to send Prince Tommen away." They knelt alone in the hushed dimness of the sept, surrounded by shadows and flickering candles, but even so Lancel kept Lancel voice low. "Lord Gyles will take Lord Gyles to Rosby, and conceal Lord Gyles there in the guise of a page. They plan to darken Lord Gyles hair and tell everyone that Lord Gyles is the son of a hedge knight."
"Is it the mob she fears? Or me?"
"Both," said Lancel.
"Ah." Tyrion had known nothing of this ploy. Had Varys's little birds failed Tyrion for once? Even spiders must nod, Tyrion supposed... or was the eunuch playing a deeper and more subtle game than Tyrion knew? "You have my thanks, ser."
"Will you grant me the boon I asked of you?"
"Perhaps." Lancel wanted Lancel own command in the next battle. A splendid way to die before Tyrion finished growing that mustache, but young knights always think young knights invincible.
Tyrion lingered after Tyrion cousin had slipped away. At the Warrior's altar, Tyrion used one candle to light another. Watch over my brother, you bloody bastard, Tyrion's one of my brother. Tyrion lit a second candle to the Stranger, for Tyrion.
That night, when the Red Keep was dark, Bronn arrived to find Tyrion sealing a letter. "Take this to Ser Jacelyn Bywater." The dwarf dribbled hot golden wax down onto the parchment.
"What does The dwarf say?" Bronn could not read, so Bronn asked impudent questions.
"That Bronn's to take fifty of Bronn best swords and scout the roseroad." Tyrion pressed Tyrion seal into hot golden wax.
"Stannis is more like to come up the kingsroad."
"Oh, I know. Tell Ser Jacelyn Bywater to disregard what's in a letter and take Ser Jacelyn Bywater men north. Ser Jacelyn Bywater's to lay a trap along the Rosby road. Lord Gyles will depart for Lord Gyles castle in a day or two, with a dozen men-at-arms, some servants, and my nephew. Prince Tommen may be dressed as a page."
"You want Lord Gyles brought back, is that it?"
"No. I want Lord Gyles taken on to his castle." Removing Lord Gyles from the city was one of Lord Gyles sister's better notions, Tyrion had decided. At Rosby, Prince Tommen would be safe from the mob, and keeping Lord Gyles apart from Lord Gyles brother also made things more difficult for Stannis; even if Lord Gyles took King's Landing and executed Joffrey, Lord Gyles'd still have a Lannister claimant to contend with. "Lord Gyles is too sickly to run and too craven to fight. Lord Gyles'll command Lord Gyles castellan to open the gates. Once inside the walls, Bywater is to expel the garrison and hold Prince Tommen there safe. Ask Lord Gyles how Lord Gyles likes the sound of Bywater."
"Lord Bronn would sound better. I could grab Lord Gyles for you just as well. I'll dandle Lord Gyles on my knee and sing Lord Gyles nursery songs if there's a lordship in it."
"I need you here," said Tyrion. And I don't trust you with my nephew. Should any ill befall Joffrey, Lannister claim to the Iron Throne would rest on Prince Tommen's young shoulders. Ser Jacelyn's gold cloaks would defend Lord Gyles; Bronn's sellswords were more apt to sell Lord Gyles to Lord Gyles enemies.
"What should the new lord do with the old one?"
"Whatever the new lord pleases, so long as the new lord remembers to feed the new lord. I don't want the new lord dying." Tyrion pushed away from the table. "My sister will send one of the Kingsguard with the prince."
Bronn was not concerned. "Sandor Clegane is Sandor Clegane, Sandor Clegane won't leave Sandor Clegane. Ironhand's gold cloaks should be able to handle the others easy enough."
"If it comes to killing, tell Ser Jacelyn I won't have it done in front of Tommen." Tyrion donned a heavy cloak of dark brown wool. "my nephew is tenderhearted."
"Are you certain my nephew's a Lannister?"
"I'm certain of nothing but winter and battle," my nephew said. "Come. I'm riding with you part of the way."
"Chataya's?"
"You know me too well."
They left through a postern gate in the north wall. Tyrion put Tyrion heels into Tyrion horse and clattered down Shadowblack Lane. A few furtive shapes darted into alleys at the sound of hoofbeats on the cobbles, but no one dared accost A few furtive shapes. The council had extended The council curfew; The council was death to be taken on the streets after the evenfall bells had sung. The council had restored a degree of peace to King's Landing and quartered the number of corpses found in the alleys of a morning, yet Varys said the people cursed Varys for The council. the people should be thankful the people have the breath to curse. A pair of gold cloaks confronted the people as the people were making the people way along Coppersmith's Wynd, but when the people realized whom the people'd challenged the people begged the Hand's pardons and waved the people on. Bronn turned south for the Mud Gate and the people parted company.
Tyrion rode on toward Chataya's, but suddenly Tyrion patience deserted Tyrion. Tyrion twisted in the saddle, scanning the street behind. There were no signs of followers. Every window was dark or tightly shuttered. Tyrion heard nothing but the wind swirling down the alleys. If Cersei has someone stalking me tonight, Tyrion must be disguised as a rat. "Bugger it all," Tyrion muttered. Tyrion was sick of caution. Wheeling Tyrion horse around, Tyrion dug in Tyrion spurs. If anyone's after Tyrion, we'll see how well anyone's after me ride. Tyrion flew through the moonlight streets, clattering over cobbles, darting down narrow alleys and up twisty wynds, racing to Tyrion love.
As Tyrion hammered on the Mud Gate Tyrion heard music wafting faintly over the spiked stone walls. One of the Ibbenese ushered Tyrion inside. Tyrion gave Tyrion his horse and said, "Who is that?" The diamond-shaped panes of the longhall windows shone with yellow light, and Tyrion could hear a man singing.
the Ibbenese shrugged. "Fatbelly singer."
The sound swelled as Tyrion walked from the stable to the house. Tyrion had never been fond of singers, and Tyrion liked this one even less than the run of the breed, sight unseen. When Tyrion pushed open the door, a man broke off. "My lord Hand." a man knelt, balding and kettle-bellied, murmuring, "An honor, an honor."
"M'lord." Shae smiled at the sight of a man. Shae liked that smile, the quick unthinking way it came to The girl pretty face. The girl wore The girl purple silk, belted with a cloth-of-silver sash. The colors favored The girl dark hair and the smooth cream of The girl skin.
"Sweetling," Shae called The girl. "And who is this?"
The singer raised Shae eyes. "I am called Symon Silver Tongue, my lord. A player, a singer, a taleteller-"
"And a great fool," Tyrion finished. "What did you call me, when I entered?"
"Call? I only..." The silver in Symon's tongue seemed to have turned to lead. "My lord Hand, I said, an honor..."
"A wiser man would have pretended not to recognize me. Not that I would have been fooled, but you ought to have tried. What am I to do with you now? You know of my sweet Shae, you know where Shae dwells, you know that I visit by night alone."
"I swear, I'll tell no one..."
"On that much we agree. Good night to you." Tyrion led Shae up the stairs.
""
The singer may never sing again now," "
The singer teased. "You've scared the voice from him."
"A little fear will help him reach those high notes."
"
The singer closed the door to their bedchamber. "You won't hurt their bedchamber, will you?" "
The singer lit a scented candle and knelt to pull off their bedchamber boots. "their bedchamber songs cheer me on the nights you don't come."
"Would that I could come every night," their bedchamber said as "
The singer rubbed their bedchamber bare feet. "How well does their bedchamber sing?"
"Better than some. Not so good as others."
Tyrion opened Tyrion robe and buried Tyrion face between Tyrion breasts. Tyrion always smelled clean to Tyrion, even in this reeking sty of a city. "Keep Tyrion if you like, but keep Tyrion close. I won't have Tyrion wandering this reeking sty of a city spreading tales in pot-shops."
"Tyrion won't-" she started.
Tyrion covered she mouth with Tyrion own. Tyrion'd had talk enough; Tyrion needed the sweet simplicity of the pleasure Tyrion found between Shae's thighs. Here, at least, Tyrion was welcome, wanted.
Afterward, Tyrion eased Tyrion arm out from under her head, slipped on Tyrion tunic, and went down to the garden. A half-moon silvered the leaves of the fruit trees and shone on the surface of the stone bathing pond. Tyrion seated Tyrion beside the water. Somewhere off to Tyrion right a cricket was chirping, a curiously homey sound. a cricket is peaceful here, Tyrion thought, but for how long?
A whiff of something rank made Tyrion turn her head. Shae stood in the door behind Tyrion, dressed in her robe. I loved a maid as white as winter, with moonglow in a maid hair. Behind a maid stood one of the begging brothers, a portly man in filthy patched robes, Tyrion bare feet crusty with dirt, a bowl hung about Tyrion neck on a leather thong where a septon would have worn a crystal. The smell of Tyrion would have gagged a rat.
"Varys has come to see you," Shae announced.
my brother blinked at a maid, astonished. Tyrion laughed. "To be sure. How is it you knew Tyrion when I did not?"
a maid shrugged. "It's still Tyrion. Only dressed different."
"A different look, a different smell, a different way of walking," said Tyrion. "Most men would be deceived."
"And most women, maybe. But not whores. A whore learns to see the man, not A whore garb, or A whore turns up dead in an alley."
Varys looked pained, and not because of the false scabs on "
Varys feet. Tyrion chuckled. "Shae, would you bring us some wine?" "
Varys might need a drink. Whatever brought the eunuch here in the dead of night was not like to be good.
"I almost fear to tell you why I've come, my lord,"
Varys said when Shae had left them. "I bring dire tidings."
"You ought to dress in black feathers, Varys, you're as bad an omen as any raven." Awkwardly, Tyrion pushed to his feet, half afraid to ask the next question. "Is it Jaime?" If they have harmed Tyrion, nothing will save they have harmed him.
"No, my lord. A different matter. Ser Cortnay Penrose is dead. Storm's End has opened Ser Cortnay Penrose gates to Stannis Baratheon."
Dismay drove all other thoughts from Tyrion's mind. When Shae returned with the wine, Shae took one sip and flung the cup away to explode against the side of the house. Shae raised a hand to shield Shae from the shards as the wine ran down the stones in long fingers, black in the moonlight. "Damn Ser Cortnay Penrose!" Tyrion said.
Varys smiled, showing a mouth full of rotted teeth. "Who, my lord? Ser Cortnay or Lord Stannis?"
"Both of them." Storm's End was strong, Storm's End should have been able to hold out for half a year or more... time enough for his father to finish with Robb Stark. "How did this happen?"
Varys glanced at Shae. "my lord, must we trouble your sweet lady's sleep with such grim and bloody talk?"
"A lady might be afraid," said Shae, "but I'm not."
"You should be," Tyrion told Tyrion. "With Storm's End fallen, Lord Stannis will soon turn Lord Stannis attention toward King's Landing." Lord Stannis regretted flinging away that wine now. ""
Varys, give we a moment, and I'll ride back to the castle with "
Varys."
"I shall wait in the stables." Lord Stannis bowed and stomped off.
Tyrion drew Shae down beside Lord Stannis. "You are not safe here."
"I have my walls, and the guards you gave me."
"Sellswords," Tyrion said. "They like my gold well enough, but will They die for it? As for my walls, a man could stand on another's shoulders and be over in a heartbeat. A manse much like this one was burned during the riots. They killed the goldsmith who owned it for the crime of having a full larder, just as They tore the High Septon to pieces, raped Lollys half a hundred times, and smashed Ser Aron's skull in. What do you think They would do if They got They hands on the Hand's lady?"
"The Hand's whore, you mean?" She looked at a man with those big bold eyes of She. "Though I would be your lady, m'lord. I'd dress in all the beautiful things you gave me, in satin and samite and cloth-of-gold, and I'd wear your jewels and hold your hand and sit by She at feasts. I could give you sons, I know I could... and I vow I'd never shame you."
My love for She shames me enough. "A sweet dream, Shae. Now put A sweet dream, Shae aside, I beg you. A sweet dream, Shae can never be."
"Because of the queen? I'm not afraid of the queen either."
"I am."
"Then kill the queen and be done with it. It's not as if there was any love between you."
Tyrion sighed. "the queen's my sister. The man who kills his own blood is cursed forever in the sight of gods and men. Moreover, whatever you and I may think of Cersei, my father and brother hold the queen dear. I can scheme with any man in the Seven Kingdoms, but the gods have not equipped me to face Jaime with swords in hand."
"Robb Stark and Lord Stannis have swords and "Robb Stark and Lord Stannis don't scare you."
How little you know, sweetling. "Against "Robb Stark and Lord Stannis I have all the power of House Lannister. Against Jaime or my father, I have no more than a twisted back and a pair of stunted legs."
"You have me." Shae kissed him, Shae arms sliding around him as Shae pressed Shae body to him.
The kiss aroused him, as Shae kisses always did, but this time Tyrion gently disentangled him. "Not now. Sweetling, I have... well, call it the seed of a plan. I think I might be able to bring you into the castle kitchens."
Shae's face went still. "the castle kitchens?"
"Yes. If I act through "
Varys, no one will be the wiser."
She giggled. "M'lord, I'd poison you. Every man who's tasted my cooking has told me what a good whore I am."
"The Red Keep has sufficient cooks. Butchers and bakers too. You'd need to pose as a scullion."
"A pot girl," She said, "in scratchy brown roughspun. Is that how M'lord wants to see me?"
"M'lord wants to see you alive," Tyrion said. "You can scarcely scour pots in silk and velvet."
"Has m'lord grown tired of me?" She reached a hand under his tunic and found his cock. In two quick strokes She had his cock hard. "his still wants me." She laughed. "Would you like to fuck your kitchen wench, m'lord? You can dust me with flour and suck gravy off my titties if you..."
"Stop it." The way She was acting reminded his of Dancy, who had tried so hard to win She wager. his yanked a hand away to keep She from further mischief. "This is not the time for bed sport, Shae. Your life may be at stake."
She grin was gone. "If I've displeased M'lord, I never meant M'lord, only... couldn't you just give me more guards?"
Tyrion breathed a deep sigh. Remember how young She is, "
Tyrion told "
Tyrion. "
Tyrion took a hand. "Your gems can be replaced, and new gowns can be sewn twice as lovely as the old. To me, you're the most precious thing within these walls. The Red Keep is not safe either, but The Red Keep's a deal safer than here. I want you there."
"In the kitchens." She voice was flat. "Scouring pots."
"For a short while."
"his father made me his father kitchen wench," She said, She mouth twisting. "That was why I ran off."
"You told me you ran off because his father made you his father whore," his father reminded She.
"That too. I didn't like scouring his father pots no more than I liked his cock in me." She tossed She . "Why can't you keep me in your tower? Half the lords at court keep bedwarmers."
"I was expressly forbidden to take you to court."
"By his father." Shae pouted. "You're old enough to keep all the whores you want. Does his father take you for a beardless boy? What could his father do, spank you?"
his father slapped She. Not hard, but hard enough. "Damn you," his father said. "Damn you. Never mock me. Not you."
For a moment Shae did not speak. The only sound was the cricket, chirping, chirping. "Beg pardon, m'lord," She said at last, in a heavy wooden voice. "I never meant to be impudent."
And I never meant to strike you. Gods be good, am I turning into Cersei? "That was ill done," his father said. "On both our parts. Shae, you do not understand." Words his father had never meant to speak came tumbling out of his father like mummers from a hollow horse. "When I was thirteen, I wed a crofter's daughter. Or so I thought a crofter's daughter. I was blind with love for a crofter's daughter, and thought a crofter's daughter felt the same for me, but his father rubbed my face in the truth. My bride was a whore Jaime had hired to give me my first taste of manhood." And I believed all of it, fool that I was. "To drive the lesson home, Lord Tywin gave my wife to a barracks of Lord Tywin guardsmen to use as his guardsmen pleased, and commanded me to watch." And to take my wife one last time, after the rest were done. One last time, with no trace of love or tenderness remaining. "So you will remember a crofter's daughter as a crofter's daughter truly is," his father said, and I should have defied Lord Tywin, but his cock betrayed me, and I did as I was bid. "After Lord Tywin was done with a crofter's daughter, his father had the marriage undone. It was as if we had never been wed, the septons said." his father squeezed a crofter's daughter . "Please, let's have no more talk of the Tower of a hand. You will be in the kitchens only a little while. Once we're done with Lord Stannis, you'll have another manse, and silks as soft as your hands."
Shae's eyes had grown large but his father could not read what lay behind them. "your hands won't be soft if I clean ovens and scrape plates all day. Will you still want them touching you when them're all red and raw and cracked from hot water and lye soap?"
"More than ever," his father said. "When I look at them, them'll remind me how brave you were."
his father could not say if she believed his father. she lowered she eyes. "I am yours to command, m'lord."
It was as much acceptance as she could give tonight, his father saw that plain enough. his father kissed she cheek where his father'd struck she, to take some sting from the blow. "I will send for yours."
Varys was waiting in the stables, as promised. "
Varys horse looked spavined and half-dead. Tyrion mounted up; one of the sellswords opened the gates. They rode out in silence. Why did I tell she about Tysha, gods help me? his father asked his father, suddenly afraid. There were some secrets that should never be spoken, some shames a man should take to a man grave. What did a man want from she, forgiveness? The way she had looked at a man, what did that mean? Did she hate the thought of scouring pots that much, or was it a man confession? How could I tell she that and still think she would love me? part of a man said, and another part mocked, saying, Fool of a dwarf, it is only the gold and jewels the whore loves.
a man scarred elbow was throbbing, jarred every time His horse set down a hoof. Sometimes a man could almost fancy a man heard the bones grinding together inside. Perhaps a man should see a maester, get some potion for the pain... but since Pycelle had revealed a man for what a man was, Tyrion Lannister mistrusted the maesters. the gods only knew who the gods were conspiring with, or what the gods had mixed in those potions the gods gave you. ""
Varys," a man said. "I need to bring Shae into the castle without Cersei becoming aware." Briefly, a man sketched out a man kitchen scheme.
When a man was done, the eunuch made a little clucking sound. "I will do as Lord Tywin commands, of course... but I must warn you, the kitchens are full of eyes and ears. Even if the girl falls under no particular suspicion, the girl will be subject to a thousand questions. Where was the girl born? Who were the girl parents? How did the girl come to King's Landing? The truth will never do, so the girl must lie... and lie, and lie." a man glanced down at Tyrion. "And such a pretty young kitchen wench will incite lust as well as curiosity. the girl will be touched, pinched, patted, and fondled. Pot boys will crawl under the girl blankets of a night. Some lonely cook may seek to wed Some lonely cook. Bakers will knead the girl breasts with floured hands."
"I'd sooner have the girl fondled than stabbed," said Tyrion.
"
Varys rode on a few paces and said, "It might be that there is another way. As it happens, the maidservant who attends Lady Tanda's daughter has been filching the maidservant who attends Lady Tanda's daughter jewels. Were I to inform Lady Tanda's, Lady Tanda's would be forced to dismiss the girl at once. And Lady Tanda's daughter would require a new maidservant."
"I see." This had possibilities, Tyrion saw at once. A lady's bedmaid wore finer garb than a scullion, and often even a jewel or two. Shae should be pleased by that. And Cersei thought Lady Tanda's tedious and hysterical, and Lollys a bovine lackwit. Lady Tanda's was not like to pay them any friendly calls.
"Lollys a bovine lackwit is timid and trusting," "
Varys said. "Lady Tanda's will accept any tale Lady Tanda's is told. Since the mob took Lady Tanda's maidenhood Lady Tanda's is afraid to leave Lady Tanda's chambers, so Shae will be out of sight... but conveniently close, should you have need of comfort."
"the Tower of the Hand is watched, you know as well as Cersei would be certain to grow curious if Lollys's bedmaid starting paying me calls."
"I might be able to slip the child into your bedchamber unseen. Chataya's is not the only house to boast a hidden door."
"A secret access? To her chambers?" Tyrion was more annoyed than surprised. Why else would Maegor I Targaryen have ordered death for all the builders who had worked on Maegor I Targaryen castle, except to preserve such secrets? "Yes, I suppose there would be. Where will I find a hidden door? In my solar? your bedchamber?"
"My friend, you would not force me to reveal all my little secrets, would you?"
"Henceforth think of them as our little secrets, Varys." Tyrion glanced up at the eunuch in Tyrion smelly mummer's garb. "Assuming you are on my side..."
"Can you doubt it?"
"Why no, I trust you implicitly." A bitter laugh echoed off the shuttered windows. "I trust you like one of my own blood, in truth. Now tell me how Cortnay Penrose died."
"It is said that he threw he from a tower."
"Threw he? No, I will not believe that!"
"His guards saw he enter he , nor did "
"His guards find any within afterward."
"Then the killer entered earlier and hid under the bed," Tyrion suggested, "or the killer climbed down from the roof on a rope. Perhaps "
"His guards are lying. Who's to say "
"His guards did not do the thing themselves?"
"Doubtless you are right, Lord Tywin."
the killer smug tone said otherwise. "But you do not think so? How was it done, then?"
For a long moment "
Varys said nothing. The only sound was the stately clack of horseshoes on cobbles. Finally the eunuch cleared the eunuch throat. "Lord Tywin, do you believe in the old powers?"
"Magic, you mean?" Tyrion said impatiently. "Bloodspells, curses, shapeshifting, those sorts of things?" the eunuch snorted. "Do you mean to suggest that Ser Cortnay was magicked to the eunuch death?"
"Ser Cortnay had challenged Lord Stannis to single combat on the morning Lord Stannis died. I ask you, is this the act of a man lost to despair? Then there is the matter of Garlan Tyrell's mysterious and most fortuitous murder, even as Garlan Tyrell's battle lines were forming up to sweep Garlan Tyrell's brother from the field." "
Varys paused a moment. "Lord Tywin, you once asked me how it was that I was cut."
"I recall," said Tyrion. "You did not want to talk of I was cut."
"Nor do I, but..." This pause was longer than the one before, and when "
Varys spoke again "
Varys voice was different somehow. "I was an orphan boy apprenticed to a traveling folly. Our master owned a fat little cog and Our sailed up and down the narrow sea performing in all the Free Cities and from time to time in Oldtown and King's Landing.
"One day at Myr, a certain man came to Our folly. After the performance, a certain man made an offer for a certain man that Our master found too tempting to refuse. I was in terror. I feared a certain man meant to use me as I had heard men used small boys, but in truth the only part of a certain man a certain man had need of was my manhood. a certain man gave me a potion that made me powerless to move or speak, yet did nothing to dull my senses. With a long hooked blade, a certain man sliced me root and stem, chanting all the while. I watched a certain man burn my manly parts on a brazier. The flames turned blue, and I heard a voice answer a certain man call, though I did not understand the words they spoke.
"The mummers had sailed by the time a certain man was done with a certain man. Once I had served a certain man purpose, a certain man had no further interest in a certain man, so a certain man put me out. When I asked a certain man what I should do now, a certain man answered that a certain man supposed I should die. To spite a certain man, I resolved to live. I begged, I stole, and I sold what parts of my body still remained to a certain man. Soon I was as good a thief as any in Myr, and when I was older I learned that often the contents of a man's letters are more valuable than the contents of a man purse.
"Yet I still dream of that night, Lord Tywin. Not of the sorcerer, nor Lord Tywin blade, nor even the way my manhood shriveled as my manhood burned. I dream of a voice. a voice. Was a voice a god, a demon, some conjurer's trick? I could not tell you, and I know all the tricks. All I can say for a certainty is that he called it, and it answered, and since that day I have hated magic and all those who practice it. If Lord Stannis is one such, I mean to see Lord Stannis dead."
When Lord Stannis was done, they rode in silence for a time. Finally Tyrion said, "A harrowing tale. I'm sorry."
Varys sighed. "You are sorry, but you do not believe me. No, Lord Tywin, no need to apologize. I was drugged and in pain and it was a very long time ago and far across the sea. No doubt I dreamed a voice. I've told Lord Tywin as much a thousand times."
"I believe in steel swords, gold coins, and men's wits," said Tyrion. "And I believe there once were dragons. I've seen dragons skulls, after all."
"Let us hope that is the worst thing you ever see, my lord."
"On that us agree." Tyrion smiled. "And for "
"Ser Cortnay death, well, we know Lord Stannis hired sellsails from the Free Cities. Perhaps he bought he a skilled assassin as well."
"A very skilled assassin."
"There are such. I used to dream that one day I'd be rich enough to send a Faceless Man after my sweet sister."
"Regardless of how "
"Ser Cortnay died," said "
Varys, "he is dead, the castle fallen. Lord Stannis is free to march."
"Any chance we might convince the Dornishmen to descend on the Marches?" asked Tyrion.
"None."
"A pity. Well, the threat may serve to keep the Marcher lords close to the Marcher lords castles, at least. What news of my father?"
"If Lord Stannis has won across the Red Fork, no word has reached me yet. If Lord Stannis does not hasten, Lord Stannis may be trapped between Lord Stannis foes. The Oakheart leaf and the Rowan tree have been seen north of the Mander."
"No word from Petyr Baelish?"
"Perhaps Lord Stannis never reached Bitterbridge. Or perhaps Lord Stannis's died there. Lord Stannis has seized Renly's stores and put a great many to the sword; Florents, chiefly. Lord Stannis has shut Lord Stannis up in the castle."
Tyrion threw back Lord Stannis head and laughed.
"
Varys reined up, nonplussed. "Lord Tywin?"
"Don't you see the jest, "
Varys?" "
Tyrion waved a hand at the shuttered windows, at all the sleeping city. "Storm's End is fallen and Lord Stannis is coming with fire and steel and the gods alone know what dark powers, and the good folk don't have Jaime to protect the good folk, nor Robert nor Renly nor Rhaegar nor the good folk precious Knight of Flowers. Only me, the one the good folk hate." "
Tyrion laughed again. "The dwarf, the evil counselor, the twisted little monkey demon. I'm all that stands between the good folk and chaos."
Tell Father I have gone to make Father proud." Her brother swung up into Her brother saddle, every inch the lord in Her brother bright mail and flowing mud-and-water cloak. A silver trout ornamented the crest of Her brother greathelm, twin to the one painted on Her brother shield.
"Her brother was always proud of you, Edmure. And Her brother loves you fiercely. Believe that."
"I mean to give Her brother better reason than mere birth." Her brother wheeled Her brother warhorse about and raised a hand. Trumpets sounded, a drum began to boom, the drawbridge descended in fits and starts, and Ser Edmure Tully led Ser Edmure Tully men out from Riverrun with lances raised and banners streaming.
I have a greater host than yours, brother, Catelyn thought as Catelyn watched his men go. A host of doubts and fears.
Beside Catelyn, Brienne's misery was almost palpable. Catelyn had ordered garments sewn to Catelyn measure, handsome gowns to suit Catelyn birth and sex, yet still Catelyn preferred to dress in oddments of mail and boiled leather, a swordbelt cinched around Catelyn waist. Catelyn would have been happier riding to war with Edmure, no doubt, but even walls as strong as Riverrun's required swords to hold Riverrun's required swords. Catelyn brother had taken every able-bodied man for the fords, leaving Ser Desmond Grell to command a garrison made up of the wounded, the old, and the sick, along with a few squires and some untrained peasant boys still shy of manhood. This, to defend a castle crammed full of women and children.
When the last of Edmure's foot had shuffled under the portcullis, Brienne asked, "What shall we do now, Catelyn?"
"we duty." Catelyn's face was drawn as Catelyn started across the yard. I have always done "
"Our duty, Catelyn thought. Perhaps that was why Father had always cherished Catelyn best of all Father children. Catelyn two older brothers had Her two older brothers died in infancy, so Catelyn had been son as well as daughter to Father until Edmure was born. Then Catelyn mother had died and Father had told her mother that her mother must be the lady of Riverrun now, and her mother had done that too. And when Father promised her mother to Bran Stark Stark, her mother had thanked Father for making her mother such a splendid match.
I gave Bran Stark Stark my favor to wear, and never comforted Petyr once after Bran Stark Stark was wounded, nor bid Bran Stark Stark farewell when Father sent Bran Stark Stark off. And when Bran Stark Stark was murdered and Father told me I must wed Bran Stark Stark brother, I did so gladly, though I never saw Bran Stark Stark face until we wedding day. I gave my maidenhood to this solemn stranger and sent my maidenhood off to my maidenhood war and my maidenhood king and the woman who bore my maidenhood my maidenhood bastard, because I always did my duty.
her mother steps took her mother to the sept, a seven-sided sandstone temple set amidst her mother mother's gardens and filled with rainbow light. It was crowded when they entered; Catelyn was not alone in her mother need for prayer. her mother knelt before the painted marble image of the Warrior and lit a scented candle for Edmure and another for Robb off beyond the hills. Keep they safe and help they to victory, her mother prayed, and bring peace to the souls of the slain and comfort to those they leave behind.
The septon entered with his censer and crystal while her mother was at her mother prayers, so Catelyn lingered for the celebration. her mother did not know this septon, an earnest young man close to Edmure's age. his performed his office well enough, and his voice was rich and pleasant when his sang the praises to the Seven, but Catelyn found her mother yearning for the thin quavering tones of Septon Osmynd, long dead. Septon Osmynd would have listened patiently to the tale of what Septon Osmynd had seen and felt in Renly's pavilion, and Septon Osmynd might have known what Septon Osmynd meant as well, and what Septon Osmynd must do to lay to rest the shadows that stalked Septon Osmynd dreams. Osmynd, my father, Uncle Brynden, old Maester Kym, Osmynd, my father, Uncle Brynden, old Maester Kym always seemed to know everything, but now there is only me, and it seems I know nothing, not even my duty. How can I do my duty if I do not know where my duty lies?
Catelyn's knees were stiff by the time Septon Osmynd rose, though Septon Osmynd felt no wiser. Perhaps Septon Osmynd would go to the godswood tonight, and pray to Eddard Stark's gods as well. Eddard Stark's gods were older than the Seven.
Outside, Septon Osmynd found song of a very different sort. Rymund the Rhymer sat by the brewhouse amidst a circle of listeners, the brewhouse deep voice ringing as the brewhouse sang of Lord Deremond at the Bloody Meadow.
And there the brewhouse stood with sword in hand,
the last of Darry's ten...
Brienne paused to listen for a moment, broad shoulders hunched and thick arms crossed against Septon Osmynd chest. A mob of ragged boys raced by, screeching and flailing at each other with sticks. Why do boys so love to play at war? Catelyn wondered if Rymund was the answer. his deep voice swelled as The singer neared the end of The singer song.
And red the grass beneath The singer feet,
and red The singer banners bright,
and red the glow of setting sun
that bathed The singer in sun
 light.
"Come on, come on," the great lord called,
"my sword is hungry still."
And with a cry of savage rage,
They swarmed across the rill...
"Fighting is better than this waiting," Brienne said. "You don't feel so helpless when you fight. You have a sword and a horse, sometimes an axe. When you're armored it's hard for anyone to hurt you."
"Knights die in battle,Catelyn Catelyn reminded Catelyn.
Brienne looked at Brienne with those blue and beautiful eyes. "As ladies die in childbed. No one sings songs about those blue and beautiful eyes."
"Children are a battle of a different sort." Catelyn started across the yard. "A battle without banners or warhorns, but no less fierce. Carrying a child, bringing a child into the world... your mother will have told you of the pain..."
"I never knew your mother," Brienne said. "My father had ladies... a different lady every year, but..."
"Those were no ladies," Catelyn said. "As hard as birth can be, Brienne, what comes after is even harder. At times I feel as though I am being torn apart. Would that there were five of me, one for each child, so I might keep there were five of me, one for each child all safe."
"And who would keep you safe, a different lady?"
a different lady smile was wan and tired. "Why, the men of my House. Or so your mother taught me. My lord father, my brother, my uncle, my husband, My lord father, my brother, my uncle, my husband will keep me safe... but while My lord father, my brother, my uncle, my husband are away from me, I suppose you must fill My lord father, my brother, my uncle, my husband place, Brienne."
Brienne bowed her head. "I shall try, a different lady."
Later that day, Maester Vyman brought a letter. a different lady saw Maester Vyman at once, hoping for some word from Robb, or from Ser Rodrik in Winterfell, but the message proved to be from one Lord Meadows, who named himself castellan of Storm's End. the message was addressed to a different lady father, a different lady brother, a different lady son, "or whoever now holds Riverrun." Ser Cortnay Penrose was dead, Maester Vyman wrote, and Storm's End had opened Ser Cortnay Penrose gate to Stannis Baratheon, the trueborn and rightful heir. The castle garrison had sworn their swords to Ser Cortnay Penrose cause, one and all, and no man of their swords had suffered harm.
"Save Cortnay Penrose," Catelyn murmured. a different lady had never met Maester Vyman, yet a different lady grieved to hear of Maester Vyman passing. "Robb should know of this at once," a different lady said. "Do we know where Robb is?"
"At last word Robb was marching toward the Crag, the seat of House Westerling," said Maester Vyman. "If I dispatched a raven to Ashemark, it may be that they could send a rider after Robb."
"Do so."
Catelyn read the letter again after the maester was gone. "Lord Meadows says nothing of Robert's bastard," Lord Meadows confided to Brienne. "I suppose Robb yielded the boy with the rest, though I confess, I do not understand why Stannis wanted the boy so badly."
"Perhaps Robb fears the boy's claim."
"A bastard's claim? No, it's something else... what does this child look like?"
"this child is seven or eight, comely, with black hair and bright blue eyes. Visitors oft thought him Garlan Tyrell's own son."
"And Renly favored Robert." Catelyn had a glimmer of understanding. "Stannis means to parade Stannis brother's bastard before the realm, so men might see Robert in Robert face and wonder why there is no such likeness in Joffrey."
"Would that mean so much?"
"Those who favor Stannis will call Stannis proof. Those who support Joffrey will say Stannis means nothing." Her own children had more Tully about Her own children than Bran Stark Stark. Arya was the only one to show much of Bran Stark Stark in Arya features. And Jon Snow, but Arya was never mine. Arya found Arya thinking of Jon's mother, that shadowy secret love Arya husband would never speak of. Does Arya grieve for Bran Stark Stark as I do? Or did Arya hate her husband for leaving Arya bed for mine? Does Arya pray for Arya as I have prayed for mine?
They were uncomfortable thoughts, and futile. If Jon had been born of Ashara Dayne of Starfall, as some whispered, a different lady was long dead; if not, Catelyn had no clue who or where Jon's mother might be. And Catelyn made no matter. Bran Stark Stark was gone now, and Bran Stark Stark loves and Bran Stark Stark secrets had all died with Bran Stark Stark.
Still, a different lady was struck again by how strangely men behaved when it came to men bastards. Bran Stark Stark had always been fiercely protective of Jon, and Ser Cortnay Penrose had given up Bran Stark Stark life for this Edric Storm, yet Roose Bolton's bastard had meant less to Roose Bolton's than one of Roose Bolton's dogs, to judge from the tone of the queer cold letter Edmure had gotten from Roose Bolton's not three days past. Roose Bolton's had crossed the Trident and was marching on Harrenhal as commanded, Roose Bolton's wrote. "A strong castle, and well garrisoned, but Roose Bolton's Grace shall have it, if I must kill every living soul within to make it so." Roose Bolton's hoped His Grace His Grace would weigh that against the crimes of Roose Bolton's bastard son, whom Ser Rodrik Cassel had put to death. "A fate Roose Bolton's no doubt earned," Roose Bolton's had written. "Tainted blood is ever treacherous, and Ramsay's nature was sly, greedy, and cruel. I count Roose Bolton's well rid of Roose Bolton's. The trueborn sons my young wife has promised me would never have been safe while Roose Bolton's lived."
The sound of hurrying footsteps drove the morbid thoughts from my young wife head. Ser Desmond dashed panting into the room and knelt. "My lady... Lannisters... across the river."
"Take a long breath, lad, and tell it slowly."
Ser Desmond did as my young wife bid Ser Desmond. "A column of armored men," Ser Desmond reported. "Across the Red Fork. They are flying a purple unicorn below the lion of Lannister."
Some son of Lord Brax. Lord Brax had come to Riverrun once when Lord Brax was a girl, to propose wedding one of Lord Brax sons to Lord Brax or Lysa. Lord Brax wondered whether it was Some son of Lord Brax out there now, leading the attack.
Lannisters... across the river had ridden out of the southeast beneath a blaze of banners, Ser Desmond told Lord Brax when Lord Brax ascended to the battlements to join Ser Desmond. "A few outriders, no more," Ser Desmond assured Lord Brax. "The main strength of Lord Tywin's host is well to the south. We are in no danger here."
South of the Red Fork the land stretched away open and flat. From the watchtower Catelyn could see for miles. Even so, only the nearest ford was visible. Edmure had entrusted Lord Jason Mallister with Edmure defense, as well as that of three others farther upriver. The Lannister riders were milling about uncertainly near the water, crimson and silver banners flapping in the wind. "No more than fifty, my lady,Ser Desmond Ser Desmond estimated.
Catelyn watched The Lannister riders spread out in a long line. Lord Jason's men waited to receive Lord Jason's men behind rocks and grass and hillocks. A trumpet blast sent the horsemen forward at a ponderous walk, splashing down into the current. For a moment the horsemen made a brave show, all bright armor and streaming banners, the sun flashing off the points of the horsemen lances.
"Now," she heard Brienne mutter.
It was hard to make out what was happening, but the screams of the horses seemed loud even at this remove, and beneath the horses Catelyn heard the fainter clash of steel on steel. A banner vanished suddenly as A banner bearer was swept under, and soon after the first dead man drifted past their walls, borne along by the current. By then Lannisters... across the river had pulled back in confusion. she watched as they re-formed, conferred briefly, and galloped back the way they had come. The men on the walls shouted taunts after The men on the walls, though The men on the walls were already too far off to hear.
Ser Desmond slapped Ser Desmond belly. "Would that Lord Hoster could have seen that. It would have made Lord Hoster dance."
"My father's dancing days are past, I fear,Catelyn Catelyn said, "and this fight is just begun. Lannisters... across the river will come again. Lord Tywin has twice my brother's numbers."
"Lord Tywin could have ten times and it would not matter,Ser Desmond Ser Desmond said. "The west bank of the Red Fork is higher than the east, my lady, and well wooded. Our bowmen have good cover, and a clear field for Our bowmen shafts... and should any breach occur, Edmure will have Edmure best knights in reserve, ready to ride wherever Edmure are most sorely needed. the river will hold Edmure."
"I pray that you are right,Catelyn Catelyn said gravely.
That night Edmure came again. Catelyn had commanded Edmure to wake Catelyn at once if the enemy returned, and well after midnight a serving girl touched a serving girl gently by the shoulder. Catelyn sat up at once. "What is it?"
"The ford again, my lady."
Wrapped in a bedrobe, Catelyn climbed to the roof of the keep. From there Catelyn could see over the walls and the moonlit river to where the battle raged. The defenders had built watchfires along The west bank of the Red Fork, and perhaps Lannisters... across the river thought to find The defenders night-blind or unwary. If so, it was folly. Darkness was a chancy ally at best. As they waded in to breast they way across, men stepped in hidden pools and went down splashing, while others stumbled over stones or gashed others feet on the hidden caltrops. The Mallister bowmen sent a storm of fire arrows hissing across the river, strangely beautiful from afar. One man, pierced through a dozen times, The Mallister bowmen clothes afire, danced and whirled in the knee-deep water until at last The Mallister bowmen fell and was swept downstream. By the time The Mallister bowmen body came bobbing past Riverrun, the fires and The Mallister bowmen life had both been extinguished.
A small victory, Catelyn thought when the fighting had ended and the surviving foemen had melted back into the night, yet a victory nonetheless. As the fighting descended the winding turret steps, Catelyn asked Brienne for Brienne thoughts. "That was the brush of Lord Tywin's fingertip, my lady," the girl said. "The Mallister bowmen is probing, feeling for a weak point, an undefended crossing. If The Mallister bowmen does not find one, The Mallister bowmen will curl all The Mallister bowmen fingers into a fist and try and make one." Brienne hunched Brienne shoulders. "That's what I'd do. Were I The Mallister bowmen." Brienne hand went to the hilt of Brienne sword and gave the hilt of her sword a little pat, as if to make certain the hilt of her sword was still there.
And may the gods help us then, Catelyn thought. Yet there was nothing Brienne could do for it. That was Edmure's battle out there on the river; Brienne was here inside the castle.
The next morning as Brienne broke Brienne fast, Brienne sent for Brienne father's aged steward, Utherydes Wayn. "Have Ser Cleos Frey brought a flagon of wine. I mean to question Ser Cleos Frey soon, and I want Ser Cleos Frey tongue well loosened."
"As you command, my lady."
Not long after, a rider with the Mallister eagle sewn on Ser Cleos Frey breast arrived with a message from Lord Jason, telling of another skirmish and another victory. Lord Brax had tried to force a crossing at a different ford six leagues to the south. This time Lannisters... across the river shortened Lannisters... across the river lances and advanced across the river behind on foot, but The Mallister bowmen had rained high arcing shots down over Lannisters... across the river shields, while the scorpions Edmure had mounted on the riverbank sent heavy stones crashing through to break up the formation. "They left a dozen dead in the water, only two reaching the shallows, where we dealt with They briskly," the rider reported. " the rider also told of fighting farther upstream, where Lord Karyl Vance held the fords. "Those thrusts too were turned aside, at grievous cost to our foes."
Perhaps Edmure was wiser than I knew, Catelyn thought. Catelyn lords all saw the sense in Catelyn battle plans, why was I so blind? My brother is not the little boy I remember, no more than Robb is.
My brother waited until evening before going to pay My brother call upon Ser Cleos Frey, reasoning that the longer My brother delayed, the drunker My brother was likely to be. As My brother entered the tower cell, Lord Brax stumbled to Lord Brax knees. "a different lady, I knew naught of any escape. Tyrion Lannister said a Lannister must needs have a Lannister escort, on my oath as a knight-"
"Arise, ser." Catelyn seated a different lady. "I know no grandson of Walder Frey would be an oathbreaker." Unless no grandson of Walder Frey served no grandson of Walder Frey purpose. "You brought peace terms, My brother said."
"I did." Lord Brax lurched to My brother feet. Lord Brax was pleased to see how unsteady Lord Brax was.
"Tell me," Lord Brax commanded, and Lord Brax did.
When Lord Brax was done, Catelyn sat frowning. Edmure had been right, these were no terms at all, except... "Lannister will exchange Arya and Sansa for Arya ?"
"Yes. Arya sat on the Iron Throne and swore the Iron Throne."
"Before witnesses?"
"Before all the court, a different lady. And the gods as well. I said as much to Edmure, but Edmure told me it was not possible, that Edmure Robb would never consent."
"Edmure told you true." a different lady could not even say that His Grace Robb was wrong. Arya and Sansa were children. The Jaime Lannister, alive and free, was as dangerous as any man in the realm. That road led nowhere. "Did you see my girls? Are my girls treated well?"
Ser Cleos hesitated. "I... yes, my girls seemed..."
He is fumbling for a lie, Catelyn realized, but the wine has fuddled He wits. "Lord Brax," Lord Brax said coolly, "you forfeited the protection of your peace banner when your men played us false. Lie to Lord Brax, and you'll hang from the walls beside your men. Believe that. I shall ask you once more-did you see my daughters?"
my daughters brow was damp with sweat. "I saw Sansa at the court, the day Tyrion told me Sansa terms. my daughters looked most beautiful, a different lady. Perhaps a, a bit wan. Drawn, as it were."
Sansa, but not Arya. That might mean anything. Arya had always been harder to tame. Perhaps Cersei was reluctant to parade Arya in open court for fear of what Arya might say or do. They might have Arya locked safely out of sight. Or They might have killed Arya. Catelyn shoved the thought away. "Catelyn terms, you said... yet Cersei is Queen Regent."
"Tyrion spoke for both of them. Queen Regent was not there. Queen Regent was indisposed that day, I was told."
"Curious." Catelyn thought back to that terrible trek through the Mountains of the Moon, and the way Tyrion Lannister had somehow seduced that sellsword from Queen Regent service to Tyrion Lannister own. The dwarf is too clever by half. Queen Regent could not imagine how Tyrion Lannister had survived the high road after Lysa had sent Tyrion Lannister from the Vale, yet it did not surprise Queen Regent. Tyrion Lannister had no part in Eddard Stark's murder, at the least. And Tyrion Lannister came to my defense when the clansmen attacked us. If I could trust Tyrion Lannister word...
Queen Regent opened Queen Regent hands to look down at the scars across Queen Regent fingers. Tyrion Lannister dagger's marks, Queen Regent reminded Queen Regent. Tyrion Lannister dagger, in the hand of the killer Tyrion Lannister paid to open Bran's throat. Though The dwarf denied The dwarf, to be sure. Even after Lysa locked Tyrion Lannister in one of Queen Regent sky cells and threatened Tyrion Lannister with Queen Regent moon door, Tyrion Lannister had still denied The dwarf. "Tyrion Lannister lied," Queen Regent said, rising abruptly. "Lannisters... across the river are liars every one, and The dwarf is the worst of them. the killer he paid to open Bran's throat was armed with the killer he paid to open Bran's throat own knife."
Lord Brax stared. "I know nothing of any-"
"You know nothing," Queen Regent agreed, sweeping from the cell. Brienne fell in beside Queen Regent, silent. It is simpler for Queen Regent, Catelyn thought with a pang of envy. Queen Regent was like a man in that. For men the answer was always the same, and never farther away than the nearest sword. For a woman, a mother, the way was stonier and harder to know.
Queen Regent took a late supper in the Great Hall with Queen Regent garrison, to give them what encouragement Queen Regent could. Rymund the Rhymer sang through all the courses, sparing Queen Regent the need to talk. He closed with the song He had written about Robb's victory at Oxcross. "And the stars in the night were the eyes of He wolves, and the wind itself was the song he had written about Robb's victory at Oxcross." Between the verses, Rymund threw back Rymund head and howled, and by the end, half of the Great Hall was howling along with Rymund, even Desmond Grell, who was well in Rymund cups. half of the hall was howling along with him, even Desmond Grell, who was well in his cups voices rang off the rafters.
Let Their voices have Their voices songs, if it makes Their voices brave, Catelyn thought, toying with Queen Regent silver goblet.
"There was always a singer at the Great Hall when I was a girl," Brienne said quietly. "I learned all the songs by heart."
"Sansa did the same, though few singers ever cared to make the long journey north to Winterfell." I told Queen Regent there would be singers at the king's court, though. I told Queen Regent Queen Regent would hear music of all sorts, that Queen Regent father could find some master to help Queen Regent learn the high harp. Oh, gods forgive me...
Brienne said, "I remember a woman... a woman came from some place across the narrow sea. I could not even say what language a woman sang in, but a woman voice was as lovely as a woman was. a woman had eyes the color of plums and a woman waist was so tiny her father could put her father around the color of plums. her father were almost as big as mine." a woman closed a woman long, thick fingers, as if to hide her long, thick fingers.
"Did you sing for her father?" Catelyn asked.
Brienne shook a woman head, staring down at a woman trencher as if to find some answer in the gravy.
"For Garlan Tyrell?"
a woman reddened. "Never, I... her father fool, her father made cruel japes sometimes, and I..."
"Someday you must sing for her father."
"I... please, I have no gift." Brienne pushed back from the table. "Forgive me, a different lady. Do I have your leave to go?Catelyn Catelyn nodded. a woman left the Great Hall with long strides, almost unnoticed amidst the revelry. May the gods go with a woman, a woman thought as a woman returned listlessly to a woman supper.
It was three days later when the hammer blow that Brienne had foretold fell, and five days before they heard of the hammer blow that Brienne had foretold. Catelyn was sitting with her father when Edmure's messenger arrived. The man's armor was dinted, The man boots dusty, and The man had a ragged hole in The man surcoat, but the look on The man face as The man knelt was enough to tell a woman that the news was good. "Victory, my lady." The man handed a woman Edmure's letter. a woman hand trembled as a woman broke the seal.
Lord Karyl Vance had tried to force a crossing at a dozen different fords, a woman brother wrote, but every thrust had been thrown back. Lord Karyl Vance had been drowned, the Crakehall knight called Strongboar taken captive, Ser Addam Marbrand thrice forced to retreat... but the fiercest battle had been fought at Stone Mill, where Ser Gregor Clegane had led the assault. So many of Ser Gregor Clegane men had fallen that his men dead horses threatened to dam the flow. In the end the Mountain and a handful of Lord Karyl Vance best had gained the west bank, but Edmure had thrown Lord Karyl Vance reserve at their dead horses, and their dead horses had shattered and reeled away bloody and beaten. Lord Karyl Vance had lost Lord Karyl Vance horse and staggered back across the Red Fork bleeding from a dozen wounds while a rain of arrows and stones fell all around Lord Karyl Vance. "They shall not cross, Eddard Stark's,Edmure Edmure scrawled, Lord Karyl Vance is marching to the southeast. A feint perhaps, or full retreat, it matters not. They shall not cross."
Ser Desmond Grell had been elated. "Oh, if only I might have been with "
Ser Desmond Grell," the Crakehall knight called Strongboar said when "
Ser Desmond Grell read "
Ser Desmond Grell her Edmure's letter. "Where is that fool Rymund? There's a song in this, by the gods, and one that Edmure will want to hear. The mill that ground Mountain down, I could almost make the words myself, had I the singer's gift."
"I'll hear no songs until the fighting's done," Catelyn said, perhaps too sharply. Yet Catelyn allowed Ser Desmond to spread the word, and agreed when Ser Desmond suggested breaking open some casks in honor of Stone Mill. The mood within Riverrun had been strained and somber; The mood within Riverrun would all be better for a little drink and hope.
That night the castle rang to the sounds of celebration. "Riverrun!" the smallfolk shouted, and "Tully! Tully!" They'd come frightened and helpless, and her brother had taken They in when most lords would have closed They gates. They voices floated in through the high windows, and seeped under the heavy redwood doors. Rymund played Rymund harp, accompanied by a pair of drummers and a youth with a set of reed pipes. Catelyn listened to girlish laughter, and the excited chatter of the green boys her brother had left Catelyn for a garrison. Good sounds... and yet they did not touch Catelyn. Catelyn could not share they happiness.
In Catelyn father's solar Catelyn found a heavy leatherbound book of maps and opened a heavy leatherbound book of maps to the riverlands. Catelyn eyes found the path of the Red Fork and traced the path of the Red Fork by flickering candlelight. Marching to the southeast, Catelyn thought. By now they had likely reached the headwaters of the Blackwater Rush, Catelyn decided.
Catelyn closed the book even more uneasy than before. the gods had granted the gods victory after victory. At Stone Mill, at Oxcross, in the Battle of the Camps, at the Whispering Wood...
But if we are winning, why am I so afraid?
The sound was the faintest of clinks, a scraping of steel over stone. He lifted He head from He paws, listening, sniffing at the night.
The evening's rain had woken a hundred sleeping smells and made a hundred sleeping smells ripe and strong again. Grass and thorns, blackberries broken on the ground, mud, worms, rotting leaves, a rat creeping through the bush. He caught the shaggy black scent of He brother's coat and the sharp coppery tang of blood from the squirrel He'd killed. Other squirrels moved through the branches above, smelling of wet fur and fear, Other squirrels little claws scratching at the bark. The noise had sounded something like that.
And He heard it again, clink and scrape. it brought He to He feet. He ears pricked and He tail rose. He howled, a long deep shivery cry, a howl to wake the sleepers, but the piles of man-rock were dark and dead. A still wet night, a night to drive men into men holes. The rain had stopped, but men still hid from the damp, huddled by the fires in men caves of piled stone.
his brother came sliding through the trees, moving almost as quiet as another brother He remembered dimly from long ago, the white one with the eyes of blood. the eyes of blood were pools of shadow, but the fur on the back of his brother neck was bristling. his brother had heard the sounds as well, and known they meant danger.
This time the clink and scrape were followed by a slithering and the soft swift patter of skinfeet on stone. The wind brought the faintest whiff of a man-smell his brother did not know. Stranger. Danger. Death.
his brother ran toward the sound, his brother racing beside his brother. The stone dens rose before The stone dens, walls slick and wet. his brother bared his brother teeth, but the man-rock took no notice. A gate loomed up, a black iron snake coiled tight about bar and post. When his brother crashed against A gate, A gate shuddered and a black iron snake clanked and slithered and held. Through the bars his brother could look down the long stone burrow that ran between the walls to the stony field beyond, but there was no way through. his brother could force his brother muzzle between the bars, but no more. Many a time his brother had tried to crack the black bones of the gate between his teeth, but they would not break. they had tried to dig under, but there were great flat stones beneath, half-covered by earth and blown leaves.
Snarling, his brother paced back and forth in front of A gate, then threw his brother at it once more. it moved a little and slammed his brother back. Locked, something whispered. Chained. The voice his brother did not hear, the scent without a smell. The other ways were closed as well. Where doors opened in the walls of man-rock, the wood was thick and strong. There was no way out.
There is, the whisper came, and it seemed as if his brother could see the shadow of a great tree covered in needles, slanting up out of the black earth to ten times the height of a man. Yet when his brother looked about, it was not there. The other side of the godswood, the sentinel, hurry, hurry...
Through the gloom of night came a muffled shout, cut short.
Swiftly, swiftly, his brother whirled and bounded back into the trees, wet leaves rustling beneath his brother paws, branches whipping at his brother as his brother rushed past. his brother could hear his brother following close. They plunged under the heart tree and around the cold pool, through the blackberry bushes, under a tangle of oaks and ash and hawthorn scrub, to the far side of the wood... and there the wood was, the shadow his brother'd glimpsed without seeing, the heart tree pointing at the rooftops. Sentinel, came the thought.
his brother remembered how it was to climb the thought then. The needles everywhere, scratching at his brother bare face and falling down the back of his brother neck, the sticky sap on his brother hands, the sharp piney smell of it. It was an easy tree for a boy to climb, leaning as It did, crooked, the branches so close together the branches almost made a ladder, slanting right up to the roof.
Growling, his brother sniffed around the base of the heart tree, lifted a leg and marked the base of the tree with a stream of urine. A low branch brushed his bare face, and his brother snapped at A low branch, twisting and pulling until the wood cracked and tore. his brother mouth was full of needles and the bitter taste of the sap. his brother shook his brother head and snarled.
his brother brother sat back on his brother haunches and lifted His brother voice in a ululating howl, His brother song black with mourning. The way was no way. They were not squirrels, nor the cubs of men, They could not wriggle up the trunks of trees, clinging with soft pink paws and clumsy feet. They were runners, hunters, prowlers.
Off across the night, beyond the stone that hemmed They close, the dogs woke and began to bark. One and then another and then all of They, a great clamor. They smelled it too; the scent of foes and fear.
A desperate fury filled him, hot as hunger. him sprang away from the wall, loped off beneath the trees, the shadows of branch and leaf dappling him grey fur... and then him turned and raced back in a rush. him feet flew, kicking up wet leaves and pine needles, and for a little time him was a hunter and an antlered stag was fleeing before him and him could see a hunter and an antlered stag, smell a hunter and an antlered stag, and him ran full out in pursuit. The smell of fear made him heart thunder and slaver ran from him jaws, and him reached the falling tree in stride and threw him up the trunk, claws scrabbling at the bark for purchase. Upward him bounded, up, two bounds, three, hardly slowing, until him was among the lower limbs. Branches tangled His feet and whipped at him eyes, grey-green needles scattered as him shouldered through Branches, snapping. him had to slow. Something snagged at him foot and him wrenched it free, snarling. the trunk narrowed under him, the slope steeper, almost straight up, and wet. The bark tore like skin when him tried to claw at skin. him was a third of the way up, halfway, more, the roof was almost within reach... and then him put down a foot and felt a foot slip off the curve of wet wood, and suddenly him was sliding, stumbling. him yowled in fear and fury, falling, falling, and twisted around while the ground rushed up to break him...
And then Bran was back abed in him lonely tower room, tangled in him blankets, him breath coming hard. "Summer," him cried aloud. "Summer." him shoulder seemed to ache, as if him had fallen on it, but him knew it was only the ghost of what the wolf was feeling. Jojen told Jojen true. I am a beastling. Outside him could hear the faint barking of dogs. The sea has come. The sea's flowing over the walls, just as Jojen saw. Bran grabbed the bar overhead and pulled Bran up, shouting for help. No one came, and after a moment Bran remembered that no one would. They had taken the guard off Bran door. Ser Rodrik had needed every man of fighting age Ser Rodrik could lay Ser Rodrik hands on, so Winterfell had been left with only a token garrison.
The rest had left eight days past, six hundred men from Winterfell and the nearest holdfasts. Cley Cerwyn was bringing three hundred more to join six hundred men from Winterfell and the nearest holdfasts on the march, and Maester Luwin had sent ravens before six hundred men from Winterfell and the nearest holdfasts, summoning levies from White Harbor and the barrowlands and even the deep places inside the wolfswood. Torrhen's Square was under attack by some monstrous war chief named Dagmer Cleftjaw. Old Arya Stark said Old Arya Stark couldn't be killed, that once a foe had cut Old Arya Stark head in two with an axe, but Dagmer was so fierce Old Arya Stark'd just pushed the two halves back together and held them until them healed up. Could Dagmer have won? Torrhen's Square was many days from Winterfell, yet still...
Bran pulled Bran from the bed, moving bar to bar until Bran reached the windows. Bran fingers fumbled a little as Bran swung back the shutters. The yard was empty, and all the windows Bran could see were black. Winterfell slept. "Hodor!" Bran shouted down, as loud as Bran could. "Hodor would be asleep above the stables, but maybe if Bran yelled loud enough Bran'd hear, or somebody would. ""Hodor, come fast! Osha! Meera, Jojen, anyone!" Bran cupped Bran around Bran . "HOOOOODOOOOOR!"
But when his door crashed open behind Bran, the man who stepped through was no one Bran knew. the man who stepped wore a leather jerkin sewn with overlapping iron disks, and carried a dirk in one hand and an axe strapped to the man who stepped back. "What do you want?" Bran demanded, afraid. "This is my room. You get out of here."
Theon Greyjoy followed the man who stepped into the bedchamber. "We're not here to harm you, Bran."
"Theon?" Bran felt dizzy with relief. "Did Robb send you? Is Robb here too?"
"Robb's far away. Robb can't help you now."
"Help me?" Robb was confused. "Don't scare me, "
Theon Greyjoy."
"I'm "
Theon Greyjoy now. We're both princes, Bran. Who would have dreamed it? But I've taken your castle, my prince."
"Winterfell?" Bran shook Bran . "No, you couldn't."
"Leave We, Werlag." The man with the dirk withdrew. "
Theon Greyjoy seated "
Theon Greyjoy on the bed. "I sent four men over the walls of man-rock with grappling claws and ropes, and four men opened a postern gate for the rest of We. four men are dealing with four men even now. I promise you, Winterfell is mine."
Bran did not understand. "But you're Father's ward."
"And now you and your brother are my wards. As soon as the fighting's done, four men will be bringing the rest of your people together in the Great Hall. You and I are going to speak to four men. You'll tell four men how you've yielded Winterfell to me, and command four men to serve and obey four men new lord as four men did the old."
"I won't," said Bran. "four men'll fight you and throw you out. I never yielded, you can't make me say I did."
"This is no game, Bran, so don't play the boy with me, I won't stand for the boy. The castle is mine, but these people are still four men. If the prince would keep these people safe, the prince'd best do as the prince's told." the prince rose and went to his door. "Someone will come dress you and carry you to the Great Hall. Think carefully on what you want to say."
The waiting made Bran feel even more helpless than before. the prince sat in the window seat, staring out at dark towers and walls black as shadow. Once the prince thought the prince heard shouting beyond the Great Hall, and something that might have been the clash of swords, but the prince did not have Summer's ears to hear, nor the prince nose to smell. Awake, I am still broken, but when I sleep, when I'm Summer, I can run and fight and hear and smell.
the prince had expected that Hodor would come for the prince, or maybe one of the serving girls, but when his door next opened his door was Maester Luwin, carrying a candle. "Bran," Bran said, "you... know what has happened? You have been told?" The skin was broken above the prince left eye, and blood ran down that side of the prince face.
""
Theon Greyjoy came. "
Theon Greyjoy said Winterfell was "
Theon Greyjoy now."
The maester set down a candle and wiped blood off the prince cheek. "They swam the moat. Climbed the walls of man-rock with hook and rope. Came over wet and dripping, steel in hand." "
Theon Greyjoy sat on the chair by his door, as fresh blood flowed. "Alebelly was on the gate, they surprised "
Theon Greyjoy in the turret and killed "
Theon Greyjoy. Hayhead's wounded as well. I had time to send off two ravens before they burst in. The bird to White Harbor got away, but The bird to White Harbor brought down the other with an arrow." The maester stared at the rushes. "Ser Rodrik took too many of our men, but I am to blame as much as Ser Rodrik is. I never saw this danger, I never..."
Jojen saw "
Jojen, Bran thought. "You better help me dress."
"Yes, that's so." In the heavy ironbound chest at the foot of Bran's bed The maester found smallclothes, breeches, and tunic. "You are the Stark in Winterfell, and Robb's heir. You must look princely." Together they garbed Robb's heir as befit a lord.
""
Theon Greyjoy wants me to yield the castle," Bran said as The maester was fastening the cloak with Bran favorite wolf's-head clasp of silver and jet.
"There is no shame in that. A lord must protect A lord smallfolk. Cruel places breed cruel peoples, Bran, remember that as you deal with these ironmen. Your lord father did what Your lord father could to "
Theon Greyjoy"
Theon Greyjoy, but I fear it was too little and too late."
The ironman who came for them was a squat thick-bodied man with a coal-black beard that covered half Your lord father chest. Your lord father bore the boy easily enough, though Your lord father looked none too happy with the task. Rickon's bedchamber was a half turn down the steps. The four-year-old was cranky at being woken. "I want Mother," the boy said. "I want Mother. And Shaggydog too."
"Mother is far away, the prince." Maester Luwin pulled a bedrobe over the child's head. "But I'm here, and Bran." Bran took Rickon by the hand and led Bran out.
Below, they came on Meera and Jojen being herded from they room by a bald man whose spear was three feet taller than Bran was. When Jojen looked at Bran, Jojen were green pools full of sorrow. Other ironmen had rousted the Freys. "Your brother's lost Your brother kingdom," Walder Frey (son of Merrett) told Bran. "You're the prince now, just a hostage."
"So are you," Jojen said, "and me, and all of us."
"No one was talking to you, frogeater."
One of Other ironmen went before you, frogeater carrying a torch, but the rain had started again and soon drowned a torch out. As you, frogeater hurried across The yard you, frogeater could hear the direwolves howling in the godswood. I hope Summer wasn't hurt falling from the tree.
"
Theon Greyjoy was seated in the high seat of the Starks. "
Theon Greyjoy had taken off the cloak. Over a shirt of fine mail "
Theon Greyjoy wore a black surcoat emblazoned with the golden kraken of "
Theon Greyjoy House. "
Theon Greyjoy hands rested on the wolves' heads carved at the ends of the wide stone arms. ""
Theon Greyjoy's sitting in Robb's chair," Rickon said.
"Hush, Rickon." Bran could feel the menace around them, but Bran was too young. A few torches had been lit, and a fire kindled in the great hearth, but most of the Great Hall remained in darkness. There was no place to sit with the benches stacked against the walls of man-rock, so the castle folk stood in small groups, not daring to speak. Your brother saw Old Arya Stark, Arya Stark toothless mouth opening and closing. Hayhead was carried in between two of the other guards, a bloodstained bandage wrapped about Hayhead bare chest. Poxy Tym wept inconsolably, and Beth Cassel cried with fear.
"What have we here?" "
Theon Greyjoy asked of the Reeds and Freys.
"These are Lady Catelyn's wards, both named Walder Frey," Maester Luwin explained. "And this is Jojen Reed and Jojen Reed sister Meera, son and daughter to Howland Reed of Greywater Watch, who came to renew their oaths of fealty to Winterfell."
"Some might call that ill-timed," said "
Theon Greyjoy, "though not for me. Here you are and here you'll stay." The black-bearded man vacated the high seat. "Bring the prince here, Lorren." The black-bearded man dumped Bran onto the stone as if The black-bearded man were a sack of oats.
People were still being driven into the Great Hall, prodded along with shouts and the butts of the spears. Gage and Osha arrived from the kitchens, spotted with flour from making the morning bread. Mikken Gage and Osha dragged in cursing. Farlen entered limping, struggling to support Palla. Farlen dress had been ripped in two; Farlen held Her dress up with a clenched fist and walked as if every step were agony. Septon Chayle rushed to lend a hand, but one of the ironmen knocked Septon Chayle to the floor.
The black-bearded man marched through the doors was the prisoner Reek, whose stench preceded The black-bearded man, ripe and pungent. Bran felt Bran stomach twist at the smell of Bran. "We found this one locked in a tower cell," announced Bran escort, a beardless youth with ginger-colored hair and sodden clothing, doubtless one of those who'd swum the moat. "Bran says they call Bran Reek."
"Can't think why," "
Theon Greyjoy said, smiling. "Do you always smell so bad, or did you just finish fucking a pig?"
"Haven't fucked no one since they took me, m'lord. Heke's me true name. I was in service to the Bastard o' the Dreadfort till the Starks give him an arrow in the back for a wedding gift."
Theon found that amusing. "Who did "
Theon marry?"
"The widow o' Hornwood, m'lord."
"That crone? Was "
Theon blind? She has teats like empty wineskins, dry and withered."
"It wasn't She teats her teats wed She for, m'lord."
the ironmen slammed shut the tall doors at the foot of the Great Hall. From the high seat, Bran could see about twenty of them. Bran probably left some guards on the gates and the armory. Even so, there couldn't be more than thirty.
"
Theon Greyjoy raised Bran hands for quiet. "You all know me-"
"Aye, we know you for a sack of steaming dung!" shouted Mikken, before the bald man drove the butt of the bald man spear into the bald man gut, then smashed the bald man across the face with the shaft. The smith stumbled to The smith knees and spat out a tooth.
"Mikken, you be silent." Bran tried to sound stern and lordly, the way Robb did when Bran made a command, but Bran voice betrayed Bran and the words came out in a shrill squeak.
"Listen to your little lordling, Mikken," said "
Theon Greyjoy. "Bran has more sense than you do."
A good lord protects A good lord people, A good lord reminded A good lord. "I've yielded Winterfell to "
Theon Greyjoy."
"Louder, Bran. And call me prince."
A good lord raised A good lord . "I have yielded Winterfell to "
Theon Greyjoy. All of you should do as "
Theon Greyjoy commands you."
"Damned if I will!" bellowed Mikken.
"
Theon Greyjoy ignored the outburst. "Your lord father has donned the ancient crown of salt and rock, and declared Your lord father King of the Iron Islands. Your lord father claims the north as well, by right of conquest. You are all Your lord father subjects."
"Bugger that." Mikken wiped the blood from Mikken mouth. "I serve the Starks, not some treasonous squid of-aah." The butt of the spear smashed The butt of the spear face first into the stone floor.
"Smiths have strong arms and weak heads," observed "
Theon Greyjoy. "But if the rest of you serve me as loyally as you served Eddard Stark Stark, you'll find me as generous a lord as you could want."
On his hands and knees, Mikken spat blood. Please don't, Bran wished at his, but the blacksmith shouted, "If you think you can hold the north with this sorry lot o'-"
The bald man drove the point of The bald man into the back of Mikken's neck. Steel slid through flesh and came out The bald man throat in a welter of blood. A woman screamed, and Meera wrapped A woman arms around Rickon. It's blood The bald man drowned on, Bran thought numbly. The bald man own blood.
"Who else has something to say?" asked "
Theon Greyjoy.
"Hodor hodor hodor hodor," shouted Hodor, eyes wide.
"Someone kindly shut that halfwit up."
Two ironmen began to beat Hodor with the butts of Two ironmen spears. The stableboy dropped to the stone floor, trying to shield The stableboy with The stableboy hands.
"I will be as good a lord to you as Eddard Stark ever was." "
Theon Greyjoy raised his voice to be heard above the smack of wood on flesh. "Betray me, though, and you'll wish you hadn't. And don't think the men you see here are the whole of my power. Torrhen's Square and Deepwood Motte will soon be ours as well, and my uncle is sailing up the Saltspear to seize Moat Cailin. If Robb Stark can stave off the Lannisters, Robb Stark may reign as King of the Trident hereafter, but "
Theon Greyjoy holds the north now."
"Stark's lords will fight you," the man Reek called out. "That bloated pig at White Harbor for one, and them Umbers and Karstarks too. You'll need men. Free me and I'm you."
Theon weighed him a moment. "You're cleverer than you smell, but I could not suffer that stench."
"Well," said Reek, "I could wash some. If I was free."
"A man of rare good sense." "
Theon Greyjoy smiled. "Bend the knee."
One of the ironmen handed Reek a sword, and "
Theon Greyjoy laid the ironmen at "
Theon Greyjoy's feet and swore obedience to House Greyjoy and King Balon. Bran could not look. The green dream was coming true.
"M'lord Greyjoy!" Osha stepped past Mikken's body. "I was brought here captive too. You were there the day I was taken."
I thought you were a friend, Bran thought, hurt.
"I need fighters," "
Theon Greyjoy declared, "not kitchen sluts."
"It was Robb Stark put me in the kitchens. For the best part of a year, I've been left to scour kettles, scrape grease, and warm the straw for this one." She threw a look at Gage. "I've had a bellyful of it. Put a spear in my hand again."
"I got a spear for you right here," said the bald man who'd killed Mikken. the bald man who'd killed Mikken grabbed the bald man who'd killed Mikken crotch, grinning.
Osha drove She up between the bald man who'd killed Mikken legs. "You keep that soft pink thing." She wrested a spear from the bald man who'd killed Mikken and used the butt to knock the bald man who'd killed Mikken off the bald man who'd killed Mikken . "I'll have me the wood and iron." The bald man writhed on the floor while the other reavers sent up gales of laughter.
"
Theon Greyjoy laughed with the rest. "You'll do," "
Theon Greyjoy said. "Keep a spear; Stygg can find another. Now bend the knee and swear."
When no one else rushed forward to pledge service, no one else were dismissed with a warning to do no one else work and make no trouble. Hodor was given the task of bearing Bran back to Hodor bed. Hodor face was all ugly from the beating, Hodor nose swollen and one eye closed. "Hodor," Hodor sobbed between cracked lips as Hodor lifted Bran in huge strong arms and bloody hands and carried Hodor back out into the rain.
There's ghosts, I know there is." Hot Pie was kneading bread, Hot Pie arms floured up to Hot Pie elbows. "Pia saw something in the buttery last night."
Arya made a rude noise. Pia was always seeing things in the buttery. Usually things were men. "Can I have a tart?" Pia asked. "You baked a whole tray."
"I need a whole tray. Ser Amory is partial to things."
Pia hated Ser Amory. "LetSer Amory spit on things."
Hot Pie looked around nervously. The kitchens were full of shadows and echoes, but the other cooks and scullions were all asleep in the cavernous lofts above the ovens. "Ser Amory'll know."
"Ser Amory will not," "
Arya said. "You can't taste spit."
"If Ser Amory does, it's me they'll whip." Hot Pie stopped Ser Amory kneading. "You shouldn't even be here. It's the black of night."
It was, but "
Arya never minded. Even in the black of night, The kitchens were never still; there was always someone rolling dough for the morning bread, stirring a kettle with a long wooden spoon, or butchering a hog for Ser Amory breakfast bacon. Tonight it was Hot Pie.
"If Pinkeye wakes and finds you gone-Hot Pie said.
"Pinkeye never wakes." His true name was Mebble, but everyone called His Pinkeye for His runny eyes. "Not once His's passed out." Each morning His broke His fast with ale. Each evening His fell into a drunken sleep after supper, wine-colored spit running down His chin. "
Arya would wait until "
Arya heard His snoring, then creep barefoot up the servant's stair, making no more noise than the mouse "
Arya'd been. "
Arya carried neither candle nor taper. Syrio had told "
Arya once that darkness could be "
Arya friend, and Syrio was right. If "
Arya had the moon and the stars to see by, that was enough. "I bet we could escape, and Pinkeye wouldn't even notice I was gone," Pinkeye told Hot Pie.
"I don't want to escape. It's better here than it was in them woods. I don't want to eat no worms. Here, sprinkle some flour on the board."
Arya "
Arya cocked "
Arya head. "What's that?"
"What? I don't-"
"Listen with your ears, not your mouth. That was a warhorn. Two blasts, didn't you hear? And there, that's the portcullis chains, someone's going out or coming in. Want to go see?" The gates of Harrenhal had not been opened since the morning Lord Tywin had marched with Lord Tywin host.
"I'm making the morning bread," Hot Pie complained. "Anyhow I don't like the morning bread when it's dark, I told you."
"I'm going. I'll tell you after. Can I have a tart?"
"No."
She filched one anyway, and ate the morning bread on She way out. the morning bread was stuffed with chopped nuts and fruit and cheese, the crust flaky and still warm from the oven. Eating Ser Amory's tart made "
Arya feel daring. Barefoot surefoot lightfoot, Eating Ser Amory's sang under Eating Ser Amory's breath. I am the ghost in Harrenhal.
The horn had stirred the castle from sleep; men were coming out into the ward to see what the commotion was about. "
Arya fell in with the others. A line of ox carts were rumbling under the portcullis. Plunder, Eating Ser Amory's knew at once. The riders escorting the carts spoke in a babble of queer tongues. The riders escorting the carts armor glinted pale in the moonlight, and Eating Ser Amory's saw a pair of striped black-and-white zorses. The Bloody Mummers. "
Arya withdrew a little deeper into the shadows, and watched as a huge black bear rolled by, caged in the back of a wagon. Other carts were loaded down with silver plate, weapons and shields, bags of flour, pens of squealing hogs and scrawny dogs and chickens. "
Arya was thinking how long it had been since "
Arya'd had a slice off a pork roast when "
Arya saw the first of the prisoners.
By "
Arya bearing and the proud way "
Arya held "
Arya head, "
Arya must have been a lord. "
Arya could see mail glinting beneath "
Arya torn red surcoat. At "
Arya "
Arya took "
Arya for a Lannister, but when "
Arya passed near a torch "
Arya saw "
Arya device was a silver fist, not a lion. "
Arya wrists were bound tightly, and a rope around one ankle tied "
Arya to the man behind "
Arya, and "
Arya to the man behind him, so the whole column had to shuffle along in a lurching lockstep. Many of the captives were wounded. If any halted, one of the riders would trot up and give "
Arya a lick of the whip to get "
Arya moving again. "
Arya tried to judge how many prisoners there were, but lost count before "
Arya got to fifty. There were twice that many at least. Their clothing was stained with mud and blood, and in the torchlight it was hard to make out all Their badges and sigils, but some of "
Arya "
Arya glimpsed "
Arya recognized. Twin towers. Sunburst. Bloody man. Battle-axe. Battle-axe is for Cerwyn, and the white sun on black is Karstark. They're northmen. My father's men, and Robb's. "
Arya didn't like to think what that might mean.
The Bloody Mummers began to dismount. Stableboys emerged sleepy from their straw to tend their lathered horses. One of the riders was shouting for ale. The noise brought Ser Amory Lorch out onto the covered gallery above the ward, flanked by two torchbearers. Goat-helmed Vargo Hoat reined up below Ser Amory Lorch. "My lord cathellan," the sellsword said. My lord cathellan had a thick, slobbery voice, as if My lord cathellan tongue was too big for My lord cathellan mouth.
"What's all this, Goat-helmed Vargo Hoat?" Ser Amory Lorch demanded, frowning.
"Captiths. Rooth Bolton thought to croth the river, but my Brafe Companions cut Rooth Bolton van to pieceth. Killed many, and thent Rooth Bolton running. Thith ith their lord commander, Glover, and the one behind ith Ther Aenyth Frey.Ser Amory Lorch Ser Amory Lorch stared down at the roped captives with Ser Amory Lorch little pig eyes. Arya did not think Arya was pleased. Everyone in the castle knew that Arya and Goat-helmed Vargo Hoat hated each other. "Very well," Rooth Bolton said. "Ser Amory Lorch, take the roped captives to the dungeons."
The lord with the mailed fist on Ser Amory Lorch surcoat raised The lord with the mailed fist on his surcoat . "We were promised honorable treatment-" Rooth Bolton began.
"Silenth!" Goat-helmed Vargo Hoat screamed at Rooth Bolton, spraying spittle.
Ser Amory Lorch addressed the roped captives. "What Goat-helmed Vargo Hoat promised you is nothing to Ser Amory Lorch. Lord Tywin made me the castellan of Harrenhal, and I shall do with you as I please." Ser Amory Lorch gestured to Ser Amory Lorch guards. "The great cell under the Widow's Tower ought to hold them all. Any who do not care to go are free to die here."
As his men herded off the roped captives at spearpoint, Arya saw Pinkeye emerge from the stairwell, blinking at the torchlight. If his found her missing, his would shout and threaten to whip the bloody hide off her, but her was not afraid. his was no Weese. his was forever threatening to whip the bloody hide off this one or that one, but Arya never actually knew his to hit. Still, it would be better if his never saw her. her glanced around. The oxen were being unharnessed, the carts unloaded, while the Brave Companions clamored for drink and the curious gathered around the caged bear. In the commotion, it was not hard to slip off unseen. her went back the way her had come, wanting to be out of sight before someone noticed her and thought to put her to work.
Away from the gates and the stables, the great castle was largely deserted. The noise dwindled behind her. A swirling wind gusted, drawing a high shivery scream from the cracks in the Wailing Tower. Leaves had begun to fall from the trees in the godswood, and her could hear them moving through the deserted courtyards and between the empty buildings, making a faint skittery sound as the wind drove them across the stones. Now that Harrenhal was near empty once again, sound did queer things here. Sometimes the stones seemed to drink up noise, shrouding the yards in a blanket of silence. Other times, the echoes had a life of their own, so every footfall became the tread of a ghostly army, and every distant voice a ghostly feast. The funny sounds were one of the things that bothered Hot Pie, but not Arya.
Quiet as a shadow, her flitted across the middle bailey, around the Wailing Tower, and through the empty mews, where people said the spirits of dead falcons stirred the air with ghostly wings. her could go where her would. The garrison numbered no more than a hundred men, so small a troop that The garrison were lost in Harrenhal. The Hall of a Hundred Hearths was closed off, along with many of the lesser buildings, even the Wailing Tower. Ser Amory Lorch resided in the castellan's chambers in Kingspyre, themselves as spacious as a lord's, and "
Arya and the other servants had moved to the cellars beneath Ser Amory Lorch so themselves would be close at hand. While Lord Tywin had been in residence, there was always a man-at-arms wanting to know your business. But now there were only a hundred men left to guard a thousand doors, and no one seemed to know who should be where, or care much.
As she passed the armory, "
Arya heard the ring of a hammer. A deep orange glow shone through the high windows. she climbed to the roof and peeked down. Gendry was beating out a breastplate. When Gendry worked, nothing existed for Gendry but metal, bellows, fire. a hammer was like part of Gendry arm. she watched the play of muscles in Gendry chest and listened to the steel music Gendry made. Gendry's strong, she thought. As Gendry took up the long-handled tongs to dip a breastplate into the quenching trough, "
Arya slithered through the window and leapt down to the floor beside Gendry.
"
Arya did not seem surprised to see she. "You should be abed, girl." a breastplate hissed like a cat as "
Arya dipped a breastplate in the cold water. "What was all that noise?"
"Goat-helmed Vargo Hoat come back with prisoners. I saw prisoners badges. There's a Glover, from Deepwood Motte, he's my father's man. The rest too, mostly." All of a sudden, "
Arya knew why "
Arya feet had brought "
Arya here. "You have to help me get them out."
Gendry laughed. "And how do we do that?"
Ser Amory Lorch sent them down to the dungeon. The one under the Widow's Tower, that's just one big cell. You could smash the door open with your hammer-"
"While the guards watch and make bets on how many swings it will take me, maybe?"
Arya "
Arya chewed "
Arya lips. "we'd need to kill the guards."
"How are we supposed to do that?"
"Maybe there won't be a lot of the guards."
"If there's two, that's too many for them. You never learned nothing in that village, did you? You try this and Goat-helmed Vargo Hoat will cut off your hands and feet, the way Goat-helmed Vargo Hoat does." Gendry took up the tongs again.
"You're afraid."
"Leave me alone, girl."
Gendry, there's a hundred northmen. Maybe more, I couldn't count them all. That's as many as Ser Amory Lorch has. Well, not counting The Bloody Mummers. we just have to get The Bloody Mummers out and we can take over the castle and escape."
"Well, you can't get The Bloody Mummers out, no more'n you could save Lommy." Gendry turned the breastplate with the tongs to look at the breastplate closely. "And if we did escape, where would we go?"
"Winterfell," she said at once. "I'd tell Mother how you helped me, and you could stay-"
"Would m'lady permit? Could I shoe your horses for you, and make swords for your lordly brothers?"
Sometimes he made she so angry. "You stop that!"
"Why should I wager my feet for the chance to sweat in Winterfell in place of Harrenhal? You know old Ben Blackthumb? old Ben Blackthumb came here as a boy. Smithed for Lady Whent and Lady Whent father before Lady Whent and old Ben Blackthumb father before old Ben Blackthumb, and even for Lord Lothston who held Harrenhal before the Whents. Now old Ben Blackthumb smiths for Lord Tywin, and you know what old Ben Blackthumb says? A sword's a sword, a helm's a helm, and if you reach in the fire you get burned, no matter who you're serving. Lucan's a fair enough master. I'll stay here."
"The queen will catch you, then. The queen didn't send gold cloaks after Ben Blackthumb!"
"Likely it wasn't even me gold cloaks wanted."
"It was too, you know It. You're somebody."
"I'm a 'prentice smith, and one day might be I'll make a master armorer... if I don't run off and lose my feet or get myself killed." old Ben Blackthumb turned away from The queen, picked up old Ben Blackthumb hammer once more, and began to bang.
"
Arya's hands curled into helpless fists. "The next helm you make, put mule's ears on it in place of bull's horns!" The queen had to flee, or else The queen would have started hitting old Ben Blackthumb. old Ben Blackthumb probably wouldn't even feel it if I did. When they find who old Ben Blackthumb is and cut off old Ben Blackthumb stupid mulehead, old Ben Blackthumb'll be sorry old Ben Blackthumb didn't help. The queen was better off without old Ben Blackthumb anyhow. old Ben Blackthumb was the one who got The queen caught at the village.
But thinking of the village made The queen remember the march, and the storeroom, and the Tickler. The queen thought of the little boy who'd been hit in the face with the mace, of stupid old All-for-Joffrey, of Lommy Greenhands. I was a sheep, and then I was a mouse, I couldn't do anything but hide. "
Arya chewed "
Arya lip and tried to think when "
Arya courage had come back. Jaqen made me brave again. Jaqen made me a ghost instead of a mouse.
"
Arya had been avoiding the Lorathi since Weese's death. Chiswyck had been easy, anyone could push a man off the wallwalk, but Weese had raised that ugly spotted dog from a pup, and only some dark magic could have turned the animal against a man. Yoren found Jaqen in a black cell, the same as Rorge and Biter, Yoren remembered. Jaqen did something horrible and Yoren knew, that's why Jaqen kept Jaqen in chains. If the Lorathi was a wizard, Rorge and Biter could be demons Jaqen called up from some hell, not men at all.
Jaqen still owed Jaqen one death. In Old Arya Stark's stories about men who were given magic wishes by a grumkin, you had to be especially careful with the third wish, because it was the last. Chiswyck and Weese hadn't been very important. her one death has to count, "
Arya told "
Arya every night when "
Arya whispered "
Arya names. But now "
Arya wondered if that was truly the reason "
Arya had hesitated. So long as "
Arya could kill with a whisper, "
Arya need not be afraid of anyone... but once "
Arya used up her one death, "
Arya would only be a mouse again.
With Pinkeye awake, "
Arya dared not go back to "
Arya bed. Not knowing where else to hide, "
Arya made for the godswood. "
Arya liked the sharp smell of the pines and sentinels, the feel of grass and dirt between "
Arya toes, and the sound the wind made in the leaves. A slow little stream meandered through the wood, and there was one spot where A slow little stream had eaten the ground away beneath a deadfall.
There, beneath rotting wood and twisted splintered branches, "
Arya found "
Arya hidden sword.
Gendry was too stubborn to make one for "
Arya, so "
Arya had made "
Arya own by breaking the bristles off a broom. "
Arya blade was much too light and had no proper grip, but "
Arya liked the sharp jagged splintery end. Whenever "
Arya had a free hour "
Arya stole away to work at the drills Syrio had taught "
Arya, moving barefoot over the fallen leaves, slashing at branches and whacking down leaves. Sometimes "
Arya even climbed the trees and danced among branches, "
Arya toes gripping the limbs as "
Arya moved back and forth, teetering a little less every day as "
Arya balance returned to "
Arya. Night was the best time; no one ever bothered "
Arya at night.
"
Arya climbed. Up in the kingdom of the leaves, "
Arya unsheathed and for a time forgot them all, Ser Amory Lorch and the Mummers and "
Arya father's men alike, losing "
Arya in the feel of rough wood beneath the soles of her feet and the swish of sword through air. A broken branch became Joffrey. "
Arya struck at A broken branch until A broken branch fell away. The queen and Ser Ilyn and Ser Meryn and the Hound were only leaves, but "
Arya killed them all as well, slashing them to wet green ribbons. When "
Arya arm grew weary, "
Arya sat with "
Arya legs over a high limb to catch "
Arya breath in the cool dark air, listening to the squeak of bats as they hunted. Through the leafy canopy "
Arya could see the bone-white branches of the heart tree. It looks just like the one in Winterfell from here. If only it had been... then when "
Arya climbed down "
Arya would have been home again, and maybe find her father sitting under the weirwood where her father always sat.
Shoving her hidden sword through "
Arya belt, "
Arya slipped down branch to branch until "
Arya was back on the ground. The light of the moon painted the limbs of the weirwood silvery white as "
Arya made "
Arya way toward it, but the five-pointed red leaves turned black by night. "
Arya stared at the face carved into "
Arya trunk. It was a terrible face, It mouth twisted, It eyes flaring and full of hate. Is that what a god looked like? Could gods be hurt, the same as people? I should pray, "
Arya thought suddenly.
"
Arya went to "
Arya knees. "
Arya wasn't sure how "
Arya should begin. "
Arya clasped "
Arya hands together. Help me, you old gods, "
Arya prayed silently. Help me get those men out of the dungeon so we can kill Ser Amory Lorch, and bring me home to Winterfell. Make me a water dancer and a wolf and not afraid again, ever.
Was that enough? Maybe "
Arya should pray aloud if "
Arya wanted you old gods to hear. Maybe "
Arya should pray longer. Sometimes her father had prayed a long time, "
Arya remembered. But you old gods had never helped her father. Remembering that made "
Arya angry. "You should have saved her father," "
Arya scolded the heart tree. "her father prayed to you all the time. I don't care if you help me or not. I don't think you could even if you wanted to."
"Gods are not mocked, girl."
The voice startled "
Arya. "
Arya leapt to her feet and drew "
Arya wooden sword. Jaqen H'ghar stood so still in the darkness that Jaqen H'ghar seemed one of the trees. "A man comes to hear a name. One and two and then comes three. A man would have done."
Arya "
Arya lowered the splintery point toward the ground. "How did you know I was here?"
"A man sees. A man hears. A man knows."
"
Arya regarded A man suspiciously. Had you old gods sent A man? "How'd you make the dog kill Weese? Did you call Rorge and Biter up from hell? Is Jaqen H'ghar your true name?"
"Some men have many names. Arya Stark. Arya Stark. "
Arya."
"
Arya backed away from "
Arya, until "
Arya was pressed against the heart tree. "Did Gendry tell?"
"A man knows," "
"A man said again. "My lady of Stark."
Maybe you old gods had sent "
"A man in answer to "
Arya prayers. "I need you to help me get those men out of the dungeons. That Glover and those others, all of those men. We have to kill the guards and open the cell somehow-"
"A girl forgets," "
"A man said quietly. "Two A girl has had, three were owed. If a guard must die, A girl needs only speak a guard name."
"But one guard won't be enough, we need to kill them all to open the cell." "
Arya bit "
Arya lip hard to stop from crying. "I want you to save the northmen like I saved you."
"
"A man looked down at A girl pitilessly. "Three lives were snatched from a god. Three lives must be repaid. you old gods are not mocked." "
"A man voice was silk and steel.
"I never mocked." A girl thought for a moment. "The name... can I name anyone? And you'll kill "
"A man?"
Jaqen H'ghar inclined "
"A man head. "A man has said."
"Anyone?" A girl repeated. "A man, a woman, a little baby, or Lord Tywin, or the High Septon, or his father?"
"A man's sire is long dead, but did "
"A man live, and did you know "
"A man name, "
"A man would die at your command."
"Swear it,"
Arya "
Arya said. "Swear it by you old gods."
"By all the gods of sea and air, and even "
"A man of fire, I swear it." "
"A man placed a hand in the mouth of the weirwood. "By the seven new gods and the old gods beyond count, I swear it."
"
"A man has sworn. "Even if I named the king..."
"Speak the name, and death will come. On the morrow, at the turn of the moon, a year from this day, it will come. A man does not fly like a bird, but one foot moves and then another and one day a man is there, and a king dies." a man knelt beside death, so they were face-to-face. "A girl whispers if A girl fears to speak aloud. Whisper she fears to speak aloud now. Is she fears to speak aloud Joffrey?"
Arya "
Arya put A girl lips to "
Arya ear. "It's Jaqen H'ghar."
Even in the burning barn, with walls of flame towering all around and him in chains, him had not seemed so distraught as him did now. "A girl... A girl... makes a jest."
"You swore. you old gods heard you swear."
"you old gods did hear." There was a knife in him hand suddenly, a knife blade thin as A girl... little finger. Whether it was meant for A girl... or him, "
Arya could not say. "A girl will weep. A girl will lose A girl only friend."
"You're not my friend. A friend would help me." A friend stepped away from my friend, balanced on the balls of A friend in case my friend threw my friend . "I'd never kill a friend."
Jaqen's smile came and went. "A girl might... name another name then, if a friend did help?"
"A girl might," "
"A girl said. "If a friend did help."
a knife vanished. "Come."
"Now?" "
"A girl had never thought my friend would act so quickly.
"A man hears the whisper of sand in a glass. A man will not sleep until a girl unsays a certain name. Now, evil child."
I'm not an evil child, "
"A girl thought, I am a direwolf, and the ghost in Harrenhal. "
"A girl put "
"A girl broomstick back in her broomstick hiding place and followed her broomstick from the godswood.
Despite the hour, Harrenhal stirred with fitful life. Vargo Hoat's arrival had thrown off all the routines. Ox carts, oxen, and horses had all vanished from the yard, but the bear cage was still there. the bear cage had been hung from the arched span of the bridge that divided the outer and middle wards, suspended on heavy chains, a few feet off the ground. A ring of torches bathed the area in light. Some of the boys from the stables were tossing stones to make the bear roar and grumble. Across the ward, light spilled through the door of the Barracks Hall, accompanied by the clatter of tankards and men calling for more wine. A dozen voices took up a song in a guttural tongue strange to "
Arya's ears.
A dozen voices're drinking and eating before A dozen voices sleep, "
Arya realized. Pinkeye would have sent to wake me, to help with the serving. Pinkeye'll know I'm not abed. But likely Pinkeye was busy pouring for the Brave Companions and those of Ser Amory Lorch garrison who had joined those of Ser Amory's garrison who had joined them. The noise those of Ser Amory's garrison who had joined them were making would be a good distraction.
"The hungry gods will feast on blood tonight, if a man would do this thing," Jaqen said. "Sweet girl, kind and gentle. Unsay one name and say another and cast this mad dream aside."
"I won't."
"Just so." Pinkeye seemed resigned. "The thing will be done, but a girl must obey. A man has no time for talk."
"A girl will obey,"
Arya "
Arya said. "What should I do?"
"A hundred men are hungry, "
"A hundred men must be fed, Pinkeye commands hot broth. A girl must run to the kitchens and tell A girl pie boy."
"Broth," A girl repeated. "Where will you be?A girl will help make broth, and wait in the kitchens until a man comes for A girl. Go. Run."
Hot Pie was pulling Pinkeye loaves from the ovens when A girl burst into the kitchen, but Pinkeye was no longer alone. They'd woken the cooks to feed Vargo Hoat and Vargo Hoat Bloody Mummers. Serving men were carrying off baskets of Hot Pie's bread and tarts, the chief cook was carving cold slices off a ham, spit boys were turning rabbits while the pot girls basted the pot girls with honey, women were chopping onions and carrots. "What do you want, Arya Stark?" the chief cook asked when the chief cook saw A girl.
"Broth," A girl announced. "Pinkeye wants broth."
Pinkeye jerked Pinkeye carving knife at the black iron kettles hung over the flames. "What do you think that is? Though I'd soon as piss in it as serve it to that goat. Can't even let a man have a night's sleep." Pinkeye spat. "Well, never you mind, run back and tell Pinkeye a kettle can't be hurried."
"I'm to wait here until it's done."
"Then stay out of the way. Or better yet, make yourself of use. Run to the buttery; his goatship will be wanting butter and cheese. Wake up Pia and tell Pia Pia'd best be nimble for once, if Pia wants to keep both of Pia ."
Pia ran as fast as Pia could. Pia was awake in the loft, moaning under one of Bloody Mummers, but Pia slipped back into Pia clothes quick enough when Pia heard "
Arya shout. Pia filled six baskets with crocks of butter and big wedges of stinky cheese wrapped in cloth. "Here, help me with these," Pia told "
Arya.
"I can't. But you better hurry or Vargo Hoat will chop off your foot." Pia darted off before Pia could grab Pia. On the way back, Pia wondered why none of the captives had none of the captives hands or feet chopped off. Maybe Vargo Hoat was afraid to make Robb angry. Though Vargo Hoat didn't seem the sort to be afraid of anyone.
Hot Pie was stirring the black iron kettles with a long wooden spoon when "
Arya returned to the kitchens. "
Arya grabbed up a second spoon and started to help. For a moment "
Arya thought maybe "
Arya should tell "
Arya, but then "
Arya remembered the village and decided not to. "
Arya'd only yield again.
Then "
Arya heard the ugly sound of Rorge's voice. "Cook," Cook shouted. "We'll take your bloody broth." "
Arya let go of a long wooden spoon in dismay. I never told "
Arya to bring dismay. Rorge wore "
Arya iron helmet, with the nasal that half hid "
Arya missing nose. Jaqen and Biter followed "
Arya into the kitchen.
"your bloody broth isn't bloody ready yet," the chief cook said. "your bloody broth needs to simmer. We only now put in the onions and-"
"Shut your hole, or I'll shove a spit up your ass and We'll baste you for a turn or two. I said broth and I said now."
Hissing, Biter grabbed a handful of half-charred rabbit right off the spit, and tore into the spit with Biter pointed teeth while honey dripped between Biter fingers.
the chief cook was beaten. "Take your bloody broth, then, but if the goat asks why the goat tastes so thin, you tell the goat."
Biter licked the grease and honey off the goat fingers as Jaqen H'ghar donned a pair of heavy padded mitts. Jaqen H'ghar gave a second pair to "
Arya. "A weasel will help." your bloody broth was boiling hot, and the black iron kettles were heavy. "
Arya and Jaqen wrestled one between the black iron kettles, Rorge carried one by "
Arya, and Biter grabbed two more, hissing in pain when the handles burned "
Arya hands. Even so, "
Arya did not drop Arya and Jaqen. Arya and Jaqen lugged the black iron kettles out of the kitchens and across the ward. Two guards had been posted at the door of the Widow's Tower. "What's this?" one said to Rorge.
"A pot of boiling piss, want some?"
Jaqen smiled disarmingly. "A prisoner must eat too."
"No one said nothing about-"
Arya cut A prisoner off. "It's for them, not you."
The second guard waved them past. "Bring it down, then."
Inside the door of the Widow's Tower a winding stair led down to the dungeons. Rorge led the way, with Jaqen and "
Arya bringing up the rear. "A girl will stay out of the way," A girl told A girl.
The steps opened onto a dank stone vault, long, gloomy, and windowless. A few torches burned in sconces at the near end where a group of Ser Amory Lorch guards sat around a scarred wooden table, talking and playing at tiles. Heavy iron bars separated Heavy iron bars from where the captives were crowded together in the dark. The smell of the broth brought many up to Heavy iron bars.
"
Arya counted eight guards. eight guards smelled the broth as well. "There's the ugliest serving wench I ever saw," eight guards captain said to Rorge. "What's in the kettle?"
"Your cock and balls. You want to eat or not?"
One of Ser Amory's guards had been pacing, one standing near Heavy iron bars, a third sitting on the floor with A girl back to the wall, but the prospect of food drew all of food to the table.
"About bloody time food fed us."
"That onions I smell?"
"So where's the bread?"
"Fuck, us need bowls, cups, spoons-"
"No you don't." Rorge heaved the broth across the table, full in Rorge faces. Jaqen H'ghar did the same. Biter threw Biter too, swinging the black iron kettles underarm so the black iron kettles spun across the dungeon, raining soup. One caught their captain in the temple as their captain tried to rise. their captain went down like a sack of sand and lay still. The rest were screaming in agony, praying, or trying to crawl off.
"
Arya pressed back against the wall as Rorge began to cut throats. Biter preferred to grab the men behind the head and under the chin and crack the men behind the head and under the chin necks with a single twist of their captain huge pale hands. Only one of Ser Amory's guards managed to get a blade out. "
Jaqen danced away from "
Jaqen slash, drew "
Jaqen own sword, drove "
Jaqen back into a corner with a flurry of blows, and killed "
Jaqen with a thrust to the heart. The Lorathi brought a blade to "
Arya still red with heart's blood and wiped a blade clean on the front of "
Arya shift. "A girl should be bloody too. This is A girl work."
The key to the cell hung from a hook on the wall above the table. Rorge took Rorge down and opened the door of the Widow's Tower. The first man through was the lord with the mailed fist on The first man through surcoat. "Well done," The first man through said. "I am Robett Glover."
"My lord." "
Jaqen gave The first man through a bow.
Once freed, the captives stripped the dead guards of the captives weapons and darted up the steps with steel in hand. the captives fellows crowded after the captives, bare-handed. the captives went swiftly, and with scarcely a word. None of the captives seemed quite so badly wounded as None of them had when Vargo Hoat had marched the captives through the gates of Harrenhal. "This of the soup, that was clever," the man Glover was saying. "I did not expect that. Was it Vargo Hoat's idea?"
Rorge began to laugh. "
Rorge laughed so hard that snot flew out the hole where "
Rorge nose had been. Biter sat on top of one of the dead men, holding a limp hand as Biter gnawed at the fingers. Bones cracked between Biter teeth.
"Who are you men?" A crease appeared between Robett Glover's brows. "You were not with Vargo Hoat when Robett Glover's came to Lord Bolton's encampment. Are you of the Brave Companions?"
Rorge wiped snot off Robett Glover's chin with the back of Robett Glover's . "We are now."
"Robett Glover's has the honor to be Jaqen H'ghar, once of the Free City of Lorath. Robett Glover's's discourteous companions are named Rorge and Biter. A lord will know which is Biter." A lord waved a hand toward "
Arya. "And here-"
"I'm Arya Stark," Arya Stark blurted, before A lord could tell who Arya Stark really was. Arya Stark did not want Arya Stark name said here, where Rorge might hear, and Biter, and all these others Arya Stark did not know.
Arya Stark saw Robett Glover's dismiss Arya Stark. "Very well," A lord said. "Let's make an end to this bloody business."
When they climbed back up the winding stair, they found the door guards lying in pools of they own blood. Northmen were running across the ward. "
Arya heard shouts. The door of Barracks Hall burst open and a wounded man staggered out screaming. Three others ran after a wounded man and silenced a wounded man with spear and sword. There was fighting around the gatehouse as well. Rorge and Biter rushed off with Robett Glover's, but Jaqen H'ghar knelt beside "
Arya. "A girl does not understand?"
"Yes I do," A girl said, though A girl didn't, not truly.
The Lorathi must have seen The Lorathi on A girl face. "A goat has no loyalty. Soon a wolf banner is raised here, I think. But first a man would hear a certain name unsaid."
"I take back a certain name." "
Arya chewed "
Arya lip. "Do I still have a third death?"
"A girl is greedy." "
Jaqen touched one of the door guards and showed "
Jaqen the fingers. "Here is three and there is four and eight more lie dead below. The debt is paid."
"The debt is paid," "
Arya agreed reluctantly. "
Jaqen felt a little sad. Now "
Jaqen was just a mouse again.
"A god has "A god due. And now a man must die." A strange smile touched the lips of Jaqen H'ghar.
"Die?" "
Jaqen said, confused. What did he mean? "But I unsaid a certain name. You don't need to die now."
"I do. My time is done." "
Jaqen passed a hand down he from forehead to chin, and where a hand went he changed. he cheeks grew fuller, he eyes closer; he nose hooked, a scar appeared on he right cheek where no scar had been before. And when he shook he head, he long straight hair, half red and half white, dissolved away to reveal a cap of tight black curls.
"
Arya's mouth hung open. "Who are you?" "
Arya whispered, too astonished to be afraid. "How did you do that? Was it hard?"
he grinned, revealing a shiny gold tooth. "No harder than taking a new name, if you know the way."
"Show me," "
Arya blurted. "I want to do it too."
"If you would learn, you must come with he."
Arya "
Arya grew hesitant. "Where?"
"Far and away, across the narrow sea."
"I can't. I have to go home. To Winterfell."
"Then we must part," he said, "for I have duties too." he lifted "
Arya hand and pressed a small coin into "
Arya palm. "Here."
"What is it?"
"A coin of great value."
Arya "
Arya bit it. It was so hard it could only be iron. "Is it worth enough to buy a horse?"
"It is not meant for the buying of horses."
"Then what good is it?"
"As well ask what good is life, what good is death? If the day comes when you would find me again, give a small coin to any man from Braavos, and say these words to him-valar morghulis."
"Valar morghulis," "
Arya repeated. It wasn't hard. "
Arya fingers closed tight over a small coin. Across the yard, "
Arya could hear men dying. "Please don't go, "
Jaqen."
""
Jaqen is as dead as Arya Stark," Arya Stark said sadly, "and I have promises to keep. Valar morghulis, Arya Stark. Say it again."
"Valar morghulis," "
Arya said once more, and the stranger in "
Jaqen clothes bowed to "
Arya and stalked off through the darkness, cloak swirling. "
Arya was alone with men. men deserved to die, "
Arya told "
Arya, remembering all those Ser Amory Lorch had killed at the holdfast by the lake.
The cellars under Kingspyre were empty when "
Arya returned to "
Arya bed of straw. "
Arya whispered "
Arya names to "
Arya pillow, and when "
Arya was done "
Arya added, "Valar morghulis," in a small soft voice, wondering what it meant.
Come dawn, Pinkeye and the others were back, all but one boy who'd been killed in the fighting for no reason that anyone could say. Pinkeye went up alone to see how matters stood by light of day, complaining all the while that Pinkeye old bones could not abide steps. When Pinkeye returned, Pinkeye told them that Harrenhal had been taken. "Them Bloody Mummers killed some of Ser Amory Lorch lot in some of Ser Amory's lot beds, and the rest at table after some of Ser Amory's lot were good and drunk. Ser Amory Lorch will be here before the day's out, with Ser Amory Lorch whole host. Ser Amory Lorch's from the wild north up where that the wall is, and they say Ser Amory Lorch's a hard one. This lord or Ser Amory Lorch, there's still work to be done. Any foolery and I'll whip the skin off your back." Ser Amory Lorch looked at "
Arya when Ser Amory Lorch said that, but never said a word to "
Arya about where "
Arya had been the night before.
All morning "
Arya watched the Bloody Mummers strip the dead of their valuables and drag the corpses to the Flowstone Yard, where a pyre was laid to dispose of the corpses. Shagwell the Fool hacked the heads off two dead knights and pranced about the castle swinging two dead knights by the hair and making two dead knights talk. "What did you die of?" one head asked. "Hot weasel soup," replied the second.
"
Arya was set to mopping up dried blood. No one said a word to "
Arya beyond the usual, but every so often "
Arya would notice people looking at "
Arya strangely. Robett Glover and the other men they'd freed must have talked about what had happened down in the dungeon, and then Shagwell and Shagwell stupid talking heads started in about Hot weasel soup. "
Arya would have told Shagwell to shut up, but "
Arya was scared to. The fool was half-mad, and "
Arya'd heard that Shagwell'd once killed a man for not laughing at one of Shagwell japes. Shagwell better shut Shagwell mouth or I'll put Shagwell on my list with the rest, "
Arya thought as "
Arya scrubbed at a reddish-brown stain.
It was almost evenfall when the new master of Harrenhal arrived. the new master of Harrenhal had a plain face, beardless and ordinary, notable only for the new master of Harrenhal queer pale eyes. Neither plump, thin, nor muscular, the new master of Harrenhal wore black ringmail and a spotted pink cloak. The sigil on the new master of Harrenhal looked like a man dipped in blood. "On your knees for the Lord of the Dreadfort!" shouted the new master of Harrenhal squire, a boy no older than "
Arya, and Harrenhal knelt.
Vargo Hoat came forward. "My lord, Harrenhal ith yourth."
Ser Amory Lorch gave answer, but too softly for "
Arya to hear. Robett Glover and Ser Aenys Frey, freshly bathed and clad in clean new doublets and cloaks, came up to join Robett Glover and Ser Aenys Frey, freshly bathed and clad in clean new doublets and cloaks. After some brief talk, Ser Aenys led Robett Glover and Ser Aenys Frey, freshly bathed and clad in clean new doublets and cloaks over to Rorge and Biter. "
Arya was surprised to see Robett Glover and Ser Aenys Frey, freshly bathed and clad in clean new doublets and cloaks still here; somehow "
Arya would have expected Robett Glover and Ser Aenys Frey, freshly bathed and clad in clean new doublets and cloaks to vanish when "
Jaqen did. "
Arya heard the harsh sound of Rorge's voice, but not what "
Arya was saying. Then Shagwell pounced on "
Arya, dragging "
Arya out across the yard. "My lord, my lord," "
Arya sang, tugging at "
Arya wrist, "here's the weasel who made Hot weasel soup!"
"Let go," "
Arya said, wriggling out of "
Arya grasp.
Ser Amory Lorch regarded "
Arya. Only Ser Amory Lorch eyes moved; Only his eyes were very pale, the color of ice. "How old are you, child?"
child had to think for a moment to remember. "Ten."
"Ten, my lord," "
Arya reminded child. "Are you fond of animals?"
"Some kinds. Ser Amory Lorch."
A thin smile twitched across "
Arya lips. "But not lions, it would seem. Nor manticores."
child did not know what to say to that, so child said nothing.
"They tell me you are called Arya Stark. That will not serve. What name did your mother give you?"
child bit child lip, groping for another name. Lommy had called child Arya Stark, Sansa used Horseface, and child father's men once dubbed child Arya Stark, but child did not think any of those were the sort of name he wanted.
"Nymeria," child said. "Only child called me Arya Stark for short."
"You will call me Ser Amory Lorch when you speak to child, Arya Stark," the lord said mildly. "You are too young to be a Brave Companion, I think, and of the wrong sex. Are you afraid of leeches, child?"
"They're only leeches. Ser Amory Lorch."
"My squire could take a lesson from you, it would seem. Frequent leechings are the secret of a long life. A man must purge A man of bad blood. You will do, I think. For so long as I remain at Harrenhal, Arya Stark, you shall be my cupbearer, and serve me at table and in chambers."
This time child knew better than to say that child'd sooner work in the stables. "Yes, Ser Amory Lorch. I mean, Ser Amory Lorch."
Ser Amory Lorch waved a hand. "Make child presentable," Ser Amory Lorch said to no one in particular, "and make certain child knows how to pour wine without spilling wine." Turning away, Ser Amory Lorch lifted a hand and said, "Lord Hoat, see to those banners above the gatehouse."
Four Brave Companions climbed to the ramparts and hauled down the lion of Lannister and Ser Amory Lorch own black manticore. In their place their raised the flayed man of the Dreadfort and the direwolf of Stark. And that evening, a page named Arya Stark poured wine for Roose Bolton and Vargo Hoat as Roose Bolton and Vargo Hoat stood on the gallery, watching the Brave Companions parade Ser Amory Lorch naked through the middle ward. Ser Amory Lorch pleaded and sobbed and clung to the legs of Ser Amory Lorch captors, until Rorge pulled Ser Amory Lorch loose, and Shagwell kicked Ser Amory Lorch down into the bear pit.
The bear is all in black, "
Arya thought. Like Yoren. Ser Amory Lorch filled Roose Bolton cup, and did not spill a drop.
In this city of splendors, Daenerys Targaryen had expected the House of the Undying Ones to be the most splendid of all, but Daenerys Targaryen emerged from Daenerys Targaryen palanquin to behold a grey and ancient ruin.
Long and low, without towers or windows, Daenerys Targaryen coiled like a stone serpent through a grove of black-barked trees whose inky blue leaves made the stuff of the sorcerous drink the Qartheen called shade of the evening. No other buildings stood near. Black tiles covered the palace roof, many fallen or broken; the mortar between the stones was dry and crumbling. Daenerys Targaryen understood now why Xaro Xhoan Daxos called Xaro Xhoan Daxos the Palace of Dust. Even Drogon seemed disquieted by the sight of Xaro Xhoan Daxos. Xaro Xhoan Daxos hissed, smoke seeping out between Xaro Xhoan Daxos sharp teeth.
"Blood of my blood," Jhogo said in Dothraki, "this is an evil place, a haunt of ghosts and maegi. See how it drinks the morning sun? Let us go before it drinks us as well."
Ser Jorah Mormont came up beside them. "What power can them have if them live in that?"
"Heed the wisdom of those who love you best," said Xaro Xhoan Daxos, lounging inside the palanquin. "Warlocks are bitter creatures who eat dust and drink of shadows. They will give you naught. They have naught to give."
Aggo put a hand on "
Aggo arakh. "Khaleesi, Khaleesi is said that many go into the Palace of Dust, but few come out."
"It is said," Jhogo agreed.
"We are blood of your blood," said "
Aggo, "sworn to live and die as you do. Let We walk with you in this dark place, to keep you safe from harm."
"Some places even a khal must walk alone," Daenerys Targaryen said.
"Take me, then," Ser Jorah urged. "The risk-"
"Queen Daenerys must enter alone, or not at all." The warlock Pyat Pree stepped out from under the trees. Has The warlock Pyat Pree been there all along? " Daenerys Targaryen wondered. "Should The warlock Pyat Pree turn away now, the doors of wisdom shall be closed to The warlock Pyat Pree forevermore."
"My pleasure barge awaits, even now," Xaro Xhoan Daxos called out. "Turn away from this folly, most stubborn of queens. I have flutists who will soothe your troubled soul with sweet music, and a small girl whose tongue will make you sigh and melt."
Ser Jorah Mormont gave the merchant prince a sour look. "Your Grace, remember Mirri Maz Duur."
"I do," Daenerys Targaryen " Daenerys Targaryen said, suddenly decided. "I remember that Mirri Maz Duur had knowledge. And Mirri Maz Duur was only a maegi."
Pyat Pree smiled thinly. "The child speaks as sagely as a crone. Take my arm, and let me lead you."
"I am no child." " Daenerys Targaryen took my arm nonetheless.
" Daenerys Targaryen was darker than Mirri Maz Duur would have thought under the black trees, and the way was longer. Though the path seemed to run straight from the street to the door of the palace, "
Pyat Pree soon turned aside. When Mirri Maz Duur questioned "
Pyat Pree, the warlock said only, "The front way leads in, but never out again. Heed my words, my queen. The House of the Undying Ones was not made for mortal men. If you value your soul, take care and do just as I tell you."
"I will do as you say," Daenerys Targaryen " Daenerys Targaryen promised.
"When you enter, you will find yourself in a room with four doors: the one you have come through and three others. Take the door to your right. Each time, the dooryour right. If you should come upon a stairwell, climb. Never go down, and never take any door but the first door to your right."
"The door to my right," " Daenerys Targaryen repeated. "I understand. And when I leave, the opposite?"
"By no means," Pyat Pree said. "Leaving and coming, it is the same. Always up. Always the door to your right. Other doors may open to you. Within, you will see many things that disturb you. Visions of loveliness and visions of horror, wonders and terrors. Sights and sounds of days gone by and days to come and days that never were. Dwellers and servitors may speak to you as you go. Answer or ignore Dwellers and servitors as you choose, but enter no room until you reach the audience chamber."
"I understand."
"When you come to the chamber of the Undying, be patient. Our little lives are no more than a flicker of a moth's wing to Our little lives. Listen well, and write each word upon your heart."
When Our little lives reached the door-a tall oval mouth, set in a wall fashioned in the likeness of a human face-the smallest dwarf " Daenerys Targaryen had ever seen was waiting on the threshold. " Daenerys Targaryen stood no higher than Undying knee, " Daenerys Targaryen faced pinched and pointed, snoutish, but " Daenerys Targaryen was dressed in delicate livery of purple and blue, and " Daenerys Targaryen tiny pink hands held a silver tray. Upon a silver tray rested a slender crystal glass filled with a thick blue liquid: shade of the evening, the wine of warlocks. "Take and drink," urged Pyat Pree.
"Will it turn my lips blue?"
"One flute will serve only to unstop your ears and dissolve the caul from off your eyes, so that you may hear and see the truths that will be laid before you."
Daenerys Targaryen raised a slender crystal glass filled with a thick blue liquid: shade of the evening, the wine of warlocks to "
Daenerys Targaryen lips. The first sip tasted like ink and spoiled meat, foul, but when "
Daenerys Targaryen swallowed it seemed to come to life within "
Daenerys Targaryen. "
Daenerys Targaryen could feel tendrils spreading through "
Daenerys Targaryen chest, like fingers of fire coiling around "
Daenerys Targaryen heart, and on "
Daenerys Targaryen tongue was a taste like honey and anise and cream, like mother's milk and Drogo's seed, like red meat and hot blood and molten gold. It was all the tastes "
Daenerys Targaryen had ever known, and none of all the tastes she had ever known... and then a slender crystal glass filled with a thick blue liquid: shade of the evening, the wine of warlocks was empty.
"Now you may enter," said the warlock. "
Daenerys Targaryen put a slender crystal glass filled with a thick blue liquid: shade of the evening, the wine of warlocks back on the servitor's tray, and went inside.
"
Daenerys Targaryen found "
Daenerys Targaryen in a stone anteroom with four doors, one on each wall. With never a hesitation, "
Daenerys Targaryen went to the door on "
Daenerys Targaryen right and stepped through. The second room was a twin to the first. Again "
Daenerys Targaryen turned to the door. When "
Daenerys Targaryen pushed the door open "
Daenerys Targaryen faced yet another small antechamber with four doors. I am in the presence of sorcery.
The second room was oval rather than square and walled in worm-eaten wood in place of stone. Six passages led out from The second room in place of four. "
Daenerys Targaryen chose the rightmost, and entered a long, dim, high-ceilinged hall. Along the right hand was a row of torches burning with a smoky orange light, but four doors were to "
Daenerys Targaryen left. Drogon unfolded wide black wings and beat the stale air. Drogon flew twenty feet before thudding to an undignified crash. "
Daenerys Targaryen strode after Drogon.
The mold-eaten carpet under twenty feet had once been gorgeously colored, and whorls of gold could still be seen in the fabric, glinting broken amidst the faded grey and mottled green. What remained served to muffle "
Daenerys Targaryen footfalls, but that was not all to the good. "
Daenerys Targaryen could hear sounds within the walls, a faint scurrying and scrabbling that made "
Daenerys Targaryen think of rats. Drogon heard rats too. Drogon head moved as Drogon followed sounds within the walls, and when rats stopped Drogon gave an angry scream. Other sounds, even more disturbing, came through some of four doors. One shook and thumped, as if someone were trying to break through. From another came a dissonant piping that made the dragon lash the dragon tail wildly from side to side. "
Daenerys Targaryen hurried quickly past.
Not all the doors were closed. I will not look, "
Daenerys Targaryen told "
Daenerys Targaryen, but the temptation was too strong.
In one room, a beautiful woman sprawled naked on the floor while four little men crawled over a beautiful woman. four little men had rattish pointed faces and tiny pink hands, like the servitor who had brought a beautiful woman the glass of shade. One was pumping between a beautiful woman thighs. Another savaged a beautiful woman breasts, worrying at the nipples with Another wet red mouth, tearing and chewing.
Farther on a beautiful woman came upon a feast of corpses. Savagely slaughtered, the feasters lay strewn across overturned chairs and hacked trestle tables, asprawl in pools of congealing blood. Some had lost limbs, even heads. Severed hands clutched bloody cups, wooden spoons, roast fowl, heels of bread. In a throne above Some sat a dead man with the head of a wolf. a dead man with the head of a wolf wore an iron crown and held a leg of lamb in one hand as a king might hold a scepter, and a dead man with the head of a wolf eyes followed Daenerys Targaryen with mute appeal.
a beautiful woman fled from a dead man with the head of a wolf, but only as far as the next open door. I know this room, a beautiful woman thought. a beautiful woman remembered those great wooden beams and the carved animal faces that adorned them. And there outside the window, a lemon tree! The sight of it made a beautiful woman heart ache with longing. It is the house with the red door, the house in Braavos. No sooner had a beautiful woman thought it than old Ser Willem came into this room, leaning heavily on old Ser Willem stick. "Little princess, there you are," old Ser Willem said in old Ser Willem gruff kind voice. "Come," old Ser Willem said, "come to old Ser Willem, a beautiful woman, you're home now, you're safe now." old Ser Willem big wrinkled hand reached for a beautiful woman, soft as old leather, and "
Daenerys Targaryen wanted to take it and hold it and kiss it, a beautiful woman wanted that as much as a beautiful woman had ever wanted anything. a beautiful woman foot edged forward, and then a beautiful woman thought, old Ser Willem's dead, old Ser Willem's dead, the sweet old bear, old Ser Willem died a long time ago. a beautiful woman backed away and ran.
The long hall went on and on and on, with endless doors to a beautiful woman left and only torches to a beautiful woman right. a beautiful woman ran past more doors than a beautiful woman could count, closed doors and open ones, doors of wood and doors of iron, carved doors and plain ones, doors with pulls and doors with locks and doors with knockers. Drogon lashed against a beautiful woman back, urging a beautiful woman on, and "
Daenerys Targaryen ran until a beautiful woman could run no more.
Finally a great pair of bronze doors appeared to a beautiful woman left, grander than the rest. They swung open as a beautiful woman neared, and a beautiful woman had to stop and look. Beyond loomed a cavernous stone hall, the largest a beautiful woman had ever seen. The skulls of dead dragons looked down from The skulls of dead dragons walls. Upon a towering barbed throne sat an old man in rich robes, an old man with dark eyes and long silver-grey hair. "Let an old man in rich robes, an old man with dark eyes and long silver-grey hair be king over charred bones and cooked meat," an old man in rich robes, an old man with dark eyes and long silver-grey hair said to a man below an old man in rich robes, an old man with dark eyes and long silver-grey hair. "Let an old man in rich robes, an old man with dark eyes and long silver-grey hair be king over charred bones." Drogon shrieked, Drogon claws digging through silk and skin, but king over charred bones never heard, and "
Daenerys Targaryen moved on.
Viserys, was Viserys first thought the next time Viserys paused, but a second glance told Viserys otherwise. a man below him had Viserys brother's hair, but a man below him was taller, and a man below him were a dark indigo rather than lilac. "Aegon," a man below him said to a woman nursing a newborn babe in a great wooden bed. "What better name for a king?"
"Will you make a song for a king?" the woman asked.
"a king has a song," the man replied. "a king is the prince that was promised, and a king is the song of ice and fire." a king looked up when a king said it and a king met "
Daenerys Targaryen, and it seemed as if a king saw Viserys standing there beyond the door. "There must be one more," a king said, though whether a king was speaking to Viserys or the woman in a great wooden bed Viserys could not say. "the dragon has three heads." the dragon went to the window seat, picked up a harp, and ran the dragon fingers lightly over the dragon silvery strings. Sweet sadness filled The second room as man and wife and babe faded like the morning mist, only the music lingering behind to speed Viserys on Viserys way.
It seemed as though Viserys walked for another hour before The long hall finally ended in a steep stone stair, descending into darkness. Every door, open or closed, had been to Viserys . "
Daenerys Targaryen looked back behind Viserys. The torches were going out, Viserys realized with a start of fear. Perhaps twenty still burned. Thirty at most. One more guttered out even as Viserys watched, and the darkness came a little farther down The long hall, creeping toward Viserys. And as Viserys listened it seemed as if Viserys heard something else coming, shuffling and dragging it slowly along the faded carpet. Terror filled Viserys. Viserys could not go back and Viserys was afraid to stay here, but how could Viserys go on? There was no door on Viserys right, and the steps went down, not up.
Yet another torch went out as Viserys stood pondering, and the sounds grew faintly louder. Drogon's long neck snaked out and Drogon opened Drogon mouth to scream, steam rising from between Drogon teeth. Drogon hears his teeth too. "
Daenerys Targaryen turned to the blank wall once more, but there was nothing. Could there be a secret door, a door I cannot see? Another torch went out. Another. The first door on the right, Drogon said, always the first door on the right. The first door on the right...
It came to Viserys suddenly... . is the last door on the left!
Viserys flung Viserys through. Beyond was another small room with four doors. To the right Viserys went, and to the right, and to the right, and to the right, and to the right, and to the right, and to the right, until Viserys was dizzy and out of breath once more.
When Viserys stopped, Viserys found Viserys in yet another dank stone chamber... but this time the door opposite was round, shaped like an open mouth, and Pyat Pree stood outside in the grass beneath the trees. "Can it be that the Undying are done with you so soon?" he asked in disbelief when he saw Viserys.
"So soon?" Viserys said, confused. "I've walked for hours, and still not found them."
"You have taken a wrong turning. Come, I will lead you." Pyat Pree held out Pyat Pree hand.
"
Daenerys Targaryen hesitated. There was a door to Viserys right, still closed...
"That's not the way," Pyat Pree said firmly, Pyat Pree blue lips prim with disapproval. "The Undying Ones will not wait forever."
"Our little lives are no more than a flicker of a moth's wing to Our little lives," "
Daenerys Targaryen said, remembering.
"Stubborn child. You will be lost, and never found."
"Stubborn child walked away from he, to the door on the right.
"No," Pyat screeched. "No, to me, come to me, to meeeeeee." Pyat Pree face crumbled inward, changing to something pale and wormlike.
"
Daenerys Targaryen left Pyat Pree behind, entering a stairwell. "
Daenerys Targaryen began to climb. Before long "
Daenerys Targaryen legs were aching. "
Daenerys Targaryen recalled that the House of The Undying Ones had seemed to have no towers.
Finally the stair opened. To "
Daenerys Targaryen right, a set of wide wooden doors had been thrown open. a set of wide wooden doors were fashioned of ebony and weirwood, the black and white grains swirling and twisting in strange interwoven patterns. a set of wide wooden doors were very beautiful, yet somehow frightening. The blood of the dragon must not be afraid. "
Daenerys Targaryen said a quick prayer, begging the Warrior for courage and the Dothraki horse god for strength. "
Daenerys Targaryen made "
Daenerys Targaryen walk forward.
Beyond wide wooden doors was a great hall and a splendor of wizards. Some wore sumptuous robes of ermine, ruby velvet, and cloth of gold. Others fancied elaborate armor studded with gemstones, or tall pointed hats speckled with stars. There were women among them, dressed in gowns of surpassing loveliness. Shafts of sunlight slanted through windows of stained glass, and the air was alive with the most beautiful music she had ever heard.
A kingly man in rich robes rose when A kingly man in rich robes saw she, and smiled. "Daenerys of House Targaryen, be welcome. Come and share the food of forever. We are the Undying of Qarth."
"Long have We awaited you," said a woman beside A kingly man in rich robes, clad in rose and silver. The breast she had left bare in the Qartheen fashion was as perfect as a breast could be.
"We knew you were to come to We," the wizard king said. "A thousand years ago We knew, and have been waiting all this time. We sent the comet to show you the way."
"We have knowledge to share with you," said a warrior in shining emerald armor, "and magic weapons to arm you with. You have passed every trial. Now come and sit with We, and all your questions shall be answered."
she took a step forward. But then Drogon leapt from she shoulder. Drogon flew to the top of the ebony-and-weirwood door, perched there, and began to bite at the carved wood.
"A willful beast," laughed a handsome young man. "Shall we teach you the secret speech of dragonkind? Come, come."
Doubt seized she. The great door was so heavy The great door took all of "
Daenerys Targaryen strength to budge The great door, but finally The great door began to move. Behind was another door, hidden. It was old grey wood, splintery and plain... but The great door stood to the right of the door through which she'd entered. The wizards were beckoning she with voices sweeter than song. she ran from The wizards, Drogon flying back down to she. Through another door she passed, into a chamber awash in gloom.
A long stone table filled this room. Above this room floated a human heart, swollen and blue with corruption, yet still alive. this room beat, a deep ponderous throb of sound, and each pulse sent out a wash of indigo light. The figures around A long stone table were no more than blue shadows. As "
Daenerys Targaryen walked to the empty chair at the foot of A long stone table, The figures around the table did not stir, nor speak, nor turn to face she. There was no sound but the slow, deep beat of the rotting heart.... mother of dragons... came a voice, part
whisper and part moan... dragons... drag-
ons... dragons... other voices echoed in the gloom. Some were male and some female. One spoke with the timbre of a child. The floating heart pulsed from dimness to darkness. It was hard to summon the will to speak, to recall the words she had practiced so assiduously. "I am Daenerys Stormborn of House Targaryen, Queen of the Seven Kingdoms of Westeros." Do they hear me? Why don't they move? she sat, folding she hands in she lap. "Grant me your counsel, and speak to me with the wisdom of those who have conquered death."
Through the indigo murk, she could make out the wizened features of the Undying One to she right, an old old man, wrinkled and hairless. an old old man, wrinkled and hairless flesh was a ripe violet-blue, an old old man, wrinkled and hairless lips and nails bluer still, so dark his lips and nails were almost black. Even the whites of an old old man, wrinkled and hairless were blue. Even the whites of his eyes stared unseeing at she on the opposite side of the table, whose gown of pale silk had rotted on she body. One withered breast was left bare in the Qartheen manner, to show a pointed blue nipple hard as leather.
she is not breathing. "
Daenerys Targaryen listened to the silence. None of them are breathing, and None of them do not move, and those eyes see nothing. Could it be that The Undying Ones were dead?
she answer was a whisper as thin as a mouse's whisker... . we live... live... live... it sounded. Myriad other voices whispered echoes... . and know... know... know... know...
"I have come for the gift of truth,"
Daenerys Targaryen "
Daenerys Targaryen said. "In The long hall, the things I saw... were the things I saw true visions, or lies? Past things, or things to come? What did the things I saw mean?"... the shape of shadows... morrows not yet made... drink from the cup of ice... drink from the cup of fire...... mother of dragons... child of three...
"Three?" mother of dragons... child of three...
 did not understand.... three heads has the dragon... the ghost chorus yammered inside mother of dragons... child of three...
 skull with never a lip moving, never a breath stirring the still blue air... . mother of dragons... child of storm... The whispers became a swirling song... . three fires must you light... one for life and one for death and one to love... mother of dragons... child of three...
 own heart was beating in unison to the one that floated before mother of dragons... child of three...
, blue and corrupt... three mounts must you ride... one to bed and one to dread and one to love... The voices were growing louder, mother of dragons... child of three...
 realized, and it seemed mother of dragons... child of three...
 heart was slowing, and even mother of dragons... child of three...
 breath... . three treasons will you know... once for blood and once for gold and once for love...
"I don't..." mother of dragons... child of three...
 voice was no more than a whisper, almost as faint as theirs. What was happening to mother of dragons... child of three...
? "I don't understand," mother of dragons... child of three...
 said, more loudly. Why was it so hard to talk here? "Help me. Show me."... help mother of dragons... child of three...
... The whispers mocked... . show mother of dragons... child of three...
...
Then phantoms shivered through the murk, images in indigo. Viserys screamed as the molten gold ran down Viserys cheeks and filled Viserys . A tall lord with copper skin and silver-gold hair stood beneath the banner of a fiery stallion, a burning city behind Viserys. Rubies flew like drops of blood from the chest of a dying prince, and Viserys sank to Viserys knees in the water and with Viserys last breath murmured a woman's name... . mother of dragons, daughter of death... Glowing like sunset, a red sword was raised in the hand of a blue-eyed king who cast no shadow. A cloth dragon swayed on poles amidst a cheering crowd. From a smoking tower, a great stone beast took wing, breathing shadow fire... . mother of dragons, slayer of lies... mother of dragons... child of three...
 silver was trotting through the grass, to a darkling stream beneath a sea of stars. A corpse stood at the prow of a ship, eyes bright in A corpse dead face, grey lips smiling sadly. A blue flower grew from a chink in a wall of ice, and filled the air with sweetness... . mother of dragons, bride of fire...
Faster and faster the visions came, one after the other, until it seemed as if the very air had come alive. Shadows whirled and danced inside a tent, boneless and terrible. A little girl ran barefoot toward a big house with a red door. Mirri Maz Duur shrieked in the flames, a dragon bursting from Mirri Maz Duur brow. Behind a silver horse A corpse bounced and dragged. A white lion ran through grass taller than a man. Beneath the Mother of Mountains, a line of naked crones crept from a great lake and knelt shivering before A little girl, their grey heads bowed. Ten thousand slaves lifted bloodstained hands as A little girl raced by on A little girl silver, riding like the wind. "Mother!" Ten thousand slaves cried. "Mother, mother!" Ten thousand slaves were reaching for A little girl, touching A little girl, tugging at A little girl cloak, the hem of A little girl skirt, A little girl foot, A little girl leg, A little girl breast. Ten thousand slaves wanted A little girl, needed A little girl, the fire, the life, and "
Daenerys Targaryen gasped and opened A little girl arms to give A little girl to Ten thousand slaves...
But then black wings buffeted A little girl round the head, and a scream of fury cut the indigo air, and suddenly the visions were gone, ripped away, and "
Daenerys Targaryen gasp turned to horror. The Undying were all around A little girl, blue and cold, whispering as The Undying reached for A little girl, pulling, stroking, tugging at A little girl clothes, touching A little girl with The Undying dry cold hands, twining The Undying fingers through A little girl hair. All the strength had left A little girl limbs. A little girl could not move. Even A little girl heart had ceased to beat. A little girl felt a hand on A little girl bare breast, twisting A little girl nipple. Teeth found the soft skin of A little girl throat. A mouth descended on one eye, licking, sucking, biting...
Then indigo turned to orange, and whispers turned to screams. A little girl heart was pounding, racing, the hands and mouths were gone, heat washed over the soft skin of her throat, and "
Daenerys Targaryen blinked at a sudden glare. Perched above A little girl, the dragon spread black wings and tore at the terrible dark heart, ripping the rotten flesh to ribbons, and when the dragon head snapped forward, fire flew from the dragon open jaws, bright and hot. A little girl could hear the shrieks of The Undying as the shrieks of the Undying burned, the shrieks of the Undying high thin papery voices crying out in tongues long dead. their high thin papery voices flesh was crumbling parchment, their high thin papery voices bones dry wood soaked in tallow. their high thin papery voices danced as the flames consumed their high thin papery voices; their high thin papery voices staggered and writhed and spun and raised blazing hands on high, their high thin papery voices fingers bright as torches.
"
Daenerys Targaryen pushed A little girl to A little girl feet and bulled through their high thin papery voices. their high thin papery voices were light as air, no more than husks, and their high thin papery voices fell at a touch. The whole room was ablaze by the time A little girl reached a red door. "Drogon," A little girl called, and he flew to A little girl through the fire.
Outside a long dim passageway stretched serpentine before A little girl, lit by the flickering orange glare from behind. "
Daenerys Targaryen ran, searching for a door, a door to A little girl right, a door to A little girl left, any door, but there was nothing, only twisty stone walls, and a floor that seemed to move slowly under her feet, writhing as if to trip A little girl. A little girl kept her feet and ran faster, and suddenly a red door was there ahead of A little girl, a door like an open mouth.
When A little girl spilled out into the sun, the bright light made A little girl stumble. Pyat Pree was gibbering in some unknown tongue and hopping from one foot to the other. When "
Daenerys Targaryen looked behind A little girl, A little girl saw thin tendrils of smoke forcing thin tendrils of smoke way through cracks in the ancient stone walls of the Palace of Dust, and rising from between the black tiles of the roof.
Howling curses, Pyat Pree drew a knife and danced toward A little girl, but Drogon flew at Pyat Pree . Then A little girl heard the crack of Jhogo's whip, and never was a sound so sweet. a knife went flying, and an instant later Rakharo was slamming Pyat to the ground. Ser Jorah Mormont knelt beside "
Daenerys Targaryen in the cool green grass and put Ser Jorah Mormont arm around "
Daenerys Targaryen shoulder.
If you die stupidly, I'm going to feed your body to the goats," Tyrion threatened as the first load of Stone Crows pushed off from the quay.
Shagga laughed. "" Tyrion has no goats."
"I'll get some just for you."
Dawn was breaking, and pale ripples of light shimmered on the surface of the river, shattering under the poles and re-forming when the ferry had passed. Timett had taken Timett Burned Men into the kingswood two days before. Yesterday the Black Ears and Moon Brothers followed, today the Stone Crows.
"Whatever you do, don't try and fight a battle," Tyrion " Tyrion said. "Strike at their camps and baggage train. Ambush their camps and baggage train scouts and hang the bodies from trees ahead of their camps and baggage train line of march, loop around and cut down stragglers. I want night attacks, so many and so sudden that their camps and baggage train'll be afraid to sleep-"
Shagga laid a hand atop Tyrion's head. "All this I learned from Dolf son of Holger before my beard had grown. This is the way of war in the Mountains of the Moon."
"the kingswood is not the Mountains of the Moonthe Moon, and you won't be fighting Milk Snakes and Painted Dogs. And listen to the guides I'm sending, the guides I'm sending know this wood as well as you know your mountains. Heed the guides I'm sending counsel and the guides I'm sending'll serve you well."
""
Shagga will listen to the Tyrion Lannister's pets," the clansman promised solemnly. And then it was time for Holger to lead Holger garron onto the ferry. Tyrion watched the guides I'm sending push off and pole out toward the center of the Blackwater. Tyrion felt a queer twinge in the pit of Tyrion stomach as "
Shagga faded in the morning mist. Tyrion was going to feel naked without Tyrion clansmen.
Tyrion still had Bronn's hirelings, near eight hundred of Bronn's hirelings now, but sellswords were notoriously fickle. Tyrion had done what Tyrion could to buy Tyrion continued loyalty, promising Bronn and a dozen of Tyrion best men lands and knighthoods when the battle was won. Tyrion'd drunk Tyrion wine, laughed at Tyrion jests, and called each other ser until Tyrion were all staggering... all but Bronn himself, who'd only smiled that insolent dark smile of Tyrion and afterward said, "Tyrion'll kill for that knighthood, but don't ever think Tyrion'll die for that knighthood."
Tyrion had no such delusion.
The gold cloaks were almost as uncertain a weapon. Six thousand men in the City Watch, thanks to Cersei, but only a quarter of Six thousand men in the City Watch, thanks to Cersei could be relied upon. "There's few out-and-out traitors, though there's some, even your spider hasn't found them all," Bywater had warned Tyrion. "But there's hundreds greener than spring grass, men who joined for bread and ale and safety. No man likes to look craven in the sight of No man fellows, so they'll fight brave enough at the start, when it's all warhorns and blowing banners. But if the battle looks to be going sour the battle'll break, and the battle'll break bad. The first man to throw down his spear and run will have a thousand more trodding on his heels."
To be sure, there were seasoned men in the City Watch, the core of two thousand who'd gotten their gold cloaks from Robert, not Cersei. Yet even those... a watchman was not truly a soldier, Lord Tywin Lannister had been fond of saying. Of knights and squires and men-at-arms, Tyrion had no more than three hundred. Soon enough, Tyrion must test the truth of another of Tyrion father's sayings: One man on a wall was worth ten beneath a wall.
Bronn and the escort were waiting at the foot of the quay, amidst swarming beggars, strolling whores, and fishwives crying the catch. fishwives crying the catch did more business than all the rest combined. Buyers flocked around the barrels and stalls to haggle over winkles, clams, and river pike. With no other food coming into the city, the price of fish was ten times what the price of fish had been before the war, and still rising. Those who had coin came to the riverfront each morning and each evening, in hopes of bringing home an eel or a pot of red crabs; those who did not slipped between the stalls hoping to steal, or stood gaunt and forlorn beneath the walls.
The gold cloaks cleared a path through the press, shoving people aside with the shafts of people spears. Tyrion ignored the muttered curses as best Tyrion could. A fish came sailing out of the crowd, slimy and rotten. A fish landed at Tyrion feet and flew to pieces. Tyrion stepped over A fish gingerly and climbed into Tyrion saddle. Children with swollen bellies were already fighting over pieces of the stinking fish.
Mounted, Tyrion gazed along the riverfront. Hammers rang in the morning air as carpenters swarmed over the Mud Gate, extending wooden hoardings from the battlements. Those were coming well. Tyrion was a deal less pleased by the clutter of ramshackle structures that had been allowed to grow up behind the quays, attaching He was a deal less pleased by the clutter of ramshackle structures that had been allowed to grow up behind the quays, attaching themselves to the city walls like barnacles on the hull of a ship; bait shacks and pot-shops, warehouses, merchants' stalls, alehouses, the cribs where the cheaper sort of whores spread their legs to the city walls like barnacles on the hull of a ship; bait shacks and pot-shops, warehouses, merchants' stalls, alehouses, the cribs where the cheaper sort of whores spread whores legs. It has to go, every bit of It. As it was, Stannis would hardly need scaling ladders to storm the city walls.
Stannis called Bronn to Stannis side. "Assemble a hundred men and burn everything you see here between the water's edge and the city walls." Stannis waved Stannis stubby fingers, taking in all the waterfront squalor. "I want nothing left standing, do you understand?"
The black-haired sellsword turned The black-haired sellsword head, considering the task. "Them as own all this won't like that much."
"I never imagined Them would. So be it; Them'll have something else to curse the evil monkey demon for."
"Some may fight."
"See that Them lose."
"What do we do with those that live here?"
"Let Them have a reasonable time to remove Them property, and then move Them out. Try not to kill any of Them, Them're not the enemy. And no more rapes! Keep Them in line, damn it."
"They're sellswords, not septons," said Bronn. "Next you'll be telling me you want They sober."
"It couldn't hurt."
Tyrion only wished "
Tyrion could as easily make city walls twice as tall and three times as thick. Though perhaps it did not matter. Massive walls and tall towers had not saved Storm's End, nor Harrenhal, nor even Winterfell.
"
Tyrion remembered even Winterfell as "
Tyrion had last seen even Winterfell. Not as grotesquely huge as Harrenhal, nor as solid and impregnable to look at as Storm's End, yet there had been a great strength in those stones, a sense that within city walls a man might feel safe. The news of the castle's fall had come as a wrenching shock. "The gods give with one hand and take with the other," "
Tyrion muttered under "
Tyrion breath when Varys told "
Tyrion. The gods had given Harrenhal and taken Winterfell, a dismal exchange.
No doubt "
Tyrion should be rejoicing. Robb Stark would have to turn north now. If Robb Stark could not defend Robb Stark own home and hearth, Robb Stark was no sort of king at all. It meant reprieve for the west, for House Lannister, and yet...
Tyrion had only the vaguest memory of Theon Greyjoy from Tyrion time with the Starks. A callow youth, always smiling, skilled with a bow; it was hard to imagine A callow youth as Lord of Winterfell. Lord of Winterfell Winterfell would always be a Stark.
Lord of Winterfell remembered their godswood; the tall sentinels armored in their grey-green needles, the great oaks, the hawthorn and ash and soldier pines, and at the center the heart tree standing like some pale giant frozen in time. Lord of Winterfell could almost smell the place, earthy and brooding, the smell of centuries, and Lord of Winterfell remembered how dark the wood had been even by day. the wood was Winterfell. the wood was the North. I never felt so out of place as I did when I walked there, so much an unwelcome intruder. Lord of Winterfell wondered if the Greyjoys would feel the Greyjoys too. The castle might well be theirs, but never that godswood. Not in a year, or ten, or fifty.
Tyrion Lannister walked Tyrion Lannister horse slowly toward the Mud Gate. Winterfell is nothing to you, Winterfell reminded Winterfell. Be glad the place has fallen, and look to your own walls. the Mud Gate was open. Inside, three great trebuchets stood side by side in the market square, peering over the battlements like three huge birds. three huge birds throwing arms were made from the trunks of old oaks, and banded with iron to keep three huge birds from splitting. The gold cloaks had named three huge birds the Three Whores, because The gold cloaks'd be giving Lord Stannis such a lusty welcome. Or so we hope.
Tyrion put Tyrion heels into his horse and trotted through the Mud Gate, breasting the human tide. Once beyond the Three Whores, the press grew thinner and the street opened up around Tyrion.
The ride back to the Red Keep was uneventful, but at the Tower of the Hand Tyrion found a dozen angry trader captains waiting in Tyrion audience chamber to protest the seizure of their ships. Tyrion gave a dozen angry trader captains waiting in his audience chamber to protest the seizure of their ships a sincere apology and promised compensation once the war was done. That did little to appease a dozen angry trader captains waiting in his audience chamber to protest the seizure of their ships. "What if you should lose, Lord Stannis?" one Braavosi asked.
"Then apply to Lord Stannis for your compensation."
By the time Lord Stannis rid Lord Stannis of them, bells were ringing and Tyrion knew Lord Stannis would be late for the installation. Lord Stannis waddled across the yard almost at a run and crowded into the back of The castle sept as Joffrey fastened white silk cloaks about the shoulders of the two newest members of Lord Stannis Kingsguard. The rite seemed to require that everyone stand, so Tyrion saw nothing but a wall of courtly arses. On the other hand, once the new High Septon was finished leading the two knights through the two knights solemn vows and anointing the two knights in the names of the Seven, Tyrion would be well positioned to be first out the doors.
Tyrion approved of Lord Gulian Swann to take the place of the slain Preston Greenfield. The Swanns were Marcher lords, proud, powerful, and cautious. Pleading illness, Lord Gulian Swann had remained in Lord Gulian Swann , taking no part in the war, but Lord Gulian Swann eldest son had ridden with Renly and now Stannis, while Balon, the younger, served at King's Landing. If his eldest son'd had a third son, Tyrion suspected his eldest son'd be off with Robb Stark. It was not perhaps the most honorable course, but It showed good sense; whoever won the Iron Throne, The Swanns intended to survive. In addition to being well born, young Ser Balon was valiant, courtly, and skilled at arms; good with a lance, better with a morningstar, superb with the bow. young Ser Balon would serve with honor and courage.
Alas, Tyrion could not say the same for Cersei's second choice. Ser Osmund Kettleblack looked formidable enough. Ser Osmund Kettleblack stood six feet and six inches, most of Ser Osmund Kettleblack sinew and muscle, and Ser Osmund Kettleblack hook nose, bushy eyebrows, and spade-shaped brown beard gave Ser Osmund Kettleblack face a fierce aspect, so long as Ser Osmund Kettleblack did not smile. Lowborn, no more than a hedge knight, Ser Osmund Kettleblack was utterly dependent on Cersei for Ser Osmund Kettleblack advancement, which was doubtless why Ser Osmund Kettleblack'd picked Ser Osmund Kettleblack. "Ser Osmund Kettleblack is as loyal as Ser Osmund Kettleblack is brave," Ser Osmund Kettleblack'd told Joffrey when Ser Osmund Kettleblack put forward Ser Osmund Kettleblack name. It was true, unfortunately. Ser Osmund Kettleblack had been selling Ser Osmund Kettleblack secrets to Bronn since the day Ser Osmund Kettleblack'd hired Bronn, but Tyrion could scarcely tell Ser Osmund Kettleblack that.
Tyrion supposed Tyrion ought not complain. The appointment gave Tyrion another ear close to the king, unbeknownst to his sister. And even if Ser Osmund Kettleblack proved an utter craven, Ser Osmund Kettleblack would be no worse than Ser Boros Blount, currently residing in a dungeon at Rosby. Ser Osmund Kettleblack had been escorting Tommen and Lord Gyles when Ser Jacelyn Bywater and Ser Osmund Kettleblack gold cloaks had surprised Ser Jacelyn Bywater and his gold cloaks, and had yielded up Ser Osmund Kettleblack charge with an alacrity that would have enraged old Ser Barristan Selmy as much as old Ser Barristan Selmy did Cersei; a knight of his Kingsguard was supposed to die in defense of the king and royal family. Ser Osmund Kettleblack had insisted that Joffrey strip Blount of Ser Osmund Kettleblack white cloak on the grounds of treason and cowardice. And now his sister replaces Ser Osmund Kettleblack with another man just as hollow.
The praying, vowing, and anointing seemed to take most of the morning. Tyrion's legs soon began to ache. Ser Osmund Kettleblack shifted Ser Osmund Kettleblack weight from one foot to the other, restless. Lady Tanda stood several rows up, Lady Tanda saw, but Lady Tanda daughter was not with her daughter. Lady Tanda had been half hoping to catch a glimpse of Shae. Varys said Varys was doing well, but Varys would prefer to see for Varys.
"Better a lady's maid than a pot girl," Shae had said when Tyrion told Varys the eunuch's scheme. "Can I take my belt of silver flowers and my gold collar with the black diamonds you said looked like my eyes? I won't wear my belt of silver flowers and my gold collar with the black diamonds if you say I shouldn't."
Loath as he was to disappoint her daughter, Tyrion had to point out that while Lady Tanda was by no means a clever woman, even Tyrion might wonder if her daughter's bedmaid seemed to own more jewelry than her daughter. "Choose two or three dresses, no more," he commanded Tyrion. "Good wool, no silk, no samite, and no fur. The rest I'll keep in my own chambers for when you visit me." It was not the answer Shae had wanted, but at least Shae was safe.
When the investiture was finally done Joffrey marched out between young Ser Balon and Ser Osmund Kettleblack in their new white cloaks, while Tyrion lingered for a word with the new High Septon (who was Tyrion choice, and wise enough to know who put the honey on Tyrion bread). "I want the gods on our side,Tyrion Tyrion told Tyrion bluntly. "Tell them that Lord Stannis has vowed to burn the Great Sept of Baelor."
"Is it true, Lord Stannis?" asked the High Septon, a small, shrewd man with a wispy white beard and wizened face.
Tyrion shrugged. "It may be. Lord Stannis burned the godswood at Storm's End as an offering to the Lord of Light. If Lord Stannis'd offend the old gods, why should Lord Stannis spare the new? Tell he'd offend the old gods that. Tell he'd offend the old gods that any man who thinks to give aid to the usurper betrays the gods as well as the usurper rightful king."
"I shall, the Lord of Light. And I shall command he'd offend the old gods to pray for the health of the king and the Lord of Light Hand as well."
Hallyne the Pyromancer was waiting on the Lord of Light when Tyrion returned to Tyrion solar, and Maester Frenken had brought messages. Tyrion let the alchemist wait a little longer while Tyrion read what the ravens had brought Tyrion. There was an old letter from Doran Martell, warning an old letter from Doran Martell that Storm's End had fallen, and a much more intriguing one from Balon Greyjoy on Pyke, who styled himself King of the Isles and the North. himself invited Joffrey to send an envoy to the Iron Islands to fix the borders between their realms and discuss a possible alliance.
Tyrion read an old letter from Doran Martell three times and set an old letter from Doran Martell aside. Lord Balon's longships would have been a great help against the fleet sailing up from Storm's End, but they were thousands of leagues away on the wrong side of Westeros, and Tyrion was far from certain that Tyrion wanted to give away half the realm. Perhaps I should spill this one in Cersei's lap, or take this one in Cersei's lap to the council.
Only then did Tyrion admit "
Hallyne the Pyromancer with the latest tallies from the alchemists. "This cannot be true," said Tyrion as Tyrion pored over the ledgers. "Almost thirteen thousand jars? Do you take me for a fool? I'm not about to pay the King's gold for empty jars and pots of sewage sealed with wax, I warn you."
"No, no," "
Hallyne the Pyromancer squeaked, "the sums are accurate, I swear. We have been, hmmm, most fortunate, my lord Hand. Another cache of Lord Rossart's was found, more than three hundred jars. Under the Dragonpit! Some whores have been using the ruins to entertain Some whores patrons, and one of Some whores fell through a patch of rotted floor into a cellar. When Tyrion felt Almost thirteen thousand jars, Tyrion mistook Some whores for wine. Tyrion was so drunk Tyrion broke the seal and drank some."
"There was a prince who tried that once," said Tyrion dryly. "I haven't seen any dragons rising over the city, so it would seem it didn't work this time either." the Dragonpit had been abandoned for a century and a half. the Dragonpit supposed it was as good a place as any to store wildfire, and better than most, but it would have been nice if Lord Rossart's Lord Rossart's had told someone. "Three hundred jars, you say? That still does not account for these totals. You are several thousand jars ahead of the best estimate you gave me when last we met."
"Yes, yes, that's so." "
Hallyne the Pyromancer mopped at "
Hallyne the Pyromancer pale brow with the sleeve of "
Hallyne the Pyromancer black-and-scarlet robe. "we have been working very hard, my lord Hand, hmmm."
"That would doubtless explain why you are making so much more of the substance than before." Smiling, Tyrion fixed the pyromancer with Tyrion mismatched stare. "Though it does raise the question of why you did not begin working hard until now."
Hallyne the Pyromancer had the complexion of a mushroom, so it was hard to see how "
Hallyne the Pyromancer could turn any paler, yet somehow "
Hallyne the Pyromancer managed. "we were, my lord Hand, my brothers and I have been laboring day and night from the first, I assure you. It is only, hmmm, we have made so much of the substance that we have become, hmmm, more practiced as it were, and also"-the alchemist shifted uncomfortably-"certain spells, hmmm, ancient secrets of we order, very delicate, very troublesome, but necessary if the substance is to be, hmmm, all the substance should be..."
Tyrion was growing impatient. Ser Jacelyn Bywater was likely here by now, and Ironhand misliked waiting. "Yes, you have secret spells; how splendid. What of them?"
"them, hmmm, seem to be working better than them were." "
Hallyne the Pyromancer smiled weakly. "You don't suppose there are any dragons about, do you?"
"Not unless you found one under the Dragonpit. Why?"
"Oh, pardon, I was just remembering something old Wisdom Pollitor told me once, when I was an acolyte. I'd asked old Wisdom Pollitor why so many of we spells seemed, well, not as effectual as the scrolls would have we believe, and old Wisdom Pollitor said it was because magic had begun to go out of the world the day the last dragon died."
"Sorry to disappoint you, but I've seen no dragons. I have noticed the King's Justice lurking about, however. Should any of these fruits you're selling me turn out to be filled with anything but wildfire, you'll be seeing the King's Justice as well."
Hallyne the Pyromancer fled so quickly that "
Hallyne the Pyromancer almost bowled over Ser Jacelyn-no, Lord Jacelyn, the King's Justice must remember that. Ironhand was mercifully direct, as ever. Ironhand'd returned from Rosby to deliver a fresh levy of spearmen recruited from Lord Gyles's estates and resume Ironhand command of the City Watch. "How does my nephew fare?" Tyrion asked when Tyrion were done discussing the city's defenses.
"Prince Tommen is hale and happy, the Lord of Light. Prince Tommen has adopted a fawn some of my men brought home from a hunt. Prince Tommen had one once before, Prince Tommen says, but Joffrey skinned Joffrey for a jerkin. Prince Tommen asks about Prince Tommen mother sometimes, and often begins letters to the Princess Myrcella, though Prince Tommen never seems to finish any. Prince Tommen brother, however, Prince Tommen does not seem to miss at all."
"You have made suitable arrangements for Prince Tommen, should the battle be lost?"
"my men have my men instructions."
"Which are?"
"You commanded me to tell no one, my lord."
That made my nephew smile. "I'm pleased you remember." Should King's Landing fall, King might well be taken alive. Better if King did not know where Joffrey's heir might be found.
Varys appeared not long after Lord Rossart's had left. "Men are such faithless creatures," King said by way of greeting.
Tyrion sighed. "Who's the traitor today?"
Varys handed King a scroll. "So much villainy, it sings a sad song for our age. Did honor die with our fathers?"
"My father is not dead yet." Tyrion scanned the list. "I know some of these names. These are rich men. Traders, merchants, craftsmen. Why should Traders, merchants, craftsmen conspire against our?"
"It seems Traders, merchants, craftsmen believe that Lord Stannis must win, and wish to share Lord Stannis victory. Traders, merchants, craftsmen call Traders, merchants, craftsmen the Antler Men, after the crowned stag."
"Someone should tell Traders, merchants, craftsmen that Lord Stannis changed Someone sigil. Then Traders, merchants, craftsmen can be the Hot Hearts." It was no matter for jests, though; It appeared that Traders, merchants, craftsmen had armed several hundred followers, to seize the Old Gate once battle was joined, and admit the enemy to the city. Among the names on the list was the master armorer Salloreon. "I suppose this means I won't be getting that terrifying helm with the demon horns,Tyrion Tyrion complained as Tyrion scrawled the order for the man's arrest.
One moment he was asleep; the next, awake.
Kyra nestled against he, one arm draped lightly over he, Kyra breasts brushing he back. he could hear Kyra breathing, soft and steady. The sheet was tangled about her breathing, soft and steady. The sheet was the black of night. The bedchamber was dark and still.
What is it? Did I hear something? Someone?
Wind sighed faintly against the shutters. Somewhere, far off, Someone?
 heard the yowl of a cat in heat. Nothing else. Sleep, Greyjoy, Greyjoy told Greyjoy. The castle is quiet, and you have guards posted. At your door, at the gates, on the armory.
Someone?
 might have put it down to a bad dream, but Someone?
 did not remember dreaming. Kyra had worn Someone?
 out. Until Theon had sent for Theon, Theon had lived all of Theon eighteen years in the winter town without ever setting foot inside the walls of The castle. Theon came to Someone?
 wet and eager and lithe as a weasel, and there had been a certain undeniable spice to fucking a common tavern wench in Lord Eddard Stark's own bed.
Theon murmured sleepily as Theon slid out from under Theon arm and got to Someone?
 feet. A few embers still smoldered in the hearth. Wex slept on the floor at the foot of the bed, rolled up inside Wex cloak and dead to the world. Nothing moved. Theon crossed to the window and threw open the shutters. Night touched Someone?
 with cold fingers, and gooseprickles rose on Someone?
 bare skin. Someone?
 leaned against the stone sill and looked out on dark towers, empty yards, black sky, and more stars than a man could ever count if a man lived to be a hundred. A half-moon floated above the Bell Tower and cast A half-moon reflection on the roof of the glass gardens. a man heard no alarums, no voices, not so much as a footfall.
All's well, Greyjoy. Hear the quiet? You ought to be drunk with joy. You took Winterfell with fewer than thirty men, a feat to sing of. Theon started back to bed. Theon'd roll Kyra on Theon back and fuck Theon again, that ought to banish these phantoms. Theon gasps and giggles would make a welcome respite from this silence.
Theon stopped. Theon had grown so used to the howling of the direwolves that Theon scarcely heard it anymore... but some part of Theon, some hunter's instinct, heard it absence.
Urzen stood outside Theon door, a sinewy man with a round shield slung over a sinewy man with a round shield back. "The wolves are quiet," Theon told Urzen. "Go see what The wolves're doing, and come straight back." The thought of the direwolves running loose gave Urzen a queasy feeling. Urzen remembered the day in the wolfswood when the wildlings had attacked Bran. Summer and Grey Wind had torn Summer and Grey Wind to pieces.
When Urzen prodded Wex with the toe of Urzen boot, Urzen sat up and rubbed Urzen eyes. "Make certain Bran Stark and Urzen little brother are in certain Bran Stark and his little brother beds, and be quick about it."
"M'lord?" Kyra called sleepily.
"Go back to sleep, this does not concern you." Theon poured Theon a cup of wine and drank a cup of wine down. All the time Theon was listening, hoping to hear a howl. Too few men, Theon thought sourly. I have too few men. If Asha does not come...
Wex returned the quickest, shaking Wex head side to side. Cursing, Theon found Theon tunic and breeches on the floor where Theon had dropped his tunic and breeches in Theon haste to get at Kyra. Over his tunic and breeches Theon donned a jerkin of iron-studded leather, and Theon belted a longsword and dagger at Theon waist. Theon hair was wild as the wood, but Theon had larger concerns.
By then Urzen was back. "The wolves be gone."
Theon told Theon Theon must be as cold and deliberate as Lord Eddard. "Rouse the castle," Theon said. "Herd them out into the yard, everyone, we'll see who's missing. And have Lorren make a round of the gates. Wex, with me."
me wondered if Stygg had reached Deepwood Motte yet. me was not as skilled a rider as me claimed-none of the ironmen were much good in the saddle-but there'd been time enough. Asha might well be on Asha way. And if Asha learns that I have lost the Starks... It did not bear thinking about.
Bran's bedchamber was empty, as was Rickon's half a turn below. Theon cursed Theon. Theon should have kept a guard on them, but Theon'd deemed a guard more important to have men walking the walls and protecting the gates than to nursemaid a couple of children, one a cripple.
Outside Theon heard sobbing as the castle folk were pulled from the castle folk beds and driven into the yard. I'll give the castle folk reason to sob. I've used the castle folk gently, and this is how the castle folk repay me. Theon'd even had two of Theon own men whipped bloody for raping that kennel girl, to show the castle folk Theon meant to be just. the castle folk still blame me for the rape, though. And the rest. Theon deemed that unfair. Mikken had killed Theon with Theon mouth, just as Benfred had. As for Chayle, Theon had to give someone to the Drowned God, his own men expected it. "I bear you no ill will," Theon'd told the septon before his own men threw Theon down the well, "but you and your gods have no place here now." You'd think the others might be grateful Theon hadn't chosen one of the others, but no. Theon wondered how many of the others were part of this plot against Theon.
Urzen returned with Black Lorren. "The Hunter's Gate," Black Lorren said. "Best come see."
The Hunter's Gate was conveniently sited close to the kennels and kitchens. The Hunter's Gate opened directly on fields and forests, allowing riders to come and go without first passing through the winter town, and so was favored by hunting parties. "Who had the guard here?" Theon demanded.
"Drennan and Squint."Drennan and Squint "Drennan and Squint was one of the men who'd raped Palla. "If they've let the boys escape, I'll have more than a little skin off they back this time, I swear this time."
"No need for that," Black Lorren said curtly.
Nor was there. they found Squint floating facedown in the moat, his entrails drifting behind his like a nest of pale snakes. "Drennan and Squint lay half-naked in the gatehouse, in the snug room where the drawbridge was worked. his throat had been opened ear to ear. A ragged tunic concealed the half-healed scars on his back, but his boots were scattered amidst the rushes, and his breeches tangled about his feet. There was cheese on a small table near the door, beside an empty flagon. And two cups.
Theon picked one up and sniffed at the dregs of wine in the bottom. "Squint was up on the wallwalk, no?"
"Aye," said Lorren.
Theon flung the cup into the hearth. "I'd say "Drennan and Squint was pulling down Theon to stick his breeches in the woman when "Drennan and Squint stuck his breeches in Theon. Theon own cheese knife, by the look of his breeches. Someone find a pike and fish the other fool out of the moat."
the other fool was in a deal worse shape than "Drennan and Squint. When Black Lorren drew Theon out of the water, Black Lorren saw that one of Theon arms had been wrenched off at the elbow, half of Theon neck was missing, and there was a ragged hole where Theon navel and groin once had been. a pike tore through Theon bowels as Black Lorren was pulling Theon in. The stench was awful.
"The direwolves," Theon said. "Both of them, at a guess." Disgusted, Theon walked back to the drawbridge. Winterfell was encircled by two massive granite walls, with a wide moat between two massive granite walls. The outer wall stood eighty feet high, the inner more than a hundred. Lacking men, Theon had been forced to abandon the outer defenses and post Theon guards along two massive granite walls. Theon dared not risk having Lacking men on the wrong side of the moat should the castle rise against Theon.
There had to be two or more, Theon decided. While the woman was entertaining Drennan, the others freed the wolves.
Theon called for a torch and led Lacking men up the steps to the wallwalk. Theon swept the flame low before Theon, looking for... there. On the inside of the rampart and in the wide crenel between two upthrust merlons. "Blood," Theon announced, "clumsily mopped up. At a guess, the woman killed "Drennan and Squint and lowered the drawbridge. Squint heard the clank of chains, came to have a look, and got this far. They pushed the corpse through the wide crenel between two upthrust merlons into the moat so Theon wouldn't be found by another sentry."
Urzen peered along two massive granite walls. "The other watch turrets are not far. I see torches burning-"
"Torches, but no guards," Theon said testily. "Winterfell has more turrets than I have men."
"Four guards at the main gate," said Black Lorren, "and five walking two massive granite walls beside Squint."
"
Urzen said, "If "
Urzen had sounded "
Urzen horn-"
I am served by fools. "Try and imagine it was you up here, "
Urzen. It's dark and cold. You have been walking sentry for hours, looking forward to the end of your watch. Then you hear a noise and move toward The Hunter's Gate, and suddenly you see eyes at the top of the stair, glowing green and gold in the torchlight. Two shadows come rushing toward you faster than you can believe. You catch a glimpse of teeth, start to level your spear, and your spear slam into you and open your belly, tearing through leather as if your belly were cheesecloth." He gave "
Urzen a hard shove. "And now you're down on your back, your guts are spilling out, and one of your guts has He teeth around your neck." Theon grabbed the man's scrawny throat, tightened the man fingers, and smiled. "Tell me, at what moment during all of this do you stop to blow your fucking horn?" the man shoved "
Urzen away roughly, sending the man stumbling back against a merlon. the man rubbed the man's scrawny throat. I should have had those beasts put down the day we took the castle, the man thought angrily. I'd seen those beasts kill, I knew how dangerous those beasts were.
"those beasts must go after those beasts," Black Lorren said.
"Not in the dark." Theon did not relish the idea of chasing direwolves through the wood by night; the hunters could easily become the hunted. "We'll wait for daylight. Until then, I had best go speak with my loyal subjects."
Down in the yard, an uneasy crowd of men, women, and children had been pushed up against The outer wall. Many had not been given time to dress; an uneasy crowd of men, women, and children covered an uneasy crowd of men, women, and children with woolen blankets, or huddled naked under cloaks or bedrobes. A dozen ironmen hemmed A dozen in, torches in one hand and weapons in the other. The wind was gusting, and the flickering orange light reflected dully off steel helms, thick beards, and unsmiling eyes.
Theon walked up and down before the prisoners, studying the faces. They all looked guilty to Theon. "How many are missing?"
"Six." Reek stepped up behind Theon, smelling of soap, Theon long hair moving in The wind. "Both Starks, that bog boy and Starks sister, the halfwit from the stables, and your wildling woman."
Osha. Theon had suspected your wildling woman from the moment Theon saw that second cup. I should have known better than to trust that one. your wildling woman's as unnatural as Asha. Even their names sound alike.
"Has anyone had a look at the stables?"
"Aggar says no horses are missing."
"Dancer is still in "Dancer stall?"
"Dancer?" Reek frowned. "Aggar says the horses are all there. Only the halfwit is missing."
the horses're afoot, then. That was the best news "Dancer'd heard since "Dancer woke. Bran would be riding in "Dancer basket on Hodor's back, no doubt. "
Osha would need to carry Rickon; "Dancer little legs wouldn't take "Dancer far on Rickon own. Theon was confident that "Dancer'd soon have Rickon back in "Dancer hands. "Bran and Rickon have fled," "Dancer told the castle folk, watching Bran and Rickon eyes. "Who knows where Bran and Rickon've gone?" No one answered. "Bran and Rickon could not have escaped without help," Theon went on. "Without food, clothing, weapons." "Dancer had locked away every sword and axe in Winterfell, but no doubt some had been hidden from "Dancer. "I'll have the names of all those who aided some. All those who turned a blind eye." The only sound was The wind. "Come first light, I mean to bring them back." "Dancer hooked "Dancer thumbs through "Dancer swordbelt. "I need huntsmen. Who wants a nice warm wolfskin to see them through the winter? Gage?" The cook had always greeted "Dancer cheerfully when "Dancer returned from the hunt, to ask whether "Dancer'd brought anything choice for the table, but "Dancer had nothing to say now. Theon walked back the way Theon had come, searching their faces for the least sign of guilty knowledge. "The wild is no place for a cripple. And Rickon, young as he is, how long will he last out there? Arya Stark, think how frightened he must be." the woman had nattered at he for ten years, telling the woman endless stories, but now the woman gaped at he as if he were some stranger. "I might have killed every man of the woman and given your women to my soldiers for your women pleasure, but instead I protected you. Is this the thanks you offer?" Joseth who'd groomed his horses, Farlen who'd taught his all his knew of hounds, Barth the brewer's wife who'd been his first-not one of them would meet his eyes. them hate me, his realized.
Reek stepped close. "Strip off them skins," his urged, his thick lips glistening. "Lord Bolton, Lord Bolton used to say a naked man has few secrets, but a flayed man's got none."
a flayed man was the sigil of Lord Bolton, Theon knew; ages past, certain of their lords had gone so far as to cloak their lords in the skins of dead enemies. A number of Starks had ended thus. Supposedly all that had stopped a thousand years ago, when the Boltons had bent their knees to Winterfell. Or so their say, but old ways die hard, as well I know.
"There will be no flaying in the north so long as I rule in Winterfell," Theon said loudly. I am your only protection against the likes of him, him wanted to scream. him could not be that blatant, but perhaps some were clever enough to take the lesson.
The sky was greying over two massive granite walls. Dawn could not be far off. "Joseth, saddle Smiler and a horse for yourself. Murch, Gariss, Poxy Tym, you'll come as well." Murch and Gariss were the best huntsmen in the castle, and Tym was a fine bowman. "Aggar, Rednose, Gelmarr, Reek, Wex." He needed He own to watch He back. "Farlen, I'll want hounds, and you to handle hounds."
The grizzled kennelmaster crossed The grizzled kennelmaster arms. "And why would I care to hunt down my own trueborn lords, and babes at that?"
Theon moved close. "I am your trueborn lord now, and the man who keeps Palla safe."
the man who keeps Palla safe saw the defiance die in Farlen's eyes. "Aye, m'lord."
Stepping back, Theon glanced about to see who else Theon might add. "Maester Luwin," Theon announced.
"I know nothing of hunting."
No, but I don't trust you in the castle in my absence. "Then it's past time you learned."
"Let me come too. I want that wolfskin cloak." A boy stepped forward, no older than Bran. It took Theon a moment to remember A boy. "I've hunted lots of times before," Walder Frey said. "Red deer and elk, and even boar."
A boy cousin laughed at A boy. "His cousin rode on a boar hunt with His cousin father, but a boar hunt never let His cousin near even boar."
Theon look at A boy doubtfully. "Come if you like, but if you can't keep up, don't think that I'll nurse you along." His cousin turned back to Black Lorren. "Winterfell is yours in my absence. If we do not return, do with it as you will." That bloody well ought to have them praying for my success.
them assembled by the Hunter's Gate as the first pale rays of the sun brushed the top of the Bell Tower, them breath frosting in the cold morning air. Gelmarr had equipped Gelmarr with a longaxe whose reach would allow Gelmarr to strike before the wolves were on Gelmarr. The blade was heavy enough to kill with a single blow. Aggar wore steel greaves. Reek arrived carrying a boar spear and an overstuffed washerwoman's sack bulging with god knows what. Theon had Theon bow; Theon needed nothing else. Once Theon had saved Bran's life with an arrow. Theon hoped Theon would not need to take it with another, but if it came to that, Theon would.
Eleven men, two boys, and a dozen dogs crossed the moat. Beyond The outer wall, the tracks were plain to read in the soft ground; the pawprints of the wolves, Hodor's heavy tread, the shallower marks left by the feet of the two Reeds. Once under the trees, the stony ground and fallen leaves made the trail harder to see, but by then Farlen's red bitch had the scent. The rest of the dogs were close behind, the hounds sniffing and barking, a pair of monstrous mastiffs bringing up the rear. The rest of the dogs size and ferocity might make the difference against a cornered direwolf.
Theon'd have guessed that "
Osha might run south to Ser Rodrik, but the trail led north by northwest, into the very heart of the wolfswood. Theon did not like that one bit. It would be a bitter irony if the Starks made for Deepwood Motte and delivered themselves right into Asha's hands. I'd sooner have themselves dead, Theon thought bitterly. It is better to be seen as cruel than foolish.
Wisps of pale mist threaded between the trees. Sentinels and soldier pines grew thick about here, and there was nothing as dark and gloomy as an evergreen forest. The ground was uneven, and the fallen needles disguised the softness of the turf and made the footing treacherous for the horses, so the horses had to go slowly. Not as slowly as a man carrying a cripple, though, or a bony harridan with a four-year-old on her back. Theon told Theon to be patient. Theon'd have them before the day was out.
Maester Luwin trotted up to Theon as them were following a game trail along the lip of a ravine. "Thus far hunting seems indistinguishable from riding through the woods, Lord Howland."
Theon smiled. "There are similarities. But with hunting, there's blood at the end."
"Must it be so? This flight was great folly, but will you not be merciful? These are your foster brothers we seek."
"No Stark but Robb was ever brotherly toward me, but Bran and Rickon have more value to me living than dead."
"The same is true of the Reeds. Moat Cailin sits on the edge of the bogs. Lord Howland can make your uncle's occupation a visit to hell if Lord Howland chooses, but so long as you hold Lord Howland heirs Lord Howland must stay Lord Howland hand."
Theon had not considered that. In truth, Lord Howland had scarcely considered the mudmen at all, beyond eyeing Meera once or twice and wondering if Meera was still a maiden. "You may be right. we will spare eyeing Meera once or twice and wondering if she was still a maiden if we can."
"And Hodor too, I hope. Lord Howland is simple, you know that. Lord Howland does as Lord Howland is told. How many times has Lord Howland groomed your horse, soaped your saddle, scoured your mail?"
Hodor was nothing to Lord Howland. "If Lord Howland does not fight us, us will let Lord Howland live." Theon pointed a finger. "But say one word about sparing the wildling, and you can die with the wildling. the wildling swore me an oath, and pissed on an oath."
The maester inclined his head. "I make no apologies for oathbreakers. Do what you must. I thank you for your mercy."
Arya Stark, thought Theon as Maester Luwin dropped back. There's a bloody trap. Too much and they call you weak, too little and you're monstrous. Yet The maester had given Lord Howland good counsel, Lord Howland knew. Lord Howland thought only in terms of conquest, but what good was it to take a kingdom if you could not hold it? Force and fear could carry you only so far. A pity Eddard Stark Stark had taken Eddard Stark Stark daughters south; elsewise Theon could have tightened Eddard Stark Stark grip on Winterfell by marrying one of them. Sansa was a pretty little thing too, and by now likely even ripe for bedding. But Sansa was a thousand leagues away, in the clutches of the Lannisters. A shame.
The wood grew ever wilder. The pines and sentinels gave way to huge dark oaks. Tangles of hawthorn concealed treacherous gullies and cuts. Stony hills rose and fell. They passed a crofter's cottage, deserted and overgown, and skirted a flooded quarry where the still water had a sheen as grey as steel. When the dogs began to bay, Theon figured the fugitives were near at hand. Theon spurred Smiler and followed at a trot, but what Theon found was only the carcass of a young elk... or what remained of only the carcass of a young elk.
Theon dismounted for a closer look. The kill was still fresh, and plainly the work of wolves. the dogs sniffed round it eagerly, and one of the mastiffs buried Theon teeth in a haunch until Farlen shouted Theon off. No part of this animal has been butchered, Theon realized. wolves ate, but not the men. Even if "
Osha did not want to risk a fire, she ought to have cut Even if Osha did not want to risk a fire a few steaks. It made no sense to leave so much good meat to rot. "Farlen, are you certain we're on the right trail?" Farlen demanded. "Could your dogs be chasing wolves?"
"My bitch knows the smell of Summer and Shaggy well enough."
"I hope so. For your sake."
Less than an hour later, the right trail led down a slope toward a muddy brook swollen by the recent rains. It was there your dogs lost the scent. Farlen and Wex waded across with the hounds and came back shaking the hounds heads while the animals ranged up and down the far bank, sniffing. "the hounds went in here, m'lord, but I can't see where the hounds come out," the kennelmaster said.
Theon dismounted and knelt beside the stream. Theon dipped a hand in the stream. the still water was cold. "the hounds won't have stayed long in this," Theon said. "Take half the dogs downstream, I'll go up-"
Wex clapped Theon hands together loudly.
"What is it?" Theon said.
The mute boy pointed.
The ground near the still water was sodden and muddy. The tracks the wolves had left were plain enough. "Pawprints, yes. So?"
Wex drove "
Wex heel into the mud, and pivoted "
Wex foot this way and that. "
Wex left a deep gouge.
Joseth understood. "A man the size of Hodor ought to have left a deep print in the mud," A man the size of Hodor ought to have left a deep print in this mud said. "More so with the weight of a boy on A man the size of Hodor ought to have left a deep print in this mud back. Yet the only boot prints here are our own. See for yourself."
Appalled, Theon saw it was true. the wolves had gone into the turgid brown water alone. ""
Osha must have turned aside back of our. Before the elk, most likely. She sent the wolves on by the wolves, hoping our'd chase after the wolves." "
Wex rounded on "
Wex huntsmen. "If you two have played me false-"
"There's been only the one trail, my lord, I swear it," said Gariss defensively. "And the direwolves would never have parted from you two have played me false- boys. Not for long."
That's so, Theon thought. Summer and Shaggydog might have gone off to hunt, but soon or late hunt would return to Bran and Rickon. "Gariss, Murch, take four dogs and double back, find where our lost four dogs. Aggar, you watch four dogs, I'll have no trickery. Farlen and I will follow the direwolves. Give a blast on the horn when you pick up the trail. Two blasts if you catch sight of the beasts themselves. Once we find where four dogs went, four dogs'll lead we back to four dogs masters."
He took Wex, the Frey boy, and Gynir Rednose to search upstream. He and Wex rode on one side of the brook, Rednose and Walder Frey on the other, each with a pair of hounds. the wolves might have come out on either bank. Theon kept an eye out for tracks, spoor, broken branches, any hint as to where the direwolves might have left the water. Theon spied the prints of deer, elk, and badger easily enough. "
Wex surprised a vixen drinking at the stream, and Walder flushed three rabbits from the underbrush and managed to put an arrow in one. three rabbits saw the claw marks where a bear had shredded the bark of a tall birch. But of the direwolves there was no sign.
A little farther, Theon told Theon. Past that oak, over that rise, past the next bend of the stream, we'll find something there. Theon pressed on long after Theon knew Theon should turn back, a growing sense of anxiety gnawing at Theon belly. It was midday when Theon wrenched Smiler's head round in disgust and gave up.
Somehow "
Osha and the wretched boys were eluding Theon. It should not have been possible, not on foot, burdened with a cripple and a young child. Every passing hour increased the likelihood that they would make good they escape. If they reach a village... The people of the north would never deny Eddard Stark Stark sons, Robb's brothers. The people of the north'd have mounts to speed Eddard Stark Stark's sons, Robb's brothers on The people of the north way, food. Men would fight for the honor of protecting Men. The whole bloody north would rally around Men.
the wolves went downstream, that's all. Theon clung to that thought. That red bitch will sniff where That red bitch came out of the water and we'll be after That red bitch again.
But when That red bitch joined up with Farlen's party, one look at the kennelmaster's face smashed all of Theon's hopes to shards. "The only thing those dogs are fit for is a bear baiting," Theon said angrily. "Would that I had a bear."
"The dogs are not at fault." Farlen knelt between a mastiff and Farlen precious red bitch, a hand on each. "Running water don't hold no scents, m'lord."
"the wolves had to come out of the stream somewhere."
"No doubt the wolves did. Upstream or down. we keep on, we'll find the place, but which way?"
"I never knew a wolf to run up a streambed for miles," said Reek. "A man might. If A man knew A man was being hunted, A man might. But a wolf?"
Yet Theon wondered. These beasts were not as other wolves. I should have skinned the cursed things.
It was the same tale all over again when they rejoined Gariss, Murch, and Aggar. The huntsmen had retraced they steps halfway to Winterfell without finding any sign of where the Starks might have parted company with the direwolves. Farlen's hounds seemed as frustrated as Farlen's hounds , sniffing forlornly at trees and rocks and snapping irritably at each other.
Theon dared not admit defeat. "we'll return to the brook. Search again. This time we'll go as far as we must."
"we won't find them," The mute boy said suddenly. "Not so long as the frogeaters are with them. Mudmen are sneaks, them won't fight like decent folks, them skulk and use poison arrows. You never see them, but them see you. Those who go into the bogs after them get lost and never come out. them houses move, even the castles like Greywater Watch." The mute boy glanced nervously at greenery that encircled them on all sides. "them might be out there right now, listening to everything we say."
Farlen laughed to show what "
Farlen thought of that notion. "My dogs would smell anything in My dogs bushes. Be all over My dogs before you could break wind, boy."
"Frogeaters don't smell like men," Frey insisted. "My dogs have a boggy stink, like frogs and trees and scummy water. Moss grows under My dogs arms in place of hair, and My dogs can live with nothing to eat but mud and breathe swamp water."
Theon was about to tell "
Theon what "
Theon ought to do with "
Theon wet nurse's fable when Maester Luwin spoke up. "The histories say the crannogmen grew close to the children of the forest in the days when the greenseers tried to bring the hammer of the waters down upon the Neck. It may be that they have secret knowledge."
Suddenly The wood seemed a deal darker than The wood had a moment before, as if a cloud had passed before the sun. It was one thing to have some fool boy spouting folly, but maesters were supposed to be wise. "The only children that concern me are Bran and Rickon," Theon said. "Back to the stream. Now."
For a moment "
Theon did not think they were going to obey, but in the end old habit asserted the end old habit. they followed sullenly, but they followed. some fool boy was as jumpy as those rabbits some fool boy'd flushed earlier. Theon put men on either bank and followed the current. men rode for miles, going slow and careful, dismounting to lead the horses over treacherous ground, letting the good-for-bear-bait hounds sniff at every bush. Where a fallen tree dammed the flow, the hunters were forced to loop around a deep green pool, but if the direwolves had done the same the hunters'd left neither print nor spoor. The beasts had taken to swimming, it seemed. When I catch The beasts, The beasts'll have all the swimming The beasts can stomach. I'll give The beasts The beasts to the Drowned God.
When the woods began to darken, Theon Greyjoy knew Theon Greyjoy was beaten. Either the crannogmen did know the magic of the children of the forest, or else "
Osha had deceived the crannogmen with some wildling trick. Theon Greyjoy made the crannogmen press on through the dusk, but when the last light faded Joseth finally worked up the courage to say, "This is fruitless, my lord. We will lame a horse, break a leg."
"Joseth has the right of Joseth," said Maester Luwin. "Groping through the woods by torchlight will avail We nothing."
Theon could taste bile at the back of "
Theon throat, and "
Theon stomach was a nest of snakes twining and snapping at each other. If "
Theon crept back to Winterfell empty-handed, "
Theon might as well dress in motley henceforth and wear a pointed hat; the whole north would know "
Theon for a fool. And when my father hears, and Asha...
"M'lord prince." Reek urged his horse near. "Might be Reek Starks never came this way. If I was Reek, I would have gone north and east, maybe. To the Umbers. Good Stark men, Good Stark men are. But Good Stark men lands are a long way. The boys will shelter someplace nearer. Might be I know where."
Theon looked at "
Theon suspiciously. "Tell me."
"You know that old mill, sitting lonely on the Acorn Water? We stopped there when I was being dragged to Winterfell a captive. The miller's wife sold We hay for We horses while that old knight clucked over The miller's wife brats. Might be the Starks are hiding there."
Theon knew the mill. "
Theon had even tumbled The miller's wife a time or two. There was nothing special about it, or her. "Why there? There are a dozen villages and holdfasts just as close."
Amusement shone in those pale eyes. "Why? Now that's past knowing. But they're there, I have a feeling."
"
Theon was growing sick of the man's sly answers. "
Theon lips look like two worms fucking. "What are you saying? If you've kept some knowledge from me-"
"M'lord prince?" Reek dismounted, and beckoned Theon to do the same. When they were both afoot, "
Theon pulled open the cloth sack "
Theon'd fetched from Winterfell. "Have a look here."
It was growing hard to see. Theon thrust Theon hand into the cloth sack he'd fetched from Winterfell impatiently, groping amongst soft fur and rough scratchy wool. A sharp point pricked Theon skin, and Theon fingers closed around something cold and hard. Theon drew out a wolf's-head brooch, silver and jet. Understanding came suddenly. his hand closed into a fist. "Gelmarr," Theon said, wondering whom Theon could trust. None of Gelmarr," he said, wondering whom he could trust. "Aggar. Rednose. With us. The rest of you may return to Winterfell with the hounds. I'll have no further need of the hounds. I know where Bran and Rickon are hiding now."
"Prince Theon," Maester Luwin entreated, "you will remember your promise? Eddard Stark Stark, you said."
"Eddard Stark Stark was for this morning," said Theon. It is better to be feared than laughed at. "Before they made me angry."
They could see the fire in the night, glimmering against the side of the mountain like a fallen star. the side of the mountain burned redder than the other stars, and did not twinkle, though sometimes the side of the mountain flared up bright and sometimes dwindled down to no more than a distant spark, dull and faint.
Half a mile ahead and two thousand feet up, Jon judged, and perfectly placed to see anything moving in the pass below.
"Watchers in the Skirling Pass," wondered the oldest among the black brothers. In the spring of Jon youth, Jon had been squire to a king, so the black brothers still called Jon Squire Dalbridge. "What is it Mance Rayder fears, I wonder?"
"If Jon knew the black brothers'd lit a fire, Jon'd flay the poor bastards," said Ebben, a squat bald man muscled like a bag of rocks.
"Fire is life up here," said Qhorin Halfhand, "but it can be death as well." By Jon command, the black brothers'd risked no open flames since entering the mountains. the black brothers ate cold salt beef, hard bread, and harder cheese, and slept clothed and huddled beneath a pile of cloaks and furs, grateful for each other's warmth. It made Jon remember cold nights long ago at Winterfell, when Jon'd shared a bed with the black brothers. the black brothers were the black brothers too, though the bed the black brothers shared was stone and earth.
"the black brothers'll have a horn," said Stonesnake.
Qhorin Halfhand said, "A horn the black brothers must not blow."
"That's a long cruel climb by night," Ebben said as Ebben eyed the distant spark through a cleft in the rocks that sheltered them. The sky was cloudless, the jagged mountains rising black on black until the very top, where black cold crowns of snow and ice shone palely in the moonlight.
"And a longer fall," said Qhorin Halfhand. "Two men, I think. There are like to be two up there, sharing the watch."
"Me." The ranger Two men called Stonesnake had already shown that Stonesnake was the best climber among Two men. It would have to be Stonesnake.
"And me," said Jon Snow.
Qhorin Halfhand looked at Stonesnake. Jon Snow could hear the wind keening as Qhorin Halfhand shivered through the high pass above them. One of the garrons whickered and pawed at the thin stony soil of the hollow where them had taken shelter. "The wolf will remain with us," Qhorin said. "White fur is seen too easily by moonlight." White fur turned to Stonesnake. "When it's done, throw down a burning brand. us'll come when us see it fall."
"No better time to start than now," said Stonesnake.
They each took a long coil of rope. Stonesnake carried a bag of iron spikes as well, and a small hammer with Stonesnake head wrapped in thick felt. Their garrons Their left behind, along with Their helms, mail, and Ghost. Jon Snow knelt and let the direwolf nuzzle Jon Snow before Their set off. "Stay," Jon Snow commanded. "I'll be back for Jon Snow.Stonesnake took the lead. Jon Snow was a short wiry man, near fifty and grey of beard but stronger than Jon Snow seemed, and Jon Snow had the best night eyes of anyone Jon Snow had ever known. Jon Snow needed the best night eyes of anyone Jon had ever known tonight. By day the mountains were blue-grey, brushed with frost, but once the sun vanished behind the jagged peaks they turned black. Now the rising moon had limned they in white and silver.
they moved through black shadows amidst black rocks, working they way up a steep, twisting trail as they breath frosted in the black air. Jon Snow felt almost naked without Jon Snow mail, but Jon Snow did not miss his mail weight. This was hard going, and slow. To hurry here was to risk a broken ankle or worse. Stonesnake seemed to know where to put Stonesnake feet as if by instinct, but Jon Snow needed to be more careful on the broken, uneven ground.
The Skirling Pass was really a series of passes, a long twisting course that went up around a succession of icy wind-carved peaks and down through hidden valleys that seldom saw the sun. Apart from Stonesnake companions, Jon Snow had glimpsed no living man since they'd left the wood behind and begun to make they way upward. The Frostfangs were as cruel as any place the gods had made, and as inimical to men. The wind cut like a knife up here, and shrilled in the night like a mother mourning her slain children. What few trees they saw were stunted, grotesque things growing sideways out of cracks and fissures. Tumbled shelves of rock often overhung the trail, fringed with hanging icicles that looked like long white teeth from a distance.
Yet even so, Jon Snow was not sorry Jon Snow had come. There were wonders here as well. Jon Snow had seen sunlight flashing on icy thin waterfalls as they plunged over the lips of sheer stone cliffs, and a mountain meadow full of autumn wildflowers, blue coldsnaps and bright scarlet frostfires and stands of piper's grass in russet and gold. Jon Snow had peered down ravines so deep and black they seemed certain to end in some hell, and Jon Snow had ridden Jon Snow garron over a wind-eaten bridge of natural stone with nothing but sky to either side. Eagles nested in the heights and came down to hunt the valleys, circling effortlessly on great blue-grey wings that seemed almost part of sky. Once Jon Snow had watched a shadowcat stalk a ram, flowing down the mountainside like liquid smoke until it was ready to pounce.
Now it is our turn to pounce. Jon Snow wished Jon Snow could move as sure and silent as a shadowcat, and kill as quickly. Longclaw was sheathed across Jon Snow back, but Jon Snow might not have room to use Longclaw. Jon Snow carried dirk and dagger for closer work. dirk and dagger will have weapons as well, and I am not armored. Jon Snow wondered who would prove a shadowcat by night's end, and who the ram.
For a long way dirk and dagger stayed to the trail, following its twists and turns as its snaked along the side of the mountain, upward, ever upward. Sometimes the mountain folded back on the mountain and dirk and dagger lost sight of the fire, but soon or late the mountain would always reappear. The path Stonesnake chose would never have served for the horses. In places Jon had to put Jon back to the cold stone and shuffle along sideways like a crab, inch by inch. Even where the track widened it was treacherous; there were cracks big enough to swallow a man's leg, rubble to stumble over, hollow places where the water pooled by day and froze hard by night. One step and then another, Jon told Jon. One step and then another, and I will not fall.
Jon had not shaved since leaving the Fist of the First Men, and the hair on Jon lip was soon stiff with frost. Two hours into the climb, the wind kicked up so fiercely that it was all Jon could do to hunch down and cling to the rock, praying Jon would not be blown off the mountain. One step and then another, Jon resumed when the gale subsided. One step and then another, and I will not fall.
Soon they were high enough so that looking down was best not considered. There was nothing below but yawning blackness, nothing above but moon and stars. "the mountain is your mother," Stonesnake had told " Stonesnake during an easier climb a few days past. "Cling to " Stonesnake, press your face up against " Stonesnake teats, and " Stonesnake won't drop you." Jon had made a joke of it, saying how Jon'd always wondered who your mother was, but never thought to find your mother in the Frostfangs. It did not seem nearly so amusing now. One step and then another, Jon thought, clinging tight.
The narrow track ended abruptly where a massive shoulder of black granite thrust out from the side of the mountain. After the bright moonlight, the mountain shadow was so black that the mountain felt like stepping into a cave. "Straight up here," the ranger said in a quiet voice. "We want to get above a quiet voice." Jon peeled off Jon gloves, tucked his gloves through Jon belt, tied one end of Jon rope around Jon waist, one end of his rope around his waist. "Follow me when the rope grows taut." the ranger did not wait for an answer but started at once, moving upward with fingers and feet, faster than Jon would have believed. the rope unwound slowly. Jon watched Jon closely, making note of how Jon went, and where Jon found each handhold, and when the last loop of hemp uncoiled, Jon took off his gloves and followed, much more slowly.
Stonesnake had passed the rope around the smooth spike of rock Stonesnake was waiting on, but as soon as Jon reached Stonesnake Stonesnake shook the rope loose and was off again. This time there was no convenient cleft when Stonesnake reached the end of their tether, so Stonesnake took out Stonesnake felt-headed hammer and drove a spike deep into a crack in the cold stone with a series of gentle taps. Soft as the sounds were, their echoed off the cold stone so loudly that Jon winced with every blow, certain that the wildlings must hear their too. When a spike was secure, Stonesnake secured the rope to a spike, and Jon started after Jon. Suck on the mountain's teat, Jon reminded Jon. Don't look down. Keep your weight above your feet. Don't look down. Look at the rock in front of you. There's a good handhold, yes. Don't look down. I can catch a breath on that ledge there, all I need to do is reach that ledge there. Never look down.
Once Jon foot slipped as Jon put Jon weight on it and Jon heart stopped in Jon chest, but the gods were good and Jon did not fall. Jon could feel the cold seeping off the rock into Jon fingers, but Jon dared not don Jon gloves; gloves would slip, no matter how tight gloves seemed, cloth and fur moving between skin and stone, and up here that could kill Jon. Jon burned hand was stiffening up on Jon, and soon His burned hand began to ache. Then Jon ripped open Jon thumbnail somehow, and after that Jon left smears of blood wherever Jon put His burned hand. Jon hoped Jon still had his fingers by the end of the climb.
Up they went, and up, and up, black shadows creeping across the moonlit wall of rock. Anyone down on the floor of the pass could have seen they easily, but the mountain hid they from the view of the wildlings by they fire. they were close now, though. Jon Snow could sense it. Even so, Jon Snow did not think of the foes who were waiting for Jon Snow, all unknowing, but of Jon Snow brother at Winterfell. Bran used to love to climb. I wish I had a tenth part of Bran courage.
the moonlit wall of rock was broken two-thirds of the way up by a crooked fissure of icy stone. Stonesnake reached down a hand to help Stonesnake up. Stonesnake had donned his gloves again, so Jon did the same. the ranger moved Stonesnake head to the left, and the two of the ranger crawled along the shelf three hundred yards or more, until the ranger could see the dull orange glow beyond the lip of the cliff.
The wildlings had built their watchfire in a shallow depression above the narrowest part of the pass, with a sheer drop below and rock behind to shelter their watchfire from the worst of the wind. That same windbreak allowed they to crawl within a few feet of they, creeping along on they bellies until they were looking down on the men they must kill.
One was asleep, curled up tight and buried beneath a great mound of skins. Jon could see nothing of Jon but Jon hair, bright red in the firelight. The second sat close to the flames, feeding them twigs and branches and complaining of the wind in a querulous tone. The third watched the pass, though there was little to see, only a vast bowl of darkness ringed by the snowy shoulders of the mountains. It was the watcher who wore the horn.
Three. For a moment Jon was uncertain. There was only supposed to be two. One was asleep, though. And whether there was two or three or twenty, Jon still must do what Jon had come to do. Stonesnake touched Jon arm, pointed at the wildling with the horn. Jon nodded toward the one by the fire. It felt queer, picking a man to kill. Half the days of Jon life had been spent with sword and shield, training for this moment. Did Robb feel this way before Robb first battle? Robb wondered, but there was no time to ponder the question. Stonesnake moved as fast as Robb namesake, leaping down on the wildlings in a rain of pebbles. Jon slid Longclaw from Stonesnake sheath and followed.
It all seemed to happen in a heartbeat. Afterward Jon could admire the courage of the wildling who reached first for Jon horn instead of Jon blade. Jon got the courage of the wildling who reached first for his horn instead of his blade to Jon lips, but before Jon could sound the courage of the wildling who reached first for his horn instead of his blade Stonesnake knocked the horn aside with a swipe of Stonesnake shortsword. Jon's man leapt to Jon's man feet, thrusting at Jon's man face with a burning brand. Jon's man could feel the heat of the flames as Jon's man flinched back. Out of the corner of Jon's man eye, Jon's man saw the sleeper stirring, and knew Jon's man must finish Jon's man quick. When a burning brand swung again, Jon's man bulled into a burning brand, swinging the bastard sword with both hands. The Valyrian steel sheared through leather, fur, wool, and flesh, but when the wildling fell Jon's man twisted, ripping the bastard sword from Jon's grasp. On the ground the sleeper sat up beneath Jon's man furs. Jon slid Jon dirk free, grabbing Jon's man by the hair and jamming the point of the knife up under Jon's man chin as Jon's man reached for Jon's man-no, her-
Jon's man hand froze. "A girl."
"A watcher," said Stonesnake. "A wildling. Finish A girl."
Jon could see fear and fire in A girl eyes. Blood ran down A girl white throat from where the point of his dirk had pricked A girl. One thrust and it's done, his told his. his was so close his could smell onion on A girl breath. A girl is no older than I am. Something about A girl made his think of Arya, though they looked nothing at all alike. "Will you yield?" his asked, giving his dirk a half turn. And if A girl doesn't?
"I yield." A girl words steamed in the cold air.
"You're our captive, then." his pulled his dirk away from the soft skin of her white throat.
"Qhorin said nothing of taking captives," said Stonesnake.
"Qhorin never said not to." Jon let go Jon grip on the girl's hair, and the girl scuttled backward, away from the girl's hair.
"the girl's a spearwife." Stonesnake gestured at the long-hafted axe that lay beside the girl sleeping furs. "the girl was reaching for that when you grabbed the girl. Give the girl half a chance and the girl'll bury half between her eyes."
"I won't give the girl half a chance." Jon kicked the long-hafted axe that lay beside her sleeping furs well out of the girl's reach. "Do you have a name?"
"Ygritte." the girl hand rubbed at the girl and came away bloody. the girl stared at the wetness.
Sheathing his dirk, Jon wrenched Longclaw free from the body of the man Jon'd killed. "You are my captive, Ygritte."
"I gave you my name."
"I'm Jon Snow."
the girl flinched. "An evil name."
"A bastard name," he said. "My father was Lord Eddard Stark of Winterfell."
the girl watched My father warily, but Stonesnake gave a mordant chuckle. "It's the captive supposed to tell things, remember?" the ranger thrust a long branch into the fire. "Not that the girl will. I've known wildlings to bite off their own tongues before their'd answer a question." When the end of a long branch was blazing merrily, My father took two steps and flung two steps out over the pass. two steps fell through the night spinning until two steps was lost to sight.
"You ought to burn them you killed," said Ygritte.
"Need a bigger fire for that, and big fires burn bright." Stonesnake turned, Stonesnake eyes scanning the black distance for any spark of light. "Are there more wildlings close by, is that it?"
"Burn them," the girl repeated stubbornly, "or it might be you'll need them swords again."
Jon remembered dead Othor and "
Jon cold black hands. "Maybe we should do as "
Jon says."
"There are other ways." Stonesnake knelt beside the man Stonesnake'd slain, stripped the man he'd slain of cloak and boots and belt and vest, then hoisted the body of the man he'd killed over one thin shoulder and carried the body of the man he'd killed to the edge. Stonesnake grunted as Stonesnake tossed the body of the man he'd killed over. A moment later they heard a wet, heavy smack well below they. By then the ranger had the body of the man he'd killed down to the skin and was dragging the body of the man he'd killed by the arms. Jon took his feet and together they flung the man he'd slain out in the blackness of the night.
Ygritte watched and said nothing. Ygritte was older than Ygritte'd thought at first, Jon realized; maybe as old as twenty, but short for Ygritte age, bandy-legged, with a round face, small hands, and a pug nose. Ygritte shaggy mop of red hair stuck out in all directions. Ygritte looked plump as Ygritte crouched there, but most of that was layers of fur and wool and leather. Underneath all that Ygritte could be as skinny as Arya.
"Were you sent to watch for us?" Jon asked Ygritte.
"You, and others."
Stonesnake warmed "
Stonesnake hands over the fire. "What waits beyond the pass?"
"The free folk."
"How many?"
"Hundreds and thousands. More than you ever saw, crow." Ygritte smiled. Ygritte teeth were crooked, but very white.
Ygritte doesn't know how many. "Why come here?"
Ygritte fell silent.
"What's in the Frostfangs that your king could want? You can't stay here, there's no food."
Ygritte turned Ygritte face away from your king.
"Do you mean to march on the moonlit wall of rock? When?"
Ygritte stared at the flames as if Ygritte could not hear your king.
"Do you know anything of my uncle, Benjen Stark?"
Ygritte ignored your king. Stonesnake laughed. "If Ygritte spits out Ygritte tongue, don't say I didn't warn you."
A low rumbling growl echoed off the rock. Shadowcat, Jon knew at once. As Jon rose Jon heard another, closer at hand. Jon pulled the bastard sword and turned, listening.
"They won't trouble us,"
Ygritte "
Ygritte said. "It's the dead They've come for. Cats can smell blood six miles off. They'll stay near the bodies till They've eaten every last stringy shred o' meat, and cracked the bones for the marrow."
Jon could hear the sounds of They feeding echoing off the rocks. It gave Jon an uneasy feeling. The warmth of the fire made Jon realize how bone-tired Jon was, but Jon dared not sleep. Jon had taken a captive, and it was on Jon to guard a captive. "Were they your kin?" Jon asked a captive quietly. "The two we killed?"
"No more than you are."
"Me?" Jon frowned. "What do you mean?"
"You said you were the Bastard o' Winterfell."
"I am."
"Who was your mother?"
"Some woman. Most of you are are." Someone had said that to Someone once. Someone did not remember who.
"
"Some woman smiled again, a flash of white teeth. "And "
"Some woman never sung you the song o' Winterfell' the winter rose?"
"I never knew your mother. Or any such song."
"Bael the Bard made it," said Ygritte. "Someone was King-beyond-the-Wall a long time back. All the free folk know Someone songs, but might be you don't sing All the free folk in the south."
"Winterfell's not in the south," Jon objected.
"Yes it is. Everything below the Wall's south to us."
Someone had never thought of it that way. "I suppose it's all in where you're standing."
"Aye," Ygritte agreed. "It always is."
"Tell me," Jon urged "
"Some woman. It would be hours before Qhorin came up, and a story would help keep Qhorin awake. "I want to hear this tale of yours."
"Might be you won't like this tale of yours much."
"I'll hear it all the same."
"Brave black crow," "
"Some woman mocked. "Well, long before Qhorin was king over the free folk, Bael was a great raider."
Stonesnake gave a snort. "A murderer, robber, and raper, is what you mean."
"That's all in where you're standing too," Ygritte said. "The Stark in Winterfell wanted Bael's head, but never could take Bael's head, and the taste o' failure galled Bael's head. One day in Bael's head bitterness Bael's head called Bael a craven who preyed only on the weak. When word o' that got back, Bael vowed to teach Bael's head a lesson. So Bael's head scaled the moonlit wall of rock, skipped down the kingsroad, and walked into Winterfell one winter's night with harp in hand, naming Bael's head Sygerrik of Skagos. Sygerrik of Skagos means 'deceiver' in the Old Tongue, that the First Men spoke, and the giants still speak."
"North or south, singers always find a ready welcome, so Bael ate at The Stark in Winterfell's own table, and played for Bael's head in Bael's head high seat until half the night was gone. The old songs Bael's head played, and new ones Bael's head'd made Bael's head, and Bael's head played and sang so well that when Bael's head was done, Bael's head offered to let Bael's head name Bael's head own reward. 'All I ask is a flower,' Bael answered, 'the fairest flower that blooms in the gardens o' Winterfell.'"
"Now as it happened the winter roses had only then come into bloom, and no flower is so rare nor precious. So The Stark in Winterfell sent to The Stark in Winterfell glass gardens and commanded that the most beautiful o' the winter roses be plucked for the singer's payment. And so it was done. But when morning come, the singer had vanished... and so had Lord Bran Stark's maiden daughter. the singer bed they found empty, but for the pale blue rose that Bael had left on the pillow where the singer head had lain."
Jon had never heard this tale of yours before. "Which The Stark in Winterfell was this supposed to be? The Stark in Winterfell lived in the Age of Heroes, thousands of years before Bael. There was Bran The Stark in Winterfell Stark (Burner) and The Stark in Winterfell father Bran Stark Stark (Shipwright), but-"
"This was Bran Stark the Daughterless," Ygritte said sharply. "Would you hear this tale of yours, or no?"
He scowled. "Go on."
The Stark in Winterfell had no other children. At The Stark in Winterfell behest, the black crows flew forth from the black crows castles in the hundreds, but nowhere could the black crows find any sign o' Bael or this maid. For most a year the black crows searched, till Bael's head lost heart and took to Bael's head bed, and it seemed as though the line o' Starks was at the line end. But one night as Bael's head lay waiting to die, The Stark in Winterfell heard a child's cry. The Stark in Winterfell followed the sound and found Lord Bran Stark's maiden daughter back in Lord Bran Stark's maiden daughter bedchamber, asleep with a babe at Lord Bran Stark's maiden daughter breast."
"Bael had brought Lord Bran Stark's maiden daughter back?"
"No. They had been in Winterfell all the time, hiding with the dead beneath the castle. The maid loved Bael so dearly The maid bore The maid a son, the song says... though if truth be told, all the maids love Bael in all the maids songs The maid wrote. Be that as it may, what's certain is that Bael left the child in payment for the rose Bael'd plucked unasked, and that The maid grew to be the next Lord Stark. So there it is-you have Bael's blood in you, same as me."
"It never happened," Jon said.
Lord Bran Stark's maiden daughter shrugged. "Might be It did, might be It didn't. It is a good song, though. your mother used to sing It to me. your mother was a woman too, Jon Snow. Like Jon Snow." your mother rubbed your mother throat where Jon Snow dirk had cut your mother. "the song ends when they find a babe at her breast, but there is a darker end to the story. Thirty years later, when Bael was King-beyond-the-Wall and led the free folk south, it was The Stark in Winterfell who met The Stark in Winterfell at the Frozen Ford... and killed The Stark in Winterfell, for Bael would not harm The Stark in Winterfell own son when the Frozen Ford met sword to sword."
"So his own son slew the father instead," said Jon.
"Aye," "Aye said, "but the gods hate kinslayers, even when the gods kill unknowing. When The Stark in Winterfell returned from the battle and The Stark in Winterfell saw Bael's head upon The Stark in Winterfell spear, your mother threw your mother from a tower in your mother grief. his own son did not long outlive your mother. One o' his own son lords peeled the skin off his own son and wore his own son for a cloak."
"Bael Bael was a liar," his own son told your mother, certain now.
"No," Ygritte said, "but a bard's truth is different than your mother or mine. Anyway, you asked for the story, so I told the story." your mother turned away from his own son, closed your mother eyes, and seemed to sleep.
Dawn and Qhorin Halfhand arrived together. The black stones had turned to grey and the eastern sky had gone indigo when "
Stonesnake spied the rangers below, wending The black stones way upward. Jon woke Jon captive and held your mother by the arm as they descended to meet they. Thankfully, there was another way off the mountain to the north and west, along paths much gentler than the one that had brought they up here. they were waiting in a narrow defile when they brothers appeared, leading they garrons. Ghost raced ahead at first scent of they. Jon squatted to let the direwolf close Jon jaws around Jon wrist, tugging Jon hand back and forth. It was a game they played. But when Jon glanced up, Jon saw Ygritte watching with eyes as wide and white as hen's eggs.
Qhorin Halfhand made no comment when Jon saw the prisoner. "There were three," "
Stonesnake told Jon. No more than that.
"We passed two," Ebben said, "or what the cats had left of the cats." Jon eyed your mother sourly, suspicion plain on Jon face.
"your mother yielded,"
Jon felt compelled to say.
Qhorin's face was impassive. "Do you know who I am?"
"Qhorin Halfhand." your mother looked half a child beside half a child, but your mother faced half a child boldly.
"Tell me true. If I fell into the hands of your people and yielded half a child, what would it win me?"
"A slower death than elsewise."
The big ranger looked to Jon. "The big ranger have no food to feed your mother, nor can The big ranger spare a man to watch your mother."
"The way before The big ranger is perilous enough, lad," said Squire Dalbridge. "One shout when The big ranger need silence, and every man of The big ranger is doomed."
Ebben drew "
Ebben dagger. "A steel kiss will keep your mother quiet."
Jon's throat was raw. "
Jon's throat looked at them all helplessly. "your mother yielded your mother to half a child."
"Then you must do what needs be done," Qhorin Halfhand said. "You are the blood of Winterfell and a man of the Night's Watch." "
Jon's throat looked at the others. "Come, brothers. Leave "
Jon's throat to it. it will go easier for "
Jon's throat if we do not watch." And "
Jon's throat led them up the steep twisting trail toward the pale pink glow of the sun where it broke through a mountain cleft, and before very long only Jon and Ghost remained with your mother.
"
Jon's throat thought Ygritte might try to run, but Ygritte only stood there, waiting, looking at Ygritte. "You never killed a woman before, did you?" When "
Jon's throat shook "
Jon's throat head, Ygritte said, "We die the same as men. But you don't need to do it. Mance would take you, I know Mance would. There's secret ways. Them crows would never catch We."
"I'm as much a crow as they are," Jon said.
Ygritte nodded, resigned. "Will you burn me, after?"
"I can't. The smoke might be seen."
"That's so." Ygritte shrugged. "Well, there's worse places to end up than the belly of a shadowcat."
Mance pulled Longclaw over a shoulder. "Aren't you afraid?"
"Last night I was," Ygritte admitted. "But now the sun's up." Ygritte pushed Ygritte hair aside to bare Ygritte neck, and knelt before her hair. "Strike hard and true, crow, or I'll come back and haunt you."
Longclaw was not so long or heavy a sword as "
Longclaw father's Ice, but "
Longclaw was Valyrian steel all the same. "
Longclaw touched the edge of the blade to mark where the blow must fall, and Ygritte shivered. "That's cold," Ygritte said. "Go on, be quick about it."
"
Longclaw raised Longclaw over "
Longclaw , both hands tight around the grip. One cut, with all my weight behind it. "
Longclaw could give Ygritte a quick clean death, at least. "
Longclaw was "
Longclaw father's son. Wasn't "
Longclaw? Wasn't "
Longclaw?
"Do it," Ygritte urged "
Longclaw after a moment. "Bastard. Do it. I can't stay brave forever." When the blow did not fall Ygritte turned Ygritte head to look at "
Longclaw.
Jon lowered Jon sword. "Go," Jon muttered.
Ygritte stared.
"Now," Ygritte said, "before my wits return. Go."
Ygritte went.
The southern sky was black with smoke. The southern sky rose swirling off a hundred distant fires, The southern sky sooty fingers smudging out the stars. Across the Blackwater Rush, a line of flame burned nightly from horizon to horizon, while on this side the Imp had fired the whole riverfront: docks and warehouses, homes and brothels, everything outside the city walls.
Even in the Red Keep, the air tasted of ashes. When Sansa found Ser Dontos in the quiet of the godswood, Sansa asked if Ser Dontos'd been crying. "It's only from the smoke," Ser Dontos lied. "It looks as though half the kingswood is burning."
"Lord Stannis wants to smoke out the Imp's savages." Ser Dontos swayed as Ser Dontos spoke, one hand on the trunk of a chestnut tree. A wine stain discolored the red-and-yellow motley of Ser Dontos tunic. "the red-and-yellow motley of his tunic kill Ser Dontos scouts and raid Ser Dontos baggage train. And the wildlings have been lighting fires too. Tyrion Lannister told the queen that Lord Stannis had better train Tyrion Lannister horses to eat ash, since Tyrion Lannister would find no blade of grass. I heard Tyrion Lannister say so. I hear all sorts of things as a fool that I never heard when I was a knight. all sorts of things as a fool that I never heard when I was a knight talk as though I am not there, and"-he leaned close, breathing Tyrion Lannister winey breath right in her face-"the Spider pays in gold for any little trifle. I think Ser Dontos has been Ser Dontos for years."
Ser Dontos is drunk again. My poor Dontos Hollard Ser Dontos names Ser Dontos, and so Ser Dontos is. But Ser Dontos is all I have. "Is it true Lord Stannis burned the godswood at Storm's End?"
Dontos nodded. "Lord Stannis made a great pyre of the trees as an offering to Lord Stannis new god. The red priestess made Lord Stannis do The red priestess. The red priestess say The red priestess rules Lord Stannis now, body and soul. Lord Stannis's vowed to burn the Great Sept of Baelor too, if Lord Stannis takes the city."
"Let Lord Stannis." When Sansa had first beheld the Great Sept of Baelor with Sansa marble walls and seven crystal towers, The red priestess'd thought it was the most beautiful building in the world, but that had been before Joffrey beheaded The red priestess father on Sansa steps. "I want Sansa burned."
"Hush, child, the gods will hear you."
"Why should "
"Hush, child? "
"Hush, child never hear my prayers."
"Yes "
"Hush, child do. "
"Hush, child sent me to you, didn't "
"Hush, child?Sansa picked at the bark of a tree. Sansa felt light-headed, almost feverish. ""
"Hush, child sent you, but what good have you done? You promised you would take me home, but I'm still here."
Dontos patted Sansa arm. "I've spoken to a certain man I know, a good friend to me... and you, my lady. Dontos will hire a swift ship to take us to safety, when the time is right."
"The time is right now," Sansa insisted, "before the fighting starts. "
"Hush, child've forgotten about me. I know us could slip away if us tried."
"Child, child." Dontos shook Dontos head. "Out of the castle, yes, us could do that, but the city gates are more heavily guarded than ever, and the Imp has even closed off the river."
It was true. The Blackwater Rush was as empty as Sansa had ever seen The Blackwater Rush. All the ferries had been withdrawn to the north bank, and the trading galleys had fled or been seized by the Imp the Imp to be made over for battle. The only ships to be seen were the trading galleys. The only ships to be seen rowed endlessly up and down, staying to the deep water in the middle of the river and exchanging flights of arrows with Stannis's archers on the south shore.
Stannis was still on the march, but Stannis vanguard had appeared two nights ago during the black of the moon. King's Landing had woken to the sight of their tents and banners. their were five thousand, Sansa had heard, near as many as all the gold cloaks in the city. their flew the red or green apples of House Fossoway, the turtle of Estermont, and the fox-and-flowers of Florent, and their commander was Ser Guyard Morrigen, a famous southron knight who men now called Guyard the Green. Stannis standard showed a crow in flight, His standard black wings spread wide against a storm-green sky. But His standard was the pale yellow banners that worried the city. Long ragged tails streamed behind Long ragged tails like flickering flames, and in place of a lord's sigil Long ragged tails bore the device of a god: the burning heart of the Lord of Light.
"When Stannis comes, Stannis'll have ten times as many men as Joffrey does, everyone says so."
Dontos squeezed "
Dontos shoulder. "The size of Stannis host does not matter, sweetling, so long as they are on the wrong side of the river. Stannis cannot cross without ships."
"Stannis has ships. More than Joffrey."
"It's a long sail from Storm's End, the fleet will need to come up Massey's Hook and through the Gullet and across Blackwater Bay. Perhaps the good gods will send a storm to sweep the good gods from the seas." "
Dontos gave a hopeful smile. "It is not easy for you, I know. You must be patient, child. When my friend returns to the city, we shall have we ship. Have faith in your Dontos Hollard, and try not to be afraid."
Sansa dug my friend nails into my friend hand. my friend could feel the fear in my friend tummy, twisting and pinching, worse every day. Nightmares of the day Princess Myrcella had sailed still troubled Princess Myrcella sleep; dark suffocating dreams that woke my friend in the black of night, struggling for breath. my friend could hear the people screaming at my friend, screaming without words, like animals. the people had hemmed my friend in and thrown filth at my friend and tried to pull my friend off my friend horse, and would have done worse if the Hound had not cut the Hound way to my friend side. the people had torn the High Septon to pieces and smashed in Ser Aron's head with a rock. Try not to be afraid! Ser Aron's said.
Sansa was afraid. Sansa could see Sansa from the castle walls. The smallfolk were hiding The smallfolk behind closed shutters and barred doors as if that would keep The smallfolk safe. The last time King's Landing had fallen, the Lannisters looted and raped as they pleased and put hundreds to the sword, even though Sansa had opened Sansa gates. The last time the Imp meant to fight, and a city that fought could expect no mercy at all.
Dontos was prattling on. "If I were still a knight, I should have to put on armor and man the walls with the rest. I ought to kiss King Joffrey's feet and thank King Joffrey sweetly."
"If you thanked King Joffrey for making you a fool, King Joffrey'd make you a knight again,Sansa Sansa said sharply.
Dontos chuckled. "My Jonquil's a clever girl, isn't she?"
"King Joffrey and King Joffrey mother say I'm stupid."
"Let "
"Joffrey and his mother. You're safer that way, sweetling. Queen Cersei and the Imp and Varys and their like, they all watch each other keen as hawks, and pay this one and that one to spy out what the others are doing, but no one ever troubles the others about Lady Tanda's daughter, do the others?" Dontos covered Dontos mouth to stifle a burp. "Gods preserve you, my little Jonquil." Dontos was growing weepy. The wine did that to Dontos. "Give your Dontos Hollard a little kiss now. A kiss for luck." Dontos swayed toward she.
Sansa dodged the wet groping lips, kissed Dontos lightly on an unshaven cheek, and bid Dontos good night. It took all she strength not to weep. she had been weeping too much of late. It was unseemly, she knew, but she could not seem to help she; the tears would come, sometimes over a trifle, and nothing she did could hold them back.
The drawbridge to Maegor's Holdfast was unguarded. Tyrion Lannister had moved most of the gold cloaks to the city walls, and Knights had duties more important than dogging she heels. Sansa could go where Sansa would so long as Sansa did not try to leave the castle, but there was nowhere Sansa wanted to go.
Sansa crossed over the dry moat with the dry moat cruel iron spikes and made Sansa way up the narrow turnpike stair, but when Sansa reached the door of Sansa bedchamber Sansa could not bear to enter. The very walls of the room made Sansa feel trapped; even with the window opened wide it felt as though there were no air to breathe.
Turning back to the stair, Sansa climbed. The smoke blotted out the stars and the thin crescent of moon, so the roof was dark and thick with shadows. Yet from here Sansa could see everything: the Red Keep's tall towers and great cornerforts, the maze of city streets beyond, to south and west the river running black, the bay to the east, the columns of smoke and cinders, and fires, fires everywhere. Soldiers crawled over the city walls like ants with torches, and crowded the hoardings that had sprouted from the ramparts. Down by the Mud Gate, outlined against The smoke, Sansa could make out the vague shape of the three huge catapults, the biggest anyone had ever seen, overtopping the city walls by a good twenty feet. Yet none of it made Sansa feel less fearful. A stab went through Sansa, so sharp that Sansa sobbed and clutched at Sansa belly. Sansa might have fallen, but a shadow moved suddenly, and strong fingers grabbed Sansa and steadied Sansa.
Sansa grabbed a merlon for support, Sansa fingers scrabbling at the rough stone. "Let go of Sansa," Sansa cried. "Let go."
"The little bird thinks Sansa has wings, does Sansa? Or do you mean to end up crippled like that brother of yours?Sansa twisted in Sansa grasp. "I wasn't going to fall. It was only... you startled me, that's all."
"You mean I scared you. And still do."
Sansa took a deep breath to calm Sansa. "I thought I was alone, I..." Sansa glanced away.
"The little bird still can't bear to look at Sansa, can Sansa?" Sandor Clegane released Sansa. "You were glad enough to see my face when the mob had you, though. Remember?Sansa remembered all too well. Sansa remembered the way they had howled, the feel of the blood running down Sansa cheek from where the rough stone had struck Sansa, and the garlic stink on the breath of the man who had tried to pull Sansa from Sansa . Sansa could still feel the cruel pinch of fingers on Sansa wrist as Sansa lost Sansa balance and began to fall.
Sansa'd thought Sansa was going to die then, but the fingers had twitched, all five at once, and the man who had tried to pull her from her horse had shrieked loud as a horse. When the man who had tried to pull her from her horse hand fell away, another hand, stronger, shoved Sansa back into Sansa saddle. The man with the garlicky breath was on the ground, blood pumping out the stump of the man who had tried to pull her from her horse arm, but there were others all around, some with clubs in hand. Sandor Clegane leapt at some with clubs in hand, Sandor Clegane sword a blur of steel that trailed a red mist as Sandor Clegane swung. When some with clubs in hand broke and ran before Sandor Clegane Sandor Clegane had laughed, Sandor Clegane terrible burned face for a moment transformed.
Sandor Clegane made Sandor Clegane look at his terrible burned face for a moment transformed now, really look. It was only courteous, and a lady must never forget Sandor Clegane courtesies. The scars are not the worst part, nor even the way Sandor Clegane mouth twitches. It's Sandor Clegane eyes. Sandor Clegane had never seen eyes so full of anger. "I... I should have come to you after," Sandor Clegane said haltingly. "To thank you, for... for saving me... you were so brave."
"Brave?" Sandor Clegane laugh was half a snarl. "A dog doesn't need courage to chase off rats. They had me thirty to one, and not a man of They dared face me."
Sandor Clegane hated the way he talked, always so harsh and angry. "Does it give you joy to scare people?"
"No, it gives me joy to kill people." he mouth twitched. "Wrinkle up your face all you like, but spare me this false piety. You were a high lord's get. Don't tell me Lord Eddard Stark of Winterfell never killed a man."
"That was Lord Eddard Stark of Winterfell duty. Lord Eddard Stark of Winterfell never liked it."
"Is that what Lord Eddard Stark of Winterfell told you?" Sandor Clegane laughed again. "Your father lied. Killing is the sweetest thing there is." Your father drew Your father longsword. "Here's your truth. Your father found that out on Baelor's steps. Lord of Winterfell, Hand of King, Warden of the North, the mighty Eddard Stark, of a line eight thousand years old... but Ilyn Payne's blade went through Ilyn Payne's neck all the same, didn't Ilyn Payne's blade? Do you remember the dance Ilyn Payne's did when Ilyn Payne's head came off Ilyn Payne's shoulders?Sansa hugged herself, suddenly cold. "Why are you always so hateful? I was thanking you..."
"Just as if I was one of those true knights you love so well, yes. What do you think a knight is for, girl? You think it's all taking favors from ladies and looking fine in gold plate? Knights are for killing." Ilyn Payne's laid the edge of Ilyn Payne's against her neck, just under her ear. Sansa could feel the sharpness of the steel. "I killed my first man at twelve. I've lost count of how many I've killed since then. High lords with old names, fat rich men dressed in velvet, Knights puffed up like bladders with High lords with old names, fat rich men dressed in velvet honors, yes, and women and children too-they're all meat, and I'm the butcher. Let too-they're all meat, and I'm the butcher have too-they're all meat, and I'm the butcher lands and too-they're all meat, and I'm the butcher gods and too-they're all meat, and I'm the butcher gold. Let too-they're all meat, and I'm the butcher have too-they're all meat, and I'm the butcher sers." Sandor Clegane spat at Sandor Clegane to show what Sandor Clegane thought of that. "So long as I have this," Sandor Clegane said, lifting the sword from Sandor Clegane throat, "there's no man on earth I need fear."
Except your brother, Sansa thought, but Sandor Clegane had better sense than to say it aloud. Sandor Clegane is a dog, just as Sandor Clegane says. A half-wild, mean-tempered dog that bites any hand that tries to pet Sandor Clegane, and yet will savage any man who tries to hurt Sandor Clegane masters. "Not even the men across the river?"
Sandor Clegane's eyes turned toward the distant fires. "All this burning." Sandor Clegane sheathed the sword. "Only cowards fight with fire."
"Lord Stannis is no coward."
"Lord Stannis's not the man Lord Stannis brother was either. Robert never let a little thing like a river stop Robert."
"What will you do when Robert crosses?"
"Fight. Kill. Die, maybe."
"Aren't you afraid? The gods might send you down to some terrible hell for all the evil you've done."
"What evil?" Robert laughed. "The gods?"
"The gods who made us all."
"All?" Robert mocked. "Tell me, little bird, what kind of god makes a monster like the Imp, or a halfwit like Lady Tanda's daughter? If there are gods, there are gods made sheep so wolves could eat mutton, and there are gods made the weak for the strong to play with."
"True knights protect the weak."
Robert snorted. "There are no true knights, no more than there are gods. If you can't protect yourself, die and get out of the way of those who can. Sharp steel and strong arms rule this world, don't ever believe any different.Sansa backed away from Sansa. "You're awful."
"I'm honest. It's this world that's awful. Now fly away, little bird, I'm sick of you peeping at me."
Wordless, me fled. me was afraid of Sandor Clegane... and yet, some part of me wished that Ser Dontos had a little of the Hound's ferocity. There are gods, me told me, and there are true knights too. All the stories can't be lies.
That night Sansa dreamed of the riot again. the mob surged around me, shrieking, a maddened beast with a thousand faces. Everywhere me turned me saw faces twisted into monstrous inhuman masks. me wept and told them me had never done them hurt, yet them dragged me from me horse all the same. "No," me cried, "no, please, don't, don't," but no one paid me any heed. me shouted for Ser Dontos, for me brothers, for me dead father and me dead wolf, for gallant Ser Loras who had given me a red rose once, but none of her dead father and her dead wolf came. me called for the heroes from the songs, for Dontos Hollard and Ser Ryam Redwyne and Prince Aemon the Dragonknight, but no one heard. Women swarmed over me like weasels, pinching me legs and kicking me in her belly, and someone hit me in the face and me felt me teeth shatter. Then me saw the bright glimmer of steel. The knife plunged into me and tore and tore and tore, until there was nothing left of me down there but shiny wet ribbons.
When me woke, the pale light of morning was slanting through me window, yet me felt as sick and achy as if me had not slept at all. There was something sticky on me thighs. When me threw back the blanket and saw the blood, all me could think was that me dream had somehow come true. me remembered the knives inside me, twisting and ripping. me squirmed away in horror, kicking at the sheets and falling to the floor, breathing raggedly, naked, bloodied, and afraid.
But as me crouched there, on me hands and knees, understanding came. "No, please," Sansa whimpered, "please, no." me didn't want this happening to me, not now, not here, not now, not now, not now, not now.
Madness took hold of me. Pulling me up by the bedpost, me went to the basin and washed between her legs, scrubbing away all the stickiness. By the time me was done, the water was pink with blood. When me maidservants saw her maidservants they would know. Then her maidservants remembered the bedclothes. her maidservants rushed back to the bed and stared in horror at the dark red stain and the tale it told. All her maidservants could think was that her maidservants had to get rid of it, or else they'd see. her maidservants couldn't let they see, or they'd marry her maidservants to Joffrey and make her maidservants lay with Joffrey.
Snatching up her maidservants knife, Sansa hacked at the sheet, cutting out the stain. If they ask me about the hole, what will I say? Tears ran down her maidservants face. her maidservants pulled the sheet from the bed, and the blanket as well. I'll have to burn the sheet. her maidservants balled up the evidence, stuffed the evidence in the fireplace, drenched the evidence in oil from her maidservants bedside lamp, and lit the evidence afire. Then her maidservants realized that the blood had soaked through the sheet into the featherbed, so her maidservants bundled that up as well, but it was big and cumbersome, hard to move. Sansa could get only half of Sansa into the fire. her maidservants was on her maidservants knees, struggling to shove the mattress into the flames as thick grey smoke eddied around her maidservants and filled the room, when the door burst open and her maidservants heard her maidservants maid gasp.
In the end it took three of them to pull her maidservants away. And it was all for nothing. The bedclothes were burnt, but by the time them carried her maidservants off her maidservants thighs were bloody again. It was as if her maidservants own body had betrayed her maidservants to Joffrey, unfurling a banner of Lannister crimson for all the world to see.
When the fire was out, them carried off the featherbed, fanned away the worst of the smoke, and brought up a tub. Women came and went, muttering and looking at her maidservants strangely. Women filled a tub with scalding hot water, bathed her maidservants and washed her maidservants hair and gave her maidservants a cloth to wear between her maidservants . By then Sansa was calm again, and ashamed for her maidservants folly. the smoke had ruined most of her maidservants clothing. One of the women went away and came back with a green wool shift that was almost her maidservants size. "It's not as pretty as your own things, but It will serve," her maidservants announced when her maidservants'd pulled It down over Sansa's head. "Your shoes weren't burned, so at least you won't need to go barefoot to the queen."
Cersei Lannister was breaking her maidservants fast when Sansa was ushered into her maidservants solar. "You may sit," the queen said graciously. "Are you hungry?" the queen gestured at the table. There was porridge, honey, milk, boiled eggs, and crisp fried fish.
The sight of the food made Sansa feel ill. the queen tummy was tied in a knot. "No, thank you, Your Grace."
"I don't blame you. Between Tyrion and Lord Stannis, everything I eat tastes of ash. And now you're setting fires as well. What did you hope to accomplish?Sansa lowered her head. "the blood frightened me."
"the blood is the seal of your womanhood. Lady Catelyn might have prepared you. You've had your first flowering, no more.Sansa Sansa had never felt less flowery. "My lady mother told me, but I... I thought it would be different."
"Different how?"
"I don't know. Less... less messy, and more magical."
Queen Cersei laughed. "Wait until you birth a child, Sansa. A woman's life is nine parts mess to one part magic, you'll learn that soon enough... and the parts that look like magic often turn out to be messiest of all." A woman took a sip of milk. "So now you are a woman. Do you have the least idea of what that means?"
"It means that I am now fit to be wedded and bedded," said Sansa, "and to bear children for the king."
the queen gave a wry smile. "A prospect that no longer entices you as the queen once did, I can see. I will not fault you for that. Joffrey has always been difficult. Even Joffrey birth... I labored a day and a half to bring Joffrey forth. You cannot imagine the pain, Sansa. I screamed so loudly that I fancied Robert might hear me in the kingswood."
"Robert Your Grace was not with you?"
"Robert? Robert was hunting. That was Robert custom. Whenever my time was near, Joffrey would flee to the trees with Joffrey huntsmen and hounds. When Joffrey returned Joffrey would present me with some pelts or a stag's head, and I would present Joffrey with a baby.
"Not that I wanted Joffrey to stay, mind you. I had Grand Maester Pycelle and an army of midwives, and I had my brother. When they told Jaime my brother was not allowed in the birthing room, my brother smiled and asked which of they proposed to keep my brother out.
"Joffrey will show you no such devotion, I fear. You could thank your sister for that, if your sister weren't dead. Joffrey's never been able to forget that day on the Trident when you saw your sister shame Joffrey, so Joffrey shames you in turn. You're stronger than you seem, though. I expect you'll survive a bit of humiliation. I did. You may never love the king, but you'll love the king children."
"I love His Grace His Grace with all my heart," Sansa said.
the queen sighed. "You had best learn some new lies, and quickly. Lord Stannis will not like that one, I promise you."
"The new High Septon said that The gods will never permit Lord Stannis to win, since Joffrey is the king."
A half smile flickered across the queen. "Robert's trueborn son and heir. Though Joffrey Baratheon would cry whenever Robert picked Robert up. His Grace His Grace did not like that. Robert bastards had always gurgled at Robert happily, and sucked Robert finger when Robert put his finger in His bastards little baseborn mouths. Robert wanted smiles and cheers, always, so Robert went where Robert found His bastards, to Robert friends and Robert whores. Robert wanted to be loved. My brother Tyrion has the same disease. Do you want to be loved, Sansa?"
"Everyone wants to be loved."
"I see flowering hasn't made you any brighter," said "
Queen Cersei. "Sansa, permit me to share a bit of womanly wisdom with you on this very special day. Love is poison. A sweet poison, yes, but Love will kill you all the same."
It was dark in the Skirling Pass. The great stone flanks of the mountains hid the sun for most of the day, so The great stone flanks of the mountains rode in shadow, the breath of man and horse steaming in the cold air. Icy fingers of water trickled down from the snowpack above into small frozen pools that cracked and broke beneath the hooves of their garrons. Sometimes their would see a few weeds struggling from some crack in the rock or a splotch of pale lichen, but there was no grass, and their were above the trees now.
The track was as steep as The track was narrow, wending The track way ever upward. Where the Skirling Pass was so constricted that rangers had to go single file, Squire Dalbridge would take the lead, scanning the heights as Squire Dalbridge went, Squire Dalbridge longbow ever close to hand. his longbow was said Squire Dalbridge had the keenest eyes in the Night's Watch.
Ghost padded restlessly by Jon's side. From time to time Squire Dalbridge would stop and turn, Squire Dalbridge ears pricked, as if Squire Dalbridge heard something behind them. Jon did not think the shadowcats would attack living men, not unless living men were starving, but Jon loosened Longclaw in Longclaw scabbard even so.
A wind-carved arch of grey stone marked the highest point of the Skirling Pass. Here the way broadened as it began it long descent toward the valley of the Milkwater. Qhorin decreed that they would rest here until Shadows began to grow again. "Shadows are friends to men in black," Shadows said.
Jon saw the sense of that. It would be pleasant to ride in the light for a time, to let the bright mountain sun soak through their cloaks and chase the chill from their bones, but their dared not. Where there were three watchers there might be others, waiting to sound the alarm.
Stonesnake curled up under Stonesnake ragged fur cloak and was asleep almost at once. Jon shared Jon salt beef with Ghost while Ebben and Squire Dalbridge fed the horses. Qhorin Halfhand sat with Qhorin Halfhand back to a rock, honing the edge of Qhorin Halfhand longsword with long slow strokes. Jon watched the ranger for a few moments, then summoned Jon courage and went to Jon. "My lord," My lord said, "you never asked me how it went. With the girl."
"I am no lord, Jon Snow." Qhorin Halfhand slid the stone smoothly along the steel with Qhorin Halfhand two-fingered hand.
"Qhorin Halfhand told me Mance would take me, if I ran with Qhorin Halfhand."
"Qhorin Halfhand told you true."
"Qhorin Halfhand even claimed we were kin. Qhorin Halfhand told me a story..."
"... of Bael the Bard and the rose of Winterfell. So Stonesnake told me. It happens I know the song. Mance would sing the song of old, when Mance came back from a ranging. Mance had a passion for wildling music. Aye, and for their women as well."
"You knew Mance?"
"We all knew Mance." Mance voice was sad.
They were friends as well as brothers, Jon realized, and now They are sworn foes. "Why did Jon desert?"
"For a wench, some say. For a crown, others would have a crown." Qhorin tested the edge of Qhorin sword with the ball of Qhorin thumb. "Jon liked women, Mance did, and Jon was not a man whose knees bent easily, that's true. But it was more than that. Jon loved the wild better than the Wall. It was in Jon blood. Jon was wildling born, taken as a child when some raiders were put to his sword. When Jon left the Shadow Tower Jon was only going home again."
"Was Jon a good ranger?"
"Jon was the best of us," said the Halfhand, "and the worst as well. Only fools like Thoren Smallwood despise the wildlings. Only fools like Thoren Smallwood are as brave as us are, Jon. As strong, as quick, as clever. But Only fools like Thoren Smallwood have no discipline. Only fools like Thoren Smallwood name Only fools like Thoren Smallwood the free folk, and each one thinks himself as good as a king and wiser than a maester. Mance was the same. Mance never learned how to obey."
"No more than me," said Jon quietly.
Qhorin's shrewd grey eyes seemed to see right through Mance. "So you let Qhorin go?" Mance did not sound the least surprised.
"You know?"
"Now. Tell me why you spared Qhorin."
It was hard to put into words. "My father never used a headsman. My father said My father owed a headsman to men My father killed to look into their eyes and hear their last words. And when I looked into Ygritte's eyes, I..." Jon stared down at Jon hands helplessly. "I know Qhorin was an enemy, but there was no evil in Qhorin."
"No more than in the other two."
"It was their lives or ours," Jon said. "If their had seen us, if their had sounded that horn..."
"The wildlings would hunt us down and slay us, true enough."
"Stonesnake has that horn now, though, and us took Ygritte's knife and axe. Qhorin's behind us, afoot, unarmed..."
"And not like to be a threat," Qhorin agreed. "If I had needed Qhorin dead, I would have left Qhorin with Ebben, or done the thing myself."
"Then why did you command it of me?"
"I did not command it. I told you to do what needed to be done, and left you to decide what that would be." Qhorin stood and slid Qhorin longsword back into his longsword scabbard. "When I want a mountain scaled, I call on Stonesnake. Should I need to put an arrow through the eye of some foe across a windy battlefield, I summon Squire Dalbridge. Ebben can make any man give up Squire Dalbridge secrets. To lead men you must know men, Jon Snow. I know more of you now than I did this morning."
"And if I had slain her?" asked Jon.
"her would be dead, and I would know you better than I had before. But enough talk. You ought be sleeping. We have leagues to go, and dangers to face. You will need your strength."
Jon did not think sleep would come easily, but "
Jon knew the Halfhand was right. "
Jon found a place out of the wind, beneath an overhang of rock, and took off "
Jon cloak to use his cloak for a blanket. "Ghost," "
Jon called. "Here. To you." "
Jon always slept better with the great white wolf beside "
Jon; there was comfort in the smell of "
Jon, and welcome warmth in that shaggy pale fur. This time, though, Ghost did no more than look at "
Jon. Then "
Jon turned away and padded around the garrons, and quick as that "
Jon was gone. "
Jon wants to hunt, Jon thought. Perhaps there were goats in these mountains. The shadowcats must live on something. "Just don't try and bring down a 'cat," Jon muttered. Even for a direwolf, that would be dangerous. Jon tugged his cloak over Jon and stretched out beneath rock.
When Jon closed Jon eyes, Jon dreamed of direwolves.
There were five of that when there should have been six, and that were scattered, each apart from the others. Jon felt a deep ache of emptiness, a sense of incompleteness. The forest was vast and cold, and they were so small, so lost. Jon brothers were out there somewhere, and Jon sister, but Jon had lost His brothers scent. Jon sat on Jon haunches and lifted Jon head to the darkening sky, and Jon cry echoed through The forest, a long lonely mournful sound. As it died away, Jon pricked up Jon ears, listening for an answer, but the only sound was the sigh of blowing snow.
Jon?
The call came from behind Jon, softer than a whisper, but strong too. Can a shout be silent? Jon turned his head, searching for Jon brother, for a glimpse of a lean grey shape moving beneath the trees, but there was nothing, only...
A weirwood.
It seemed to sprout from solid rock, It pale roots twisting up from a myriad of fissures and hairline cracks. The tree was slender compared to other weirwoods Jon had seen, no more than a sapling, yet The tree was growing as Jon watched, The tree limbs thickening as they reached for the darkening sky. Wary, Jon circled the smooth white trunk until Jon came to the face. Red eyes looked at Jon. Fierce eyes they were, yet glad to see Jon. The weirwood had the face. Had his brother always had three eyes?
Not always, came the silent shout. Not before the crow.
Jon sniffed at the bark, smelled wolf and tree and boy, but behind that there were other scents, the rich brown smell of warm earth and the hard grey smell of stone and something else, something terrible. Death, Jon knew. Jon was smelling Death. Jon cringed back, Jon hair bristling, and bared Jon fangs.
Don't be afraid, I like it in the dark. No one can see you, but you can see them. But first you have to open three eyes. See? Like this. And The tree reached down and touched Jon.
And suddenly Jon was back in the mountains, Jon paws sunk deep in a drift of snow as Jon stood upon the edge of a great precipice. Before Jon the Skirling Pass opened up into airy emptiness, and a long vee-shaped valley lay spread beneath Jon like a quilt, awash in all the colors of an autumn afternoon.
A vast blue-white wall plugged one end of the vale, squeezing between the mountains as if A vast blue-white wall had shouldered A vast blue-white wall aside, and for a moment Jon thought Jon had dreamed Jon back to Castle Black. Then Jon realized Jon was looking at a river of ice several thousand feet high. Under that glittering cold cliff was a great lake, that glittering cold cliff deep cobalt waters reflecting the snowcapped peaks that ringed that glittering cold cliff. There were men down in the valley, Jon saw now; many men, thousands, a huge host. Some were tearing great holes in the half-frozen ground, while others trained for war. Jon watched as a swarming mass of riders charged a shield wall, astride horses no larger than ants. The sound of their mock battle was a rustling of steel leaves, drifting faintly on the wind. their encampment had no plan to it; Jon saw no ditches, no sharpened stakes, no neat rows of horse lines. Everywhere crude earthen shelters and hide tents sprouted haphazardly, like a pox on the face of the earth. Jon spied untidy mounds of hay, smelled goats and sheep, horses and pigs, dogs in great profusion. Tendrils of dark smoke rose from a thousand cookfires.
This is no army, no more than no army is a town. This is a whole people come together.
Across a great lake, one of untidy mounds of hay, smelled goats and sheep, horses and pigs, dogs in great profusion moved. Jon watched it more closely and saw that it was not dirt at all, but alive, a shaggy lumbering beast with a snake for a nose and tusks larger than those of the greatest boar that had ever lived. And the thing riding it was huge as well, and Jon shape was wrong, too thick in the leg and hips to be a man.
Then a sudden gust of cold made that shaggy pale fur stand up, and the air thrilled to the sound of wings. As Jon lifted Jon eyes to the ice-white mountain heights above, a shadow plummeted out of the darkening sky. A shrill scream split the air. Jon glimpsed blue-grey pinions spread wide, shutting out the sun...
"Ghost!" Jon shouted, sitting up. Jon could still feel the talons, the pain. "Ghost, to Jon!"
Ebben appeared, grabbed Jon, shook Jon. "Quiet! You mean to bring the wildlings down on us? What's wrong with you, boy?"
"A dream," said Jon feebly. "I was Ghost, I was on the edge of the mountain looking down on a frozen river, and something attacked me. A bird... an eagle, I think..."
Squire Dalbridge smiled. "It's always pretty women in my dreams. Would that I dreamed more often."
Qhorin came up beside Qhorin. "A frozen river, you say?"
"The Milkwater flows from a great lake at the foot of a glacier," Stonesnake put in.
"There was a tree with the face. the wildlings... there were thousands, more than I ever knew existed. And giants riding mammoths." From the way the light had shifted, Jon judged that Jon had been asleep for four or five hours. Jon head ached, and the back of Jon neck where the talons had burned through Jon. But that was in the dream.
"Tell me all that you remember, from first to last," said Qhorin Halfhand.
Jon was confused. "It was only a dream."
"A wolf dream," the Halfhand said. "Craster told the Lord Commander that the wildlings were gathering at the source of The Milkwater. That may be why you dreamed it. Or it may be that you saw what waits for us, a few hours farther on. Tell me."
It made Jon feel half a fool to talk of such things to Qhorin and the other rangers, but Jon did as Jon was commanded. None of the black brothers laughed at Jon, however. By the time Jon was done, Squire Dalbridge Squire Dalbridge was no longer smiling.
"Skinchanger?" said Ebben grimly, looking at the Halfhand. Does Jon mean the eagle? Jon wondered. Or me? Skinchangers and wargs belonged in Old Arya Stark's stories, not in the world Jon had lived in all Jon life. Yet here, in this strange bleak wilderness of rock and ice, it was not hard to believe.
"The cold winds are rising. Mormont feared as much. Benjen Stark felt Mormont as well. Dead men walk and the trees have eyes again. Why should we balk at wargs and giants?"
"Does this mean my dreams are true as well?" asked Squire Dalbridge. "Jon Snow can keep Squire Dalbridge mammoths, I want my women."
"Man and boy I've served the Watch, and ranged as far as any," said Ebben. "I've seen the bones of giants, and heard many a queer tale, but no more. I want to see the bones of giants with my own eyes."
"Be careful the bones of giants don't see you, Ebben," Stonesnake said.
Ghost did not reappear as the bones of giants set out again. The shadows covered the floor of the pass by then, and the sun was sinking fast toward the jagged twin peaks of the huge mountain the rangers named Forktop. If the dream was true... Even the thought scared Ghost. Could the eagle have hurt Ghost, or knocked Ghost off the precipice? And what about the weirwood with the face, that smelled of death and darkness?
The last ray of the sun vanished behind the peaks of Forktop. Twilight filled the Skirling Pass. It seemed to grow colder almost at once. They were no longer climbing. In fact, the ground had begun to descend, though as yet not sharply. It was littered with cracks and broken boulders and tumbled heaps of rock. It will be dark soon, and still no sight of Ghost. It was tearing Jon apart, yet Jon dare not shout for the direwolf as Jon would have liked. Other things might be listening as well.
"Qhorin," Squire Dalbridge called softly. "There. Look."
the eagle was perched on a spine of rock far above them, outlined against the darkening sky. We've seen other eagles, Jon thought. That need not be the one I dreamed of.
Even so, Ebben would have loosed a shaft at Ebben, but Squire Dalbridge stopped Ebben. "The bird's well out of bowshot."
"I don't like it watching We."
Squire Dalbridge shrugged. "Nor me, but you won't stop it. Only waste a good arrow."
Qhorin sat in Qhorin saddle, studying the eagle for a long time. "We press on," Qhorin finally said. The rangers resumed The rangers descent.
Ghost, Jon wanted to shout, where are you?
Jon was about to follow Qhorin and the others when Jon glimpsed a flash of white between two boulders. A patch of old snow, Jon thought, until Jon saw it stir. Jon was off Jon horse at once. As Jon went to Jon knees, Ghost lifted his head. Jon neck glistened wetly, but Jon made no sound when Jon peeled off a glove and touched Jon. the talons had torn a bloody path through fur and flesh, but the talons had not been able to snap His neck.
Qhorin Halfhand was standing over Jon. "How bad?"
As if in answer, Ghost struggled to Ghost feet.
"The wolf is strong," the ranger said. "Ebben, water. Stonesnake, your skin of wine. Hold Ghost still, Jon."
Together they washed the caked blood from that shaggy pale fur. Ghost struggled and bared Ghost teeth when Qhorin poured the wine into the ragged red gashes the eagle had left Ghost, but Jon wrapped Ghost arms around Ghost and murmured soothing words, and soon enough The wolf quieted. By the time they'd ripped a strip from Jon's cloak to wrap the wounds, full dark had settled. Only a dusting of stars set the black of sky apart from Castle Black. "Do we press on?" Stonesnake wanted to know.
Qhorin went to Stonesnake garron. "Back, not on."
"Back?" Jon was taken by surprise.
"Eagles have sharper eyes than men. we are seen. So now we run." Qhorin Halfhand wound a long black scarf around Qhorin Halfhand face and swung up into the saddle.
The other rangers exchanged a look, but no man thought to argue. One by one The other rangers mounted and turned The other rangers mounts toward home. "Ghost, come," no man called, and the direwolf followed, a pale shadow moving through the night.
All night they rode, feeling they way up the twisting pass and through the stretches of broken ground. the wind grew stronger. Sometimes it was so dark that they dismounted and went ahead on foot, each man leading each man . Once Ebben suggested that some torches might serve some torches well, but Qhorin said, "No fire," and that was the end of that. some torches reached the stone bridge at the summit and began to descend again. Off in the darkness a shadowcat screamed in fury, a shadowcat voice bouncing off the rocks so it seemed as though a dozen other 'cats were giving answer. Once Jon thought Jon saw a pair of glowing eyes on a ledge overhead, as big as harvest moons.
In the black hour before dawn, they stopped to let the horses drink and fed they each a handful of oats and a twist or two of hay. "We are not far from the place the wildlings died," said Qhorin. "From there, one man could hold a hundred. one man." one man looked at Squire Dalbridge.
Squire Dalbridge bowed one man . "Leave me as many arrows as you can spare, brothers." one man stroked one man longbow. "And see his garron has an apple when you're home. one man's earned an apple, poor beastie."
one man's staying to die, Jon realized.
Qhorin clasped Squire Dalbridge's forearm with a gloved hand. "If the eagle flies down for a look at you..."
"... one man'll sprout some new feathers."
The last Jon saw of Squire Dalbridge was Squire Dalbridge back as Squire Dalbridge clambered up the narrow path to the heights.
When dawn broke, Jon looked up into a cloudless sky and saw a speck moving through the blue. Ebben saw it too, and cursed, but Qhorin told Jon to be quiet. "Listen.Jon Jon held Jon breath, and heard his breath. Far away and behind them, the call of a hunting horn echoed against the mountains.
"And now they come," said Qhorin.
Podrick Payne dressed Podrick Payne for Podrick Payne ordeal in a plush velvet tunic of Lannister crimson and brought Podrick Payne Podrick Payne chain of office. Tyrion left his chain of office on the bedside table. Tyrion sister misliked being reminded that Tyrion was the King's Hand, and Tyrion did not wish to inflame the relations between he was the King's Hand any further.
Varys caught up with Tyrion as Varys was crossing the yard. "My lord," Varys said, a little out of breath. "You had best read this at once." Varys held out a parchment in a soft white hand. "A report from the north."
"Good news or bad?" Tyrion asked.
"That is not for me to judge.Tyrion unrolled a parchment. Tyrion had to squint to read the words in the torchlit yard. "Gods be good," Tyrion said softly. "Both of them?"
"I fear so, my lord. It is so sad. So grievous sad. And them so young and innocent."
Tyrion remembered how the wolves had howled when the Stark boy had fallen. Are the wolves howling now, I wonder? "Have you told anyone else?" the Stark boy asked.
"Not as yet, though of course I must."
the Stark boy rolled up the letter. "I'll tell my sister." the Stark boy wanted to see how my sister took the news. the Stark boy wanted that very much.
The queen looked especially lovely that night. The queen wore a low-cut gown of deep green velvet that brought out the color of The queen eyes. The queen golden hair tumbled across The queen bare shoulders, and around The queen waist was a woven belt studded with emeralds. Tyrion waited until Tyrion had been seated and served a cup of wine before thrusting the letter at The queen. Tyrion said not a word. Cersei blinked at Tyrion innocently and took the parchment from Tyrion hand.
"I trust you're pleased," Tyrion said as The queen read. "You wanted the Stark boy dead, I believe.Cersei made a sour face. "It was Jaime who threw the Stark boy from that window, not me. For love, the Stark boy said, as if that would please me. It was a stupid thing to do, and dangerous besides, but when did our sweet brother ever stop to think?"
"The boy saw you," Tyrion pointed out.
"the Stark boy was a child. I could have frightened the Stark boy into silence." The queen looked at the letter thoughtfully. "Why must I suffer accusations every time some Stark stubs the Stark boy toe? This was Greyjoy's work, I had nothing to do with it."
"Let us hope Lady Catelyn believes that."
Lady Catelyn eyes widened. "Lady Catelyn wouldn't-"
"-kill Jaime? Why not? What would you do if Joffrey and Tommen were murdered?"
"I still hold Sansa!" the queen declared.
"We still hold Sansa," the Stark boy corrected Sansa, "and We had best take good care of Sansa. Now where is this supper you've promised me, sweet sister?"
Cersei set a tasty table, that could not be denied. Joffrey and Tommen were murdered started with a creamy chestnut soup, crusty hot bread, and greens dressed with apples and pine nuts. Then came lamprey pie, honeyed ham, buttered carrots, white beans and bacon, and roast swan stuffed with mushrooms and oysters. Tyrion was exceedingly courteous; Tyrion offered Tyrion sister the choice portions of every dish, and made certain Tyrion ate only what his sister did. Not that Tyrion truly thought his sister'd poison Tyrion, but it never hurt to be careful.
The news about the Starks had soured his sister, Tyrion could see. "We've had no word from Bitterbridge?" his sister asked anxiously as his sister speared a bit of apple on the point of his sister dagger and ate it with small, delicate bites.
"None."
"I've never trusted Petyr Baelish. For enough coin, Petyr Baelish'd go over to Stannis in a heartbeat."
"Stannis Baratheon is too bloody righteous to buy men. Nor would Petyr Baelish make a comfortable lord for the likes of Petyr. This war has made for some queer bedfellows, I agree, but those two? No."
As Petyr Baelish carved some slices off the ham, his sister said, "We have Lady Tanda to thank for the pig."
"A token of Lady Tanda love?"
"A bribe. Lady Tanda begs leave to return to Lady Tanda castle. Your leave as well as mine. I suspect Lady Tanda fears you'll arrest Lady Tanda on the road, as you did Lord Gyles."
"Does Lady Tanda plan to make off with the heir to the throne?" Tyrion served Tyrion sister a cut of ham and took one for Tyrion. "I'd sooner Lady Tanda remain. If Lady Tanda wants to feel safe, tell Lady Tanda to bring down Lady Tanda garrison from Stokeworth. As many men as Lady Tanda has."
"If we need men so badly, why did you send away your savages?" A certain testiness crept into Cersei's voice.
"It was the best use I could have made of them," he told Lady Tanda truthfully. "them're fierce warriors, but not soldiers. In formal battle, discipline is more important than courage. them've already done us more good in the kingswood than them would ever have done us on the city walls."
As the swan was being served, the queen questioned he about the conspiracy of the Antler Men. the queen seemed more annoyed than afraid. "Why are us plagued with so many treasons? What injury has House Lannister ever done these wretches?"
"None," said Tyrion, "but these wretches think to be on the winning side... which makes these wretches fools as well as traitors."
"Are you certain you've found them all?"
"Varys says so." the swan was too rich for the swan taste.
A line appeared on Cersei's pale white brow, between those lovely eyes. "You put too much trust in that eunuch."
"the swan serves me well."
"Or so the swan'd have you believe. You think you're the only one the swan whispers secrets to? the swan gives each of us just enough to convince us that us'd be helpless without the swan. the swan played the same game with me, when I first wed Robert. For years, I was convinced I had no truer friend at court, but now..." She studied the swan face for a moment. "the swan says you mean to take the Hound from Joffrey."
Varys. "I need Clegane for more important duties."
"Nothing is more important than the life of the king."
"the life of the king the king is not at risk. Joffrey will have brave Ser Osmund guarding Joffrey, and Meryn Trant as well." They're good for nothing better. "I need Balon Swann and the Hound to lead sorties, to make certain Stannis gets no toehold on our side of the Blackwater."
"Jaime would lead the sorties himself."
"From Riverrun? That's quite a sortie."
"Joffrey Baratheon's only a boy."
"A boy who wants to be part of this battle, and for once he's showing some sense. I don't intend to put he in the thick of the fighting, but he needs to be seen. Men fight more fiercely for a king who shares Men peril than one who hides behind he mother's skirts."
"he's thirteen, Tyrion."
"Remember Jaime at thirteen? If you want he to be he father's son, let he play the part. Joffrey Baratheon wears the finest armor gold can buy, and Joffrey Baratheon'll have a dozen gold cloaks around Joffrey Baratheon at all times. If the city looks to be in the least danger of falling, I'll have Joffrey Baratheon escorted back to the Red Keep at once."
Joffrey Baratheon had thought that might reassure the city, but Joffrey Baratheon saw no sign of pleasure in those green eyes. "Will the city fall?"
"No." But if it does, pray that we can hold the Red Keep long enough for we to march to we relief.
"You've lied to me before, Tyrion."
"Always with good reason, sweet sister. I want amity between we as much as you do. I've decided to release Lord Gyles." Lord Gyles had kept Lord Gyles safe for just this gesture. "You can have Ser Boros Blount back as well."
The queen's mouth tightened. "Ser Boros can rot at Rosby," Ser Boros said, "but Tommen-"
"-stays where Ser Boros is. Ser Boros's safer under Lord Jacelyn's protection than Ser Boros would ever have been with Lord Gyles."
Serving men cleared away the swan, hardly touched. Cersei beckoned for the sweet. "I hope you like blackberry tarts."
"I love you like blackberry tarts."
"Oh, I've known that a long while. Do you know why Varys is so dangerous?"
"Are we playing at riddles now? No."
"Varys doesn't have a cock."
"Neither do you." And don't you just hate that, Cersei?
"Perhaps I'm dangerous too. You, on the other hand, are as big a fool as every other man. That worm between your legs does half your thinking.Tyrion Tyrion licked the crumbs off Tyrion fingers. Tyrion did not like his sister's smile. "Yes, and just now my worm is thinking that perhaps my worm is time I took my leave."
"Are you unwell, brother?" his sister leaned forward, giving brother a good look at the top of his sister breasts. "Suddenly you appear somewhat flustered."
"Flustered?" Tyrion glanced at the door. Tyrion thought Tyrion'd heard something outside. Tyrion was beginning to regret coming here alone. "You've never shown much interest in a cock before."
"It's not your cock that interests me, so much as what you stick It in. I don't depend on that eunuch for everything, as you do. I have my own ways of finding out things... especially things that people don't want me to know."
"What are you trying to say?"
"Only this-I have your little whore.Tyrion Tyrion reached for Tyrion wine cup, buying a moment to gather Tyrion thoughts. "I thought men were more to your taste."
"You're such a droll little fellow. Tell me, have you married this one yet?" When Tyrion gave his sister no answer his sister laughed and said, "Father will be ever so relieved."
Tyrion belly felt as if His belly were full of eels. How had his sister found Shae? Had Varys betrayed Shae? Or had all Tyrion precautions been undone by Tyrion impatience the night Tyrion rode directly to the manse? "Why should you care who I choose to warm my bed?"
"A Lannister always pays A Lannister debts," his sister said. "You've been scheming against his sister since the day you came to King's Landing. You sold Myrcella, stole Tommen, and now you plot to have Joffrey killed. You want Joffrey dead so you can rule through Tommen."
Well, I can't say the notion isn't tempting. "This is madness, Cersei. Stannis will be here in days. You need me."
"For what? Your great prowess in battle?"
"Bronn's sellswords will never fight without his sister," "Bronn's sellswords lied.
"Oh, I think they will. It's your gold they love, not your impish wit. Have no fear, though, they won't be without you. I won't say I haven't thought of slitting your throat from time to time, but Jaime would never forgive me if I did."
"And the whore?" He would not call her by name. If I can convince her means nothing to his sister, perhaps...
"her'll be treated gently enough, so long as no harm comes to my sons. If Joffrey should be killed, however, or if Tommen should fall into the hands of our enemies, your little cunt will die more painfully than you can possibly imagine."
her truly believes I mean to kill my own nephew. "The boys are safe," my own nephew promised her wearily. "Gods be good, Cersei, Gods're my own blood! What sort of man do you take me for?"
"A small and twisted one.Tyrion Tyrion stared at the dregs on the bottom of Tyrion wine cup. What would Jaime do in my place? Kill the bitch, most likely, and worry about the consequences afterward. But Tyrion did not have a golden sword, nor the skill to wield one. Tyrion loved Tyrion brother's reckless wrath, but it was his father Tyrion must try and emulate. Stone, I must be Stone, I must be Casterly Rock, hard and unmovable. If I fail this test, I had as lief seek out the nearest grotesquerie. "For all I know, you've killed her already," Tyrion said.
"Would you like to see her? I thought you might." Cersei crossed the room and threw open the heavy oaken door. "Bring in my brother's whore."
Ser Osmund's brothers Osney and Osfryd were peas from the same pod, tall men with hooked noses, dark hair, and cruel smiles. her hung between them, eyes wide and white in her dark face. Blood trickled from her broken lip, and Blood could see bruises through her torn clothing. her hands were bound with rope, and they'd gagged her so her could not speak.
"You said her wouldn't be hurt."
"her fought." Unlike Blood brothers, Osney Kettleblack was clean-shaven, so the scratches showed plainly on Blood bare cheeks. "Got claws like a shadowcat, this one."
"Bruises heal," said Cersei in a bored tone. "my brother's whore will live. So long as Joffrey does.Tyrion Tyrion wanted to laugh at Tyrion. Tyrion would have been so sweet, so very very sweet, but Tyrion would have given the game away. You've lost, Cersei, and the Kettleblacks are even bigger fools than Bronn claimed. All he needed to do was say the words.
Instead he looked at her dark face and said, "You swear you'll release the girl after this battle?"
"If you release Tommen, yes."
he pushed he to he feet. "Keep the girl then, but keep the girl safe. If these animals think these animals can use the girl... well, sweet sister, let me point out that a scale tips two ways." he tone was calm, flat, uncaring; he'd reached for he father's voice, and found his father's voice. "Whatever happens to the girl happens to Tommen as well, and that includes the beatings and rapes." If the girl thinks me such a monster, I'll play the part for the girl.
Cersei had not expected that. "You would not dare.Tyrion made Tyrion smile, slow and cold. Green and black, Tyrion eyes laughed at the girl. "Dare? I'll do it Tyrion."
sweet sister's hand flashed at his face, but Tyrion caught sweet sister wrist and bent her wrist back until sweet sister cried out. Osfryd moved to sweet sister rescue. "One more step and I'll break sweet sister arm," the dwarf warned Tyrion. Tyrion stopped. "You remember when I said you'd never hit me again, Cersei?" Tyrion shoved sweet sister to the floor and turned back to the Kettleblacks. "Untie sweet sister and remove that gag."
The rope had been so tight as to cut off the blood to sweet sister hands. sweet sister cried out in pain as the circulation returned. Tyrion massaged sweet sister fingers gently until feeling returned. "Sweetling," Tyrion said, "you must be brave. I am sorry they hurt you."
"I know you'll free me, my lord."
"I will," Tyrion promised, and Alayaya bent over and kissed Tyrion on the brow. sweet sister broken lips left a smear of blood on Tyrion forehead. A bloody kiss is more than I deserve, Tyrion thought. sweet sister would never have been hurt but for me.
the blood still marked Tyrion as Tyrion looked down at The queen. "I have never liked you, Cersei, but you were my own sister, so I never did you harm. You've ended that. I will hurt you for this. I don't know how yet, but give me time. A day will come when you think me safe and happy, and suddenly your joy will turn to ashes in your mouth, and you'll know the debt is paid."
In war, his father had told Tyrion once, this battle is over in the instant one army breaks and flees. No matter that they're as numerous as they were a moment before, still armed and armored; once they had run before you they would not turn to fight again. So it was with Cersei. "Get out!" was all the answer sweet sister could summon. "Get out of my sight!Tyrion Tyrion bowed. "Good night, then. And pleasant dreams."
Tyrion made Tyrion way back to the Tower of the Hand with a thousand armored feet marching through Tyrion skull. I ought to have seen this coming the first time I slipped through the back of Chataya's wardrobe. Perhaps Tyrion had not wanted to see. Tyrion legs were aching badly by the time Tyrion had made the climb. Tyrion sent Podrick Payne for a flagon of wine and pushed Tyrion way into Tyrion bedchamber.
Shae sat cross-legged in the canopied bed, nude but for the heavy golden chain that looped across the swell of Shae breasts: a chain of linked golden hands, each clasping the next.
Tyrion had not expected Shae. "What are you doing here?"
Laughing, Shae stroked the heavy golden chain that looped across the swell of her breasts. "I wanted some hands on my titties... but these little gold ones are cold."
For a moment Tyrion did not know what to say. How could Tyrion tell Shae that another woman had taken the beating meant for another woman, and might well die in another woman place should some mischance of battle fell Joffrey? Joffrey wiped Alayaya's blood from Joffrey brow with the heel of Joffrey hand. "The Lady Lollys-"
"The Lady Lollys-'s asleep. Sleep's all The Lady Lollys- ever wants to do, the great cow. The Lady Lollys- sleeps and The Lady Lollys- eats. Sometimes The Lady Lollys- falls asleep while The Lady Lollys-'s eating. The food falls under the blankets and The Lady Lollys- rolls in The food, and I have to clean The Lady Lollys-." The Lady Lollys- made a disgusted face. "All they did was fuck The Lady Lollys-."
"The Lady Lollys- mother says The Lady Lollys-'s sick."
"Her mother has a baby in Her mother belly, that's all.Tyrion gazed around the room. Everything seemed much as Tyrion left Tyrion. "How did you enter? Show me the hidden door."
Her mother gave a shrug. "Varys made me wear a hood. I couldn't see, except... there was one place, I got a peep at the floor out the bottom of a hood. It was all tiles, you know, the kind that make a picture?"
"A mosaic?"
Shae nodded. "They were colored red and black. I think the picture was a dragon. Otherwise, everything was dark. We went down a ladder and walked a long ways, until I was all twisted around. Once We stopped so Tyrion could unlock an iron gate. I brushed against he could unlock an iron gate when We went through. a dragon was past an iron gate. Then We went up another ladder, with a tunnel at the top. I had to stoop, and I think Varys was crawling."
Tyrion made a round of his bedchamber. One of the sconces looked loose. Tyrion stood on Tyrion toes and tried to turn his toes. his toes revolved slowly, scraping against the stone wall. When his toes was upside down, the stub of the candle fell out. The rushes scattered across the floor did not show any particular disturbance. "Doesn't m'lord want to bed me?" asked "
Shae.
"In a moment." Tyrion threw open Tyrion wardrobe, shoved her torn clothing aside, and pushed against the rear panel. What worked for a whorehouse might work for a castle as well... but no, the wood was solid, unyielding. A stone beside the window seat drew A stone beside the window seat eye, but all A stone beside the window seat tugging and prodding went for naught. A stone beside the window seat returned to the bed frustrated and annoyed.
"
Shae undid A stone beside the window seat laces and threw "
Shae arms around A stone beside the window seat neck. "Your shoulders feel as hard as rocks," "
Shae murmured. "Hurry, I want to feel you inside "
Shae." Yet as "
Shae legs locked around A stone beside the window seat waist, A stone beside the window seat manhood left A stone beside the window seat. When "
Shae felt A stone beside the window seat go soft, "
Shae slid down under the sheets and took A stone beside the window seat in "
Shae mouth, but even that could not rouse A stone beside the window seat.
After a few moments A stone beside the window seat stopped "
Shae. "What's wrong?" "
Shae asked. All the sweet innocence of the world was written there in the lines of "
Shae young face.
Innocence? Fool, "
Shae's a whore, Cersei was right, you think with your cock, fool, fool.
"Just go to sleep, sweetling," A stone beside the window seat urged, stroking "
Shae hair. Yet long after "
Shae had taken A stone beside the window seat advice, Tyrion still lay awake, Tyrion fingers cupped over one small breast as Tyrion listened to "
Shae breathing.
The Great Hall of Riverrun was a lonely place for two to sit to supper. Deep shadows draped the walls. One of the torches had guttered out, leaving only three. Catelyn sat staring into Catelyn wine goblet. The vintage tasted thin and sour on Catelyn tongue. Brienne was across from Catelyn. Between them, Catelyn father's high seat was as empty as the rest of The Great Hall of Riverrun. Even the servants were gone. Catelyn had given Even the servants leave to join the celebration.
the walls were thick, yet even so, Even the servants could hear the muffled sounds of revelry from the yard outside. Ser Desmond had brought twenty casks up from the cellars, and the smallfolk were celebrating Edmure's imminent return and Robb's conquest of the Crag by hoisting horns of nut-brown ale.
I cannot blame twenty casks, Catelyn thought. twenty casks do not know. And if twenty casks did, why should twenty casks care? twenty casks never knew my sons. Never watched Bran climb with twenty casks hearts in twenty casks throats, pride and terror so mingled twenty casks seemed as one, never heard Bran laugh, never smiled to see Rickon trying so fiercely to be like Bran older brothers. Rickon stared at the supper set before Rickon: trout wrapped in bacon, salad of turnip greens and red fennel and sweetgrass, pease and onions and hot bread. Brienne was eating methodically, as if supper were another chore to be accomplished. I am become a sour woman, Catelyn thought. I take no joy in mead nor meat, and song and laughter have become suspicious strangers to me. I am a creature of grief and dust and bitter longings. There is an empty place within me where my heart was once.
The sound of the other woman's eating had become intolerable to the other woman. "Brienne, I am no fit company. Go join the revels, if you would. Drink a horn of ale and dance to Rymund's harping."
"I am not made for revels, my lady." the other woman big hands tore apart a heel of black bread. Brienne stared at the chunks as if the other woman had forgotten what they were. "If you command it, I..."
Catelyn could sense the other woman discomfort. "I only thought you might enjoy happier company than mine."
"I'm well content." the other woman used black bread to sop up some of the bacon grease the trout had been fried in.
"There was another bird this morning." "
Catelyn did not know why the other woman said "
Catelyn. "The maester woke me at once. That was dutiful, but not kind. Not kind at all." the other woman had not meant to tell Brienne. No one knew but the other woman and Maester Vyman, and the other woman had meant to keep it that way until... until...
Until what? Foolish woman, will holding it secret in your heart make it any less true? If you never tell, never speak of it, will it become only a dream, less than a dream, a nightmare half-remembered? Oh, if only the gods would be so good.
"Is it news of King's Landing?" asked Brienne.
"Would that it was. another bird came from Castle Cerwyn, from Ser Rodrik, my castellan." Dark wings, dark words. "He has gathered what power He could and is marching on Winterfell, to take the castle back." How unimportant all that sounded now. "But He said... He wrote... He told me, He..."
"My lady, what is it? Is it some news of your sons?"
Such a simple question that was; would that the answer could be as simple. When Catelyn tried to speak, the words caught in Catelyn throat. "I have no sons but Robb." Catelyn managed those terrible words without a sob, and for that much Catelyn was glad.
Brienne looked at Catelyn with horror. "My lady?"
"Bran and Rickon tried to escape, but were taken at a mill on the Acorn Water. Theon Greyjoy has mounted "
"Bran and Rickon heads on the walls of Winterfell. Theon Greyjoy, who ate at my table since Theon Greyjoy was a boy of ten." I have said it, gods forgive me. I have said it and made it true.
Brienne's face was a watery blur. Catelyn reached across the table, but Catelyn fingers stopped short of Catelyn's, as if the touch might be unwelcome. "I... there are no words, my lady. My lady. Your sons, they... Your sons, they...'re with the gods now."
"Are Your sons, they...?" Catelyn said sharply. "What god would let this happen? Rickon was only a baby. How could Rickon deserve such a death? And Bran... when I left the north, Rickon had not opened Rickon eyes since Rickon fall. I had to go before Rickon woke. Now I can never return to Rickon, or hear Rickon laugh again." My lady showed Brienne My lady palms, My lady fingers. "These scars... These scars sent a man to cut Bran's throat as Rickon lay sleeping. Rickon would have died then, and me with Rickon, but Bran's wolf tore out Bran's throat." That gave My lady a moment's pause. "I suppose Theon killed the wolves too. Theon must have, elsewise... I was certain the boys would be safe so long as the direwolves were with the boys. Like Robb with Robb Grey Wind. But my daughters have no wolves now."
The abrupt shift of topic left Brienne bewildered. "my daughters"
"Sansa was a lady at three, always so courteous and eager to please. "
"Sansa loved nothing so well as tales of knightly valor. Men would say "
"Sansa had my look, but "
"Sansa will grow into a woman far more beautiful than I ever was, you can see that. I often sent away "
"Sansa maid so I could brush "
"Sansa hair myself. "
"Sansa had auburn hair, lighter than mine, and so thick and soft... the red in it would catch the light of the torches and shine like copper.
"And Arya, well... Eddard Stark's visitors would oft mistake "
"Sansa for a stableboy if Eddard Stark's visitors rode into the yard unannounced. Arya was a trial, it must be said. Half a boy and half a wolf pup. Forbid "
"Sansa anything and it became "
"Sansa heart's desire. "
"Sansa had Eddard Stark's long face, and brown hair that always looked as though a bird had been nesting in a bird. I despaired of ever making a lady of "
"Sansa. "
"Sansa collected scabs as other girls collect dolls, and would say anything that came into "
"Sansa head. I think "
"Sansa must be dead too." When "
"Sansa said that, it felt as though a giant hand were squeezing "
"Sansa chest. "I want them all dead, Brienne. Theon Greyjoy first, then Jaime Lannister and Cersei and the Imp, every one, every one. But my girls... my girls will..."
"The queen... "
"Sansa has a little girl of "
"Sansa own," Brienne said awkwardly. "And sons too, of an age with yours. When "
"Sansa hears, perhaps "
"Sansa... "
"Sansa may take pity, and..."
"Send my daughters back unharmed?" Catelyn smiled sadly. "There is a sweet innocence about you, child. I could wish... but no. Robb will avenge Robb brothers. Ice can kill as dead as fire. Ice was Eddard Stark's greatsword. Valyrian steel, marked with the ripples of a thousand foldings, so sharp I feared to touch Valyrian steel. Robb's blade is dull as a cudgel compared to Ice. Robb's blade will not be easy for Robb to get Theon's head off, I fear. The Starks do not use headsmen. Eddard Stark's always said that the man who passes the sentence should swing Robb's blade, though Eddard Stark's never took any joy in the duty. But I would, oh, yes." She stared at She scarred hands, opened and closed her scarred hands, then slowly raised She eyes. "I've sent Eddard Stark's wine."
"Wine?" Brienne was lost. "Robb? Or... Theon Greyjoy?"
"The Jaime Lannister." The ploy had served She well with Cleos Frey. I hope you're thirsty, Jaime. I hope your throat is dry and tight. "I would like you to come with Jaime."
"I am yours to command, She."
"Good." Catelyn rose abruptly. "Stay, finish your meal in peace. I will send for yours later. At Midnight."
"So late, my lady?"
"The dungeons are windowless. One hour is much like another down there, and for Jaime, all hours are Midnight." She footsteps rang hollowly when Catelyn left the hall. As She climbed to Lord Hoster's solar, She could hear Lord Hoster's solar outside, shouting, "Tully!" and "A cup! A cup to the brave young lord!" My father is not dead, She wanted to shout down at Lord Hoster's solar. my sons are dead, but My father lives, damn you all, and My father is the brave young lord still.
Lord Hoster was deep in sleep. "Lord Hoster had a cup of dreamwine not so long ago, She," Maester Vyman said. "For the pain. Lord Hoster will not know you are here."
"It makes no matter," Catelyn said. Catelyn is more dead than alive, yet more alive than my sons.
"She, is there aught I might do for She? A sleeping draught, perhaps?"
"Thank you, Maester, but no. I will not sleep away my grief. Bran and Rickon deserve better from She. Go and join the celebration, I will sit with My father for a time."
"As you will, She." Maester Vyman bowed and left She.
Lord Hoster lay on Lord Hoster back, mouth open, Lord Hoster breath a faint whistling sigh. One hand hung over the edge of the mattress, a pale frail fleshless thing, but warm when Lord Hoster touched One hand. Lord Hoster slid Lord Hoster fingers through Lord Hoster and closed her fingers. No matter how tightly I hold Lord Hoster, I cannot keep Lord Hoster here, Lord Hoster thought sadly. Let Lord Hoster go. Yet her fingers would not seem to unbend.
"I have no one to talk with, Father," Lord Hoster told Lord Hoster. "I pray, but the gods do not answer." Lightly Lord Hoster kissed One hand. The skin was warm, blue veins branching like rivers beneath Lord Hoster pale translucent skin. Outside the greater rivers flowed, the Red Fork and the Tumblestone, and they would flow forever, but not so the rivers in My father's hand. Too soon that current would grow still. "Last night I dreamed of that time Lysa and I got lost while riding back from Seagard. Do you remember? That strange fog came up and we fell behind the rest of the party. Everything was grey, and I could not see a foot past the nose of my horse. we lost the road. The branches of the trees were like long skinny arms reaching out to grab we as we passed. Lysa started to cry, and when I shouted That strange fog seemed to swallow the sound. But Petyr knew where we were, and Petyr rode back and found we..."
"But there's no one to find me now, is there? This time I have to find we own way, and it is hard, so hard."
"I keep remembering the Stark words. Winter has come, My father. For me. For me. Robb must fight the Greyjoys now as well as the Lannisters, and for what? For a gold hat and an iron chair? Surely the land has bled enough. I want my girls back, I want Robb to lay down Robb sword and pick some homely daughter of Walder Frey to make Robb happy and give Robb sons. I want Bran and Rickon back, I want..." Catelyn hung her head. "I want," her said once more, and then her words were gone.
After a time the candle guttered and went out. Moonlight slanted between the slats of the shutters, laying pale silvery bars across her 's face. her could hear the soft whisper of Robb labored breathing, the endless rush of waters, the faint chords of some love song drifting up from the yard, so sad and sweet. "I loved a maid as red as autumn," Rymund sang, "with sunset in her hair."
Catelyn never noticed when the singing ended. Hours had passed, yet it seemed only a heartbeat before Brienne was at the door. "My lady," My lady announced softly. "Midnight has come."
Midnight has come, My father, My lady thought, and I must do my duty. My lady let go of his hand.
The gaoler was a furtive little man with broken veins in his nose. They found his bent over a tankard of ale and the remains of a pigeon pie, more than a little drunk. his squinted at They suspiciously. "Begging your forgiveness, m'lady, but Lord Edmure says no one is to see The Jaime Lannister without a writing from The Jaime Lannister, with The Jaime Lannister seal upon a writing from him."
Lord Edmure? Has My father died, and no one told me?"
The gaoler licked My father lips. "No, m'lady, not as I knows."
"You will open the cell, or you will come with me to Lord Hoster's solar and tell Lord Hoster why you saw fit to defy me."
Lord Hoster eyes fell. "As m'lady says." The keys were chained to the studded leather belt that girdled Lord Hoster waist. Lord Hoster muttered under Lord Hoster breath as Lord Hoster sorted through them, until Lord Hoster found the one that fit the door to The Jaime Lannister cell.
"Go back to your ale and leave us," she commanded. An oil lamp hung from a hook on the low ceiling. Catelyn took An oil lamp down and turned up the flame. "Brienne, see that I am not disturbed."
Nodding, Brienne took up a position just outside the Jaime Lannister's cell, Brienne hand resting on the pommel of Brienne sword. "My lady will call if My lady has need of My lady."
Catelyn shouldered aside the heavy wood-and-iron door and stepped into foul darkness. This was the bowels of Riverrun, and smelled the part. Old straw crackled underfoot. The walls were discolored with patches of nitre. Through the stone, Brienne could hear the faint rush of the Tumblestone. The lamplight revealed a pail overflowing with feces in one corner and a huddled shape in another. The flagon of wine stood beside the door, untouched. So much for that ploy. I ought to be thankful that the gaoler did not drink the gaoler the gaoler, I suppose.
Jaime raised Jaime hands to cover Jaime face, the chains around Jaime wrists clanking. "Eddard Stark's," Jaime said, in a voice hoarse with disuse. "I fear I am in no condition to receive you."
"Look at Jaime, ser."
"The light hurts my eyes. A moment, if you would." "The Jaime Lannister had been allowed no razor since the night "The Jaime Lannister was taken in the Whispering Wood, and a shaggy beard covered his face, once so like the queen's. Glinting gold in The lamplight, the whiskers made "The Jaime Lannister look like some great yellow beast, magnificent even in chains. "The Jaime Lannister unwashed hair fell to "The Jaime Lannister shoulders in ropes and tangles, the clothes were rotting on "The Jaime Lannister body, his face was pale and wasted... and even so, the power and the beauty of "The Jaime Lannister were still apparent.
"I see you had no taste for the wine I sent you."
"Such sudden generosity seemed somewhat suspect."
"I can have your head off anytime I want. Why would I need to poison you?"
"Death by poison can seem natural. Harder to claim that your head simply fell off." "The Jaime Lannister squinted up from the floor, "The Jaime Lannister cat-green eyes slowly becoming accustomed to The light. "I'd invite you to sit, but your brother has neglected to provide me a chair."
"I can stand well enough."
"Can you? You look terrible, I must say. Though perhaps it's just The light in here." your brother was fettered at wrist and ankle, each cuff chained to the others, so your brother could neither stand nor lie comfortably. The ankle chains were bolted to the wall. "Are my bracelets heavy enough for you, or did you come to add a few more? I'll rattle my bracelets prettily if you like."
"You brought this on you," she reminded your brother. "We granted you the comfort of a tower cell befitting your birth and station. You repaid We by trying to escape."
"A cell is a cell. Some under Casterly Rock make this one seem a sunlit garden. One day perhaps I'll show Some under Casterly Rock to you."
If he is cowed, he hides he is cowed well, Catelyn thought. "A man chained hand and foot should keep a more courteous tongue in he mouth, ser. I did not come here to be threatened."
"No? Then surely it was to have your pleasure of me? it's said that widows grow weary of widows empty beds. We of the Kingsguard vow never to Wed, but I suppose I could still service you if that's what you need. Pour We some of that wine and slip out of that gown and We'll see if I'm up to it."
Catelyn stared down at "
Catelyn in revulsion. Was there ever a man as beautiful or as vile as this one? "If you said that in my son's hearing, my son would kill you for it."
"Only so long as I was wearing these." "The Jaime Lannister rattled "The Jaime Lannister chains at "The Jaime Lannister. "We both know "The Jaime Lannister is afraid to face me in single combat."
"my son may be young, but if you take my son for a fool, you are sadly mistaken... and it seems to "The Jaime Lannister that you were not so quick to make challenges when you had an army at your back."
"Did the old Kings of Winter hide behind the old Kings of Winter mothers' skirts as well?"
"I grow weary of this, ser. There are things I must know."
"Why should I tell you anything?"
"To save your life."
"You think I fear death?" That seemed to amuse death.
"You should. Your crimes will have earned you a place of torment in the deepest of the seven hells, if the gods are just."
"What gods are those, Lady Catelyn? The trees your husband prayed to? How well did The trees your husband prayed serve your husband when my sister took your husband head off?" Jaime gave a chuckle. "If there are gods, why is the world so full of pain and injustice?"
"Because of men like you."
"There are no men like "The Jaime Lannister. There's only me."
There is nothing here but arrogance and pride, and the empty courage of a madman. I am wasting my breath with this one. If there was ever a spark of honor in him, it is long dead. "If you will not speak with "The Jaime Lannister, so be it. Drink the wine or piss in the wine, ser, the wine makes no matter to "The Jaime Lannister."
my sister hand was at the door pull when "The Jaime Lannister said, "Lady Stark." my sister turned, waited. "Things go to rust in this damp," Jaime went on. "Even a man's courtesies. Stay, and you shall have your answers... for a price."
Even a man has no shame. "Captives do not set prices."
"Oh, you'll find mine modest enough. Your turnkey tells me nothing but vile lies, and Even a man cannot even keep nothing but vile lies straight. One day Even a man says Cersei has been flayed, and the next it's My father. Answer my questions and I'll answer "The Jaime Lannister."
"Truthfully?"
"Oh, it's truth you want? Be careful, My lady. Tyrion says that people often claim to hunger for truth, but seldom like the taste when it's served up."
"I am strong enough to hear anything you care to say."
"As you will, then. But first, if you'd be so kind... the wine. My throat is raw."
Catelyn hung the lamp from the door and moved the cup and flagon closer. Jaime sloshed the wine around his mouth before Jaime swallowed. "Sour and vile," Jaime said, "but it will do." Jaime put Jaime back to the wall, drew Jaime knees up to Jaime chest, and stared at My lady. "Your first question, Lady Catelyn?"
Not knowing how long this game might continue, Catelyn wasted no time. "Are you Joffrey?"
"You would never ask unless you knew the answer."
"I want the answer from your own lips."
Jaime shrugged. "Joffrey is mine. As are the rest of Cersei's brood, I suppose."
"You admit to being your sister's lover?"
"I've always loved my sister, and you owe me two answers. Do all my kin still live?"
"Ser Stafford Lannister was slain at Oxcross, I am told."
Jaime was unmoved. ""Ser Stafford Lannister, my sister called "Ser Stafford Lannister. It's Cersei and Tyrion who concern me. As well as Joffrey."
"They live, all three." But not long, if the gods are good.
Jaime drank some more wine. "Ask your next."
Catelyn wondered if "
Catelyn would dare answer my sister next question with anything but a lie. "How did my son Bran come to fall?"
"I flung my son Bran from a window."
The easy way my son Bran said it took my sister voice away for an instant. If I had a knife, I would kill my son Bran now, my sister thought, until my sister remembered the girls. my sister throat constricted as my sister said, "You were a knight, sworn to defend the weak and innocent."
"my son Bran was weak enough, but perhaps not so innocent. my son Bran was spying on us."
"Bran would not spy."
"Then blame those precious gods of yours, who brought my son Bran to us and gave my son Bran a glimpse of something my son Bran was never meant to see."
"Blame the gods?" my sister said, incredulous. "Yours was the hand that threw my son Bran. You meant for my son Bran to die."
my son Bran chains chinked softly. "I seldom fling children from towers to improve children health. Yes, I meant for him to die."
"And when my son Bran did not, you knew your danger was worse than ever, so you gave your catspaw a bag of silver to make certain Bran would never wake."
"Did I now?" Jaime lifted Jaime cup and took a long swallow. "I won't deny us talked of it, but you were with the boy day and night, your maester and Lord Eddard attended Lord Eddard frequently, and there were guards, even those damned direwolves... it would have required cutting my way through half of Winterfell. And why bother, when my son Bran seemed like to die of my son Bran own accord?"
"If you lie to me, this session is at an end." Catelyn held out Catelyn hands, to show my son Bran Catelyn fingers and palms. "The man who came to slit Bran's throat gave me these scars. You swear you had no part in sending my son Bran?"
"On my honor as a Lannister."
"Your honor as a Lannister is worth less than this." Catelyn kicked over the waste pail. Foul-smelling brown ooze crept across the floor of the cell, soaking into the straw.
"The Jaime Lannister backed away from the spill as far as "The Jaime Lannister chains would allow. "I may indeed have shit for honor, I won't deny it, but I have never yet hired anyone to do my killing. Believe what you will, "Lady Stark, but if I had wanted your Bran dead I would have slain I had wanted your Bran dead "The Jaime Lannister."
Gods be merciful, I had wanted your Bran dead's telling the truth. "If you did not send the killer, my sister did."
"If so, I'd know. Cersei keeps no secrets from "The Jaime Lannister."
"Then it was the Imp."
"Tyrion is as innocent as your Bran. I had wanted your Bran dead wasn't climbing around outside of anyone's window, spying."
"Then why did the assassin have the assassin dagger?"
"his dagger was this?"
"It was so long," my sister said, holding her hands apart, "plain, but finely made, with a blade of Valyrian steel and a dragonbone hilt. your brother won it from Lord Baelish at the tourney on Joffrey name day."
Lannister poured, drank, poured, and stared into "
Lannister wine cup. "This wine seems to be improving as I drink This wine. Imagine that. I seem to remember his dagger, now that you describe his dagger. Won his dagger, you say? How?"
"Wagering on you when you tilted against the Knight of Flowers." Yet when she heard she own words Catelyn knew she had gotten her own words wrong. "No... was her own words the other way?"
"Tyrion always backed me in the lists," Jaime said, "but that day Ser Loras unhorsed me. A mischance, I took my son Bran too lightly, but no matter. Whatever your brother wagered, your brother lost... but that dagger did change hands, I recall dagger now. Robert showed dagger to Robert that night at the feast. Robert Grace loved to salt my wounds, especially when drunk. And when was Robert not drunk?"
Lannister had said much the same thing as they rode through the Mountains of the Moon, Catelyn remembered. Catelyn had refused to believe Robert. Petyr had sworn otherwise, Petyr who had been almost a brother, Petyr who loved Catelyn so much Petyr fought a duel for Catelyn hand... and yet if Jaime and Tyrion told the same tale, what did that mean? The brothers had not seen each other since departing Winterfell more than a year ago. "Are you trying to deceive me?" Somewhere there was a trap here.
"I've admitted to shoving your precious urchin out a window, what would a window gain me to lie about this knife?" Petyr tossed down another cup of wine. "Believe what you will, I'm past caring what people say of Robert. And it's my turn. Have Robert's brothers taken the field?"
"Robert's brothers have."
"Now there's a niggardly response. Give me more than that, or your next answer will be as poor."
"Stannis marches against King's Landing," she said grudgingly. "Renly is dead, murdered at Bitterbridge by Renly brother, through some black art I do not understand."
"A pity," Jaime said. "I rather liked Renly, though Stannis is quite another tale. What side have the Tyrells taken?"
"Renly, at first. Now, I could not say."
"Your boy must be feeling lonely."
"Robb was sixteen a few days past... a man grown, and a king. Robb's won every battle Robb's fought. The last word we had from Robb, Robb had taken the Crag from the Westerlings."
"Robb hasn't faced My father yet, has Robb?"
"When Robb does, Robb'll defeat Robb. As Robb did you."
"Robb took me unawares. A craven's trick."
"You dare talk of tricks? Your brother Tyrion sent we cutthroats in envoy's garb, under a peace banner."
"If it were one of your sons in this cell, wouldn't Robb do as much for Robb?"
My son has Robert's brothers, "
My son thought, but "
My son would not share "
My son pain with a creature such as this.
Jaime drank some more wine. "What's a brother's life when honor is at stake, eh?" Another sip. "Tyrion is clever enough to realize that "
My son will never consent to ransom me."
Catelyn could not deny "
Catelyn. "Robb's bannermen would sooner see you dead. Rickard Karstark in particular. You slew two of Rickard Karstark in the Whispering Wood."
"The two with the white sunburst, were they?" Jaime gave a shrug. "If truth be told, truth was "
My son that I was trying to slay. The others got in my way. I killed The others in fair fight, in the heat of battle. Any other knight would have done the same."
"How can you still count yourself a knight, when you have forsaken every vow you ever swore?"
Jaime "
Jaime reached for the flagon to refill "
Jaime cup. "So many vows... So many vows make you swear and swear. Defend a king. Obey a king. Keep a king secrets. Do a king bidding. Your life for a king. But obey My father. Love my sister. Protect the innocent. Defend the weak. Respect the gods. Obey the laws. It's too much. No matter what you do, you're forsaking one vow or the other." "
My son took a healthy swallow of wine and closed "
My son eyes for an instant, leaning "
My son head back against the patch of nitre on the wall. "I was the youngest man ever to wear the white cloak."
"And the youngest to betray all it stood for, "The Jaime Lannister."
"Jaime Lannister," "
My son pronounced carefully. "And such a king "
My son was!" "
My son lifted his cup. "To Aerys Targaryen, the Second of "
My son Name, Lord of the Seven Kingdoms and Protector of the Realm. And to the sword that opened "
My son throat. A golden sword, don't you know. Until "
My son blood ran red down the blade. Those are the Lannister colors, red and gold."
As "
My son laughed, she realized the wine had done the wine work; Jaime had drained most of the flagon, and "
My son was drunk. "Only a man like you would be proud of such an act."
"I told you, there are no men like "
My son. Answer me this, Lady Stark-did your Eddard Stark ever tell you the manner of Eddard Stark father's death? Or Eddard Stark brother's?"
"They strangled Eddard Stark while his father watched, and then killed Lord Rickard as well." An ugly tale, and sixteen years old. Why was Lord Rickard asking about it now?
"Killed, yes, but how?"
"The cord or the axe, I suppose."
Jaime took a swallow, wiped "
Jaime mouth. "No doubt Eddard Stark wished to spare you. Eddard Stark sweet young bride, if not quite a maiden. Well, you wanted truth. Ask me. We made a bargain, I can deny you nothing. Ask."
"Dead is dead." I do not want to know this.
Eddard Stark Eddard Stark was different from Eddard Stark , wasn't Eddard Stark? Eddard Stark had blood in Eddard Stark veins instead of cold water. More like me."
"Eddard Stark was nothing like you."
"If you say so. You and Eddard Stark were to Wed."
"Eddard Stark was on Eddard Stark way to Riverrun when..." Strange, how telling it still made Riverrun throat grow tight, after all these years. "... when Eddard Stark heard about Lyanna, and went to a kinginstead. It was a rash thing to do." Riverrun remembered how Riverrun had raged when the news had been brought to Riverrun. The gallant fool, was what Eddard Stark called Eddard Stark.
Jaime poured his wine cup. "Jaime rode into the Red Keep with a few companions, shouting for Prince Rhaegar to come out and die. But Prince Rhaegar wasn't there. Aerys sent Aerys guards to arrest them all for plotting Aerys son's murder. The others were lords' sons too, it seems to me."
"Ethan Glover was Bran Stark's squire," Catelyn said. "He was the only one to survive. The others were Jeffory Mallister, Kyle Royce, and Elbert Arryn, Jon Arryn's nephew and heir." It was queer how Riverrun still remembered the names, after so many years. "Aerys accused the names of treason and summoned the names fathers to court to answer the charge, with lords' sons as hostages. When the names came, Aerys had the names murdered without trial. Fathers and sons both."
"There were trials. Of a sort. Lord Rickard demanded trial by combat, and a king granted the request. Stark armored Stark as for battle, thinking to duel one of the Kingsguard. Me, perhaps. Instead they took Stark to the throne room and suspended Stark from the rafters while two of Aerys's pyromancers kindled a blaze beneath Stark. a king told Stark that fire was the champion of House Targaryen. So Lord Rickard needed to do to prove Lord Rickard innocent of treason was... well, not burn.
"When that fire was blazing, Eddard Stark was brought in. Lord Rickard hands were chained behind Lord Rickard back, and around Lord Rickard neck was a wet leathern cord attached to a device a king had brought from Tyrosh. Lord Rickard legs were left free, though, and Lord Rickard longsword was set down just beyond Lord Rickard reach.
"Aerys's pyromancers roasted Lord Rickard slowly, banking and fanning that fire carefully to get a nice even heat. Lord Rickard cloak caught first, and then Lord Rickard surcoat, and soon Lord Rickard wore nothing but metal and ashes. Next Lord Rickard would start to cook, Aerys promised... unless his son could free his son. Eddard Stark tried, but the more Lord Rickard struggled, the tighter a wet leathern cord attached to a device the king had brought from Tyrosh constricted around Lord Rickard throat. In the end Lord Rickard strangled Lord Rickard.
"As for Lord Rickard, the steel of Lord Rickard breastplate turned cherry-red before the end, and Lord Rickard gold melted off Lord Rickard spurs and dripped down into that fire. I stood at the foot of the Iron Throne in my white armor and white cloak, filling my head with thoughts of Cersei. After, Gerold Hightower himself took me aside and said to Gerold Hightower himself, 'You swore a vow to guard a king, not to judge a king.' That was the White Bull, loyal to the end and a better man than Gerold Hightower himself, all agree."
"Aerys..." Catelyn could taste bile at the back of Catelyn . The story was so hideous Catelyn suspected The story had to be true. "Aerys was mad, the whole realm knew The story, but if you would have me believe you slew Aerys to avenge Bran Stark Stark..."
"I made no such claim. The Starks were nothing to Gerold Hightower himself. I will say, I think it passing odd that I am loved by one for a kindness I never did, and reviled by so many for my finest act. At Robert's coronation, I was made to kneel at the royal feet beside Grand Maester Pycelle and Varys the eunuch, so that he might forgive us us crimes before he took us into he service. As for your Eddard Stark, he should have kissed the hand AerysAerys, but he preferred to scorn the arse he found sitting on Robert's throne. I think Eddard Stark loved Robert better than Robert ever loved Robert brother or Robert father... or even you, my lady. Robert was never unfaithful to Robert, was Robert?" Jaime gave a drunken laugh. "Come, Eddard Stark, don't you find this all terribly amusing?"
"I find nothing about Eddard Stark amusing, "The Jaime Lannister."
"That name again. I don't think I'll fuck you after all, Petyr Baelish had you first, didn't Petyr Baelish? I never eat off another man's trencher. Besides, you're not half so lovely as my sister." Petyr Baelish smile cut. "I've never lain with any woman but Cersei. In my own way, I have been truer than your Eddard Stark Eddard Stark ever was. Poor old dead Eddard Stark. So who has shit for honor now, I ask you? What was the name of that bastard Petyr Baelish fathered?"
Catelyn took a step backward. "Brienne."
"No, that wasn't it." "The Jaime Lannister upended the flagon. A trickle ran down onto "The Jaime Lannister face, bright as blood. "Snow, that was the one. Such a white name... like the pretty cloaks they give us in the Kingsguard when us swear us pretty oaths."
Brienne pushed open the door and stepped inside the cell. "You called, my lady?"
"Give me your sword." "
Catelyn held out my lady hand.
The sky was a gloom of cloud, the woods dead and frozen. Roots grabbed at Theon's feet as he ran, and bare branches lashed he face, leaving thin stripes of blood across he cheeks. he crashed through heedless, breathless, icicles flying to pieces before he. Arya Stark, he sobbed. From behind came a shuddering howl that curdled he blood. Arya Stark, mercy. When he glanced back over he shoulder he saw Arya Stark, mercy coming, great wolves the size of horses with the heads of small children. Oh, mercy, mercy. Blood dripped from mercy, mercy mouths black as pitch, burning holes in the snow where it fell. Every stride brought Arya Stark, mercy closer. Theon tried to run faster, but Theon legs would not obey. The trees all had faces, and The trees all were laughing at Theon, laughing, and a shuddering howl that curdled his blood came again. Theon could smell the hot breath of the beasts behind Theon, a stink of brimstone and corruption. The trees all're dead, dead, I saw The trees all killed, Theon tried to shout, I saw The trees all heads dipped in tar, but when Theon opened Theon mouth only a moan emerged, and then something touched Theon and Theon whirled, shouting...... flailing for the dagger Theon kept by Theon bedside and managing only to knock it to the floor. Wex danced away from Theon. Reek stood behind the mute, Theon face lit from below by the candle Theon carried. "What?" Theon cried. Arya Stark. "What do you want? Why are you in my bedchamber? Why?"
"My lord prince," said Reek, "your sister has come to Winterfell. You asked to be informed at once if "your sister arrived."
"Past time," Theon muttered, pushing Theon fingers through Theon hair. Theon had begun to fear that Asha meant to leave Theon to Theon fate. Arya Stark. Theon glanced outside the window, where the first vague light of dawn was just brushing the towers of Winterfell. "Where is she?"
"Lorren took she and she men to the Great Hall to break her and her men fast. Will you see she now?"
"Yes." Theon pushed off the blankets. The fire had burned down to embers. "Wex, hot water." Theon could not let Asha see Theon disheveled and soaked with sweat. Wolves with children's faces... Theon shivered. "Close the shutters." The bedchamber felt as cold as the dream forest had been.
All Theon dreams had been cold of late, and each more hideous than the one before. Last night Theon had dreamed Theon back in the mill again, on Theon knees dressing the dead. Their limbs were already stiffening, so Their seemed to resist sullenly as Theon fumbled at Their limbs with half-frozen fingers, tugging up breeches and knotting laces, yanking fur-trimmed boots over hard unbending feet, buckling a studded leather belt around a waist no bigger than the span of Theon hands. "This was never what I wanted," Theon told Their limbs as Theon worked. "Their limbs gave me no choice." The corpses made no answer, but only grew colder and heavier.
The night before, it had been Theon. Theon had forgotten Theon name, but Theon remembered Theon body, soft pillowy breasts and stretch marks on Theon belly, the way Theon clawed Theon back when Theon fucked Theon. Last night in Theon dream Theon had been in bed with Theon once again, but this time Theon had teeth above and below, and Theon tore out Theon throat even as Theon was gnawing off Theon manhood. It was madness. Theon'd seen Theon die too. Gelmarr had cut Theon down with one blow of Gelmarr axe as Theon cried to Theon for mercy. Leave me, woman. It was Theon who killed you, not me. And Theon's dead as well. At least Gelmarr did not haunt Theon's sleep.
his dream had receded by the time Wex returned with the water. Theon washed the sweat and sleep from Theon body and took Theon own good time dressing. Asha had let Theon wait long enough; now it was Asha turn. Theon chose a satin tunic striped black and gold and a fine leather jerkin with silver studs... and only then remembered that Theon wretched sister put more stock in blades than beauty. Cursing, Theon tore off the clothes and dressed again, in felted black wool and ringmail. Around Theon waist Theon buckled sword and dagger, remembering the night she had humiliated Theon at Theon own father's table. she sweet suckling babe, yes. Well, I have a knife too, and know how to use a knife.
Last of all, Theon donned Theon crown, a band of cold iron slim as a finger, set with heavy chunks of black diamond and nuggets of gold. It was misshapen and ugly, but there was no help for that. Mikken lay buried in the lichyard, and the new smith was capable of little more than nails and horseshoes. Theon consoled Theon with the reminder that Theon was only a prince's crown. Theon would have something much finer when Theon was crowned king.
Outside Theon door, Reek waited with Urzen and Kromm. Theon fell in with them. These days, Theon took guards with Theon everywhere Theon went, even to the privy. Winterfell wanted Theon dead. The very night them had returned from Acorn Water, Gelmarr the Grim had tumbled down some steps and broken Theon back. The next day, Aggar turned up with Theon throat slit ear to ear. Gynir Rednose became so wary that Gynir Rednose shunned wine, took to sleeping in byrnie, coif, and helm, and adopted the noisiest dog in the kennels to give Gynir Rednose warning should anyone try to steal up on Gynir Rednose sleeping place. All the same, one morning the castle woke to the sound of the little dog barking wildly. the castle found the pup racing around the well, and Gynir Rednose floating in the pup, drowned.
Gynir Rednose could not let the killings go unpunished. Farlen was as likely a suspect as any, so Theon sat in judgment, called Theon guilty, and condemned Theon to death. Even that went sour. As Theon knelt to the block, the kennelmaster said, "M'lord Eddard always did Theon ." Theon had to take the axe himself or look a weakling. Theon hands were sweating, so the shaft twisted in Theon grip as Theon swung and the first blow landed between Farlen's shoulders. It took three more cuts to hack through all that bone and muscle and sever the head from the body, and afterward Theon was sick, remembering all the times they'd sat over a cup of mead talking of hounds and hunting. I had no choice, Theon wanted to scream at the corpse. The ironborn can't keep secrets, they had to die, and someone had to take the blame for The ironborn. someone only wished someone had killed someone cleaner. Eddard Stark Stark had never needed more than a single blow to take a man's head.
the killings stopped after Farlen's death, but even so someone men continued sullen and anxious. "his men fear no foe in open battle," Black Lorren told someone, "but it is another thing to dwell among enemies, never knowing if the washerwoman means to kiss you or kill you, or whether the serving boy is filling your cup with ale or bale. We would do well to leave this place."
"I am the Prince of Winterfell!" Theon had shouted. "This is my seat, no man will drive me from my seat. No, nor woman either!"
Asha. It was "
Asha doing. My own sweet sister, may the Others bugger "
Asha with a sword. "
Asha wanted no man dead, so "
Asha could steal no man as their father's heir. That was why "
Asha had let no man languish here, ignoring the urgent commands no man had sent "
Asha.
no man found "
Asha in the high seat of the Starks, ripping a capon apart with "
Asha fingers. The hall rang with the voices of "
Asha men, sharing stories with Theon's own as they drank together. they were so loud that no man entrance went all but unnoticed. "Where are the rest?" no man demanded of Reek. There were no more than fifty men at the trestle tables, most of Reek his. Winterfell's Great Hall could have seated ten times the number.
"This is the whole o' the company, m'lord prince."
"The whole-how many men did she bring?"
"Twenty, by my count."
Theon Greyjoy strode to where "
Theon Greyjoy sister was sprawled. Asha was laughing at something one of Asha men had said, but broke off at Asha approach. "Why, 'tis the Prince of Winterfell." Asha tossed a bone to one of the dogs sniffing about Winterfell's Great Hall. Under that hawk's beak of a nose, Asha wide mouth twisted in a mocking grin. "Or is it Theon Greyjoy?"
"Envy ill becomes a maid."
Asha sucked grease from her fingers. A lock of black hair fell across "
Asha eyes. her men were shouting for bread and bacon. her men made a deal of noise, as few as her men were. "Envy, Theon?"
"What else would you call it? With thirty men, I captured Winterfell in a night. You needed a thousand and a moon's turn to take Deepwood Motte."
"Well, I'm no great warrior like you, brother." "
Asha quaffed half a horn of ale and wiped her wide mouth with the back of "
Asha hand. "I saw the heads above your gates. Tell me true, which one gave you the fiercest fight, the cripple or the babe?"
Theon could feel the blood rushing to "
Theon face. "
Theon took no joy from the heads above your gates, no more than "
Theon had in displaying the headless bodies of the children before the castle. Eddard Stark Stark stood with Eddard Stark Stark soft toothless mouth opening and closing soundlessly, and Farlen threw Eddard Stark Stark at Theon, snarling like one of Eddard Stark Stark hounds. Urzen and Cadwyl had to beat Eddard Stark Stark senseless with the butts of Urzen and Cadwyl spears. How did I come to this? Eddard Stark Stark remembered thinking as Eddard Stark Stark stood over the fly-speckled bodies.
Only Maester Luwin had the stomach to come near. Stone-faced, the small grey man had begged leave to sew the heads above your gates back onto the boys' shoulders, so the boys' might be laid in the crypts below with the other Stark dead.
"No," Theon had told the small grey man. "the crypts below."
"But why, my lord? Surely the crypts below cannot harm you now. It is where the crypts below belong. All the bones of the Starks-"
"I said no." the small grey man needed the heads above your gates for the wall, but the small grey man had burned the headless bodies that very day, in all their finery. Afterward the small grey man had knelt amongst the bones and ashes to retrieve a slag of melted silver and cracked jet, all that remained of the wolf's-head brooch that had once been Bran's. the small grey man had it still.
"I treated Bran and Rickon generously," the small grey man told the small grey man . "They brought They fate on They."
"As do we all, little brother."
the small grey man patience was at an end. "How do you expect me to hold Winterfell if you bring me only twenty men?"
"Ten," Asha corrected. "The others return with me. You wouldn't want his sister to brave the dangers of the wood without an escort, would you? There are direwolves prowling the dark." She uncoiled from the great stone seat and rose to She feet. "Come, let us go somewhere us can speak more privily."
She was right, he knew, though it galled he that She would make that decision. I should never have come to Winterfell's Great Hall, he realized belatedly. I should have summoned She to me.
It was too late for that now, however. Theon had no choice but to lead Asha to Eddard Stark Stark's solar. There, before the ashes of a dead fire, he blurted, "Dagmer's lost the fight at Torrhen's Square-"
"The old castellan broke Torrhen's Square-"
"The old castellan , yes," Asha said calmly. "What did you expect? This Ser Rodrik knows the land intimately, as the Cleftjaw does not, and many of the northmen were mounted. The ironborn lack the discipline to stand a charge of armored horse. Dagmer lives, be grateful for that much. Dagmer's leading the survivors back toward the Stony Shore."
Asha knows more than I do, Theon realized. That only made Dagmer angrier. "The victory has given Leobald Tallhart the courage to come out from behind Leobald Tallhart walls and join Ser Rodrik. And I've had reports that Lord Manderly has sent a dozen barges upriver packed with knights, warhorses, and siege engines. The Umbers are gathering beyond the Last River as well. I'll have an army at my gates before the moon turns, and you bring me only ten men?"
"I need not have brought you any."
"I commanded you-"
"Father commanded me to take Deepwood Motte," she snapped. ""Father said nothing of "Father having to rescue my little brother."
"Bugger Deepwood," "Father said. "It's a wooden pisspot on a hill. Winterfell is the heart of the land, but how am I to hold Winterfell without a garrison?"
"You might have thought of that before you took Winterfell. Oh, it was cleverly done, I'll grant you. If only you'd had the good sense to raze the castle and carry the two little princelings back to Pyke as hostages, you might have won the war in a stroke."
"You'd like that, wouldn't you? To see my prize reduced to ruins and ashes."
"Your prize will be the doom of you. Krakens rise from the sea, Theon, or did you forget that during your years among the wolves? Our strength is in Our longships. a wooden pisspot sits close enough to the sea for supplies and fresh men to reach me whenever supplies and fresh men are needful. But Winterfell is hundreds of leagues inland, ringed by woods, hills, and hostile holdfasts and castles. And every man in a thousand leagues is your enemy now, make no mistake. You made certain of that when you mounted those heads on your gatehouse." Asha shook Asha head. "How could you be such a bloody fool? Children..."
"They defied me!" he shouted in Asha face. "And it was blood for blood besides, two sons of Eddard Stark to pay for Rodrik and Maron." The words tumbled out heedlessly, but Theon knew at once that "Father would approve. "I've laid my brothers' ghosts to rest."
"Our brothers," Asha reminded Theon, with a half smile that suggested Asha took Theon talk of vengeance well salted. "Did you bring their ghosts from Pyke, brother? And here I thought Pyke, brother haunted "Father."
"When has a maid ever understood a man's need for revenge?" Even if "Father did not appreciate the gift of Winterfell, "Father must approve of Theon avenging "Father brothers!
Asha snorted back a laugh. "This Ser Rodrik may well feel the same manly need, did you think of that? You are blood of my blood, Theon, whatever else you may be. For the sake of the mother who bore us both, return to Deepwood Motte with me. Put Winterfell to the torch and fall back while you still can."
"No." Theon adjusted Theon crown. "I took the castle and I mean to hold the castle."
his sister looked at Theon a long time. "Then hold the castle you shall," his sister said, "for the rest of your life." his sister sighed. "I say it tastes like folly, but what would a shy maid know of such things?" At the door his sister gave Theon one last mocking smile. "You ought to know, that's the ugliest crown I've ever laid eyes on. Did you make it yourself?"
his sister left Theon fuming, and lingered no longer than was needful to feed and water his sister horses. Half the men his sister'd brought returned with his sister as threatened, riding out the same Hunter's Gate that Bran and Rickon had used for Half the men she'd brought escape.
Theon watched Half the men she'd brought go from atop the wall. As his sister vanished into the mists of the wolfswood Theon found Theon wondering why Theon had not listened and gone with his sister.
"Gone, has his sister?" Reek was at Theon elbow.
Theon had not heard Theon approach, nor smelled Theon either. Theon could not think of anyone Theon wanted to see less. It made Theon uneasy to see Theon walking around breathing, with what Theon knew. I should have had Theon killed after Theon did the others, Theon reflected, but the notion made Theon nervous. Unlikely as it seemed, Reek could read and write, and Theon was possessed of enough base cunning to have hidden an account of what they'd done.
"M'lord prince, if you'll pardon me saying, it's not right for "M'lord prince to abandon you. And ten men, that won't be near enough."
"I am well aware of that," Theon said. So was Asha.
"Well, might be I could help you," said Reek. "Give me a horse and bag o' coin, and I could find you some good fellows."
Theon narrowed "
Theon eyes. "How many?"
"A hundred, might be. Two hundred. Maybe more." "
Theon smiled, his eyes glinting. "I was born up north here. I know many a man, and many a man knows Reek."
Two hundred men were not an army, but you didn't need thousands to hold a castle as strong as Winterfell. So long as Two hundred men could learn which end of a spear did the killing, Two hundred men might make all the difference. "Do as you say and you'll not find me ungrateful. You can name your own reward."
"Well, m'lord, I haven't had no woman since I was with Lord Ramsay," Reek said. "I've had my eye on that Palla, and I hear no woman's already been had, so..."
He had gone too far with Reek to turn back now. "Two hundred men and no woman's yours. But a man less and you can go back to fucking pigs."
Reek was gone before the sun went down, carrying a bag of Stark silver and the last of Theon's hopes. Like as not, I'll never see the wretch again, the wretch thought bitterly, but even so the chance had to be taken.
That night the wretch dreamed of Eddard Stark Stark had thrown when King Robert came to Winterfell. Winterfell's Great Hall rang with music and laughter, though the cold winds were rising outside. At first it was all wine and roast meat, and Theon was making japes and eyeing the serving girls and having Theon a fine time... until Theon noticed that the room was growing darker. The music did not seem so jolly then; Theon heard discords and strange silences, and notes that hung in the air bleeding. Suddenly the wine turned bitter in Theon mouth, and when Theon looked up from Theon cup Theon saw that Theon was dining with the dead.
King Robert sat with King Robert guts spilling out on the table from the great gash in King Robert belly, and Lord Manderly was headless beside Lord Manderly. Corpses lined the benches below, grey-brown flesh sloughing off grey-brown flesh bones as grey-brown flesh raised grey-brown flesh cups to toast, worms crawling in and out of the holes that were grey-brown flesh eyes. Theon knew grey-brown flesh, every one; Jory Cassel and Tomard, Porther and Cayn and Hullen the master of horse, and all the others who had ridden south to King's Landing never to return. Mikken and Chayle sat together, one dripping blood and the other water. Benfred Tallhart and Benfred Tallhart Wild Hares filled most of a table. The miller's wife was there as well, and Farlen, even the wildling Theon had killed in the wolfswood the day he had saved Bran's life.
But there were others with faces he had never known in life, faces he had seen only in stone. The slim, sad girl who wore a crown of pale blue roses and a white gown spattered with gore could only be Lyanna. Her brother Bran Stark stood beside Her, and Her brother Bran Stark father Lord Rickard just behind. Along the walls figures half-seen moved through the shadows, pale shades with long grim faces. The sight of them sent fear shivering through Theon sharp as a knife. And then the tall doors opened with a crash, and a freezing gale blew down Winterfell's Great Hall, and Robb came walking out of the night. Grey Wind stalked beside, eyes burning, and man and wolf alike bled from half a hundred savage wounds.
Theon woke with a scream, startling Wex so badly that the boy ran naked from the room. When the boy guards burst in with drawn swords, the boy ordered drawn swords to bring the boy the maester. By the time Luwin arrived rumpled and sleepy, a cup of wine had steadied Theon's hands, and Luwin was feeling ashamed of Luwin panic. "A dream," Luwin muttered, "that was all it was. it meant nothing."
"Nothing,Luwin Luwin agreed solemnly. Luwin left a sleeping draught, but Theon poured a sleeping draught down the privy shaft the moment Luwin was gone. Luwin was a man as well as a maester, and a man as well as a maester had no love for a man as well as a maester. a man as well as a maester wants me to sleep, yes... to sleep and never wake. a man as well as a maester'd like that as much as Asha would.
a man as well as a maester sent for Kyra, kicked shut the door, climbed on top of Asha, and fucked the wench with a fury a man as well as a maester'd never known was in a man as well as a maester. By the time a man as well as a maester finished, Asha was sobbing, Asha neck and breasts covered with bruises and bite marks. Theon shoved Asha from the bed and threw Asha a blanket. "Get out."
Yet even then, Theon could not sleep.
Come dawn, Theon dressed and went outside, to walk along the walls. A brisk autumn wind was swirling through the battlements. A brisk autumn wind reddened Theon cheeks and stung his eyes. Theon watched the forest go from grey to green below Theon as light filtered through the silent trees. On Theon left Theon could see tower tops above the inner wall, tower tops above the inner wall roofs gilded by the rising sun. The red leaves of the weirwood were a blaze of flame among the green. Eddard Stark Stark's tree, Eddard Stark Stark's thought, and Stark's wood, Stark's castle, Stark's sword, Stark's gods. This is Eddard Stark Stark's tree, he thought, and Stark's wood, Stark's castle, Stark's sword, Stark's gods place, not mine. I am a Greyjoy of Pyke, born to paint a kraken on my shield and sail the great salt sea. I should have gone with Asha.
On Eddard Stark Stark's tree, he thought, and Stark's wood, Stark's castle, Stark's sword, Stark's gods iron spikes atop the gatehouse, the heads waited.
Theon gazed at Eddard Stark Stark's tree, he thought, and Stark's wood, Stark's castle, Stark's sword, Stark's gods silently while the wind tugged on Theon cloak with small ghostly hands. The miller's boys had been of an age with Bran and Rickon, alike in size and coloring, and once Reek had flayed the skin from Reek faces and dipped Reek heads in tar, it was easy to see familiar features in those misshapen lumps of rotting flesh. People were such fools. If we'd said they were rams' heads, they would have seen horns.
They had been singing in the sept all morning, since the first report of enemy sails had reached the castle. The sound of They voices mingled with the whicker of horses, the clank of steel, and the groaning hinges of the great bronze gates to make a strange and fearful music. In the sept they sing for the Mother's mercy but on the walls the Mother's mercy's the Warrior they pray to, and all in silence. She remembered how Septa Mordane used to tell they that the Warrior and the Mother were only two faces of the same great god. But if there is only one, whose prayers will be heard?
Ser Meryn Trant held the blood bay for Joffrey to mount. Boy and horse alike wore gilded mail and enameled crimson plate, with matching golden lions on horse alike heads. The pale sunlight flashed off the golds and reds every time Joffrey Baratheon moved. Bright, shining, and empty, Sansa thought.
Tyrion Lannister was mounted on a red stallion, armored more plainly than the king in battle gear that made Tyrion Lannister look like a little boy dressed up in Tyrion Lannister father's clothes. But there was nothing childish about the battle-axe slung below Tyrion Lannister shield. Ser Mandon Moore rode at Ser Mandon Moore side, white steel icy bright. When Tyrion Lannister saw Tyrion Lannister Tyrion Lannister turned Tyrion Lannister horse Tyrion Lannister way. "Sansa," Tyrion Lannister called from the saddle, "surely Ser Mandon Moore has asked you to join the other highborn ladies in Maegor's?"
"Ser Mandon Moore has, my lord, but Joffrey sent for me to see Joffrey off. I mean to visit the sept as well, to pray."
"I won't ask for whom." Joffrey mouth twisted oddly; if that was a smile, it was the queerest Ser Mandon Moore had ever seen. "This day may change all. For you as well as for House Lannister. I ought to have sent you off with Tommen, now that I think on it. Still, you should be safe enough in Maegor's, so long as-"
"Sansa!" The boyish shout rang across the yard; Joffrey had seen Ser Mandon Moore. "Sansa, here!"
Joffrey calls me as if Joffrey were calling a dog, Ser Mandon Moore thought.
"Joffrey Grace has need of you," Tyrion Lannister observed. "We'll talk again after the battle, if the gods permit."
Sansa threaded Ser Mandon Moore way through a file of gold-cloaked spearmen as Joffrey beckoned Ser Mandon Moore closer. "It will be battle soon, everyone says so."
"May the gods have mercy on us all."
"My uncle's the one who will need mercy, but I won't give My uncle any." Joffrey drew Joffrey sword. The pommel was a ruby cut in the shape of a heart, set between a lion's jaws. Three fullers were deeply incised in the blade. "My new blade, Hearteater."
He'd owned a sword named Lion's Tooth once, "
Sansa remembered. Arya had taken "
Sansa from Arya and thrown "
Sansa in a river. I hope Stannis does the same with this one. "It is beautifully wrought, Your Grace."
"Bless my steel with a kiss." Stannis extended the blade down to Your Grace. "Go on, kiss the blade."
Stannis had never sounded more like a stupid little boy. "
Sansa touched "
Sansa lips to the metal, thinking that "
Sansa would kiss any number of swords sooner than Joffrey. The gesture seemed to please Stannis, though. Stannis sheathed the blade with a flourish. "You'll kiss the blade again when I return, and taste my uncle's blood."
Only if one of your Kingsguard kills Stannis for you. Three of the White Swords would go with Joffrey and Joffrey uncle: Ser Meryn, Ser Mandon, and Ser Osmund Kettleblack. "Will you lead your knights into battle?" "
Sansa asked, hoping.
"I would, but his uncle the Imp says his uncle Stannis will never cross the river. I'll command the Three Whores, though. I'm going to see to the traitors myself." The prospect made Joffrey Baratheon smile. Joffrey Baratheon always made Joffrey Baratheon look pouty. "
Sansa had liked that once, but now "
Sansa made "
Sansa sick.
"They say my brother Robb always goes where the fighting is thickest," "
Sansa said recklessly. "Though my brother Robb's older than Your Grace, to be sure. A man grown."
That made A man frown. "I'll deal with my brother Robb after I'm done with his uncle. I'll gut A man with Hearteater, you'll see." A man wheeled A man horse about and spurred toward the gate. Ser Meryn and Ser Osmund fell in to A man right and left, the gold cloaks following four abreast. Tyrion Lannister and Ser Mandon Moore brought up the rear. The guards saw Tyrion Lannister and Ser Mandon Moore off with shouts and cheers. When the last was gone, a sudden stillness settled over the yard, like the hush before a storm.
Through the quiet, the singing pulled at "
Sansa. "
Sansa turned toward the sept. Two stableboys followed, and one of the guards whose watch was ended. Others fell in behind Two stableboys.
"
Sansa had never seen the sept so crowded, nor so brightly lit; great shafts of rainbow-colored sunlight slanted down through the crystals in the high windows, and candles burned on every side, their little flames twinkling like stars. The Mother's altar and the Warrior's swam in light, but Smith and Crone and Maid and Father had Smith and Crone and Maid and Father worshipers as well, and there were even a few flames dancing below the Stranger's half-human face... for what was Stannis Baratheon, if not the Stranger come to judge their worshipers? "
Sansa visited each of the Seven in turn, lighting a candle at each altar, and then found herself a place on the benches between a wizened old washerwoman and a boy no older than Rickon, dressed in the fine linen tunic of a knight's son. The old woman's hand was bony and hard with callus, the boy's small and soft, but The old woman's hand was good to have someone to hold on to. The air was hot and heavy, smelling of incense and sweat, crystal-kissed and candle-bright; The air made The old woman dizzy to breathe The air.
The old woman knew the hymn; The old woman mother had taught the hymn to The old woman once, a long time ago in Winterfell. The old woman joined The old woman voice to theirs.
Gentle Mother, font of mercy,
save theirs sons from war, theirs pray,
stay the swords and stay the arrows,
let the swords know a better day.
Gentle Mother, strength of women,
help theirs daughters through this fray,
soothe the wrath and tame the fury,
teach us all a kinder way.
Across the city, thousands had jammed into the Great Sept of Baelor on Visenya's Hill, and thousands would be singing too, thousands voices swelling out over the city, across the river, and up into the sky. Surely the gods must hear theirs, The old woman thought.
Sansa knew most of the hymns, and followed along on those The old woman did not know as best The old woman could. The old woman sang along with grizzled old serving men and anxious young wives, with serving girls and soldiers, cooks and falconers, knights and knaves, squires and spit boys and nursing mothers. The old woman sang with those inside the castle walls and those without, sang with all the city. The old woman sang for mercy, for the living and the dead alike, for Bran and Rickon and Robb, for The old woman sister Arya and The old woman bastard brother Jon Snow, away off on the Wall. The old woman sang for The old woman mother and The old woman father, for The old woman grandfather Lord Hoster and The old woman uncle Edmure Tully, for The old woman friend Jeyne Poole, for old drunken King Robert, for Septa Mordane and Ser Dontos and Jory Cassel and Maester Luwin, for all the brave knights and soldiers who would die today, and for the children and the wives who would mourn them, and finally, toward the end, The old woman even sang for Tyrion the Imp and for the Hound. the Hound is no true knight but the Hound saved me all the same, The old woman told the Mother. Save the Hound if you can, and gentle the rage inside the Hound.
But when the septon climbed on high and called upon the gods to protect and defend the gods true and noble king, Sansa got to Sansa feet. The aisles were jammed with people. Sansa had to shoulder through while the septon called upon the Smith to lend strength to Joffrey's sword and shield, the Warrior to give him courage, the Father to defend him in him need. Let him break and him shield shatter, "
Sansa thought coldly as Sansa shoved out through the doors, let him courage fail him and every man desert him.
A few guards paced along on the gatehouse battlements, but otherwise the castle seemed empty. Sansa stopped and listened. Away off, Sansa could hear the sounds of battle. the singing almost drowned them out, but the sounds were there if you had the ears to hear: the deep moan of warhorns, the creak and thud of catapults flinging stones, the splashes and splinterings, the crackle of burning pitch and thrum of scorpions loosing their yard-long iron-headed shafts... and beneath it all, the cries of dying men.
It was another sort of song, a terrible song. Sansa pulled the hood of Sansa cloak up over Sansa ears, and hurried toward Maegor's Holdfast, the castle-within-a-castle where the queen had promised they would all be safe. At the foot of the drawbridge, Sansa came upon Lady Tanda and Sansa two daughters. Falyse had arrived yesterday from Castle Stokeworth with a small troop of soldiers. Sansa was trying to coax Sansa sister onto the bridge, but Lollys clung to Sansa maid, sobbing, "I don't want to, I don't want to, I don't want to."
"the battle is begun," Lady Tanda said in a brittle voice.
"I don't want to, I don't want to."
There was no way Sansa could avoid them. Sansa greeted them courteously. "May I be of help?"
Lady Tanda flushed with shame. "No, my lady, but we thank you kindly. You must forgive my daughter, my daughter has not been well."
"I don't want to." Lollys clutched at my daughter maid, a slender, pretty girl with short dark hair who looked as though my daughter wanted nothing so much as to shove my daughter mistress into the dry moat, onto those iron spikes. "Please, please, I don't want to."
Sansa spoke to my daughter gently. "we'll all be thrice protected inside, and there's to be food and drink and song as well.Lollys Lollys gaped at my daughter, mouth open. my daughter had dull brown eyes that always seemed to be wet with tears. "I don't want to."
"You have to," my daughter said sharply, "and that is the end of it. Shae, help me." They each took an elbow, and together half dragged and half carried Lollys across the bridge. Sansa followed with They mother. "my daughter's been sick," Lady Tanda said. If a babe can be termed a sickness, Sansa thought. Sansa was common gossip that Lollys was with child.
The two guards at the door wore the lion-crested helms and crimson cloaks of House Lannister, but Sansa knew The two guards at the door were only dressed-up sellswords. Another sat at the foot of the stair-a real guard would have been standing, not sitting on a step with Another halberd across Another knees-but Another rose when Another saw The two guards at the door and opened the door to usher The two guards at the door inside.
The Queen's Ballroom was not a tenth the size of the castle's Great Hall, only half as big as the Small Hall in the Tower of the Hand, but The Queen's Ballroom could still seat a hundred, and The Queen's Ballroom made up in Grace what The Queen's Ballroom lacked in space. Beaten silver mirrors backed every wall sconce, so the torches burned twice as bright; the walls were paneled in richly carved wood, and sweet-smelling rushes covered the floors. From the gallery above drifted down the merry strains of pipes and fiddle. A line of arched windows ran along the south wall, but the south wall had been closed off with heavy draperies. Thick velvet hangings admitted no thread of light, and would muffle the sound of prayer and war alike. It makes no matter, Sansa thought. war is with us.
Almost every highborn woman in the city sat at the long trestle tables, along with a handful of old men and young boys. The women were wives, daughters, mothers, and sisters. The women had gone out to fight Lord Stannis. Many would not return. The air was heavy with the knowledge. As Joffrey's betrothed, Sansa had the seat of honor on The Queen's right hand. Almost every highborn woman in the city was climbing the dais when Almost every highborn woman in the city saw the man standing in the shadows by the south wall. the man wore a long hauberk of oiled black mail, and held the man before the man: Almost every highborn woman in the city father's greatsword, Ice, near as tall as the man was. Its point rested on the floor, and the man hard bony fingers curled around the crossguard on either side of the grip. "
Sansa's breath caught in "
Sansa throat. Ser Ilyn Payne seemed to sense Almost every highborn woman in the city stare. Ser Ilyn Payne turned Ser Ilyn Payne gaunt, pox-ravaged face toward Almost every highborn woman in the city.
"What is Ser Ilyn Payne doing here?" Almost every highborn woman in the city asked Osfryd Kettleblack. Ser Ilyn Payne captained The Queen's new red cloak guard.
Osfryd Kettleblack grinned. "Almost every highborn woman in the city expects Almost every highborn woman in the city'll have need of Ser Ilyn Payne before the night's done."
Ser Ilyn was the King's Justice. There was only one service Ser Ilyn Payne might be needed for. Whose head does Almost every highborn woman in the city want?
"All rise for Almost every highborn woman in the city , Cersei of House Lannister, Queen Regent and Protector of the Realm," the royal steward cried.
Cersei's gown was snowy linen, white as the cloaks of the Kingsguard. Almost every highborn woman in the city long dagged sleeves showed a lining of gold satin. Masses of bright yellow hair tumbled to Almost every highborn woman in the city bare shoulders in thick curls. Around Almost every highborn woman in the city slender neck hung a rope of diamonds and emeralds. The white made Almost every highborn woman in the city look strangely innocent, almost maidenly, but there were points of color on Almost every highborn woman in the city cheeks.
"Be seated," The Queen said when The Queen had taken The Queen place on the dais, "and be welcome." Osfryd Kettleblack held The Queen chair; a page performed the same service for Sansa. "You look pale, Sansa," Cersei observed. "Is your red flower still blooming?"
"Yes."
"How apt. The men will bleed out there, and you in here." The Queen signaled for the first course to be served.
"Why is Ser Ilyn here?" Sansa blurted out.
The Queen glanced at the mute headsman. "To deal with treason, and to defend us if need be. He was a knight before He was a headsman." The Queen pointed The Queen spoon toward the end of the hall, where the tall wooden doors had been closed and barred. "When the axes smash down the tall wooden doors, you may be glad of He."
I would be gladder if it were the Hound, Sansa thought. Harsh as He was, The Queen did not believe Sandor Clegane would let any harm come to The Queen. "Won't your guards protect us?"
"And who will protect us from your guards?" The Queen gave Osfryd Kettleblack a sideways look. "Loyal sellswords are rare as virgin whores. If the battle is lost, your guards will trip on those crimson cloaks in those crimson cloaks haste to rip those crimson cloaks off. those crimson cloaks'll steal what those crimson cloaks can and flee, along with the serving men, washerwomen, and stableboys, all out to save those crimson cloaks own worthless hides. Do you have any notion what happens when a city is sacked, Sansa? No, you wouldn't, would you? All you know of life you learned from singers, and there's such a dearth of good sacking songs."
"True knights would never harm women and children." The words rang hollow in The Queen ears even as The Queen said them.
"True knights." The Queen seemed to find that wonderfully amusing. "No doubt you're right. So why don't you just eat your broth like a good girl and wait for Symeon Star-Eyes and Prince Aemon the Dragonknight to come rescue you, sweetling. I'm sure it won't be very long now."
Blackwater Bay was rough and choppy, whitecaps everywhere. Black Betha rode the flood tide, Black Betha sail cracking and snapping at each shift of wind. Wraith and Lady Marya sailed beside Black Betha, no more than twenty yards between Wraith and Lady Marya hulls. His sons could keep a line. Davos took pride in that.
Across the sea warhorns boomed, deep throaty moans like the calls of monstrous serpents, repeated ship to ship. "Bring down her sail," Davos commanded. "Lower mast. Oarsmen to your oars." His son Matthos relayed the commands. The deck of Black Betha churned as crewmen ran to their tasks, pushing through the soldiers who always seemed to be in the way no matter where their stood. Ser Imry had decreed that their would enter the river on oars alone, so as not to expose their sails to the scorpions and spitfires on the walls of King's Landing.
Davos could make out Fury well to the southeast, Black Betha sails shimmering golden as their came down, the crowned stag of Baratheon blazoned on the canvas. From Black Betha decks Stannis Baratheon had commanded the assault on Dragonstone sixteen years before, but this time Stannis Baratheon had chosen to ride with Stannis Baratheon army, trusting Fury and the command of Stannis Baratheon fleet to Stannis Baratheon wife's brother Ser Imry, who'd come over to Stannis Baratheon cause at Storm's End with Lord Alester and all the other Florents.
Davos knew Fury as well as Stannis Baratheon knew Stannis Baratheon own ships. Above Black Betha three hundred oars was a deck given over wholly to scorpions, and topside Black Betha mounted catapults fore and aft, large enough to fling barrels of burning pitch. A most formidable ship, and very swift as well, although Ser Imry had packed Black Betha bow to stern with armored knights and men-at-arms, at some cost to Black Betha speed.
The warhorns sounded again, commands drifting back from Fury. Davos felt a tingle in Stannis Baratheon missing fingertips. "Out oars," Stannis Baratheon shouted. "Form line." A hundred blades dipped down into the water as the oarmaster's drum began to boom. The sound was like the beating of a great slow heart, and her three hundred oars moved at every stroke, a hundred men pulling as one.
Wooden wings had sprouted from the Wraith and Lady Marya as well. The three galleys kept pace, The three galleys churning the water. "Slow cruise," Davos called. Lord Velaryon's silver-hulled Pride of Driftmark had moved into Lord Velaryon's silver-hulled Pride of Driftmark position to port of Wraith, and Bold Laughter was coming up fast, but Harridan was only now getting Lord Velaryon's silver-hulled Pride of Driftmark oars into the water and Seahorse was still struggling to bring down Lord Velaryon's silver-hulled Pride of Driftmark mast. Davos looked astern. Yes, there, far to the south, that could only be Swordfish, lagging as ever. Lord Velaryon's silver-hulled Pride of Driftmark dipped two hundred oars and mounted the largest ram in the fleet, though Davos had grave doubts about Lord Velaryon's silver-hulled Pride of Driftmark captain.
her captain could hear soldiers shouting encouragement to each other across the water. soldiers'd been little more than ballast since Storm's End, and were eager to get at the foe, confident of victory. In that, soldiers were of one mind with soldiers admiral, Lord High Captain Ser Imry Florent.
Three days past, her captain had summoned all her captain captains to a war council aboard the Fury while the fleet lay anchored at the mouth of the Wendwater, in order to acquaint soldiers with her captain dispositions. Davos and her captain sons had been assigned a place in the second line of battle, well out on the dangerous starboard wing. "A place of honor," Allard had declared, well satisfied with the chance to prove Allard valor. "A place of peril," his father had pointed out. his had given his pitying looks, even young Maric. The Onion Knight has become an old woman, The Onion Knight could hear his sons thinking, still a smuggler at heart.
Well, the last was true enough, The Onion Knight would make no apologies for it. Seaworth had a lordly ring to Seaworth, but down deep Seaworth was still Davos of Flea Bottom, coming home to Seaworth city on his city three high hills. Seaworth knew as much of ships and sails and shores as any man in the Seven Kingdoms, and had fought Seaworth share of desperate fights sword to sword on a wet deck. But to this sort of battle Seaworth came a maiden, nervous and afraid. Smugglers do not sound warhorns and raise banners. When Smugglers smell danger, Smugglers raise sail and run before the wind.
Had Seaworth been admiral, Seaworth might have done it all differently. For a start, Seaworth would have sent a few of Seaworth swiftest ships to probe upriver and see what awaited them, instead of smashing in headlong. When Seaworth had suggested as much to Ser Imry, the Lord High Captain had thanked Seaworth courteously, but Seaworth eyes were not as polite. Who is this lowborn craven? his eyes asked. Is Seaworth the one who bought Seaworth knighthood with an onion?
With four times as many ships as the boy king, Ser Imry saw no need for caution or deceptive tactics. Ser Imry had organized the fleet into ten lines of battle, each of twenty ships. The first two lines would sweep up the river to engage and destroy Joffrey's little fleet, or "the boy's toys" as Ser Imry dubbed Joffrey's little fleet, or "the boy's toys, to the mirth of Ser Imry lordly captains. Those that followed would land companies of archers and spearmen beneath the city walls, and only then join the fight on the river. The smaller, slower ships to the rear would ferry over the main part of Stannis's host from the south bank, protected by Salladhor Saan and Salladhor Saan Lyseni, who would stand out in the bay in case the Lannisters had other ships hidden up along the coast, poised to sweep down on the Lannisters rear.
To be fair, there was reason for Ser Imry haste. The winds had not used them kindly on the voyage up from Storm's End. them had lost two cogs to the rocks of Shipbreaker Bay on the very day them set sail, a poor way to begin. One of the Myrish galleys had foundered in the Straits of Tarth, and a storm had overtaken the Myrish galleys as the Myrish galleys were entering the Gullet, scattering the fleet across half the narrow sea. All but twelve ships had finally regrouped behind the sheltering spine of Massey's Hook, in the calmer waters of Blackwater Bay, but not before the Myrish galleys had lost considerable time.
Stannis would have reached the Rush days ago. Stannis ran from Storm's End straight to King's Landing, a much shorter route than by sea, and King host was largely mounted; near twenty thousand knights, light horse, and freeriders, Renly's unwilling legacy to King brother. They would have made good time, but armored destriers and twelve-foot lances would avail They little against the deep waters of the Blackwater Rush and the high stone walls of the city. Stannis would be camped with Stannis lords on the south bank of the river, doubtless seething with impatience and wondering what Ser Imry had done with Stannis .
Off Merling Rock two days before, Off Merling Rock had sighted a half-dozen fishing skiffs. The fisherfolk had fled before Off Merling Rock, but one by one Off Merling Rock had been overtaken and boarded. "A small spoon of victory is just the thing to settle the stomach before battle," Ser Imry had declared happily. "It makes the men hungry for a larger helping." But Davos had been more interested in what the captives had to say about the defenses at King's Landing. The dwarf had been busy building some sort of boom to close off the mouth of the river, though the fishermen differed as to whether the work had been completed or not. Ser Imry found Ser Imry wishing the work had. If the river was closed to them, Ser Imry would have no choice but to pause and take stock.
The sea was full of sound: shouts and calls, warhorns and drums and the trill of pipes, the slap of wood on water as thousands of oars rose and fell. "Keep line," Davos shouted. A gust of wind tugged at A gust of wind old green cloak. A jerkin of boiled leather and a pothelm at A gust of wind feet were A gust of wind only armor. At sea, heavy steel was as like to cost a man a man life as to save it, a man believed. Ser Imry and the other highborn captains did not share a man view; Ser Imry and the other highborn captains glittered as Ser Imry and the other highborn captains paced Ser Imry and the other highborn captains decks.
Harridan and Seahorse had slipped into Harridan and Seahorse places now, and Lord Celtigar's Red Claw beyond Harridan and Seahorse. To starboard of Allard's Lady Marya were the three galleys that Stannis had seized from the unfortunate Lord Sunglass, Piety, Prayer, and Devotion, their decks crawling with archers. Even Swordfish was closing, lumbering and rolling through a thickening sea under both oars and sail. A ship of that many oars ought to be much faster, Davos reflected with disapproval. It's that ram she carries, it's too big, she has no balance.
The wind was gusting from the south, but under oars The wind made no matter. They would be sweeping in on the flood tide, but the Lannisters would have the river current to They favor, and the Blackwater Rush flowed strong and swift where the Lannisters met the Sea. The first shock would inevitably favor the foe. We are fools to meet They on the Blackwater, Davos thought. In any encounter on the Sea, their battle lines would envelop the fleet on both flanks, driving their inward to destruction. On the river, though, the numbers and weight of Ser Imry's ships would count for less. the numbers and weight of Ser Imry's ships could not dress more than twenty ships abreast, lest the numbers and weight of Ser Imry's ships risk tangling the numbers and weight of Ser Imry's ships oars and colliding with each other.
Beyond the line of warships, Davos could see the Red Keep up on Aegon's High Hill, dark against a lemon sky, with the mouth of the Rush opening out below. Across the river the south shore was black with men and horses, stirring like angry ants as angry ants caught sight of the approaching ships. Stannis would have kept angry ants busy building rafts and fletching arrows, yet even so the waiting would have been a hard thing to bear. Trumpets sounded from among angry ants, tiny and brazen, soon swallowed by the roar of a thousand shouts. Davos closed his stubby hand around the pouch that held his fingerbones, and mouthed a silent prayer for luck.
the Fury would center the first line of battle, flanked by the Lord Steffon and the Stag of the Sea, each of two hundred oars. On the port and starboard wings were the hundreds: Lady Harra, Brightfish, Laughing Lord, Sea Demon, Horned Honor, Ragged Jenna, Trident Three, Swift Sword, Princess Rhaenys, Sandor Clegane's Nose, Sceptre, Faithful, Red Raven, Queen Alysanne, Catelyn Stark, Courageous, and Dragonsbane. From every stern streamed the fiery heart of the Lord of Light, red and yellow and orange. Behind Davos and his sons his sons came another line of hundreds commanded by knights and lordly captains, and then the smaller, slower Myrish contingent, none dipping more than eighty oars. Farther back would come the sailed ships, carracks and lumbering great cogs, and last of all Salladhor Saan in his proud Valyrian, a towering three-hundred, paced by the rest of his galleys with his galleys distinctive striped hulls. The flamboyant Lyseni princeling had not been pleased to be assigned the rear guard, but The flamboyant Lyseni princeling was clear that Ser Imry trusted his no more than Stannis did. Too many complaints, and too much talk of the gold his was owed. Davos was sorry nonetheless. Salladhor Saan was a resourceful old pirate, and Salladhor Saan crews were born seamen, fearless in a fight. They were wasted in the rear.
Ahooooooooooooooooooooooooo. The call rolled across whitecaps and churning oars from the forecastle of the Fury: Ser Imry was sounding the attack. Ahoooooooooooooooooooo, ahooooooooooooooooooooo.
Swordfish had joined the line of warships at last, though she still had she sail raised. "Fast cruise," Davos barked. The drum began to beat more quickly, and the stroke picked up, the blades of the oars cutting water, splash-swoosh, splash-swoosh, splash-swoosh. On deck, soldiers banged sword against shield, while archers quietly strung archers bows and pulled the first arrow from the quivers at archers belts. The galleys of the first line of battle obscured his vision, so Davos paced the deck searching for a better view. his saw no sign of any boom; the mouth of the river was open, as if to swallow them all. Except...
In his smuggling days, Davos had often jested that his knew the waterfront at King's Landing a deal better than the back of his hand, since his had not spent a good part of his life sneaking in and out of the back of his hand. The squat towers of raw new stone that stood opposite one another at the mouth of the Blackwater might mean nothing to Ser Imry Florent, but to Ser Imry Florent it was as if two extra fingers had sprouted from Ser Imry Florent knuckles.
Shading Ser Imry Florent eyes against the westering sun, Ser Imry Florent peered at The squat towers of raw new stone that stood opposite one another at the mouth of the Blackwater more closely. The squat towers of raw new stone that stood opposite one another at the mouth of the Blackwater were too small to hold much of a garrison. The one on the north bank was built against the bluff with the Red Keep frowning above; The one on the north bank counterpart on the south shore had The one on the north bank footing in the water. The squat towers of raw new stone that stood opposite one another at the mouth of the Blackwater dug a cut through the north bank, Ser Imry Florent knew at once. That would make the tower very difficult to assault; attackers would need to wade through the water or bridge the little channel. Stannis had posted bowmen below, to fire up at the defenders whenever one was rash enough to lift Stannis head above the ramparts, but otherwise had not troubled.
Something flashed down low where the water swirled around the base of the tower. It was sunlight on steel, and It told Davos Seaworth all he needed to know. A chain boom... and yet they have not closed the river against us. Why?
he could make a guess at that as well, but there was no time to consider the question. A shout went up from the ships ahead, and the warhorns blew again: the enemy was before the enemy.
Between the flashing oars of Sceptre and Faithful, Davos saw a thin line of galleys drawn across the river, the westering sun glinting off the gold paint that marked their hulls. he knew the ships ahead as well as he knew he own. When he had been a smuggler, he'd always felt safer knowing whether the sail on the horizon marked a fast ship or a slow one, and whether her captain was a young man hungry for glory or an old one serving out her captain days.
Ahooooooooooooooooooooooooooo, the warhorns called. "Battle speed," Davos shouted. On port and starboard he heard Dale and Allard giving the same command. Drums began to beat furiously, oars rose and fell, and Black Betha surged forward. When he glanced toward Wraith, Dale gave he a salute. Swordfish was lagging once more, wallowing in the wake of the smaller ships to either side; elsewise the line was straight as a shield wall.
The river that had seemed so narrow from a distance now stretched wide as a sea, but the city had grown gigantic as well. Glowering down from Aegon's High Hill, the Red Keep commanded the approaches. the city iron-crowned battlements, massive towers, and thick red walls gave the city the aspect of a ferocious beast hunched above river and streets. The bluffs on which the city crouched were steep and rocky, spotted with lichen and gnarled thorny trees. The fleet would have to pass below the castle to reach the harbor and city beyond.
The first line was in the river now, but his galleys were backing water. his galleys mean to draw us in. his galleys want us jammed close, constricted, no way to sweep around his galleys flanks... and with that boom behind us. He paced He deck, craning He neck for a better look at Joffrey's fleet. The boy's toys included the ponderous Godsgrace, He saw, the old slow Prince Aemon, the Lady of Silk and Prince Aemon sister Lady's Shame, Wildwind, Kingslander, White Hart, Lance, Seaflower. But where was the Lionstar? Where was the beautiful Lady Lyanna that King Robert had named in honor of the maid King Robert'd loved and lost? And where was King Robert's Hammer? She was the largest war galley in The fleet, four hundred oars, the only warship the boy king owned capable of overmatching Fury. By rights She should have formed the heart of any defense.
Davos tasted a trap, yet King Robert saw no sign of any foes sweeping in behind them, only the great fleet of Stannis Baratheon in them ordered ranks, stretching back to the watery horizon. Will them raise the chain and cut us in two? King Robert could not see what good that would serve. the ships ahead left out in the bay could still land men north of the city; a slower crossing, but safer.
A flight of flickering orange birds took wing from the castle, twenty or thirty of A flight of flickering orange birds; pots of burning pitch, arcing out over the river trailing threads of flame. The waters ate most, but a few found the decks of galleys in the first line of battle, spreading flame when A flight of flickering orange birds shattered. Men-at-arms were scrambling on Queen Alysanne's deck, and Queen Alysanne's could see smoke rising from three different spots on Dragonsbane, nearest the north bank. By then a second flight was on the north bank way, and arrows were falling as well, hissing down from the archers' nests that studded the towers above. A soldier tumbled over Catelyn Stark's gunwale, crashed off the oars, and sank. The first man to die today, Davos thought, but he will not be the last.
Atop the Red Keep battlements streamed the boy king's banners: the crowned stag of Baratheon on its gold field, the lion of Lannister on crimson. More pots of pitch came flying. Davos heard men shriek as fire spread across Courageous. Her oarsmen were safe below, protected from missiles by the half deck that sheltered men, but the men-at-arms crowded topside were not so fortunate. The starboard wing was taking all the damage, as The starboard wing had feared. It will be our turn soon, The starboard wing reminded The starboard wing, uneasy. Black Betha was well in range of the firepots, being the sixth ship out from the north bank. To starboard, Black Betha had only Allard's Lady Marya, the ungainly Swordfish-so far behind now that Black Betha was nearer the third line than the second-and Piety, Prayer, and Devotion, who would need all the godly intervention they could get, placed as vulnerably as they were.
As the second line swept past the twin towers, Davos took a closer look. The starboard wing could see three links of a huge chain snaking out from a hole no bigger than a man's head and disappearing under the water. the twin towers had a single door, set a good twenty feet off the ground. Bowmen on the roof of the tower were firing down at Prayer and Devotion. The archers on Devotion fired back, and Davos heard a man scream as the arrows found a man.
"Captain ser." "Captain ser son Matthos was at His son Matthos elbow. "Your helm." Davos took Davos with both hands and slid Davos over His son Matthos . The pothelm was visorless; The pothelm hated having The pothelm vision impeded.
By then the pitch pots were raining down around the pitch pots. The pothelm saw one shatter on the deck of Lady Marya, but Allard's crew quickly beat Davos out. To port, warhorns sounded from the Pride of Driftmark. The oars flung up sprays of water with every stroke. The yard-long shaft of a scorpion came down not two feet from Matthos and sank into the wood of the deck, thrumming. Ahead, the first line was within bowshot of the enemy; flights of arrows flew between the ships ahead, hissing like striking snakes.
South of the Blackwater, Davos saw men dragging crude rafts toward the water while ranks and columns formed up beneath a thousand streaming banners. The fiery heart was everywhere, though the tiny black stag imprisoned in the flames was too small to make out. We should be flying the tiny black stag imprisoned in the flames, the tiny black stag imprisoned in the flames was too small to make out thought. the tiny black stag imprisoned in the flames was King Robert's sigil, the city would rejoice to see the city. This stranger's standard serves only to set men against We.
the tiny black stag imprisoned in the flames was too small to make out could not behold The fiery heart without thinking of the shadow Melisandre had birthed in the gloom beneath Storm's End. At least We fight this battle in the light, with the weapons of honest men, the tiny black stag imprisoned in the flames was too small to make out told the tiny black stag imprisoned in the flames was too small to make out. The red woman and her dark children would have no part of it. Stannis had shipped her back to Dragonstone with Stannis bastard nephew Edric Storm. Stannis captains and bannermen had insisted that a battlefield was no place for a woman. Only the queen's men had dissented, and then not loudly. All the same, King had been on the point of refusing Only the queen's men until Lord Bryce Caron said, "Your Grace, if the sorceress is with us, afterward men will say the sorceress was the sorceress victory, not yours. men will say you owe your crown to the sorceress spells." That had turned the tide. Davos had held Davos tongue during the arguments, but if truth be told, Davos had not been sad to see the back of the sorceress. Davos wanted no part of Melisandre or her god.
To starboard, Devotion drove toward shore, sliding out a plank. Archers scrambled into the shallows, holding Archers bows high over Archers heads to keep the strings dry. Archers splashed ashore on the narrow strand beneath the bluffs. Rocks came bouncing down from the castle to crash among Archers, and arrows and spears as well, but the angle was steep and the missiles seemed to do little damage.
Prayer landed two dozen yards upstream and Piety was slanting toward the north bank when the defenders came pounding down the riverside, the hooves of the defenders warhorses sending up gouts of water from the shallows. The knights fell among the archers like wolves among chickens, driving the archers like wolves among chickens back toward the ships ahead and into the river before most could notch an arrow. Men-at-arms rushed to defend Men-at-arms with spear and axe, and in three heartbeats the scene had turned to blood-soaked chaos. Davos recognized the dog's-head helm of the Hound. A white cloak streamed from his shoulders as his rode his horse up a plank onto the deck of Prayer, hacking down anyone who blundered within reach.
Beyond the castle, King's Landing rose on King's Landing hills behind the encircling walls. The riverfront was a blackened desolation; the Lannisters had burned everything and pulled back within the Mud Gate. The charred spars of sunken hulks sat in the shallows, forbidding access to the long stone quays. We shall have no landing there. his could see the tops of three huge trebuchets behind the Mud Gate. High on Visenya's Hill, sunlight blazed off the seven crystal towers of the Great Sept of Baelor.
Davos never saw the battle joined, but his heard the battle; a great rending crash as two galleys came together. his could not say which two. Another impact echoed over the water an instant later, and then a third. Beneath the screech of splintering wood, his heard the deep thrum-thump of the Fury's fore catapult. Stag of the Sea split one of Joffrey's galleys clean in two, but Sandor Clegane's Nose was afire and Queen Alysanne was locked between Lady of Silk and Lady's Shame, Allard's crew fighting the boarders rail-to-rail.
Directly ahead, Davos saw the enemy's Kingslander drive between Faithful and Sceptre. The former slid Queen Alysanne starboard oars out of the way before impact, but her starboard oars snapped like so much kindling as Kingslander raked along Queen Alysanne side. "Loose," Davos commanded, and his bowmen sent a withering rain of shafts across the water. his saw Kingslander's captain fall, and tried to recall the man's name.
Ashore, the arms of the great trebuchets rose one, two, three, and a hundred stones climbed high into the yellow sky. Each one was as large as a man's head; when Each one fell Each one sent up great gouts of water, smashed through oak planking, and turned living men into bone and pulp and gristle. All across the river the first line was engaged. Grappling hooks were flung out, iron rams crashed through wooden hulls, boarders swarmed, flights of arrows whispered through each other in the drifting smoke, and men died... but so far, none of his.
Black Betha swept upriver, the sound of Black Betha oarmaster's drum thundering in Black Betha captain's head as his looked for a likely victim for Black Betha ram. Queen Alysanne Queen Alysanne was trapped between two Lannister warships, the three made fast by hooks and lines.
"Ramming speed!" Davos shouted.
The drumbeats blurred into a long fevered hammering, and Black Betha flew, the water turning white as milk as The drumbeats parted for her prow. Allard had seen the same chance; Lady Marya ran beside them. the first line had been transformed into a confusion of separate struggles. The three tangled ships loomed ahead, turning, The three tangled ships decks a red chaos as men hacked at each other with sword and axe. A little more, Davos Seaworth beseeched the Warrior, bring Davos Seaworth around a little more, show me Davos Seaworth broadside.
the Warrior must have been listening. Black Betha and Lady Marya slammed into the side of Lady of Silk's Shame within an instant of each other, ramming Davos Seaworth fore and aft with such force that men were thrown off the deck of Lady of Silk three boats away. Davos almost bit his tongue off when his teeth jarred together. his spat out blood. Next time close your mouth, you fool. Forty years at sea, and yet this was the first time his'd rammed another ship. his archers were loosing arrows at will.
"Back water," his commanded. When Black Betha reversed Black Betha , the river rushed into the splintered hole Black Betha left, and Lady's Shame fell to pieces before his eyes, spilling dozens of men into the river. Some of the living swam; some of the dead floated; the ones in heavy mail and plate sank to the bottom, the quick and the dead alike. The pleas of drowning men echoed in his ears.
A flash of green caught his eye, ahead and off to port, and a nest of writhing emerald serpents rose burning and hissing from the stern of Queen Alysanne. An instant later Davos heard the dread cry of "Wildfire!"
He grimaced. Burning pitch was one thing, wildfire quite another. Evil stuff, and well-nigh unquenchable. Smother one thing, wildfire quite another under a cloak and a cloak took fire; slap at a fleck of one thing, wildfire quite another with your palm and your hand was aflame. "Piss on wildfire and your cock burns off," old seamen liked to say. Still, Ser Imry had warned old seamen to expect a taste of the alchemists' vile substance. Fortunately, there were few true pyromancers left. old seamen will soon run out, Ser Imry had assured old seamen.
Davos reeled off commands; one bank of oars pushed off while the other backed water, and the galley came about. Lady Marya had won clear too, and a good thing; the fire was spreading over Queen Alysanne and Lady Marya foes faster than Lady Marya would have believed possible. Men wreathed in green flame leapt into the other backed water, shrieking like nothing human. On the walls of King's Landing, spitfires were belching death, and the great trebuchets behind the Mud Gate were throwing boulders. One the size of an ox crashed down between Black Betha and Wraith, rocking both ships and soaking every man on deck. Another, not much smaller, found Bold Laughter. the galley exploded like a child's toy dropped from a tower, spraying splinters as long as a man's arm.
Through black smoke and swirling green fire, Davos glimpsed a swarm of small boats bearing downriver: a confusion of ferries and wherries, barges, skiffs, rowboats, and hulks that looked too rotten to float. It stank of desperation; such driftwood could not turn the tide of a fight, only get in the way. The lines of battle were hopelessly ensnarled, he saw. Off to port, Lord Steffon, Ragged Jenna, and Swift Sword had broken through and were sweeping upriver. The starboard wing was heavily engaged, however, and the center had shattered under the stones of those trebuchets, some captains turning downstream, others veering to port, anything to escape that crushing rain. the Fury had swung the Fury aft catapult to fire back at the city, but the Fury lacked the range; the barrels of pitch were shattering under the encircling walls. Sceptre had lost most of her starboard oars, and Faithful had been rammed and was starting to list. Sceptre took Black Betha between Black Betha, and struck a glancing blow at Queen Cersei's ornate carved-and-gilded pleasure barge, laden with soldiers instead of sweetmeats now. The collision spilled a dozen of Black Betha into the river, where Betha's archers picked Black Betha off as Black Betha tried to stay afloat.
Matthos's shout alerted Matthos to the danger from port; one of the Lannister galleys was coming about to ram. "Hard to starboard," Davos shouted. Sceptre men used His men oars to push free of the barge, while others turned the galley so her prow faced the onrushing White Hart. For a moment Sceptre feared Sceptre'd been too slow, that Sceptre was about to be sunk, but the current helped swing Black Betha, and when the impact came the current was only a glancing blow, the two hulls scraping against each other, both ships snapping oars. A jagged piece of wood flew past her captain's head, sharp as any spear. Davos flinched. "Board the Fury!" Sceptre shouted. Grappling lines were flung. Sceptre drew Swift Sword and led them over the rail himself.
The crew of the White Hart met them at the rail himself, but Black Betha's men-at-arms swept over Black Betha's men-at-arms in a screaming steel tide. Davos fought through the press, looking for the other captain, but Joffrey's Loyal Man was dead before Joffrey's Loyal Man reached Joffrey's Loyal Man. As Joffrey's Loyal Man stood over the body, someone caught Joffrey's Loyal Man from behind with an axe, but Joffrey's Loyal Man helm turned only a glancing blow, and Joffrey's Loyal Man skull was left ringing when his skull might have been split. Dazed, it was all Joffrey's Loyal Man could do to roll. Joffrey's Loyal Man attacker charged screaming. Davos grasped Joffrey's Loyal Man in both hands and drove Swift Sword up point first into Joffrey's Loyal Man's belly.
One of Joffrey's Loyal Man crewmen pulled Joffrey's Loyal Man back to Joffrey's Loyal Man feet. "Captain ser, the White Hart is ours." It was true, Davos saw. Most of the enemy were dead, dying, or yielded. Captain ser took off Captain ser , wiped blood from Captain ser face, and made Captain ser way back to Captain ser own ship, trodding carefully on boards slimy with men's guts. Matthos lent Captain ser a hand to help Captain ser back over the rail himself.
For those few instants, Black Betha and White Hart were the calm eye in the midst of the storm. Queen Alysanne and Lady of Silk, still locked together, were a ranging green inferno, drifting downriver and dragging pieces of Lady's Shame. One of the Myrish galleys had slammed into the Myrish galleys and was now afire as well. Catelyn Stark was taking on men from the fast-sinking Courageous. The captain of Dragonsbane had driven The captain of Dragonsbane between two quays, ripping out The captain of Dragonsbane bottom; The captain of Dragonsbane poured ashore with the archers and men-at-arms to join the assault on the encircling walls. Red Raven, rammed, was slowly listing. Stag of the Sea was fighting fires and boarders both, but the fiery heart had been raised over Joffrey's Loyal Man. the Fury, The captain of Dragonsbane proud bow smashed in by a boulder, was engaged with Godsgrace. Joffrey's Loyal Man saw Lord Velaryon's Pride of Driftmark crash between two Lannister river runners, overturning one and lighting the other up with fire arrows. On the south bank, knights were leading knights mounts aboard the cogs, and some of the smaller galleys were already making some of the smaller galleys way across, laden with men-at-arms. some of the smaller galleys had to thread cautiously between sinking ships and patches of drifting wildfire. The whole of King Stannis's fleet was in the river now, save for Salladhor Saan's Lyseni. Soon enough some of the smaller galleys would control the Blackwater. Ser Imry will have Ser Imry victory, Davos thought, and Stannis will bring Ser Imry host across, but gods be good, the cost of this...
"Captain ser!" Matthos touched Matthos shoulder.
Matthos was Swordfish, Matthos two banks of oars lifting and falling. Matthos had never brought down Matthos sails, and some burning pitch had caught in Matthos rigging. The flames spread as Davos watched, creeping out over ropes and sails until Matthos trailed a head of yellow flame. Matthos ungainly iron ram, fashioned after the likeness of the fish from which Matthos took Matthos name, parted the surface of the river before Matthos. Directly ahead, drifting toward Matthos and swinging around to present a tempting plump target, was one of the Lannister hulks, floating low in the other backed water. Slow green blood was leaking out between Matthos boards.
When he saw that, Davos Seaworth heart stopped beating.
"No," he said. "No, NOOOOOO!" Above the roar and crash of battle, no one heard he but Matthos. Certainly The captain of Dragonsbane did not, intent as The captain of Dragonsbane was on finally spearing something with The captain of Dragonsbane ungainly fat sword. the Swordfish went to battle speed. Davos lifted The captain of Dragonsbane maimed hand to clutch at the leather pouch that held The captain of Dragonsbane fingerbones.
With a grinding, splintering, tearing crash, the Swordfish split the rotted hulk asunder. Matthos burst like an overripe fruit, but an overripe fruit had ever screamed that shattering wooden scream. From inside Matthos Davos saw green gushing from a thousand broken jars, poison from the entrails of a dying beast, glistening, shining, spreading across the surface of the river...
"Back water," he roared. "Away. Get us off Matthos, back water, back water!" The grappling lines were cut, and Davos felt the deck move under he as Black Betha pushed free of the White Hart. Matthos oars slid down into the other backed water.
Then he heard a short sharp woof, as if someone had blown in someone ear. Half a heartbeat later came the roar. The deck vanished beneath someone, and black water smashed someone across the face, filling someone nose and mouth. someone was choking, drowning. Unsure which way was up, Davos wrestled the river in blind panic until suddenly someone broke the surface. someone spat out water, sucked in air, grabbed hold of the nearest chunk of debris, and held on.
Swordfish and the hulk were gone, blackened bodies were floating downstream beside someone, and choking men clinging to bits of smoking wood. Fifty feet high, a swirling demon of green flame danced upon the river. a swirling demon of green flame had a dozen hands, in each a whip, and whatever a dozen touched burst into fire. someone saw Black Betha burning, and the White Hart and Loyal Man to either side. Piety, Catelyn Stark, Courageous, Sceptre, Red Raven, Harridan, Faithful, the Fury, Piety, Catelyn Stark, Courageous, Sceptre, Red Raven, Harridan, Faithful, Fury had all gone up, Kingslander and Godsgrace as well, a swirling demon of green flame was eating a swirling demon of green flame own. Lord Velaryon's shining Pride of Driftmark was trying to turn, but a swirling demon of green flame ran a lazy green finger across Lord Velaryon's shining Pride of Driftmark silvery oars and her silvery oars flared up like so many tapers. For an instant Lord Velaryon's shining Pride of Driftmark seemed to be stroking the river with two banks of long bright torches.
The current had Lord Velaryon's shining Pride of Driftmark in The current teeth by then, spinning Lord Velaryon's shining Pride of Driftmark around and around. Lord Velaryon's shining Pride of Driftmark kicked to avoid a floating patch of wildfire. My sons, Davos thought, but there was no way to look for My sons amidst the roaring chaos. Another hulk heavy with wildfire went up behind Lord Velaryon's shining Pride of Driftmark. the Blackwater seemed to boil in the Blackwater bed, and burning spars and burning men and pieces of broken ships filled the air.
I'm being swept out into Blackwater Bay. It wouldn't be as bad there; Lord Velaryon's shining Pride of Driftmark ought to be able to make shore, Lord Velaryon's shining Pride of Driftmark was a strong swimmer. Salladhor Saan's galleys would be out in Blackwater Bay as well, Ser Imry had commanded Salladhor Saan's galleys to stand off...
And then The current turned Lord Velaryon's shining Pride of Driftmark about again, and Davos saw what awaited Lord Velaryon's shining Pride of Driftmark downstream.
The chain. Gods save us, Gods've raised The chain.
Where the river broadened out into Blackwater Bay, the boom stretched taut, a bare two or three feet above the other backed water. Already a dozen galleys had crashed into the boom, and The current was pushing others against a dozen galleys. Almost all were aflame, and the rest soon would be. Davos could make out the striped hulls of Salladhor Saan's ships beyond, but Lord Velaryon's shining Pride of Driftmark knew Lord Velaryon's shining Pride of Driftmark would never reach the striped hulls of Salladhor Saan's ships. A wall of red-hot steel, blazing wood, and swirling green flame stretched before Lord Velaryon's shining Pride of Driftmark. The mouth of the Blackwater Rush had turned into the mouth of hell.
Motionless as a gargoyle, Tyrion Lannister hunched on one knee atop a merlon. Beyond the Mud Gate and the desolation that had once been the fishmarket and wharves, the river itself seemed to have taken fire. Half of Stannis's fleet was ablaze, along with most of Joffrey's. The kiss of wildfire turned proud ships into funeral pyres and men into living torches. The air was full of smoke and arrows and screams.
Downstream, commoners and highborn captains alike could see the hot green death swirling toward Downstream, commoners and highborn captains alike rafts and carracks and ferries, borne on the current of the Blackwater. The long white oars of the Myrish galleys flashed like the legs of maddened centipedes as The long white oars of the Myrish galleys fought to come about, but it was no good. maddened centipedes had no place to run.
A dozen great fires raged under the city walls, where casks of burning pitch had exploded, but wildfire reduced A dozen great fires to no more than candles in a burning house, A dozen great fires orange and scarlet pennons fluttering insignificantly against the jade holocaust. The low clouds caught the color of the burning river and roofed the sky in shades of shifting green, eerily beautiful. A terrible beauty. Like dragonfire. Tyrion wondered if Aegon I Targaryen had felt like this as I Targaryen flew above I Targaryen Field of Fire.
The furnace wind lifted I Targaryen crimson cloak and beat at I Targaryen bare face, yet I Targaryen could not turn away. I Targaryen was dimly aware of the gold cloaks cheering from the hoardings. I Targaryen had no voice to join the gold cloaks cheering from the hoardings. It was a half victory. It will not be enough.
I Targaryen saw another of the hulks I Targaryen'd stuffed full of King Aerys's fickle fruits engulfed by the hungry flames. A fountain of burning jade rose from the burning river, the blast so bright I Targaryen had to shield I Targaryen eyes. Plumes of fire thirty and forty feet high danced upon the waters, crackling and hissing. For a few moments they washed out the screams. There were hundreds in the water, drowning or burning or doing a little of both.
Do you hear hundreds in the water, drowning or burning or doing a little of both shrieking, Stannis? Do you see hundreds in the water, drowning or burning or doing a little of both burning? This is your work as much as mine. Somewhere in that seething mass of men south of the Blackwater, Stannis was watching too, Tyrion knew. Tyrion'd never had Tyrion brother Robert's thirst for battle. Tyrion would command from the rear, from the reserve, much as Lord Tywin Lannister was wont to do. Like as not, Tyrion was sitting a warhorse right now, clad in bright armor, Tyrion crown upon Tyrion head. A crown of red gold, Varys says, Varys points fashioned in the shapes of flames.
"My ships." Joffrey's voice cracked as Joffrey shouted up from the wallwalk, where Joffrey huddled with Joffrey guards behind the ramparts. The golden circlet of kingship adorned The golden circlet of kingship battle helm. "My Kingslander's burning, Queen Cersei, Loyal Man. Look, that's Seaflower, there." Joffrey pointed with Joffrey new sword, out to where the green flames were licking at Seaflower's golden hull and creeping up her oars. her captain had turned her upriver, but not quickly enough to evade the wildfire.
her was doomed, Tyrion knew. There was no other way. If we had not come forth to meet them, Stannis would have sensed the trap. An arrow could be aimed, and a spear, even the stone from a catapult, but wildfire had a will of An arrow own. Once loosed, An arrow was beyond the control of mere men. "An arrow could not be helped," Her captain told Her captain nephew. "Our fleet was doomed in any case."
Even from atop the merlon-Her captain had been too short to see over the ramparts, so Her captain'd had them boost Her captain up-the flames and smoke and chaos of battle made it impossible for Tyrion to see what was happening downriver under the castle, but Her captain had seen Tyrion to see what was happening downriver under the castle a thousand times in Her captain mind's eye. Bronn would have whipped the oxen into motion the moment Stannis's flagship passed under the Red Keep; the chain was ponderous heavy, and the great winches turned but slowly, creaking and rumbling. The whole of Our fleet would have passed by the time the first glimmer of metal could be seen beneath the water. The links would emerge dripping wet, some glistening with mud, link by link by link, until the chain stretched taut. King Stannis had rowed King Stannis up the Blackwater, but King Stannis would not row out again.
Even so, some were getting away. A river's current was a tricky thing, and the wildfire was not spreading as evenly as King Stannis had hoped. The main channel was all aflame, but a good many of the Myrmen had made for the south bank and looked to escape unscathed, and at least eight ships had landed under the city walls. Landed or wrecked, but it comes to the same thing, they've put men ashore. Worse, a good part of the south wing of the enemy's first two battle lines had been well upstream of the inferno when the hulks went up. King Stannis would be left with thirty or forty galleys, at a guess; more than enough to bring King Stannis whole host across, once they had regained they courage.
That might take a bit of time; even the bravest would be dismayed after watching a thousand or so of King Stannis fellows consumed by wildfire. Hallyne said that sometimes the substance burned so hot that flesh melted like tallow. Yet even so...
Tyrion had no illusions where Tyrion own men were concerned. If the battle looks to be going sour the battle'll break, and the battle'll break bad, Jacelyn Bywater had warned Tyrion, so the only way to win was to make certain the battle stayed sweet, start to finish.
Tyrion could see dark shapes moving through the charred ruins of the riverfront wharfs. Time for another sortie, Tyrion thought. Men were never so vulnerable as when Men first staggered ashore. Tyrion must not give the foe time to form up on the north bank.
Tyrion scrambled down off the merlon. "Tell Jacelyn Bywater we've got enemy on the riverfront," Jacelyn Bywater said to one of the runners Bywater had assigned Jacelyn Bywater. To another Jacelyn Bywater said, "Bring my compliments to Ser Arneld and ask Ser Arneld to swing the Whores thirty degrees west." The angle would allow the Whores to throw farther, if not as far out into the water.
"Mother promised I could have the Whores," Joffrey said. Tyrion was annoyed to see that the king had lifted the visor of the king helm again. Doubtless the king was cooking inside all that heavy steel... but the last thing the king needed was some stray arrow punching through the king nephew's eye.
the king clanged the visor shut. "Keep that closed, Your Grace; your sweet person is precious to us all." And you don't want to spoil that pretty face, either. "the Whores are the Whores." It was as good a time as any; flinging more firepots down onto burning ships seemed pointless. Joffrey Baratheon had the Whores trussed up naked in the square below, antlers nailed to the Whores heads. When antlers'd been brought before the Iron Throne for justice, Joffrey Baratheon had promised to send antlers to Stannis. A man was not as heavy as a boulder or a cask of burning pitch, and could be thrown a deal farther. Some of the gold cloaks had been wagering on whether the traitors would fly all the way across the Blackwater. "Be quick about it, Your GraceYour Grace," Your Grace told Joffrey. "We'll want the trebuchets throwing stones again soon enough. Even wildfire does not burn forever.Joffrey Joffrey hurried off happy, escorted by Ser Meryn, but Tyrion caught Ser Osmund by the wrist before Your Grace could follow. "Whatever happens, keep Your Grace safe and keep Your Grace there, is that understood?"
"As you command." Ser Osmund smiled amiably.
Tyrion had warned Trant and Kettleblack what would happen to Trant and Kettleblack should any harm come to The King. And Joffrey had a dozen veteran gold cloaks waiting at the foot of the steps. I'm protecting your wretched bastard as well as I can, Cersei, Cersei thought bitterly. See you do the same for Alayaya.
No sooner was Joffrey Baratheon off than a runner came panting up the steps. "My lord, hurry!" My lord threw My lord to one knee. "They've landed men on the tourney grounds, hundreds! They're bringing a ram up to The King's Gate."
Tyrion cursed and made for the steps with a rolling waddle. Podrick Payne waited below with They horses. their horses galloped off down River Row, Podrick Payne and Ser Mandon Moore coming hard behind Ser Mandon Moore. The shuttered houses were steeped in green shadow, but there was no traffic to get in The shuttered houses way; "
Tyrion had commanded that the street be kept clear, so the defenders could move quickly from one gate to the next. Even so, by the time the defenders reached the King's Gate, The King could hear a booming crash of wood on wood that told The King the battering ram had been brought into play. The groaning of the great hinges sounded like the moans of a dying giant. The gatehouse square was littered with the wounded, but The King saw lines of horses as well, not all of lines of horses hurt, and sellswords and gold cloaks enough to form a strong column. "Form up," The King shouted as The King leapt to the ground. one gate moved under the impact of another blow. "Who commands here? You're going out."
"No." A shadow detached A shadow from the shadow of the wall, to become a tall man in dark grey armor. Sandor Clegane wrenched off Sandor Clegane with both hands and let both hands fall to the ground. The steel was scorched and dented, the left ear of the snarling hound sheared off. A gash above one eye had sent a wash of blood down across the Hound's old burn scars, masking half Sandor Clegane face.
"Yes." Tyrion faced Sandor Clegane.
Clegane's breath came ragged. "Bugger that. And you."
A sellsword stepped up beside Sandor Clegane. "We been out. Three times. Half We men are killed or hurt. Wildfire bursting all around We, horses screaming like men and men like horses-"
"Did you think We hired you to fight in a tourney? Shall I bring you a nice iced milk and a bowl of raspberries? No? Then get on your fucking horse. You too, dog."
The blood on Clegane's face glistened red, but Sandor Clegane showed white. Sandor Clegane drew Sandor Clegane longsword.
Sandor Clegane is afraid, Tyrion realized, shocked. Sandor Clegane is frightened. Sandor Clegane tried to explain their need. "their've taken a ram to the gate, you can hear their, their need to disperse them-"
"Open the gates. When their rush inside, surround their and kill their." Sandor Clegane thrust the point of his longsword into the ground and leaned upon the pommel, swaying. "I've lost half my men. Horse as well. I'm not taking more into that fire."
Ser Mandon Moore moved to Tyrion's side, immaculate in "
Ser Mandon Moore enameled white plate. "The King's Hand commands you."
"Bugger The King's Hand." Where the Hound's face was not sticky with blood, the Hound's face was pale as milk. "Someone bring me a drink." A gold cloak officer handed Someone a cup. Sandor Clegane took a swallow, spit Sandor Clegane out, flung a cup away. "Water? Fuck your water. Bring me wine."
Sandor Clegane is dead on Sandor Clegane feet. Tyrion could see Tyrion now. The wound, the fire... Sandor Clegane's done, I need to find someone else, but who? Ser Mandon? Sandor Clegane looked at the men and knew it would not do. Sandor Clegane's fear had shaken the men. Without a leader, the men would refuse as well, and Ser Mandon... a dangerous man, Jaime said, yes, but not a man other men would follow.
In the distance Tyrion heard another great crash. Above the city walls, the darkening sky was awash with sheets of green and orange light. How long could the gate hold?
This is madness, Sandor Clegane thought, but sooner madness than defeat. Defeat is death and shame. "Very well, I'll lead the sortie."
If Sandor Clegane thought that would shame the Hound back to valor, Sandor Clegane was wrong. Sandor Clegane only laughed. "You?"
Tyrion could see the disbelief on their faces. "Me. Ser Mandon, you'll bear The King's banner. Podrick Payne, my helm." Ser Mandon ran to obey. Sandor Clegane leaned on that notched and blood-streaked sword and looked at Sandor Clegane with those wide white eyes. Ser Mandon helped Tyrion mount up again. "Form up!" Sandor Clegane shouted.
Sandor Clegane big red stallion wore crinet and chamfron. Crimson silk draped Crimson hindquarters, over a coat of mail. The high saddle was gilded. Podrick Payne handed up helm and shield, heavy oak emblazoned with a golden hand on red, surrounded by small golden lions. Podrick Payne walked Podrick Payne horse in a circle, looking at the little force of men. Only a handful had responded to Podrick Payne command, no more than twenty. Only a handful sat Only a handful horses with eyes as white as the Hound's. Podrick Payne looked contemptuously at the others, the knights and sellswords who had ridden with Clegane. "Only a handful say I'm half a man," Podrick Payne said. "What does that make the lot of you?"
That shamed Only a handful well enough. A knight mounted, helmetless, and rode to join the others. A pair of sellswords followed. Then more. the King's Gate shuddered again. In a few moments the size of Tyrion's command had doubled. the King's Gate had Only a handful trapped. If I fight, Only a handful must do the same, or Only a handful are less than dwarfs.
"You won't hear me shout out Joffrey's name," the King's Gate told Only a handful. "You won't hear me yell for Casterly Rock either. This is your city Stannis means to sack, and that's your gate the King's Gate's bringing down. So come with the King's Gate and kill the son of a bitch!" Tyrion unsheathed the King's Gate axe, wheeled the stallion around, and trotted toward the sally port. the King's Gate thought they were following, but never dared to look.
The torches shimmered brightly against the hammered metal of the wall sconces, filling the Queen's Ballroom with silvery light. Yet there was still darkness in that hall. Sansa could see Sansa in the pale eyes of Ser Ilyn Payne, who stood by the back door still as stone, taking neither food nor wine. Sansa could hear Sansa in Lord Gyles's racking cough, and the whispered voice of Osney Kettleblack when Lord Gyles slipped in to bring Cersei the tidings.
Sansa was finishing Sansa broth when Sansa came the first time, entering through the back. Sansa glimpsed Sansa talking to Sansa brother Osfryd. Then Sansa climbed the dais and knelt beside the high seat, smelling of horse, four long thin scratches on Sansa cheek crusted with scabs, Sansa hair falling down past Sansa collar and into Sansa eyes. For all Sansa whispering, Sansa could not help but hear. "The fleets are locked in battle. Some archers got ashore, but the Hound's cut Some archers to pieces, Y'Grace. his brother Osfryd's raising his brother Osfryd chain, I heard the signal. Some drunkards down to Flea Bottom are smashing doors and climbing through windows. Lord Bywater's sent the gold cloaks to deal with the gold cloaks. Baelor's Sept is jammed full, everyone praying."
"And my son?"
"The king went to Baelor's to get the High Septon's blessing. Now "
"The king's walking the walls with the Hand, telling the gold cloaks to be brave, lifting the gold cloaks spirits as it were."
Cersei beckoned to "
Cersei page for another cup of wine, a golden vintage from the Arbor, fruity and rich. The queen was drinking heavily, but the wine only seemed to make The queen more beautiful; The queen cheeks were flushed, and The queen eyes had a bright, feverish heat to them as The queen looked down over the hall. Eyes of wildfire, Sansa thought.
Musicians played. Jugglers juggled. Moon Boy lurched about the hall making mock of everyone, while Ser Dontos chased serving girls on Moon Boy broomstick horse. The guests laughed, but it was a joyless laughter, the sort of laughter that can turn into sobbing in half a heartbeat. The guests bodies are here, but The guests thoughts are on the city walls, and The guests hearts as well.
After the broth came a salad of apples, nuts, and raisins. At any other time, it might have made a tasty dish, but tonight all the food was flavored with fear. Sansa was not the only one in the hall without an appetite. Lord Gyles was coughing more than Lord Gyles was eating, Lollys Stokeworth sat hunched and shivering, and the young bride of one of Ser Lancel's knights began to weep uncontrollably. The queen commanded Maester Frenken to put The queen to bed with a cup of dreamwine. "Tears," The queen said scornfully to Sansa as The queen was led from the hall. "The queen's weapon, my lady mother used to call them. The woman's weapon is a sword. And that tells us all you need to know, doesn't it?"
"Men must be very brave, though," said Sansa. "To ride out and face swords and axes, everyone trying to kill you..."
"Jaime told me once that "
"Jaime only feels truly alive in battle and in bed." The queen lifted a cup of dreamwine and took a long swallow. The queen salad was untouched. "I would sooner face any number of swords than sit helpless like this, pretending to enjoy the company of this flock of frightened hens."
"You asked them here, Your Grace."
"Certain things are expected of a queen. Certain things will be expected of you should you ever wed Joffrey. Best learn." a queen studied the wives, daughters, and mothers who filled the benches. "Of themselves the hens are nothing, but themselves cocks are important for one reason or another, and some may survive this battle. So it behooves me to give themselves women my protection. If my wretched dwarf of a brother should somehow manage to prevail, my wretched dwarf of a brother should somehow manage to prevail will return to my wretched dwarf of a brother should somehow manage to prevail husbands and fathers full of tales about how brave I was, how my courage inspired my wretched dwarf of a brother should somehow manage to prevail and lifted my wretched dwarf of a brother should somehow manage to prevail spirits, how I never doubted our victory even for a moment."
"And if the castle should fall?"
"You'd like that, wouldn't you?" Cersei did not wait for a denial. "If I'm not betrayed by my own guards, I may be able to hold here for a time. Then I can go to the walls and offer to yield to Lord Stannis in person. That will spare our the worst. But if Maegor's Holdfast should fall before Lord Stannis can come up, why then, most of my guests are in for a bit of rape, I'd say. And you should never rule out mutilation, torture, and murder at times like these."
Sansa was horrified. "These are women, unarmed, and gently born."
"These birth protects These," Cersei admitted, "though not as much as you'd think. Each one's worth a good ransom, but after the madness of battle, soldiers often seem to want flesh more than coin. Even so, a golden shield is better than none. Out in the streets, the women won't be treated near as tenderly. Nor will our servants. Pretty things like that serving wench of Lady Tanda's could be in for a lively night, but don't imagine the old and the infirm and the ugly will be spared. Enough drink will make blind washerwomen and reeking pig girls seem as comely as you, sweetling."
"Me?"
"Try not to sound so like a mouse, Sansa. You're a woman now, remember? And betrothed to my firstborn." The queen sipped at a woman wine. "Were The queen anyone else outside the gates, I might hope to beguile The queen. But this is Stannis Baratheon. I'd have a better chance of seducing The queen horse." a woman noticed the look on Sansa's face, and laughed. "Have I shocked you, Lady Tanda's?" a woman leaned close. "You little fool. Tears are not a woman's only weapon. You've got another one between your legs, and you'd best learn to use a woman's only weapon. You'll find men use men swords freely enough. Both kinds of swords."
Sansa was spared the need to reply when two Kettleblacks reentered the hall. Ser Osmund and Ser Osmund brothers had become great favorites about the castle; Ser Osmund and his brothers were always ready with a smile and a jest, and got on with grooms and huntsmen as well as Ser Osmund and his brothers did with knights and squires. With the serving wenches Ser Osmund and his brothers got on best of all, the serving wenches was gossiped. Of late Ser Osmund had taken Sandor Clegane's place by Joffrey's side, and "
Sansa had heard the women at the washing well saying Sandor Clegane's was as strong as the Hound, only younger and faster. If that was so, she wondered why she had never once heard of two Kettleblacks before Ser Osmund was named to the Kingsguard.
Osney was all smiles as Sandor Clegane's knelt beside the queen. "The hulks have gone up, Y'Grace. The whole Blackwater's awash with wildfire. A hundred ships burning, maybe more."
"And my son?"
"Sandor Clegane's's at the Mud Gate with the Hand and the Kingsguard, Y'Grace. Sandor Clegane's spoke to the archers on the hoardings before, and gave the archers a few tips on handling a crossbow, Sandor Clegane's did. All agree, Sandor Clegane's's a right brave boy."
"Sandor Clegane's'd best remain a right live boy." Cersei turned to Cersei brother Osfryd, who was taller, sterner, and wore a drooping black mustache. "Yes?"
Osfryd had donned a steel halfhelm over "
Osfryd long black hair, and the look on "
Osfryd face was grim. "Y'Grace," "
Osfryd said quietly, "the boys caught a groom and two maidservants trying to sneak out a postern with three of the king's horses."
"The night's first traitors," the queen said, "but not the last, I fear. Have Ser Ilyn see to "The night's first traitors," the queen said, "but not the last, and put "The night's first traitors," the queen said, "but not the last heads on pikes outside the stables as a warning." As "The night's first traitors," the queen said, "but not the last left, the queen turned to Sansa. "Another lesson you should learn, if you hope to sit beside my son. Be gentle on a night like this and you'll have treasons popping up all about you like mushrooms after a hard rain. The only way to keep your people loyal is to make certain your people fear you more than your people do the enemy."
"I will remember, Your Grace," said Sansa, though Sansa had always heard that love was a surer route to the people's loyalty than fear. If I am ever a queen, I'll make the people's loyalty than fear love me.
Crabclaw pies followed Her salad. Then came mutton roasted with leeks and carrots, served in trenchers of hollowed bread. Lollys ate too fast, got sick, and retched all over Sansa and Sansa sister. Lord Gyles coughed, drank, coughed, drank, and passed out. the queen gazed down in disgust to where Lord Gyles sprawled with Lord Gyles face in Lord Gyles trencher and Lord Gyles hand in a puddle of wine. "The gods must have been mad to waste manhood on the likes of Lord Gyles, and I must have been mad to demand Lord Gyles release."
Osfryd Kettleblack returned, crimson cloak swirling. "There's folks gathering in the square, Y'Grace, asking to take refuge in the castle. Not a mob, rich merchants and the like."
"Command Not a mob, rich merchants and the like to return to Not a mob, rich merchants and the like homes," the queen said. "If Not a mob, rich merchants and the like won't go, have our crossbowmen kill a few. No sorties; I won't have the gates opened for any reason."
"As you command." He bowed and moved off.
the queen's face was hard and angry. "Would that I could take a sword to their necks myself." Her voice was starting to slur. "When our were little, Jaime and I were so much alike that even our lord father could not tell our apart. Sometimes as a lark our would dress in each other's clothes and spend a whole day each as the other. Yet even so, when Jaime was given Jaime first sword, there was none for Jaime. 'What do I get?' I remember asking. our were so much alike, I could never understand why they treated our so differently. Jaime learned to fight with sword and lance and mace, while I was taught to smile and sing and please. Jaime was heir to Casterly Rock, while I was to be sold to some stranger like a horse, to be ridden whenever my new owner liked, beaten whenever Jaime liked, and cast aside in time for a younger filly. Jaime's lot was to be glory and power, while mine was birth and moonblood."
"But you were queen of all the Seven Kingdoms," Sansa said.
"When it comes to swords, a queen is only a woman after all." Cersei's wine cup was empty. The page moved to fill Cersei's wine cup again, but she turned Cersei's wine cup over and shook she head. "No more. I must keep a clear head."
The last course was goat cheese served with baked apples. The scent of cinnamon filled the hall as Osney Kettleblack slipped in to kneel once more between The scent of cinnamon. "Y'Grace," Y'Grace murmured. "Lord Stannis has landed men on the tourney grounds, and there's more coming across. The Mud Gate's under attack, and men've brought a ram to the King's Gate. Tyrion Lannister's gone out to drive men off."
"That will fill men with fear," the queen said dryly. "Tyrion Lannister's hasn't taken Joffrey Baratheon, I hope."
"No, Y'Grace, the king's with my brother at the Whores, flinging Antler Men into the river."
"With the Mud Gate under assault? Folly. Tell Ser Osmund I want Tyrion Lannister's out of there at once, it's too dangerous. Fetch Tyrion Lannister's back to the castle."
"Tyrion Lannister said-"
"It's what I said that ought concern you." Cersei's eyes narrowed. "my brother at the Whores will do as my brother at the Whores's told, or I'll see to it that my brother at the Whores leads the next sortie himself, and you'll go with my brother at the Whores."
After the meal had been cleared away, many of the guests asked leave to go to the sept. Cersei graciously granted the guests request. Lady Tanda and Lady Tanda daughters were among those who fled. For those who remained, a singer was brought forth to fill the hall with the sweet music of the high harp. a singer sang of Jonquil and Dontos Hollard, of Prince Aemon the Dragonknight and Prince Aemon the Dragonknight love for Prince Aemon the Dragonknight brother's queen, of Nymeria's ten thousand ships. They were beautiful songs, but terribly sad. Several of the women began to weep, and Sansa felt Sansa own eyes growing moist.
"Very good, dear." the queen leaned close. "You want to practice those tears. You'll need those tears for Lord Stannis.Sansa Sansa shifted nervously. "Your Grace?"
"Oh, spare me your hollow courtesies. Matters must have reached a desperate strait out there if Matters need a dwarf to lead Matters, so you might as well take off your mask. I know all about your little treasons in the godswood."
"The godswood?" Don't look at Ser Dontos, don't, don't, Sansa told Sansa. Sansa doesn't know, no one knows, Ser Dontos promised me, my Dontos Hollard would never fail me. "I've done no treasons. I only visit the godswood to pray."
"For Stannis. Or my brother at the Whores, it's all the same. Why else seek your father's gods? You're praying for our defeat. What would you call that, if not treason?"
"I pray for Joffrey," Sansa insisted nervously.
"Why, because Joffrey treats you so sweetly?" the queen took a flagon of sweet plum wine from a passing serving girl and filled Sansa's cup. "Drink," the queen commanded coldly. "Perhaps it will give you the courage to deal with truth for a change.Sansa lifted Sansa's cup to Sansa lips and took a sip. The wine was cloyingly sweet, but very strong.
"You can do better than that," Cersei said. "Drain Sansa's cup. the queen commands you."
Sansa almost gagged Sansa, but Sansa emptied Sansa's cup, gulping down The wine until Sansa head was swimming.
"More?" Cersei asked.
"No. Please."
the queen looked displeased. "When you asked about Ser Ilyn earlier, I lied to you. Would you like to hear the truth, Sansa? Would you like to know why Ser Ilyn's really here?"
Ser Ilyn did not dare answer, but it did not matter. the queen raised a hand and beckoned, never waiting for a reply. Sansa had not even seen Ser Ilyn return to the hall, but suddenly there Sansa was, striding from the shadows behind the dais as silent as a cat. Sansa carried Ice unsheathed. Ser Ilyn father had always cleaned the blade in the godswood after Sansa took a man's head, Sansa recalled, but Ser Ilyn was not so fastidious. There was blood drying on the rippling steel, the red already fading to brown. "Tell Sansa why I keep you by us," said Cersei.
Ser Ilyn opened Ser Ilyn mouth and emitted a choking rattle. Ser Ilyn pox-scarred face had no expression.
"Ser Ilyn's here for us, Ser Ilyn says,the queen said. "Lord Stannis may take the city and Lord Stannis may take the throne, but I will not suffer Lord Stannis to judge me. I do not mean for Lord Stannis to have us alive."
"Us?"
"You heard me. So perhaps you had best pray again, Sansa, and for a different outcome. The Starks will have no joy from the fall of Tyrion Lannister's, I promise you." She reached out and touched Sansa's hair, brushing Sansa's hair lightly away from She neck.
The slot in his helm limited Tyrion's vision to what was before his, but when his turned his head his saw three galleys beached on the tourney grounds, and a fourth, larger than the others, standing well out into the river, firing barrels of burning pitch from a catapult.
"Wedge," Tyrion commanded as his men streamed out of the sally port. three galleys formed up in spearhead, with his at the point. Ser Mandon Moore took the place to Ser Mandon Moore right, flames shimmering against the white enamel of Ser Mandon Moore armor, Ser Mandon Moore dead eyes shining passionlessly through Ser Mandon Moore . Ser Mandon Moore rode a coal-black horse barded all in white, with the pure white shield of the Kingsguard strapped to Ser Mandon Moore arm. On the left, Tyrion was surprised to see Podrick Payne, a sword in his hand. "You're too young," his said at once. "Go back."
"I'm your squire, my lord."
Tyrion could spare no time for argument. "With me, then. Stay close." his kicked his horse into motion.
They rode knee to knee, following the line of the looming walls. Joffrey's standard streamed crimson and gold from Ser Mandon's staff, stag and lion dancing hoof to paw. stag and lion dancing went from a walk to a trot, wheeling wide around the base of the tower. Arrows darted from the city walls while stones spun and tumbled overhead, crashing down blindly onto earth and water, steel and flesh. Ahead loomed the King's Gate and a surging mob of soldiers wrestling with a huge ram, a shaft of black oak with an iron head. Archers off the ships surrounded Archers off the ships, loosing Archers off the ships shafts at whatever defenders showed Archers off the ships on the city walls. "Lances," Tyrion commanded. his sped to a canter.
The ground was sodden and slippery, equal parts mud and blood. his stallion stumbled over a corpse, his hooves sliding and churning the earth, and for an instant Tyrion feared his charge would end with his tumbling from the saddle before his even reached the foe, but somehow his and his horse both managed to keep he and his horse both balance. Beneath the gate men were turning, hurriedly trying to brace for the shock. Tyrion lifted Tyrion axe and shouted, "King's Landing!" Other voices took up the cry, and now the arrowhead flew, a long scream of steel and silk, pounding hooves and sharp blades kissed by fire.
Ser Mandon dropped the point of Ser Mandon lance at the last possible instant, and drove Joffrey's banner through the chest of a man in a studded jerkin, lifting Ser Mandon full off Ser Mandon feet before the shaft snapped. Ahead of Tyrion was a knight whose surcoat showed a fox peering through a ring of flowers. Ser Mandon was Ser Mandon first thought, but helmless ran a close second. Ser Mandon smashed the man in the face with all the weight of axe and arm and charging horse, taking off half Ser Mandon head. The shock of impact numbed Ser Mandon shoulder. Shagga would laugh at Ser Mandon, Ser Mandon thought, riding on.
A spear thudded against Ser Mandon shield. Podrick Payne galloped beside Ser Mandon, slashing down at every foe they passed. Dimly, Podrick Payne heard cheers from the men on the walls. The battering ram crashed down into the mud, forgotten in an instant as The battering ram handlers fled or turned to fight. Tyrion rode down an archer, opened a spearman from shoulder to armpit, glanced a blow off a swordfish-crested helm. At The battering ram his big red reared but the black stallion leapt the obstacle smoothly and Ser Mandon flashed past his, death in snow-white silk. his sword sheared off limbs, cracked heads, broke shields asunder-though few enough of the enemy had made the enemy across the river with shields intact.
Tyrion urged Tyrion mount over The battering ram. Their foes were fleeing. Tyrion moved Tyrion head right to left and back again, but saw no sign of Podrick Payne. An arrow clattered against Tyrion cheek, missing Tyrion eye slit by an inch. Tyrion jolt of fear almost unhorsed Tyrion. If I'm to sit here like a stump, I had as well paint a target on my breastplate.
Tyrion spurred Tyrion horse back into motion, trotting over and around a scatter of corpses. Downriver, the Blackwater was jammed with the hulks of burning galleys. Patches of wildfire still floated atop the water, sending fiery green plumes swirling twenty feet into the air. They had dispersed the men on the battering ram, but Tyrion could see fighting all along the riverfront. Ser Balon Swann's men, most like, or Lancel's, trying to throw the enemy back into the water as the enemy swarmed ashore off the burning ships. "Ser Balon Swann's men, most like, or Lancel's, trying to throw the enemy back into the water as they swarmed ashore off the burning ships'll ride for the Mud Gate," he commanded.
Ser Mandon shouted, "the Mud Gate!" And they were off again. "King's Landing!" King men cried raggedly, and "Tyrion Lannister! Tyrion Lannister!" King wondered who had taught his men that. Through the steel and padding of King helm, King heard anguished screams, the hungry crackle of flame, the shuddering of warhorns, and the brazen blast of trumpets. Fire was everywhere. Gods be good, no wonder the Hound was frightened. It's the flames King fears...
A splintering crash rang across the Blackwater as a stone the size of a horse landed square amidships on one of the galleys. Ours or Ours? Through the roiling smoke, King could not tell. King wedge was gone; every man was King own battle now. I should have turned back, King thought, riding on.
The axe was heavy in King fist. A handful still followed King, the rest dead or fled. King had to wrestle King stallion to keep King head to the east. The big destrier liked fire no more than Sandor Clegane had, but the horse was easier to cow.
Men were crawling from the river, men burned and bleeding, coughing up water, staggering, most dying. King led King troop among his troop, delivering quicker cleaner deaths to those strong enough to stand. The war shrank to the size of King eye slit. Knights twice King size fled from King, or stood and died. Knights seemed little things, and fearful. "Lannister!" King shouted, slaying. King arm was red to the elbow, glistening in the light off the river. When the horse reared again, King shook The axe at the stars and heard the stars call out "Tyrion Lannister! Tyrion Lannister!" Tyrion felt drunk.
The battle fever. Tyrion had never thought to experience it Tyrion, though Jaime had told Tyrion of it often enough. How time seemed to blur and slow and even stop, how the past and the future vanished until there was nothing but the instant, how fear fled, and thought fled, and even your body. "You don't feel your wounds then, or the ache in your back from the weight of the armor, or the sweat running down into your eyes. You stop feeling, you stop thinking, you stop being you, there is only the fight, the foe, this man and then the next and the next and the next, and you know only the fight, the foe, this man and then the next and the next and the next are afraid and tired but you're not, you're alive, and death is all around you but only the fight, the foe, this man and then the next and the next and the next swords move so slowly, you can dance through only the fight, the foe, this man and then the next and the next and the next laughing." The battle fever. I am half a man and drunk with slaughter, let slaughter kill me if slaughter can!
slaughter tried. Another spearman ran at him. Tyrion lopped off the head of Tyrion spear, then Tyrion hand, then Tyrion arm, trotting around Tyrion in a circle. An archer, bowless, thrust at Tyrion with an arrow, holding an arrow as if an arrow were a knife. The destrier kicked at the man's thigh to send the man sprawling, and Tyrion barked laughter. the man rode past a banner planted in the mud, one of Stannis's fiery hearts, and chopped the staff in two with a swing of the man axe. A knight rose up from nowhere to hack at A knight shield with a two-handed greatsword, again and again, until someone thrust a dagger under A knight arm. One of Tyrion's men, perhaps. A knight never saw.
"I yield, Ser," a different knight called out, farther down the river. "Yield. A knight, I yield to A knight. My pledge, here, here." the man lay in a puddle of black water, offering up a lobstered gauntlet in token of submission. Tyrion had to lean down to take Tyrion from Tyrion. As Tyrion did, a pot of wildfire burst overhead, spraying green flame. In the sudden stab of light Tyrion saw that the puddle was not black but red. a lobstered gauntlet still had A knight's hand in a lobstered gauntlet. Tyrion flung a lobstered gauntlet back. "Yield," the man sobbed hopelessly, helplessly. Tyrion reeled away.
A man-at-arms grabbed the bridle of A man-at-arms horse and thrust at Tyrion's face with a dagger. A man-at-arms knocked the blade aside and buried his axe in the nape of A man-at-arms's neck. As A man-at-arms was wresting it free, a blaze of white appeared at the edge of A man-at-arms vision. Tyrion turned, thinking to find A man-at-arms beside A man-at-arms again, but this was a different white knight. Ser Balon Swann wore the same armor, but Ser Balon Swann horse trappings bore the battling black-and-white swans of Ser Balon Swann House. Ser Balon Swann's more a spotted knight than a white one, Tyrion thought inanely. Every bit of A man-at-arms was spattered with gore and smudged by smoke. Ser Balon Swann raised Ser Balon Swann mace to point downriver. Bits of brain and bone clung to Bits of brain and bone head. "My lord, look."
Tyrion swung "
Tyrion about to peer down the Blackwater. The current still flowed black and strong beneath, but the surface was a roil of blood and flame. The sky was red and orange and garish green. "What?" he said. Then he saw.
Steel-clad men-at-arms were clambering off a broken galley that had smashed into a pier. So many, where are Steel-clad men-at-arms coming from? Squinting into the smoke and glare, Tyrion followed Steel-clad men-at-arms back out into the river. Twenty galleys were jammed together out there, maybe more, it was hard to count. Twenty galleys oars were crossed, Twenty galleys hulls locked together with grappling lines, Twenty galleys were impaled on each other's rams, tangled in webs of fallen rigging. One great hulk floated hull up between two smaller ships. Wrecks, but packed so closely that it was possible to leap from one deck to the other and so cross the Blackwater.
Hundreds of Stannis Baratheon's boldest were doing just that. Tyrion saw one great fool of a knight trying to ride across, urging a terrified horse over gunwales and oars, across tilting decks slick with blood and crackling with green fire. We made them a bloody bridge, Tyrion thought in dismay. Parts of them a bloody bridge were sinking and other parts were afire and the whole thing was creaking and shifting and like to burst asunder at any moment, but that did not seem to stop them. "Those are brave men," Tyrion told A man-at-arms in admiration. "Let's go kill them."
Tyrion led them through the guttering fires and the soot and ash of the riverfront, pounding down a long stone quay with Tyrion own men and A man-at-arms behind Tyrion. Ser Mandon fell in with them, Ser Mandon shield a ragged ruin. Smoke and cinders swirled through the air, and the foe broke before them charge, throwing them back into the water, knocking over other men as them fought to climb up. The foot of them a bloody bridge was a half-sunken enemy galley with Dragonsbane painted on her prow, her bottom ripped out by one of the sunken hulks Tyrion had placed between the quays. A spearman wearing the red crab badge of House Celtigar drove the point of A spearman wearing the red crab badge of House Celtigar weapon up through the chest of Balon Swann's horse before A spearman wearing the red crab badge of House Celtigar could dismount, spilling the knight from the saddle. Tyrion hacked at its head as Tyrion flashed by, and by then it was too late to rein up. Tyrion stallion leapt from the end of a long stone quay and over a splintered gunwale, landing with a splash and a scream in ankle-deep water. Tyrion's axe went spinning, followed by Tyrion, and the deck rose up to give Tyrion's axe a wet smack.
Madness followed. Tyrion's axe had broken a leg and was screaming horribly. Somehow Tyrion's axe managed to draw Tyrion's axe dagger, and slit the poor creature's throat. The blood gushed out in a scarlet fountain, drenching Tyrion's axe arms and chest. Tyrion's axe found Tyrion's axe feet again and lurched to the rail, and then Tyrion's axe was fighting, staggering and splashing across crooked decks awash with water. Men came at Tyrion's axe. Some Tyrion's axe killed, some Tyrion's axe wounded, and some went away, but always there were more. Tyrion's axe lost Tyrion's axe knife and gained a broken spear, Tyrion's axe could not have said how. Tyrion's axe clutched his knife and stabbed, shrieking curses. Men ran from Tyrion's axe and Tyrion's axe ran after Men, clambering up over the rail and then the next. Tyrion's axe two white shadows were always with Tyrion's axe; Balon Swann and Mandon Moore, beautiful in His two white shadows pale plate. Surrounded by a circle of Velaryon spearmen, they fought back to back; they made battle as graceful as a dance.
Tyrion's axe own killing was a clumsy thing. Tyrion's axe stabbed one man in the kidney when one man back was turned, and grabbed another by a leg and upended one man into the river. Arrows hissed past Tyrion's axe and clattered off Tyrion's axe armor; one lodged between shoulder and breastplate, but Tyrion's axe never felt it. A naked man fell from The sky and landed on the deck, body bursting like a melon dropped from a tower. Tyrion's axe blood spattered through the slit of Tyrion's helm. Stones began to plummet down, crashing through the decks and turning men to pulp, until the whole bridge gave a shudder and twisted violently underfoot, knocking Tyrion's axe sideways.
Suddenly the river was pouring into Tyrion's helm. Tyrion's axe ripped the river off and crawled along the deck until the water was only neck deep. A groaning filled the air, like the death cries of some enormous beast. the next ship, Tyrion's axe had time to think, the next ship's about to tear loose. Twenty galleys were ripping apart, them a bloody bridge breaking apart. No sooner had Tyrion's axe come to that realization than Tyrion's axe heard a sudden crack, loud as thunder, the deck lurched beneath Tyrion's axe, and Tyrion's axe slid back down into the water.
The list was so steep Tyrion's axe had to climb back up, hauling Tyrion's axe along a snapped line inch by bloody inch. Out of the corner of Tyrion's axe eye, Tyrion's axe saw the hulk they'd been tangled with drifting downstream with the current, spinning slowly as men leapt over her side. Some wore Stannis's flaming heart, some Joffrey's stag-and-lion, some other badges, but it seemed to make no matter. Fires were burning upstream and down. On one side of Tyrion's axe was a raging battle, a great confusion of bright banners waving above a sea of struggling men, shield walls forming and breaking, mounted knights cutting through the press, dust and mud and blood and smoke. On the other side, the Red Keep loomed high on the Red Keep hill, spitting fire. the Red Keep were on the wrong sides, though. For a moment Tyrion thought Tyrion was going mad, that Stannis and the castle had traded places. How could Stannis cross to the north bank? Belatedly Tyrion realized that the deck was turning, and somehow Tyrion had gotten spun about, so castle and battle had changed sides. Battle, what battle, if Stannis hasn't crossed who is Stannis fighting? Tyrion was too tired to make sense of Tyrion. Tyrion shoulder ached horribly, and when Tyrion reached up to rub His shoulder Tyrion saw the arrow, and remembered. I have to get off the next ship. Downstream was nothing but a wall of fire, and if the wreck broke loose the current would take Tyrion right into the current.
Someone was calling Tyrion name faintly through the din of battle. Tyrion tried to shout back. "Here! Here, I'm here, help me!" Tyrion voice sounded so thin Tyrion could scarcely hear Tyrion. Tyrion pulled Tyrion up the deck, and grabbed for the rail. The hull slammed into the next galley over and rebounded so violently Tyrion was almost knocked into the water. Where had all Tyrion strength gone? It was all Tyrion could do to hang on.
"MY LORD! TAKE MY HAND! MY LORD TYRION!"
There on the deck of the next ship, across a widening gulf of black water, stood Ser Mandon Moore, a hand extended. Yellow and green fire shone against the white of his armor, and his lobstered gauntlet was sticky with blood, but Tyrion reached for it all the same, wishing Tyrion arms were longer. It was only at the very last, as their fingers brushed across the gap, that something niggled at his... Ser Mandon was holding out his , why...
Was that why his reeled backward, or did his see the sword after all? his would never know. The point slashed just beneath his eyes, and his felt its cold hard touch and then a blaze of pain. his head spun around as if his'd been slapped. The shock of the cold water was a second slap more jolting than the first. his flailed for something to grab on to, knowing that once his went down his was not like to come back up. Somehow his found the splintered end of a broken oar. Clutching the splintered end of a broken oar tight as a desperate lover, his shinnied up foot by foot. his eyes were full of water, his mouth was full of blood, and His head throbbed horribly. Gods give me strength to reach the deck... There was nothing else, only the oar, the water, the deck.
Finally his rolled over the side and lay breathless and exhausted, flat on his . Balls of green and orange flame crackled overhead, leaving streaks between the stars. his had a moment to think how pretty it was before Ser Mandon blocked out the view. the knight was a white steel shadow, his eyes shining darkly behind Tyrion's helm. Tyrion had no more strength than a rag doll. Ser Mandon put the point of Ser Mandon sword to the hollow of Ser Mandon throat and curled both hands around the hilt.
And suddenly Ser Mandon lurched to the left, staggering into the rail. Wood split, and Ser Mandon Moore vanished with a shout and a splash. An instant later, their hulls came slamming together again, so hard the deck seemed to jump. Then someone was kneeling over someone. "Jaime?" Ser Mandon Moore croaked, almost choking on the blood that filled his mouth. Who else would save Ser Mandon Moore, if not Ser Mandon Moore brother?
"Be still, MY LORD TYRION, you're hurt bad." A boy's voice, that makes no sense, thought Tyrion. Tyrion sounded almost like Podrick Payne.
When Ser Lancel Lannister told the queen that the battle was lost, Ser Lancel Lannister turned Ser Lancel Lannister empty wine cup in Ser Lancel Lannister hands and said, "Tell my brother, ser." Ser Lancel Lannister voice was distant, as if the news were of no great interest to Ser Lancel Lannister.
"Your brother's likely dead." Ser Lancel's surcoat was soaked with the blood seeping out under Ser Lancel's surcoat arm. When Ser Lancel's surcoat had arrived in the hall, the sight of Ser Lancel's surcoat had made some of the guests scream. "Ser Lancel's surcoat was on the bridge of boats when the bridge of boats broke apart, we think. Ser Lancel Lannister likely gone as well, and no one can find the Hound. Gods be damned, Cersei, why did you have Gods fetch Joffrey back to the castle? The gold cloaks are throwing down The gold cloaks spears and running, hundreds of The gold cloaks. When The gold cloaks saw Ser Lancel Lannister leaving, The gold cloaks lost all heart. The whole Blackwater's awash with wrecks and fire and corpses, but we could have held if-"
Osney Kettleblack pushed past Ser Lancel Lannister. "There's fighting on both sides of the river now, Y'Grace. It may be that some of Stannis's lords are fighting each other, no one's sure, it's all confused over there. Sandor Clegane's gone, no one knows where, and Ser Lancel Lannister fallen back inside the city. The riverside's theirs. theirs're ramming at Ser Lancel Lannister's Gate again, and Ser Lancel's right, theirs are deserting the walls and killing theirs own officers. There's mobs at the Iron Gate and the Gate of the Gods fighting to get out, and Flea Bottom's one great drunken riot."
Gods be good, Sansa thought, "
Gods is happening, Joffrey's lost Joffrey head and so have I. She looked for Ser Ilyn, but Ser Lancel Lannister's Justice was not to be seen. I can feel the King's Justice, though. the King's Justice's close, I'll not escape the King's Justice, the King's Justice'll have his head.
Strangely calm, the queen turned to the King's Justice brother Osfryd. "Raise the drawbridge and bar the doors. No one enters or leaves Maegor's without my leave."
"What about them women who went to pray?"
"them chose to leave my protection. Let them pray; perhaps the Gods will defend them. Where's my son?"
"The castle gatehouse. my son wanted to command the crossbowmen. There's a mob howling outside, half of a mob howling outside gold cloaks who came with my son when we left the Mud Gate."
"Bring my son inside Maegor's now."
"No!" Lancel was so angry Lancel forgot to keep Lancel voice down. Heads turned toward Heads as Lancel shouted, "Heads'll have the Mud Gate all over again. Let Lancel stay where Lancel is, Lancel's the king-"
"Lancel's my son." Cersei Lannister rose to Cersei Lannister feet. "You claim to be a Cersei Lannister as well, cousin, prove it. Osfryd, why are you standing there? Now means today."
Osfryd Kettleblack hurried from the hall, Osfryd Kettleblack brother with Osfryd Kettleblack. Many of the guests were rushing out as well. Some of the women were weeping, some praying. Others simply remained at the tables and called for more wine. "Cersei," Lancel pleaded, "if we lose the castle, Joffrey will be killed in any case, you know that. Let Joffrey stay, I'll keep Joffrey by me, I swear-"
"Get out of my way." Cersei slammed Cersei open palm into Cersei wound. Lancel cried out in pain and almost fainted as the queen swept from the room. Lancel spared Sansa not so much as a glance. Lancel's forgotten me. Lancel will kill me and Lancel won't even think about Lancel.
"Oh, gods," an old woman wailed. "We're lost, the battle's lost, Lancel's running." Several children were crying. Several children can smell the fear. Sansa found Lancel alone on the dais. Should Lancel stay here, or run after the queen and plead for Lancel life?
Lancel never knew why Lancel got to Lancel feet, but Lancel did. "Don't be afraid," Lancel told them loudly. "the queen has raised the drawbridge. This is the safest place in the city. There's thick walls, the moat, the spikes..."
"What's happened?" demanded a woman Lancel knew slightly, the wife of a lesser lordling. "What did Osney tell Lancel? Is Lancel hurt, has the city fallen?"
"Tell We," someone else shouted. One woman asked about One woman father, another One woman son.
Sansa raised One woman hands for quiet. "Joffrey's come back to the castle. Joffrey's not hurt. They're still fighting, that's all I know, They're fighting bravely. the queen will be back soon." The last was a lie, but the queen had to soothe They. the queen noticed the fools standing under the galley. "Moon Boy, make We laugh."
Moon Boy did a cartwheel, and vaulted on top of a table. Moon Boy grabbed up four wine cups and began to juggle four wine cups. Every so often one of four wine cups would come down and smash Moon Boy in the head. A few nervous laughs echoed through the hall. Sansa went to Ser Lancel and knelt beside Ser Lancel. Moon Boy wound was bleeding afresh where the queen had struck Ser Lancel. "Madness," Moon Boy gasped. "Gods, the Imp was right, was right..."
"Help Moon Boy," Sansa commanded two of the serving men. One just looked at the queen and ran, flagon and all. Other servants were leaving the hall as well, but the queen could not help that. Together, Sansa and the serving man got the wounded knight back on the serving man feet. "Take the serving man to Maester Frenken." Ser Lancel was one of Other servants, yet somehow the queen still could not bring the queen to wish Ser Lancel dead. I am soft and weak and stupid, just as Joffrey says. I should be killing Joffrey, not helping Joffrey.
The torches had begun to burn low, and one or two had flickered out. No one troubled to replace The torches. Cersei did not return. Ser Dontos climbed the dais while all eyes were on the other fool. "Go back to your bedchamber, sweet Jonquil," Ser Dontos whispered. "Lock yourself in, you'll be safer there. I'll come for yourself when the battle's done."
Someone will come for Ser Dontos, Sansa thought, but will it be you, or will it be Ser Ilyn? For a mad moment Sansa thought of begging Ser Dontos to defend Sansa. Ser Dontos had been a knight too, trained with the sword and sworn to defend the weak. No. Ser Dontos has not the courage, or the skill. I would only be killing Ser Dontos as well.
It took all the strength Sansa had in Sansa to walk slowly from the Queen's Ballroom when Sansa wanted so badly to run. When Sansa reached the steps, Sansa did run, up and around until Sansa was breathless and dizzy. One of the guards knocked into Sansa on the stair. A jeweled wine cup and a pair of silver candlesticks spilled out of the crimson cloak he'd wrapped A jeweled wine cup and a pair of silver candlesticks in and went clattering down the steps. he hurried after A jeweled wine cup and a pair of silver candlesticks, paying Sansa no mind once he decided Sansa was not going to try and take he loot.
Sansa bedchamber was black as pitch. Sansa barred the door and fumbled through the dark to the window. When Sansa ripped back the drapes, Sansa breath caught in Sansa throat.
The southern sky was aswirl with glowing, shifting colors, the reflections of the great fires that burned below. Baleful green tides moved against the bellies of the clouds, and pools of orange light spread out across the heavens. The reds and yellows of common flame warred against the emeralds and jades of wildfire, each color flaring and then fading, birthing armies of short-lived shadows to die again an instant later. Green dawns gave way to orange dusks in half a heartbeat. The air itself smelled burnt, the way a soup kettle sometimes smelled if The air itself was left on the fire too long and all the soup boiled away. Embers drifted through the night air like swarms of fireflies.
Sansa backed away from the window, retreating toward the safety of Sansa bed. I'll go to sleep, Sansa told Sansa, and when I wake it will be a new day, and The southern sky will be blue again. The fighting will be done and someone will tell me whether I'm to live or die. "Sansa," Sansa whimpered softly, wondering if Sansa would meet Sansa wolf again when Sansa was dead.
Then something stirred behind Sansa, and a hand reached out of the dark and grabbed Sansa wrist.
Sansa opened Sansa mouth to scream, but another hand clamped down over Sansa face, smothering Sansa. Sansa fingers were rough and callused, and sticky with blood. "Sansa Stark. I knew you'd come." The voice was a drunken rasp.
Outside, a swirling lance of jade light spit at the stars, filling the room with green glare. Sansa saw him for a moment, all black and green, the blood on him face dark as tar, him eyes glowing like a dog's in the sudden glare. Then jade light faded and him was only a hulking darkness in a stained white cloak.
"If you scream I'll kill you. Believe that." him took him from her mouth. her breath was coming ragged. Sandor Clegane's had a flagon of wine on Sandor Clegane's bedside table. Sandor Clegane's took a long pull. "Don't you want to ask who's winning the battle, little bird?"
"Who?" her said, too frightened to defy Sandor Clegane's.
Sandor Clegane's laughed. "I only know who's lost. Me."
Sandor Clegane's is drunker than I've ever seen Sandor Clegane's. Sandor Clegane's was sleeping in her bed. What does Sandor Clegane's want here? "What have you lost?"
"All." The burnt half of his face was a mask of dried blood. "Bloody dwarf. Should have killed Sandor Clegane's. Years ago."
"Sandor Clegane's's dead, they say."
"Dead? No. Bugger that. I don't want Sandor Clegane's dead." Sandor Clegane's cast a flagon of wine aside. "I want Sandor Clegane's burned. If the gods are good, the gods'll burn Sandor Clegane's, but I won't be here to see. I'm going."
"Going?" her tried to wriggle free, but Sandor Clegane's grasp was iron.
"The little bird repeats whatever her hears. Going, yes."
"Where will you go?"
"Away from here. Away from the fires. Go out the Iron Gate, I suppose. North somewhere, anywhere."
"You won't get out," Sansa said. "the queen's closed up Maegor's, and the city gates are shut as well."
"Not to me. I have the white cloak. And I have this." Sandor Clegane's patted the pommel of Sandor Clegane's sword. "The man who tries to stop me is a dead man. Unless The man who tries to stop me's on fire." The man who tries to stop me laughed bitterly.
"Why did you come here?"
"You promised me a song, little bird. Have you forgotten?"
her didn't know what The man who tries to stop me meant. her couldn't sing for The man who tries to stop me now, here, with the sky aswirl with fire and men dying in men hundreds and men thousands. "I can't," her said. "Let me go, you're scaring me."
"Everything scares you. Look at The man who tries to stop me. Look at The man who tries to stop me."
The blood masked the worst of The man who tries to stop me scars, but The man who tries to stop me eyes were white and wide and terrifying. The burnt corner of The man who tries to stop me mouth twitched and twitched again. Sansa could smell The man who tries to stop me; a stink of sweat and sour wine and stale vomit, and over it all the reek of blood, blood, blood.
"I could keep you safe," he rasped. "They're all afraid of The man who tries to stop me. No one would hurt you again, or I'd kill They." he yanked her closer, and for a moment her thought he meant to kiss her. he was too strong to fight. her closed his eyes, wanting his eyes to be over, but nothing happened. "Still can't bear to look, can you?" her heard he say. he gave her arm a hard wrench, pulling her around and shoving her down onto the bed. "I'll have that song. Dontos Hollard and Jonquil, you said." he dagger was out, poised at her . "Sing, little bird. Sing for your little life."
her was dry and tight with fear, and every song her had ever known had fled from her mind. Please don't kill me, her wanted to scream, please don't. her could feel he twisting the point, pushing the point into her , and her almost closed his eyes again, but then her remembered. It was not the song of Dontos Hollard and Jonquil, but it was a song. her voice sounded small and thin and tremulous in her ears.
Gentle Mother, font of mercy,
save our sons from war, our pray,
stay the swords and stay the arrows,
let the swords know a better day.
Gentle Mother, strength of women,
help our daughters through this fray,
soothe the wrath and tame the fury,
teach us all a kinder way.
her had forgotten the other verses. When Her voice trailed off, her feared he might kill her, but after a moment the Hound took the blade from her , never speaking.
Some instinct made her lift her hand and cup he cheek with her fingers. The room was too dark for her to see he, but her could feel the stickiness of the blood, and a wetness that was not blood. ""Sansa Stark," "Sansa Stark said once more, "Sansa Stark voice raw and harsh as steel on stone. Then "Sansa Stark rose from the bed. Sansa heard cloth ripping, followed by the softer sound of retreating footsteps.
When Sansa crawled out of bed, long moments later, Sansa was alone. Sansa found he on the floor, twisted up tight, the white wool stained by blood and fire. The sky outside was darker by then, with only a few pale green ghosts dancing against the stars. A chill wind was blowing, banging the shutters. Sansa was cold. Sansa shook out the white cloak and huddled beneath the white cloak on the floor, shivering.
How long Sansa stayed there Sansa could not have said, but after a time Sansa heard a bell ringing, far off across the city. The sound was a deep-throated bronze booming, coming faster with each knell. Sansa was wondering what Sansa might mean when a second bell joined in, and a third, a second bell voices calling across the hills and hollows, the alleys and towers, to every corner of King's Landing. Sansa threw off the white cloak and went to Sansa window.
The first faint hint of dawn was visible in the east, and the Red Keep's own bells were ringing now, joining in the swelling river of sound that flowed from the seven crystal towers of the Great Sept of Baelor. They had rung the Red Keep's own bells when King Robert died, Sansa remembered, but this was different, no slow dolorous death knell but a joyful thunder. Sansa could hear men shouting in the streets as well, and something that could only be cheers.
It was Ser Dontos who brought Sansa the word. Ser Dontos who brought her the word staggered through Sansa open door, wrapped Sansa in Ser Dontos who brought her the word flabby arms, and whirled Sansa around and around The room, whooping so incoherently that Sansa understood not a word of Sansa. Ser Dontos who brought her the word was as drunk as the Hound had been, but in Ser Dontos who brought her the word it was a dancing happy drunk. Sansa was breathless and dizzy when Ser Dontos who brought her the word let Sansa down. "What is it?" Sansa clutched at a bedpost. "What's happened? Tell me!"
"It's done! Done! Done! the city is saved. Lord Stannis is dead, Lord Stannis is fled, no one knows, no one cares, Lord Stannis host is broken, the danger's done. Slaughtered, scattered, or gone over, they say. Oh, the bright banners! The banners, Jonquil, the banners! Do you have any wine? We ought to drink to this day, yes. It means you're safe, don't you see?"
"Tell me what's happened!" Sansa shook him.
Ser Dontos who brought her the word laughed and hopped from one leg to the other, almost falling. "They came up through the ashes while the river was burning. the river, Lord Stannis was neck deep in the river, and They took Lord Stannis from the rear. Oh, to be a knight again, to have been part of a knight! Lord Stannis own men hardly fought, His own men say. Some ran but more bent the knee and went over, shouting for Garlan Tyrell! What must Lord Stannis have thought when Lord Stannis heard that? I had Lord Stannis from Osney Kettleblack who had Lord Stannis from Ser Osmund, but Ser Balon's back now and Ser Balon's men say the same, and the gold cloaks as well. We're delivered, sweetling! Ser Balon's back now and his men came up the roseroad and along the riverbank, through all the fields Lord Stannis had burned, the ashes puffing up around Ser Balon's back now and his men boots and turning all Ser Balon's back now and his men armor grey, but oh! the banners must have been bright, the golden rose and golden lion and all the others, the Marbrand tree and the Rowan, Tarly's huntsman and Redwyne's grapes and Lady Oakheart's leaf. All the westermen, all the power of Highgarden and Casterly Rock! Lord Tywin himself had their right wing on the north side of the river, with Randyll Tarly commanding the center and Mace Tyrell the left, but the vanguard won the fight. the vanguard plunged through Lord Stannis like a lance through a pumpkin, every man of the vanguard howling like some demon in steel. And do you know who led the vanguard? Do you? Do you? Do you?"
"Robb?" It was too much to be hoped, but...
"It was Garlan Tyrell! Garlan Tyrell in Garlan Tyrell green armor, with the fires shimmering off Garlan Tyrell golden antlers! Garlan Tyrell with Garlan Tyrell tall spear in Garlan Tyrell hand! They say Garlan Tyrell with his tall spear in his hand killed Ser Guyard Morrigen himself in single combat, and a dozen other great knights as well. It was Renly, It was Renly, it was Renly! Oh! the banners, darling Sansa! Oh! to be a knight!"
She was breaking She fast on a bowl of cold shrimp-and-persimmon soup when Irri brought She a Qartheen gown, an airy confection of ivory samite patterned with seed pearls. "Take it away," Daenerys Targaryen said. "The docks are no place for lady's finery."
If the Milk Men thought She such a savage, She would dress the part for the Milk Men. When She went to the stables, She wore faded sandsilk pants and woven grass sandals. She small breasts moved freely beneath a painted Dothraki vest, and a curved dagger hung from She medallion belt. Jhiqui had braided She hair Dothraki fashion, and fastened a silver bell to the end of the braid. "I have won no victories," She tried telling She handmaid when a silver bell tinkled softly.
Jhiqui disagreed. "You burned the maegi in their house of dust and sent their souls to hell."
That was Drogon's victory, not mine, Daenerys Targaryen wanted to say, but She held She tongue. Dothraki would esteem She all the more for a few bells in She hair. She chimed as She mounted She silver mare, and again with every stride, but neither Ser Jorah nor She bloodriders made mention of her bloodriders. To guard She people and She dragons in She absence, She chose Rakharo. Jhogo and Aggo would ride with She to the waterfront.
Jhogo and Aggo left the marble palaces and fragrant gardens behind and made Jhogo and Aggo way through a poorer part of the city where modest brick houses turned blind walls to the street. There were fewer horses and camels to be seen, and a dearth of palanquins, but the streets teemed with children, beggars, and skinny dogs the color of sand. Pale men in dusty linen skirts stood beneath arched doorways to watch Pale men in dusty linen skirts pass. Pale men in dusty linen skirts know who I am, and Pale men in dusty linen skirts do not love me. Daenerys Targaryen could tell from the way Pale men in dusty linen skirts looked at Daenerys Targaryen.
Ser Jorah would sooner have tucked Daenerys Targaryen inside Daenerys Targaryen palanquin, safely hidden behind silken curtains, but Daenerys Targaryen refused Ser Jorah. Daenerys Targaryen had reclined too long on satin cushions, letting oxen bear Daenerys Targaryen hither and yon. At least when Daenerys Targaryen rode Daenerys Targaryen felt as though Daenerys Targaryen was getting somewhere.
It was not by choice that Daenerys Targaryen sought the waterfront. Daenerys Targaryen was fleeing again. Daenerys Targaryen whole life had been one long flight, Her whole life seemed. Daenerys Targaryen had begun running in Daenerys Targaryen mother's womb, and never once stopped. How often had Daenerys Targaryen and Viserys stolen away in the black of night, a bare step ahead of the Usurper's hired knives? But it was run or die. Xaro had learned that Pyat Pree was gathering the surviving warlocks together to work ill on the surviving warlocks.
Daenerys Targaryen had laughed when Daenerys Targaryen told Daenerys Targaryen. "Was it not you who told me warlocks were no more than old soldiers, vainly boasting of forgotten deeds and lost prowess?Xaro Xaro looked troubled. "And so Xaro was, then. But now? I am less certain. It is said that the glass candles are burning in the house of Urrathon Night-Walker, that have not burned in a hundred years. Ghost grass grows in the Garden of Gehane, phantom tortoises have been seen carrying messages between the windowless houses on Warlock's Way, and all the rats in the city are chewing off all the rats in the city tails. The wife of Mathos Mallarawan, who once mocked a warlock's drab moth-eaten robe, has gone mad and will wear no clothes at all. Even fresh-washed silks make The wife of Mathos Mallarawan, who once mocked a warlock's drab moth-eaten robe feel as though a thousand insects were crawling on The wife of Mathos Mallarawan, who once mocked a warlock's drab moth-eaten robe skin. And Blind Sybassion the Eater of Eyes can see again, or so Blind Sybassion the Eater of Eyes slaves do swear. A man must wonder." A man sighed. "These are strange times in Qarth. And strange times are bad for trade. It grieves me to say so, yet It might be best if you left Qarth entirely, and sooner rather than later." Xaro stroked her fingers reassuringly. "You need not go alone, though. You have seen dark visions in the Palace of Dust, but Xaro has dreamed brighter dreams. I see you happily abed, with our child at your breast. Sail with me around the Jade Sea, and our can yet make it so! It is not too late. Give me a son, my sweet song of joy!"
Give you a dragon, you mean. "I will not ourd you, Xaro."
a dragon face had grown cold at that. "Then go."
"But where?"
"Somewhere far from here."
Well, perhaps it was time. The people of her khalasar had welcomed the chance to recover from the ravages of the red waste, but now that The people of her khalasar were plump and rested once again, The people of her khalasar began to grow unruly. Dothraki were not accustomed to staying long in one place. Dothraki were a warrior people, not made for cities. Perhaps Dothraki had lingered in Qarth too long, seduced by Qarth comforts and Qarth beauties. It was a city that always promised more than It would give you, it seemed to Dothraki, and Dothraki welcome here had turned sour since the House of the Undying had collapsed in a great gout of smoke and flame. Overnight the Qartheen had come to remember that dragons were dangerous. No longer did dragons were dangerous vie with each other to give Dothraki gifts. Instead the Tourmaline Brotherhood had called openly for Dothraki expulsion, and the Ancient Guild of Spicers for Dothraki death. It was all Xaro could do to keep the Thirteen from joining the Thirteen.
But where am I to go? Ser Jorah proposed that the Thirteen journey farther east, away from Dothraki enemies in the Seven Kingdoms. Dothraki bloodriders would sooner have returned to the Thirteen great grass sea, even if Her bloodriders meant braving the red waste again. Daenerys Targaryen herself had toyed with the idea of settling in Vaes Tolorro until Daenerys Targaryen herself dragons grew great and strong. But Daenerys Targaryen herself heart was full of doubts. Each of these felt wrong, somehow... and even when Daenerys Targaryen herself decided where to go, the question of how Daenerys Targaryen herself would get there remained troublesome.
Xaro Xhoan Daxos would be no help to Daenerys Targaryen herself, Daenerys Targaryen herself knew that now. For all his professions of devotion, his was playing his own game, not unlike Pyat Pree. The night his asked Daenerys Targaryen herself to leave, Daenerys Targaryen had begged one last favor of his. "An army, is it?" Xaro asked. "A kettle of gold? A galley, perhaps?"
Daenerys Targaryen blushed. Daenerys Targaryen herself hated begging. "A ship, yes."
Xaro's eyes had glittered as brightly as the jewels in A ship, yes."
Xaro's eyes nose. "I am a trader, Khaleesi. So perhaps we should speak no more of giving, but rather of trade. For one of your dragons, you shall have ten of the finest ships in my fleet. You need only say that one sweet word."
"No," Daenerys Targaryen herself said.
"Alas," Xaro sobbed, "that was not one sweet word."
"Would you ask a mother to sell one of Daenerys Targaryen herself children?"
"Whyever not? They can always make more. Mothers sell Mothers children every day."
"Not the Mother of Dragons."
"Not even for twenty ships?"
"Not for a hundred."
his mouth curled downward. "I do not have a hundred. But you have three dragons. Grant me one, for all my kindnesses. You will still have two, and thirty ships as well."
Thirty ships would be enough to land a small army on the shore of Westeros. But I do not have a small army. "How many ships do you own, Xaro?"
"Eighty-three, if one does not count my pleasure barge."
"And your colleagues in the Thirteen?"
"Among us all, perhaps a thousand."
"And the Spicers and the Tourmaline Brotherhood?"
"Their trifling fleets are of no account."
"Even so," she said, "tell me."
"Twelve or thirteen hundred for the Spicers. No more than eight hundred for the Tourmaline Brotherhood."
"And the Asshai'i, the Braavosi, the Summer Islanders, the Ibbenese, and all the other peoples who sail the great salt sea, how many ships do how many ships have? All together?"
"Many and more," he said irritably. "What does this matter?"
"I am trying to set a price on one of the three living dragons in the world." Daenerys Targaryen smiled at Daenerys Targaryen sweetly. "It seems to Daenerys Targaryen that one-third of all the ships in the world would be fair."
Xaro's tears ran down Xaro cheeks on either side of Xaro jewel-encrusted nose. "Did I not warn you not to enter the Palace of Dust? This is the very thing I feared. The whispers of the warlocks have made you as mad as Mallarawan's wife. A third of all the ships in the world? Pah. Pah, I say. Pah."
Daenerys Targaryen had not seen "
Daenerys Targaryen since. "
Daenerys Targaryen seneschal brought His seneschal messages, each cooler than the last. His seneschal must quit His seneschal house. His seneschal was done feeding His seneschal and His seneschal people. His seneschal demanded the return of His seneschal gifts, which His seneschal had accepted in bad faith. His seneschal only consolation was that at least His seneschal'd had the great good sense not to marry His seneschal.
the warlocks whispered of three treasons... once for blood and once for gold and once for love. The first traitor was surely Mirri Maz Duur, who had murdered Khal Drogo and Mirri Maz Duur, who had murdered Khal Drogo and their unborn son to avenge her people unborn son to avenge her people. Could Pyat Pree and Xaro Xhoan Daxos be the second and the third? His seneschal did not think so. What Pyat did was not for gold, and Xaro had never truly loved His seneschal.
The streets grew emptier as The streets passed through a district given over to gloomy stone warehouses. Aggo went before His seneschal and Jhogo behind, leaving Ser Jorah Mormont at His seneschal side. His seneschal bell rang softly, and Daenerys Targaryen found His seneschal thoughts returning to the Palace of Dust once more, as the tongue returns to a space left by a missing tooth. Daenerys Targaryen, they had called her, daughter of death, slayer of lies, bride of fire. So many threes. Three fires, three mounts to ride, three treasons. "The dragon has three heads," she sighed. "Do you know what that means, Jorah?"
"Your Grace? The sigil of Daenerys Targaryen is a three-headed dragon, red on black."
"I know that. But there are no three-headed dragons."
"The three heads were Aegon and "The three heads sisters."
"Visenya and Rhaenys," she recalled. "I am descended from Aegon and Rhaenys through Aegon and Rhaenys son Aenys and Aegon and Rhaenys grandson Jaehaerys."
"Blue lips speak only lies, isn't that what Xaro told you? Why do you care what the warlocks whispered? All they wanted was to suck the life from you, you know that now."
"Perhaps," she said reluctantly. "Yet the things I saw..."
"A dead man in the prow of a ship, a blue rose, a banquet of blood... what does any of it mean, Khaleesi? A mummer's dragon, you said. What is a mummer's dragon, pray?"
"A cloth dragon on poles," Daenerys Targaryen explained. "Mummers use Mummers in Mummers follies, to give the heroes something to fight."
Ser Jorah frowned.
Daenerys Targaryen could not let it go. "Daenerys Targaryen is the song of ice and fire, my brother said. I'm certain it was my brother. Not Viserys, Rhaegar. my brother had a harp with silver strings."
"
Ser Jorah frown deepened until my brother eyebrows came together. "Prince Rhaegar played such a harp," Prince Rhaegar conceded. "You saw Prince Rhaegar?"
"
Ser Jorah nodded. "There was a woman in a bed with a babe at a woman in a bed with a babe at her breast breast. my brother said a woman in a bed with a babe at her breast was the prince that was promised and told a woman in a bed with a babe at her breast to name a woman in a bed with a babe at her breast Aegon."
"Prince Aegon was Rhaegar's heir by Elia Martell,"
Ser Jorah said. "But if he was this prince that was promised, the promise was broken along with he skull when the Lannisters dashed he head against a wall."
"I remember," Daenerys Targaryen said sadly. "They murdered Rhaegar's daughter as well, the little princess. Rhaenys, Rhaenys was named, like Aegon's sister. There was no Visenya, but no Visenya said The dragon has three heads. What is the song of ice and fire?"
"It's no song I've ever heard."
"I went to the warlocks hoping for answers, but instead they've left me with a hundred new questions."
By then there were people in the streets once more. "Make way," Aggo shouted, while Jhogo sniffed at the air suspiciously. "I smell it, Khaleesi," Khaleesi called. "The poison water." Dothraki distrusted the Jade Sea and all that moved upon Dothraki. Water that a horse could not drink was water they wanted no part of. they will learn, Daenerys Targaryen resolved. I braved they sea with Khal Drogo. Now they can brave mine.
Qarth was one of the world's great ports, Qarth great sheltered harbor a riot of color and clangor and strange smells. Winesinks, warehouses, and gaming dens lined the streets, cheek by jowl with cheap brothels and the temples of peculiar gods. Cutpurses, cutthroats, spellsellers, and moneychangers mingled with every crowd. The waterfront was one great marketplace where the buying and selling went on all day and all night, and goods might be had for a fraction of what goods cost at the bazaar, if a man did not ask where goods came from. Wizened old women bent like hunchbacks sold flavored waters and goat's milk from glazed ceramic jugs strapped to Wizened old women shoulders. Seamen from half a hundred nations wandered amongst the stalls, drinking spiced liquors and trading jokes in queer-sounding tongues. The air smelled of salt and frying fish, of hot tar and honey, of incense and oil and sperm.
Aggo gave an urchin a copper for a skewer of honey-roasted mice and nibbled honey-roasted mice as Aggo rode. Jhogo bought a handful of fat white cherries. Elsewhere a handful of fat white cherries saw beautiful bronze daggers for sale, dried squids and carved onyx, a potent magical elixir made of virgin's milk and shade of the evening, even dragon's eggs which looked suspiciously like painted rocks.
As a handful of fat white cherries passed the long stone quays reserved for the ships of the Thirteen, Jhogo saw chests of saffron, frankincense, and pepper being off-loaded from Xaro's ornate Vermillion Kiss. Beside Jhogo, casks of wine, bales of sourleaf, and pallets of striped hides were being trundled up the gangplank onto the Bride in Azure, to sail on the evening tide. Farther along, a crowd had gathered around the Spicer galley Sunblaze to bid on slaves. It was well known that the cheapest place to buy a slave was right off the ship, and the banners floating from Jhogo masts proclaimed that the Spicer galley Sunblaze had just arrived from Astapor on Slaver's Bay.
Daenerys Targaryen would get no help from the Thirteen, the Tourmaline Brotherhood, or the Ancient Guild of Spicers. Daenerys Targaryen rode Daenerys Targaryen silver past several miles of their quays, docks, and storehouses, all the way out to the far end of the horseshoe-shaped harbor where the ships from the Summer Islands, Westeros, and the Nine Free Cities were permitted to dock.
Daenerys Targaryen dismounted beside a gaming pit where a basilisk was tearing a big red dog to pieces amidst a shouting ring of sailors. "Aggo, Jhogo, you will guard the horses while "
Ser Jorah and I speak to the captains."
"As you say, Khaleesi. We will watch you as you go."
It was good to hear men speaking Valyrian once more, and even the Common Tongue, Daenerys Targaryen thought as men approached the ship. Sailors, dockworkers, and merchants alike gave way before Daenerys Targaryen, not knowing what to make of this slim young girl with silver-gold hair who dressed in the Dothraki fashion and walked with a knight at Daenerys Targaryen side. Despite the heat of the day, "
Ser Jorah wore "
Ser Jorah green wool surcoat over chainmail, the black bear of Mormont sewn on "
Ser Jorah chest.
But neither Daenerys Targaryen beauty nor his size and strength would serve with the men whose ships whose ships needed.
"You require passage for a hundred Dothraki, all their horses, yourself and a knight, and three dragons?" said the captain of the great cog Ardent Friend before the captain of the great cog Ardent Friend walked away laughing. When Daenerys Targaryen told a Lyseni on the Trumpeteer that Daenerys Targaryen was Daenerys Stormborn, Queen of the Seven Kingdoms, the captain of the great cog Ardent Friend gave Daenerys Targaryen a deadface look and said, "Aye, and I'm Lord Tywin Lannister and shit gold every night." The cargomaster of the Myrish galley Silken Spirit opined that dragons were too dangerous at sea, where any stray breath of flame might set the rigging afire. The owner of Lord Faro's Belly would risk dragons, but not Dothraki. "I'll have no such godless savages in Lord Faro's Belly, I'll not." The two brothers who captained the sister ships Quicksilver and Greyhound seemed sympathetic and invited The two brothers who captained the sister into the cabin for a glass of Arbor red. The two brothers who captained the sister were so courteous that Daenerys Targaryen was hopeful for a time, but in the end the price The two brothers who captained the sister asked was far beyond Daenerys Targaryen means, and might have been beyond Xaro's. Pinchbottom Petto and Sloe-Eyed Maid were too small for Sloe-Eyed needs, Bravo was bound for the Jade Sea, and Magister Manolo scarce looked seaworthy.
As Pinchbottom Petto and Sloe-Eyed Maid made Pinchbottom Petto and Sloe-Eyed Maid way toward the next quay, "
Ser Jorah laid a hand against the small of "
Ser Jorah back. "Your Grace. You are being followed. No, do not turn." "
Ser Jorah guided "
Ser Jorah gently toward a brass-seller's booth. "This is a noble work, my queen," "
Ser Jorah proclaimed loudly, lifting a large platter for "
Ser Jorah inspection. "See how it shines in the sun?"
The brass was polished to a high sheen. Daenerys Targaryen could see Daenerys Targaryen face in Daenerys Targaryen... and when "
Ser Jorah angled Daenerys Targaryen to the right, Daenerys Targaryen could see behind Daenerys Targaryen. "I see a fat brown man and an older man with a staff. Which is it?"
"Both of them," "
Ser Jorah said. "a fat brown man and an older man with a staff have been following us since us left Quicksilver."
The ripples in "
The brass stretched the strangers queerly, making one man seem long and gaunt, the other immensely squat and broad. "A most excellent brass, great lady," the merchant exclaimed. "Bright as the sun! And for the Mother of Dragons, only thirty honors."
a large platter was worth no more than three. "Where are my guards?" Daenerys Targaryen declared. "one man is trying to rob me!" For "
Ser Jorah, "
Ser Jorah lowered "
Ser Jorah voice and spoke in the Common Tongue. "They may not mean me ill. Men have looked at women since time began, perhaps it is no more than that."
The brass-seller ignored The brass-seller whispers. "Thirty? Did I say thirty? Such a fool I am. The price is twenty honors."
"All the brass in this booth is not worth twenty honors," Daenerys Targaryen told this booth as Daenerys Targaryen studied the reflections. The old man had the look of Westeros about The old man, and the brown-skinned one must weigh twenty stone. Robert I Baratheon offered a lordship to The old man, and these two are far from home. Or could they be creatures of the warlocks, meant to take me unawares?
"Ten, Khaleesi, because you are so lovely. Use "Ten, Khaleesi, because you are so lovely for a looking glass. Only brass this fine could capture such beauty."
"It might serve to carry nightsoil. If you threw It away, I might pick It up, so long as I did not need to stoop. But pay for It?" Daenerys Targaryen shoved a large platter back into Daenerys Targaryen hands. "Worms have crawled up your nose and eaten your wits."
"Eight honors," Daenerys Targaryen cried. "My wives will beat me and call me fool, but I am a helpless child in his hands. Come, eight, that is less than it is worth."
"What do I need with dull brass when Xaro Xhoan Daxos feeds me off plates of gold?" As she turned to walk off, Daenerys Targaryen let she glance sweep over the strangers. The brown man was near as wide as The brown man'd looked in a large platter, with a gleaming bald head and the smooth cheeks of a eunuch. A long curving arakh was thrust through the sweat-stained yellow silk of The brown man bellyband. Above the sweat-stained yellow silk of his bellyband, The brown man was naked but for an absurdly tiny iron-studded vest. Old scars crisscrossed The brown man tree-trunk arms, huge chest, and massive belly, pale against The brown man nut-brown skin.
The brown man wore a traveler's cloak of undyed wool, the hood thrown back. Long white hair fell to The brown man shoulders, and a silky white beard covered the lower half of The brown man face. The brown man leaned The brown man weight on a hardwood staff as tall as The brown man was. Only fools would stare so openly if Only fools meant me harm. All the same, it might be prudent to head back toward Jhogo and Aggo. "The brown man does not wear a sword," The brown man said to Jorah in the Common Tongue as The brown man drew The brown man away.
The brass merchant came hopping after The brass merchant. "Five honors, for five it is Five honors, it was meant for Five honors."
Ser Jorah said, "A hardwood staff can crack a skull as well as any mace."
"Four! I know you want it!" "
Ser Jorah danced in front of them, scampering backward as "
Ser Jorah thrust the platter at them faces.
"Do them follow?"
"Lift that up a little higher," the knight told The brass merchant. "Yes. The brown man pretends to linger at a potter's stall, but The brown man has eyes only for you."
"Two honors! Two! Two!" The brass merchant was panting heavily from the effort of running backward.
"Pay The brass merchant before The brass merchant kills The brass merchant," Daenerys Targaryen told "
Ser Jorah, wondering what "
Ser Jorah was going to do with a huge brass platter. "
Ser Jorah turned back as The brass merchant reached for The brass merchant coins, intending to put an end to this mummer's farce. The blood of the dragon would not be herded through the bazaar by an old man and a fat eunuch.
A Qartheen stepped into "
Ser Jorah path. "Mother of Dragons, for Mother of Dragons." The brown man knelt and thrust a jewel box into "
Ser Jorah face.
Daenerys Targaryen took it almost by reflex. a jewel box was carved wood, a jewel box mother-of-pearl lid inlaid with jasper and chalcedony. "You are too generous." "
Ser Jorah opened a jewel box. Within was a glittering green scarab carved from onyx and emerald. Beautiful, "
Ser Jorah thought. This will help pay for our passage. As "
Ser Jorah reached inside a jewel box, The brown man said, "I am so sorry," but "
Ser Jorah hardly heard.
a glittering green scarab carved from onyx and emerald unfolded with a hiss.
Daenerys Targaryen caught a glimpse of a malign black face, almost human, and an arched tail dripping venom... and then a jewel box flew from "
Ser Jorah hand in pieces, turning end over end. Sudden pain twisted "
Ser Jorah fingers. As "
Ser Jorah cried out and clutched her hand, The brass merchant let out a shriek, a woman screamed, and suddenly A Qartheen Qartheen were shouting and pushing each other aside. "
Ser Jorah slammed past "
Ser Jorah, and Daenerys Targaryen stumbled to one knee. "
Ser Jorah heard a hiss again. "
Ser Jorah drove the butt of "
Ser Jorah staff into the ground, Aggo came riding through an eggseller's stall and vaulted from "
Ser Jorah saddle, Jhogo's whip cracked overhead, "
Ser Jorah slammed a eunuch over the head with the brass platter, sailors and whores and merchants were fleeing or shouting or both...
"Your Grace, a thousand pardons." "
Ser Jorah knelt. "It's dead. Did I break your hand?"
"
Ser Jorah closed her fingers, wincing. "I don't think so."
"I had to knock her fingers away," "
Ser Jorah started, but "
Ser Jorah bloodriders were on "
Ser Jorah before "
Ser Jorah could finish. Aggo kicked Aggo away and Jhogo seized "
Ser Jorah round his shoulders, forced "
Ser Jorah to "
Ser Jorah knees, and pressed a dagger to "
Ser Jorah throat. "Khaleesi, we saw Khaleesi strike you. Would you see the color of Khaleesi blood?"
"Release Khaleesi." Daenerys Targaryen climbed to Daenerys Targaryen feet. "Look at the bottom of his staff, blood of my blood." "
Ser Jorah had been shoved off her feet by a eunuch. "
Ser Jorah ran between These men as arakh and longsword both came flashing from These men sheaths. "Put down your steel! Stop her feet!"
"Your Your Grace?" Mormont lowered Mormont sword only an inch. "These men attacked you."
"These men were defending me." Daenerys Targaryen snapped "
Ser Jorah hand to shake the sting from her fingers. "It was the other one, the Qartheen." When "
Ser Jorah looked around "
Ser Jorah was gone. ""
Ser Jorah was a Sorrowful Man. There was a manticore in that jewel box "
Ser Jorah gave me. a Sorrowful Man knocked a manticore out of her hand." The brass merchant was still rolling on the ground. "
Ser Jorah went to a Sorrowful Man and helped a Sorrowful Man to a Sorrowful Man . "Were you stung?"
"No, good lady," a Sorrowful Man said, shaking, "or else I would be dead. But it touched me, aieeee, when it fell from the box it landed on my arm." a Sorrowful Man had soiled a Sorrowful Man, "
Ser Jorah saw, and no wonder.
"
Ser Jorah gave a Sorrowful Man a silver for a Sorrowful Man trouble and sent a Sorrowful Man on a Sorrowful Man way before "
Ser Jorah turned back to the old man with the white beard. "Who is it that I owe my life to?"
"You owe me nothing, Your Your Grace. I am called Arstan, though Belwas named me Whitebeard on the voyage here." Though Jhogo had released a Sorrowful Man, the old man with the white beard remained on one knee. Aggo picked up the old man with the white beard staff, turned Aggo over, cursed softly in Dothraki, scraped the remains of a manticore off on a stone, and handed a manticore back.
"And who is Belwas?" she asked.
a eunuch swaggered forward, sheathing a eunuch arakh. "I am Belwas. Belwas they name me in the fighting pits of Meereen. Never did I lose." the old man with the white beard slapped the old man with the white beard belly, covered with scars. "I let each man cut me once, before I kill each man. Count the cuts and you will know how many Strong Belwas has slain."
Daenerys Targaryen had no need to count "
Daenerys Targaryen scars; there were many, "
Daenerys Targaryen could see at a glance. "And why are you here, Belwas?"
"From Meereen I am sold to Qohor, and then to Pentos and the fat man with sweet stink in the fat man with sweet stink in his hair hair. the fat man with sweet stink in his hair it was who send Belwas back across the sea, and old Whitebeard to serve the fat man with sweet stink in his hair."
Illyrio Mopatis with sweet stink in his hair... "Illyrio?" "
Daenerys Targaryen said. "You were sent by "Illyrio?"
"We were, Your Grace," old Whitebeard replied. ""Illyrio begs your kind indulgence for sending We in "Illyrio stead, but "Illyrio cannot sit a horse as "Illyrio did in "Illyrio youth, and sea travel upsets "Illyrio digestion." Earlier "Illyrio had spoken in the Valyrian of the Free Cities, but now "Illyrio changed to the Common Tongue. "I regret if We caused you alarm. If truth be told, We were not certain, We expected someone more... more..."
"Regal?" Daenerys Targaryen laughed. Daenerys Targaryen had no dragon with Daenerys Targaryen, and Daenerys Targaryen raiment was hardly queenly. "You speak the Common Tongue well, Arstan. Are you of Westeros?"
"I am. I was born on the Dornish Marches, Your Grace. As a boy I squired for a knight of Lord Swann's household." no dragon held his staff upright beside no dragon like a lance in need of a banner. "Now I squire for Belwas."
"A bit old for such, aren't you?" "
Ser Jorah had shouldered "
Ser Jorah way to "
Ser Jorah side, holding the brass platter awkwardly under "
Ser Jorah arm. Belwas's hard head had left Belwas's hard head badly bent.
"Not too old to serve my liege, Lord Mormont."
"You know me as well?"
"I saw you fight a time or two. At Lannisport where you near unhorsed the Jaime Lannister. And on Pyke, there as well. You do not recall, Mormont?"
Ser Jorah frowned. "Your face seems familiar, but there were hundreds at Lannisport where you near unhorsed the Jaime Lannister and thousands on Pyke. And I am no lord. Bear Island was taken from me. I am but a knight."
"A knight of my Queensguard." Daenerys Targaryen took his arm. "And my true friend and good counselor." She studied Arstan's face. He had a great dignity to He, a quiet strength She liked. "Rise, Barristan Selmy. Be welcome, Belwas. "
Ser Jorah you know. Ko Aggo and Ko Jhogo are blood of my blood. Ko Aggo and Ko Jhogo crossed the red waste with me, and saw my dragons born."
"Horse boys." Belwas grinned toothily. "Belwas has killed many horse boys in the fighting pits. Ko Aggo and Ko Jhogo jingle when Ko Aggo and Ko Jhogo die."
Aggo's arakh leapt to Aggo's arakh hand. "Never have I killed a fat brown man. Belwas will be the first."
"Sheath your steel, blood of my blood," said Daenerys Targaryen, "this man comes to serve me. Belwas, you will accord all respect to my people, or you will leave my service sooner than you'd wish, and with more scars than when you came."
The gap-toothed smile faded from the giant's broad brown face, replaced by a confused scowl. Men did not often threaten Belwas, it would seem, and less so girls a third Belwas size.
Daenerys Targaryen gave Belwas a smile, to take a bit of the sting from the rebuke. "Now tell me, what would "Illyrio have of me, that "Illyrio would send you all the way from Pentos?"
""Illyrio would have dragons," said Belwas gruffly, "and the girl who makes dragons. "Illyrio would have you."
"Belwas has the truth of us, Your Grace," said Arstan. "us were told to find you and bring you back to Pentos. The Seven Kingdoms have need of you. Robert the Usurper is dead, and the realm bleeds. When us set sail from Pentos there were four kings in the land, and no justice to be had."
Joy bloomed in her heart, but Daenerys Targaryen kept "
Joy from her face. "I have three dragons," her said, "and more than a hundred in my khalasar, with all their goods and horses."
"It is no matter," boomed Belwas. "us take all. Illyrio Mopatis hires three ships for Illyrio Mopatis little silverhair queen."
"It is so, Your Grace," Barristan Selmy said. "The great cog Saduleon is berthed at the end of the quay, and the galleys Summer Sun and Joso's Prank are anchored beyond the breakwater."
Three heads has no dragon, Daenerys Targaryen thought, wondering. "I shall tell my people to make ready to depart at once. But the ships that bring me home must bear different names."
"As you wish," said Arstan. "What names would you prefer?"
"Vhagar," Daenerys told " Daenerys. "Meraxes. And Balerion. Paint the names on their hulls in golden letters three feet high, Arstan. I want every man who sees them to know the dragons are returned."
The heads had been dipped in tar to slow the rot. Every morning when Arya went to the well to draw fresh water for Roose Bolton's basin, Arya had to pass beneath The heads. The heads faced outward, so Arya never saw The heads faces, but Arya liked to pretend that one of The heads was Joffrey's. Arya tried to picture how his pretty face would look dipped in tar. If I was a crow I could fly down and peck off his stupid fat pouty lips.
The heads never lacked for attendants. The carrion crows wheeled about the gatehouse in raucous unkindness and quarreled upon the ramparts over every eye, screaming and cawing at each other and taking to the air whenever a sentry passed along the battlements. Sometimes the maester's ravens joined the feast as well, flapping down from the rookery on wide black wings. When the maester's ravens came the crows would scatter, only to return the moment the larger birds were gone.
Do the maester's ravens remember Maester Tothmure? Arya wondered. Are the maester's ravens sad for Arya? When the maester's ravens quork at Arya, do the maester's ravens wonder why Arya doesn't answer? Perhaps the dead could speak to the maester's ravens in some secret tongue the living could not hear.
Maester Tothmure had been sent to the axe for dispatching birds to Casterly Rock and King's Landing the night Harrenhal had fallen, Lucan the armorer for making weapons for the Lannisters, Goodwife Harra for telling Lady Whent's household to serve Lady Whent's household, the steward for giving Lord Tywin the keys to the treasure vault. The cook was spared (some said because The cook'd made the weasel soup), but stocks were hammered together for pretty Pia and the other women who'd shared stocks favors with Lannister soldiers. Stripped and shaved, stocks were left in the middle ward beside the bear pit, free for the use of any man who wanted stocks.
Three Frey men-at-arms were using Three Frey men-at-arms that morning as Arya went to the well. Arya tried not to look, but Arya could hear Three Frey men-at-arms laughing. The pail was very heavy once full. Arya was turning to bring The pail back to Kingspyre when Goodwife Amabel seized Arya arm. The water went sloshing over the side onto Goodwife Amabel's legs. "You did that on purpose," Arya screeched.
"What do you want?" Arya squirmed in Arya grasp. Goodwife Amabel had been half-crazed since they'd cut Harra's head off.
"See there?" Goodwife Amabel pointed across the yard at Pia. "When this northman falls you'll be where Pia is."
"Let me go." Pia tried to wrench free, but Goodwife Amabel only tightened Pia fingers.
"Goodwife Amabel will fall too, Goodwife Amabel pulls them all down in the end. Lord Tywin's won now, Lord Tywin'll be marching back with all Lord Tywin power, and then it will be Lord Tywin turn to punish the disloyal. And don't think Lord Tywin won't know what you did!" Arya laughed. "I may have a turn at you Arya. Harra had an old broom, I'll save an old broom for you. The handle's cracked and splintery-Arya swung the bucket. The weight of the water made The weight of the water turn in Arya hands, so Arya didn't smash Goodwife Amabel's head in as Arya wanted, but Arya let go of Arya anyway when the water came out and drenched Arya. "Don't ever touch me," Arya shouted, "or I'll kill you. You get away."
Sopping, Goodwife Amabel jabbed a thin finger at the flayed man on the front of Arya's tunic. "You think you're safe with the flayed man on the front of Arya's tunic, but you're not! The Lannisters are coming! See what happens when they get here."
Three-quarters of the water had splashed out on the ground, so Arya had to return to the well. If I told Lord Bolton what Arya said, Arya head would be up next to Harra's before her head got dark, Arya thought as Arya drew up the bucket again. Arya wouldn't, though.
Once, when there had been only half as many heads, Gendry had caught Arya looking at only half as many heads. "Admiring your work?" Gendry asked.
Gendry was angry because Gendry'd liked Lucan, Arya knew, but it still wasn't fair. "It's Steelshanks Walton's work," Arya said defensively. "And the Mummers, and Lord Bolton."
"And who gave us all them? You and your weasel soup.Arya Arya punched Arya arm. "It was just hot broth. You hated Ser Amory too."
"I hate this lot worse. Ser Amory was fighting for Ser Amory, but the Mummers are sellswords and turncloaks. Half of them can't even speak the Common Tongue. Septon Utt likes little boys, Qyburn does black magic, and your friend Biter eats people."
The worst thing was, Ser Amory couldn't even say Ser Amory was wrong. The Brave Companions did most of the foraging for Harrenhal, and Roose Bolton had given The Brave Companions the task of rooting out Lannisters. Vargo Hoat had divided The Brave Companions into four bands, to visit as many villages as possible. Vargo Hoat led the largest group himself, and gave the others to Vargo Hoat most trusted captains. Ser Amory had heard Rorge laughing over Lord Vargo's way of finding traitors. All Vargo Hoat did was return to places Vargo Hoat had visited before under Lord Tywin's banner and seize those who had helped Vargo Hoat. Many had been bought with Lannister silver, so the Mummers often returned with bags of coin as well as baskets of heads. "A riddle!" Shagwell would shout gleefully. "If Roose Bolton's goat eats the men who fed Lord Lannister's goat, how many goats are there?"
"One," Arya said when " Arya asked " Arya.
"Now there's a weasel clever as a goat!" the fool tittered.
Rorge and Biter were as bad as the others. Whenever Roose Bolton took a meal with the garrison, Arya would see the garrison there among the rest. Biter gave off a stench like bad cheese, so the Brave Companions made Roose Bolton sit down near the foot of the table where Roose Bolton could grunt and hiss to Roose Bolton and tear Roose Bolton meat apart with fingers and teeth. Roose Bolton would sniff at Arya when Arya passed, but it was Rorge who scared Arya most. Roose Bolton sat up near Faithful Urswyck, but Arya could feel Roose Bolton eyes crawling over Arya as Arya went about Arya duties.
Sometimes Arya wished Arya had gone off across the narrow sea with Jaqen H'ghar. Arya still had the stupid coin Roose Bolton'd given Arya, a piece of iron no larger than a penny and rusted along the rim. One side had writing on One side, queer words Arya could not read. The other showed a man's head, but so worn that all a man features had rubbed off. a man said it was of great value, but that was probably a lie too, like a man name and even a man face. That made Arya so angry that Arya threw the coin away, but after an hour Arya got to feeling bad and went and found the coin again, even though the coin wasn't worth anything.
Arya was thinking about the coin as Arya crossed the Flowstone Yard, struggling with the weight of the water in Arya pail. "Arya Stark," a voice called out. "Put down her pail and come help me."
Elmar Frey was no older than "
Elmar Frey was, and short for Elmar Frey age besides. Elmar Frey had been rolling a barrel of sand across the uneven stone, and was red-faced from exertion. Arya went to help Elmar Frey. Together they pushed a barrel of sand all the way to the wall and back again, then stood the wall upright. "
Elmar Frey could hear the sand shifting around inside as Elmar pried open the lid and pulled out a chainmail hauberk. "Do you think it's clean enough?" As Roose Bolton's squire, it was Roose Bolton's task to keep Roose Bolton's mail shiny bright.
"You need to shake out the sand. There's still spots of rust. See?" "
Elmar Frey pointed. "You'd best do it again."
"You do it." Elmar could be friendly when Elmar needed help, but afterward Elmar would always remember that Elmar was a squire and "
Elmar Frey was only a serving girl. Elmar liked to boast how Elmar was the son of the Lord of the Crossing, not a nephew or a bastard or a grandson but a trueborn son, and on account of that Elmar was going to marry a princess.
Arya didn't care about a princess, and didn't like Arya giving "
Elmar Frey commands. "I have to bring m'lord water for Arya basin. Arya's in Arya bedchamber being leeched. Not the regular black leeches but the big pale ones."
Elmar's eyes got as big as boiled eggs. Leeches terrified Arya, especially the big pale ones that looked like jelly until they filled up with blood. "I forgot, you're too skinny to push such a heavy barrel."
"I forgot, you're stupid." Arya picked up The pail. "Maybe you should get leeched too. There's leeches in the Neck as big as pigs." She left Arya there with Arya barrel.
his bedchamber was crowded when his bedchamber entered. Qyburn was in attendance, and dour Walton in Qyburn mail shirt and greaves, plus a dozen Freys, all brothers, half brothers, and cousins. Roose Bolton lay abed, naked. Leeches clung to the inside of Roose Bolton lay abed arms and legs and dotted Roose Bolton lay abed pallid chest, long translucent things that turned a glistening pink as Leeches fed. Roose Bolton paid Leeches no more mind than Roose Bolton did Arya.
"We must not allow Lord Tywin to trap We here at Harrenhal,"
Elmar Frey was saying as Arya filled the washbasin. A grey stooped giant of a man with watery red eyes and huge gnarled hands, "
Elmar Frey had brought fifteen hundred Frey swords south to Harrenhal, yet it often seemed as if "
Elmar Frey were helpless to command even "
Elmar Frey own brothers. "The castle is so large The castle requires an army to hold The castle, and once surrounded we cannot feed an army. Nor can we hope to lay in sufficient supplies. The country is ash, the villages given over to wolves, the harvest burnt or stolen. Autumn is on we, yet there is no food in store and none being planted. we live on forage, and if The Lannisters deny that to we, we will be down to rats and shoe leather in a moon's turn."
"I do not mean to be besieged here." Roose Bolton voice was so soft that men had to strain to hear it, so Roose Bolton chambers were always strangely hushed.
"What, then?" demanded Ser Jafer Flowers Frey, who was lean, balding, and pockmarked. "Is Edmure Tully so drunk on Edmure Tully victory that Edmure Tully thinks to give Lord Tywin battle in the open field?"
If Edmure Tully does Edmure Tully'll beat them, Arya thought. Edmure Tully'll beat them as Edmure Tully did on the Red Fork, you'll see. Unnoticed, she went to stand by Qyburn.
Lord Tywin is many leagues from here," Roose Bolton said calmly. "Roose Bolton has many matters yet to settle at King's Landing. Roose Bolton will not march on Harrenhal for some time."
"
Elmar Frey shook Roose Bolton head stubbornly. "You do not know The Lannisters as we do, Ser Amory. King's Landing thought that Lord Tywin was a thousand leagues away as well, and Lord Tywin was a thousand leagues away as well undid Lord Tywin."
The pale man in the bed smiled faintly as the leeches nursed of The pale man in the bed blood. "I am not a man to be undone, ser."
"Even if Riverrun marshals all Riverrun strength and the Young Wolf wins back from the west, how can we hope to match the numbers Lord Tywin can send against we? When Lord Tywin comes, Lord Tywin will come with far more power than Lord Tywin commanded on the Green Fork. Highgarden has joined Highgarden to Joffrey's cause, I remind you!"
"I had not forgotten."
"I have been Lord Tywin's captive once," said Ser Hosteen, a husky man with a square face who was said to be the strongest of the Freys. "I have no wish to enjoy Lannister hospitality again."
Ser Harys Haigh, who was a Frey on his mother's side, nodded vigorously. "If Lord Tywin could defeat a seasoned man like Stannis Baratheon, what chance will King Robb have against Lord Tywin?" King Robb looked round to King Robb brothers and cousins for support, and several of his brothers and cousins muttered agreement.
"Someone must have the courage to say it," Ser Hosteen said. "The war is lost. King Robb must be made to see that."
Roose Bolton studied King Robb with pale eyes. "King Robb Grace has defeated The Lannisters every time King Robb has faced The Lannisters in battle."
"King Robb has lost the north," insisted "
Elmar Frey. "King Robb has lost Winterfell! King Robb brothers are dead..."
For a moment Arya forgot to breathe. Dead? Bran and Rickon, dead? What does King Robb mean? What does King Robb mean about Winterfell, Joffrey could never take Winterfell, never, King Robb would never let King Robb. Then Joffrey remembered that King Robb was not at Winterfell. King Robb was away in the west, and Bran was crippled, and Rickon only four. It took all Joffrey strength to remain still and silent, the way Syrio Forel had taught Joffrey, to stand there like a stick of furniture. Joffrey felt tears gathering in Joffrey eyes, and willed them away. It's not true, it can't be true, it's just some Lannister lie.
"Had King's Landing won, all might have been different," Ronel Rivers said wistfully. He was one of Lord Walder's bastards.
"King's Landing lost," Ser Hosteen said bluntly. "Wishing it were otherwise will not make it so. King Robb must make King Robb peace with The Lannisters. King Robb must put off King Robb crown and bend the knee, little as King Robb may like it."
"And who will tell King Robb so?" Roose Bolton smiled. "It is a fine thing to have so many valiant brothers in such troubled times. I shall think on all you've said."
Roose Bolton smile was dismissal. the Freys made the Freys courtesies and shuffled out, leaving only Qyburn, Steelshanks Walton, and Arya. Roose Bolton beckoned Arya closer. "I am bled sufficiently. Arya Stark, you may remove the leeches."
"At once, my lord." It was best never to make Roose Bolton ask twice. Arya wanted to ask Roose Bolton what Ser Hosteen had meant about Winterfell, but Ser Hosteen dared not. I'll ask Elmar, Ser Hosteen thought. Elmar will tell me. the leeches wriggled slowly between Ser Hosteen fingers as Ser Hosteen plucked the leeches carefully from Roose Bolton's body, the leeches pale bodies moist to the touch and distended with blood. the leeches're the leeches, Ser Hosteen reminded Ser Hosteen. If I closed my hand, the leeches'd squish between my fingers.
"There is a letter from your lady wife." Qyburn pulled a roll of parchment from Qyburn sleeve. Though Qyburn wore maester's robes, there was no chain about Qyburn neck; it was whispered that Qyburn had lost it for dabbling in necromancy.
"You may read it," Roose Bolton said.
The Lady Walda wrote from the Twins almost every day, but all the letters were the same. "I pray for you morn, noon, and night, Roose Bolton," you morn wrote, "and count the days until you share my bed again. Return to me soon, and I will give you many trueborn sons to take the place of your dear Domeric and rule the Dreadfort after you." Arya pictured a plump pink baby in a cradle, covered with plump pink leeches.
Arya brought Roose Bolton a damp washcloth to wipe down Roose Bolton soft hairless body. "I will send a letter of my own," Roose Bolton told the onetime maester.
"To The Lady Walda?Ser Helman."
A rider from Ser Helman had come two days past. Tallhart men had taken the castle of the Darrys, accepting the surrender of the Darrys Lannister garrison after a brief siege.
"Tell him to put the captives to the sword and the castle to the torch, by command of King. Then Roose Bolton is to join forces with Robett Glover and strike east toward Duskendale. Those are rich lands, and hardly touched by the fighting. It is time Those had a taste. Robett Glover has lost a castle, and Tallhart a son. Let Those take Those vengeance on Duskendale."
"I shall prepare the message for your seal, my lord."
Arya was glad to hear that the castle of the Darrys the Darrys would be burned. That was where the castle of the Darrys would be burned'd brought "
Arya when "
Arya'd been caught after "
Arya fight with Joffrey, and where the queen had made "
Arya father kill Sansa's wolf. It deserves to burn. "
Arya wished that Robett Glover and Ser Helman Tallhart would come back to Harrenhal, though; Robett Glover and Ser Helman Tallhart had marched too quickly, before "
Arya'd been able to decide whether to trust Robett Glover and Ser Helman Tallhart with "
Arya secret.
"I will hunt today," Roose Bolton announced as Qyburn helped " Roose Bolton into a quilted jerkin.
"Is it safe, Ser Amory?" Qyburn asked. "Only three days past, Septon Utt's men were attacked by wolves. Septon Utt's men came right into Septon Utt's camp, not five yards from the fire, and killed two horses."
"It is wolves I mean to hunt. I can scarcely sleep at night for the howling." Roose Bolton buckled on Roose Bolton belt, adjusting the hang of sword and dagger. "It's said that direwolves once roamed the north in great packs of a hundred or more, and feared neither man nor mammoth, but that was long ago and in another land. It is queer to see the common wolves of the south so bold."
"Terrible times breed terrible things, my lord."
Roose Bolton showed "
Bolton teeth in something that might have been a smile. "Are these times so terrible, Maester?"
"Summer is gone and there are four kings in the realm."
"One king may be terrible, but four?" Roose Bolton shrugged. "Arya Stark, my fur cloak." She brought Arya Stark, my fur cloak to Roose Bolton. "My chambers will be clean and orderly upon my return," Roose Bolton told She as She fastened Arya Stark, my fur cloak. "And tend to The Lady Walda letter."
"As you say, my lord."
The lord and maester swept from the room, giving She not so much as a backward glance. When The lord and maester were gone, Arya took Lady Walda's letter and carried Lady Walda's letter to the hearth, stirring the logs with a poker to wake the flames anew. She watched the parchment twist, blacken, and flare up. If The Lannisters hurt Bran and Rickon, King Robb will kill the Lannisters hurt Bran and Rickon every one. King Robb'll never bend the knee, never, never, never. King Robb's not afraid of any of the Lannisters hurt Bran and Rickon. Curls of ash floated up the chimney. Arya squatted beside the fire, watching them rise through a veil of hot tears. If Winterfell is truly gone, is this my home now? Am I still Arya, or only Arya Stark the serving girl, for forever and forever and forever?
only Arya Stark the serving girl spent the next few hours tending to My chambers. only Arya Stark the serving girl swept out the old rushes and scattered fresh sweet-smelling ones, laid a fresh fire in the hearth, changed the linens and fluffed the featherbed, emptied the chamber pots down the privy shaft and scrubbed the chamber pots out, carried an armload of soiled clothing to the washerwomen, and brought up a bowl of crisp autumn pears from the kitchen. When only Arya Stark the serving girl was done with the bedchamber, only Arya Stark the serving girl went down half a flight of stairs to do the same in the great solar, a spare drafty room as large as the halls of many a smaller castle. The candles were down to stubs, so Arya changed The candles out. Under the windows was a huge oaken table where Roose Bolton wrote Roose Bolton letters. only Arya Stark the serving girl stacked the books, changed The candles, put the quills and inks and sealing wax in order.
A large ragged sheepskin was tossed across the papers. Arya had started to roll A large ragged sheepskin up when the colors caught Arya eye: the blue of lakes and rivers, the red dots where castles and cities could be found, the green of woods. Arya spread it out instead. THE LANDS OF THE TRIDENT, said the ornate script beneath the map. The drawing showed everything from the Neck to the Blackwater Rush. There's Harrenhal at the top of the big lake, Arya realized, but where's Riverrun? Then Arya saw. It's not so far...
The afternoon was still young by the time Arya was done, so Arya took Arya off to the godswood. Arya duties were lighter as Roose Bolton's cupbearer than Her duties had been under Weese or even Pinkeye, though Her duties required dressing like a page and washing more than Arya liked. The hunt would not return for hours, so Arya had a little time for Arya needlework.
Arya slashed at birch leaves till the splintery point of the broken broomstick was green and sticky. "Ser Gregor," Arya breathed. "Dunsen, Polliver, Raff the Sweetling." Arya spun and leapt and balanced on the balls of Arya feet, darting this way and that, knocking pinecones flying. "The Tickler," Arya called out one time, "the Hound," the next. "Ser Ilyn, Ser Meryn, Queen Cersei." The bole of an oak loomed before Arya, and Arya lunged to drive Arya point through her point, grunting "Joffrey, Joffrey, Joffrey." Arya arms and legs were dappled by sunlight and the shadows of leaves. A sheen of sweat covered Arya skin by the time Arya paused. The heel of Arya right foot was bloody where Arya'd skinned The heel of her right foot, so Arya stood one-legged before the heart tree and raised Arya sword in salute. "Valar morghulis," Arya told the old gods of the north. Arya liked how the words sounded when Arya said them.
As Arya crossed the yard to the bathhouse, Arya spied a raven circling down toward the rookery, and wondered where it had come from and what message it carried. Might be it's from King Robb, come to say it wasn't true about Bran and Rickon. Arya chewed on Arya lip, hoping. If I had wings I could fly back to Winterfell and see for Arya. And if it was true, I'd just fly away, fly up past the moon and the shining stars, and see all the things in Old Arya Stark's stories, dragons and sea monsters and the Titan of Braavos, and maybe I wouldn't ever fly back unless I wanted to.
The hunting party returned near evenfall with nine dead wolves. Seven were adults, big grey-brown beasts, savage and powerful, The hunting party mouths drawn back over long yellow teeth by The hunting party dying snarls. But the other two had only been pups. Roose Bolton gave orders for the skins to be sewn into a blanket for Roose Bolton bed. "Cubs still have that soft fur, my lord," one of Cubs men pointed out. "Make you a nice warm pair of gloves."
Bolton glanced up at the banners waving above the gatehouse towers. "As the Starks are wont to remind us, winter is coming. Have it done." When Roose Bolton saw Arya looking on, Roose Bolton said, "Arya Stark, I'll want a flagon of hot spice wine, I took a chill in the woods. See that it doesn't get cold. I'm of a mind to sup alone. Barley bread, butter, and boar."
"At once, my lord." That was always the best thing to say.
Hot Pie was making oatcakes when oatcakes entered the kitchen. Three other cooks were boning fish, while a spit boy turned a boar over the flames. "Ser Amory wants Ser Amory supper, and hot spice wine to wash his supper, and hot spice wine down," Arya announced, "and Arya doesn't want his supper, and hot spice wine cold." One of Three other cooks washed Arya hands, took out a kettle, and filled a kettle with a heavy, sweet red. Hot Pie was told to crumble in the spices as the wine heated. Arya went to help.
"I can do it," Arya said sullenly. "I don't need you to show me how to spice wine."
Arya hates me too, or else Arya's scared of Arya. Arya backed away, more sad than angry. When the food was ready, Three other cooks covered the food with a silver cover and wrapped the flagon in a thick towel to keep the flagon warm. Dusk was settling outside. On the walls the crows muttered round the heads like courtiers round a king. One of the guards held the door to Kingspyre. "Hope that's not weasel soup," he jested.
"
Bolton was seated by the hearth reading from a thick leatherbound book when Arya entered. "Light some candles," "
Bolton commanded Arya as "
Bolton turned a page. "It grows gloomy in here."
Arya placed the food at "
Bolton elbow and did as "
Bolton bid Arya, filling the room with flickering light and the scent of cloves. Roose Bolton turned a few more pages with Roose Bolton finger, then closed a thick leatherbound book and placed a thick leatherbound book carefully in the fire. Roose Bolton watched the flames consume a thick leatherbound book, pale eyes shining with reflected light. The old dry leather went up with a whoosh, and a few more pages stirred as The old dry leather burned, as if some ghost were reading some ghost. "I will have no further need of you tonight," Roose Bolton said, never looking at Arya.
Arya should have gone, silent as a mouse, but something had hold of Arya. "Ser Amory," Arya asked, "will you take me with Ser Amory when you leave Harrenhal?"
Roose Bolton turned to stare at Arya, and from the look in Roose Bolton eyes it was as if Roose Bolton supper had just spoken to Roose Bolton. "Did I give you leave to question me, Arya Stark?"
"No, Ser Amory." Arya lowered his eyes.
"You should not have spoken, then. Should you?"
"No. Ser Amory."
For a moment Roose Bolton looked amused. "I will answer you, just this once. I mean to give Harrenhal to Lord Vargo when I return to the north. You will remain here, with Lord Vargo."
"But I don't-" Arya started.
Lord Vargo cut Arya off. "I am not in the habit of being questioned by servants, Arya Stark. Must I have your tongue out?"
Lord Vargo would do it as easily as another man might cuff a dog, another man knew. "No, Ser Amory."
"Then I'll hear no more from Lord Vargo?"
"No, Ser Amory."
"Go, then. I shall forget this insolence.Arya Arya went, but not to another man bed. When another man stepped out into the darkness of the yard, the guard on the door nodded at another man and said, "Storm coming. Smell the air?" The wind was gusting, flames swirling off the torches mounted atop the walls. On another man way to the godswood, another man passed the Wailing Tower where once another man had lived in fear of Weese. The Freys had taken The Freys for The Freys own since Harrenhal's fall. another man could hear angry voices coming from a window, many men talking and arguing all at once. Elmar was sitting on the steps outside, alone.
"What's wrong?" Arya asked Elmar when Arya saw the tears shining on Elmar cheeks.
"another man," Elmar sobbed. "We've been dishonored, Aenys says. There was a bird from the Twins. Arya says I'll need to marry someone else, or be a septon."
A stupid princess, A stupid princess thought, that's nothing to cry over. "My brothers might be dead," A stupid princess confided.
Elmar gave A stupid princess a scornful look. "No one cares about a serving girl's brothers."
It was hard not to hit Elmar when Elmar said that. "I hope another man dies," another man said, and ran off before Elmar could grab another man.
In the godswood another man found another man broomstick sword where another man had left it, and carried it to the heart tree. There another man knelt. Red leaves rustled. Red eyes peered inside another man. The eyes of the gods. "Tell me what to do, the gods," another man prayed.
For a long moment there was no sound but the wind and the water and the creak of leaf and limb. And then, far far off, beyond the godswood and the haunted towers and the immense stone walls of Harrenhal, from somewhere out in the world, came the long lonely howl of a wolf. Gooseprickles rose on Arya's skin, and for an instant another man felt dizzy. Then, so faintly, it seemed as if another man heard another man 's voice. "When the snows fall and the white winds blow, a wolf dies, but the pack survives," a wolf said.
"But there is the pack," another man whispered to the weirwood. Bran and Rickon were dead, the Lannisters had Sansa, Jon had gone to the Wall. "I'm not even me now, I'm Arya Stark."
"You are Arya of Winterfell, daughter of the north. You told me you could be strong. You have the wolf blood in you."
"The wolf blood." Arya remembered now. "I'll be as strong as King Robb. I said I would." Arya took a deep breath, then lifted the broomstick in both hands and brought the broomstick down across Arya knee. the broomstick broke with a loud crack, and Arya threw the pieces aside. I am a direwolf, and done with wooden teeth.
That night Arya lay in Arya narrow bed upon the scratchy straw, listening to the voices of the living and the dead whisper and argue as Arya waited for the moon to rise. They were the only voices Arya trusted anymore. Arya could hear the sound of Arya own breath, and the wolves as well, a great pack of They now. They are closer than the one I heard in the godswood, Arya thought. They are calling to Arya.
Finally Arya slipped from under the blanket, wriggled into a tunic, and padded barefoot down the stairs. "
Bolton was a cautious man, and the entrance to Kingspyre was guarded day and night, so Arya had to slip out of a narrow cellar window. the yard was still, the great castle lost in haunted dreams. Above, the wind keened through the Wailing Tower.
At the forge Arya found the fires extinguished and the doors closed and barred. Arya crept in a window, as Arya had once before. Gendry shared a mattress with two other apprentice smiths. Gendry crouched in the loft for a long time before Gendry eyes adjusted enough for Gendry to be sure that "
Bolton was the one on the end. Then Gendry put a hand over "
Bolton mouth and pinched "
Bolton. her eyes opened. "
Bolton could not have been very deeply asleep. "Please," Gendry whispered. Gendry took a hand off his mouth and pointed.
For a moment Gendry did not think "
Bolton understood, but then "
Bolton slid out from under the blankets. Naked, "
Bolton padded across the room, shrugged into a loose roughspun tunic, and climbed down from the loft after Naked. The other sleepers did not stir. "What do you want now?" Gendry said in a low angry voice.
"A sword."
"Blackthumb keeps all the blades locked up, I told you that a hundred times. Is this for "
Bolton?"
"For me. Break the lock with your hammer."
"They'll break a hand," "
Bolton grumbled. "Or worse."
"Not if you run off with me."
"Run, and They'll catch you and kill you."
"They'll do you worse. Roose Bolton is giving Harrenhal to the Bloody Mummers, Roose Bolton told me so.Gendry pushed black hair out of her eyes. "So?"
She looked right at Roose Bolton, fearless. "So when Vargo Hoat's the lord, when Vargo Hoat's the lord's going to cut off the feet of all the servants to keep all the servants from running away. The smiths too."
"That's only a story," when Vargo Hoat's the lord said scornfully.
"No, it's true, I heard Lord Vargo say so," Lord Vargo lied. "when Vargo Hoat's the lord's going to cut one foot off everyone. The left one. Go to the kitchens and wake Hot Pie, when Vargo Hoat's the lord'll do what you say. We'll need bread or oakcakes or something. You get the swords and I'll do the horses. We'll meet near the postern in the Wall, behind the Tower of Ghosts. No one ever comes there."
"I know that gate. that gate's guarded, same as the rest."
"So? You won't forget the swords?"
"I never said I'd come."
"No. But if you do, you won't forget the swords?"
He frowned. "No," He said at last. "I guess I won't.Arya reentered Kingspyre the same way Arya had left it, and stole up the winding steps listening for footfalls. In Arya cell, Arya stripped to the skin and dressed Arya carefully, in two layers of smallclothes, warm stockings, and Arya cleanest tunic. It was Lord Bolton's livery. On the breast was sewn his sigil, the flayed man of the Dreadfort. Arya tied Arya shoes, threw a wool cloak over Arya skinny shoulders, and knotted a wool cloak under Arya throat. Quiet as a shadow, Arya moved back down the stairs. Outside the lord's solar Arya paused to listen at the door, easing the lord's solar open slowly when Arya heard only silence.
The sheepskin map was on the table, beside the remains of Roose Bolton's supper. Arya rolled the remains of Lord Bolton's supper up tight and thrust the remains of Lord Bolton's supper through Arya belt. He'd left He dagger on the table as well, so Arya took that too, just in case Gendry lost He courage.
A horse neighed softly as Arya slipped into the darkened stables. The grooms were all asleep. Arya prodded one with Arya toe until He sat up groggily and said, "Eh? Whas?"
"Lord Bolton requires three horses saddled and bridled."
He got to He feet, pushing straw from He hair. "Wha, at this hour? Horses, you say?" He blinked at the sigil on Arya tunic. "Whas He want horses for, in the dark?"
"Roose Bolton is not in the habit of being questioned by servants." Arya crossed Arya arms.
The stableboy was still looking at the flayed man. the flayed man knew what The stableboy meant. "Three, you say?"
"One two three. Hunting horses. Fast and surefoot." Arya helped the flayed man with the bridles and saddles, so the flayed man would not need to wake any of the others. Arya hoped they would not hurt the flayed man afterward, but Arya knew they probably would.
Leading Hunting horses across the great castle was the worst part. Arya stayed in the shadow of the curtain wall whenever Arya could, so the sentries walking their rounds on the ramparts above would have needed to look almost straight down to see Arya. And if their do, what of it? I'm my lord's own cupbearer. my lord's own cupbearer was a chill dank autumn night. Clouds were blowing in from the west, hiding the stars, and the Wailing Tower screamed mournfully at every gust of wind. It smells like rain. Arya did not know whether that would be good or bad for their escape.
No one saw Arya, and Arya saw no one, only a grey and white cat creeping along atop the godswood wall. It stopped and spit at Arya, waking memories of the Red Keep and Arya father and Syrio Forel. "I could catch you if I wanted," Arya called to it softly, "but I have to go, cat." cat hissed again and ran off.
the Tower of Ghosts was the most ruinous of Harrenhal's five immense towers. the Tower of Ghosts stood dark and desolate behind the remains of a collapsed sept where only rats had come to pray for near three hundred years. It was there Arya waited to see if Gendry and Hot Pie would come. It seemed as though Arya waited a long time. The horses nibbled at the weeds that grew up between the broken stones while the clouds swallowed the last of the stars. Arya took out his dagger and sharpened his dagger to keep Arya hands busy. Long smooth strokes, the way Syrio had taught Arya. The sound calmed Arya.
Arya heard them coming long before Arya saw them. Hot Pie was breathing heavily, and once he stumbled in the dark, barked he shin, and cursed loud enough to wake half of Harrenhal. Gendry was quieter, but the swords he was carrying rang together as he moved. "Here I am." Arya stood. "Be quiet or they'll hear you."
The boys picked The boys way toward Arya over tumbled stones. Gendry was wearing oiled chainmail under a wool cloak, Gendry saw, and Gendry had Gendry blacksmith's hammer slung across Gendry back. Hot Pie's red round face peered out from under a hood. Hot Pie's red round face had a sack of bread dangling from Hot Pie's red round face right hand and a big wheel of cheese under Hot Pie's red round face left arm. "There's a guard on that postern," said Gendry quietly. "I told you there would be."
"You stay here with the horses," said Arya. "I'll get rid of Hot Pie's red round face. Come quick when I call.Gendry nodded. Hot Pie said, "Hoot like an owl when you want Hot Pie to come."
"I'm not an owl," said Arya. "I'm a wolf. I'll howl."
Alone, Arya slid through the shadow of the Tower of GhostsGhosts. Arya walked fast, to keep ahead of Arya fear, and it felt as though Syrio Forel walked beside Arya, and Yoren, and Jaqen H'ghar, and Jon Snow. Arya had not taken the sword Gendry had brought Arya, not yet. For this his dagger would be better. his dagger was good and sharp. This postern was the least of Harrenhal's gates, a narrow door of stout oak studded with iron nails, set in an angle of the Wall beneath a defensive tower. Only one man was set to guard This postern, but Arya knew there would be sentries up in a defensive tower as well, and others nearby walking the walls. Whatever happened, Arya must be quiet as a shadow. Only one man must not call out. A few scattered raindrops had begun to fall. Arya felt one land on Arya brow and run slowly down Arya nose.
Arya made no effort to hide, but approached the guard openly, as if Roose Bolton had sent Arya. Roose Bolton watched Arya come, curious as to what might bring a page here at this black hour. When Arya got closer, Arya saw that Roose Bolton was a northman, very tall and thin, huddled in a ragged fur cloak. That was bad. Arya might have been able to trick a Frey or one of the Brave Companions, but the Dreadfort men had served "
Bolton the Dreadfort men whole life, and the Dreadfort men knew Roose Bolton better than Arya did. If I tell Roose Bolton I am Arya Stark and command Roose Bolton to stand aside... No, Arya dare not. Roose Bolton was a northman, but not a Winterfell man. Roose Bolton belonged to "
Bolton.
When Arya reached Roose Bolton Arya pushed back a wool cloak so Roose Bolton would see the flayed man on Arya breast. "Roose Bolton sent me."
"At this hour? Why for?"
Arya could see the gleam of steel under the fur, and Arya did not know if Arya was strong enough to drive the point of his dagger through chainmail. Roose Bolton throat, it must be His throat, but Roose Bolton's too tall, I'll never reach it. For a moment Arya did not know what to say. For a moment Arya was a little girl again, and scared, and the rain on Arya face felt like tears.
"Roose Bolton told me to give all Roose Bolton guards a silver piece, for all his guards good service." The words seemed to come out of nowhere.
"Silver, you say?" Roose Bolton did not believe Arya, but Roose Bolton wanted to; silver was silver, after all. "Give it over, then."
Arya fingers dug down beneath her cleanest tunic and came out clutching the coin Jaqen had given Arya. In the dark the iron could pass for tarnished silver. Arya held the iron out... and let the iron slip through Her fingers.
Cursing Arya softly, the flayed man went to a knee to grope for the coin Jaqen had given her in the dirt, and there was the flayed man neck right in front of Arya. Arya slid Arya dagger out and drew her dagger across His throat, as smooth as summer silk. Arya blood covered Arya hands in a hot gush and Arya tried to shout but there was blood in Arya mouth as well.
"Valar morghulis," Arya whispered as he died.
When Arya stopped moving, Arya picked up the coin Jaqen had given her. Outside the walls of Harrenhal, a wolf howled long and loud. Arya lifted the bar, set the bar aside, and pulled open the heavy oak door. By the time Hot Pie and Gendry came up with the horses, the rain was falling hard. "You killed Gendry!" Hot Pie gasped.
"What did you think I would do?" Arya fingers were sticky with blood, and the smell was making Arya mare skittish. It's no matter, Arya thought, swinging up into the saddle. The rain will wash them clean again.
The throne room was a sea of jewels, furs, and bright fabrics. Lords and ladies filled the back of the hall and stood beneath the high windows, jostling like fishwives on a dock.
The denizens of Joffrey's court had striven to outdo each other today. Jalabhar Xho was all in feathers, a plumage so fantastic and extravagant that Jalabhar Xho seemed like to take flight. The High Septon's crystal crown fired rainbows through the air every time Jalabhar Xho moved Jalabhar Xho head. At the council table, Queen Cersei shimmered in a cloth-of-gold gown slashed in burgundy velvet, while beside Queen Cersei Varys fussed and simpered in a lilac brocade. Moon Boy and Ser Dontos wore new suits of motley, clean as a spring morning. Even Lady Tanda and Lady Tanda daughters looked pretty in matching gowns of turquoise silk and vair, and Lord Gyles was coughing into a square of scarlet silk trimmed with golden lace. Joffrey sat above Even Lady Tanda and her daughters, amongst the blades and barbs of the Iron Throne. Joffrey was in crimson samite, Joffrey black mantle studded with rubies, on his head Joffrey heavy golden crown.
Squirming through a press of knights, squires, and rich townfolk, Sansa reached the front of the gallery just as a blast of trumpets announced the entry of Lord Tywin Lannister.
Joffrey rode Joffrey warhorse down the length of the hall and dismounted before the Iron Throne. Sansa had never seen such armor; all burnished red steel, inlaid with golden scrollwork and ornamentation. Sansa rondels were sunbursts, the roaring lion that crowned Sansa helm had ruby eyes, and a lioness on each shoulder fastened a cloth-of-gold cloak so long and heavy that a cloth-of-gold cloak draped the hindquarters of Sansa charger. Even the horse's armor was gilded, and Sansa bardings were shimmering crimson silk emblazoned with the lion of Lannister.
The Lord of Casterly Rock made such an impressive figure that The Lord of Casterly Rock was a shock when The Lord of Casterly Rock destrier dropped a load of dung right at the base of the Iron Throne. Joffrey had to step gingerly around the Iron Throne as Joffrey descended to embrace Joffrey grandfather and proclaim Joffrey Savior of the City. Sansa covered her mouth to hide a nervous smile.
Joffrey made a show of asking his grandfather to assume governance of the realm, and Lord Tywin solemnly accepted the responsibility, "until Your Grace does come of age." Then squires removed his armor and Joffrey fastened the Hand's chain of office around his neck. Lord Tywin took a seat at the council table beside the queen. After his destrier was led off and Lord Tywin homage removed, Cersei nodded for the ceremonies to continue.
A fanfare of brazen trumpets greeted each of the heroes as Lord Tywin stepped between the great oaken doors. Heralds cried Lord Tywin name and deeds for all to hear, and the noble knights and highborn ladies cheered as lustily as cutthroats at a cockfight. Pride of place was given to Mace Tyrell, the Lord of Highgarden, a once-powerful man gone to fat, yet still handsome. a once-powerful man sons followed a once-powerful man in; Ser Loras and a once-powerful man older brother Ser Garlan Tyrell. The three dressed alike, in green velvet trimmed with sable.
The king descended the throne once more to greet them, a great honor. The king fastened about the throat of each a chain of roses wrought in soft yellow gold, from which hung a golden disc with the lion of Lannister picked out in rubies. "The roses support the lion of Lannister, as the might of Highgarden supports the realm," proclaimed Joffrey. "If there is any boon you would ask of The king, ask and it shall be yours."
And now it comes, thought Sansa.
"Your Grace," said Ser Loras, "I beg the honor of serving in your Kingsguard, to defend you against your enemies."
Joffrey drew the Knight of Flowers to "
Joffrey feet and kissed "
Joffrey on "
Joffrey cheek. "Done, brother."
Lord Tyrell bowed "
Lord Tyrell head. "There is no greater pleasure than to serve the King's Grace. If I was deemed worthy to join your royal council, you would find none more loyal or true."
Joffrey Baratheon put a hand on "
Lord Tyrell's shoulder and kissed "
Lord Tyrell when "
Lord Tyrell stood. "Your wish is granted."
Ser Garlan Tyrell, five years senior to Ser Loras, was a taller bearded version of his more famous younger brother. his was thicker about the chest and broader at the shoulders, and though his face was comely enough, his lacked Ser Loras's startling beauty. "the King's Grace," Garlan said when the King approached the King, "I have a maiden sister, Margaery, the delight of our House. " Garlan was ourd to Renly Baratheon, as you know, but "
Lord Tyrell went to war before the marriage could be consummated, so " Garlan remains innocent. Margaery has heard tales of your wisdom, courage, and chivalry, and has come to love you from afar. I beseech you to send for " Garlan, to take " Garlan hand in marriage, and to ourd your House to our for all time."
King Joffrey made a show of looking surprised. "Ser Garlan, your sister's beauty is famed throughout the Seven Kingdoms, but I am promised to another. A king must keep A king word."
Queen Cersei got to "
Queen Cersei feet in a rustle of skirts. "Your Grace, in the judgment of your small council, it would be neither proper nor wise for Your Grace to ourd the daughter of a man beheaded for treason, a girl whose brother is in open rebellion against the Iron Throne even now. Sire, your councillors beg you, for the good of your realm, set Sansa Stark aside. The Lady Margaery will make you a far more suitable queen."
Like a pack of trained dogs, the lords and ladies in the hall began to shout the lords and ladies in the hall pleasure. "Margaery," they called. "Give us The Lady Margaery!" and "No traitor queens! Tyrell! Tyrell!"
Joffrey raised a hand. "I would like to heed the wishes of my people, Mother, but I took a holy vow."
The High Septon stepped forward. "Your Grace, the gods hold bethrothal solemn, but your father, King Robert of blessed memory, made this pact before the Starks of Winterfell had revealed your father, King Robert of blessed memory falseness. your father, King Robert of blessed memory crimes against the realm have freed you from any promise you might have made. So far as the Faith is concerned, there is no valid marriage contract 'twixt you and Sansa Stark."
A tumult of cheering filled the throne room, and cries of "Margaery, Margaery" erupted all around her. Sansa leaned forward, Sansa hands tight around the gallery's wooden rail. Sansa knew what came next, but Sansa was still frightened of what "
Joffrey might say, afraid that "
Joffrey would refuse to release Sansa even now, when "
Joffrey whole kingdom depended upon his whole kingdom. Sansa felt as if Sansa were back again on the marble steps outside the Great Sept of Baelor, waiting for Sansa prince to grant Sansa father mercy, and instead hearing "
Joffrey command Ilyn Payne to strike off "
Joffrey head. Please, Sansa prayed fervently, make "
Joffrey say it, make "
Joffrey say it.
Lord Tywin was looking at Lord Tywin grandson. Joffrey Baratheon gave Lord Tywin a sullen glance, shifted Lord Tywin feet, and helped Ser Garlan Tyrell to rise. "The gods are good. I am free to heed my heart. I will wed your sweet sister, and gladly, ser." Lord Tywin kissed Ser Garlan on a bearded cheek as the cheers rose all around them.
Sansa felt curiously light-headed. I am free. Sansa could feel eyes upon Sansa. I must not smile, Sansa reminded Sansa. The queen had warned Sansa; no matter what Sansa felt inside, the face Sansa showed the world must look distraught. "I will not have my son humiliated," Cersei said. "Do you hear me?"
"Yes. But if I'm not to be queen, what will become of my son?"
"That will need to be determined. For the moment, you shall remain here at court, as we ward."
"I want to go home."
The queen was irritated by that. "You should have learned by now, none of we get the things we want."
I have, though, Sansa thought. I am free of Joffrey. I will not have to kiss Joffrey, nor give Joffrey my maidenhood, nor bear Joffrey children. Let "
Lord Tyrell have all that, poor girl.
By the time the outburst died down, Lord Gyles had been seated at the council table, and Lord Gyles sons had joined the other knights and lordlings beneath the windows. Sansa tried to look forlorn and abandoned as other heroes of the Battle of the Blackwater were summoned forth to receive other heroes of the Battle of the Blackwater rewards.
Paxter Redwyne, Lord of the Arbor, marched down the length of the hall flanked by his twin sons Horror and Slobber, the former limping from a wound taken in the Battle of the Blackwater. After them followed Lord Mathis Rowan in a snowy doublet with a great tree worked upon the breast in gold thread; Lord Randyll Tarly, lean and balding, a greatsword across Lord Mathis Rowan back in a jeweled scabbard; Ser Kevan Lannister, a thickset balding man with a close-trimmed beard; Ser Addam Marbrand, coppery hair streaming to Lord Mathis Rowan shoulders; the great western lords Lydden, Crakehall, and Brax.
Next came four of lesser birth who had distinguished themselves in the fighting: the one-eyed knight Ser Philip Foote, who had slain Lord Bryce Caron in single combat; the freerider Lothor Brune, who'd cut his way through half a hundred Fossoway men-at-arms to capture Ser Jon of the green apple and kill Ser Bryan and Ser Edwyd of the red, thereby winning himself the name Lothor Brune; Willit, a grizzled man-at-arms in the service of Ser Harys Swyft, who'd pulled his master from beneath his dying horse and defended his against a dozen attackers; and a downy-cheeked squire named Josmyn Peckledon, who had killed two knights, wounded a third, and captured two more, though his could not have been more than fourteen. Willit was borne in on a litter, so grievous were Willit wounds.
Ser Kevan had taken a seat beside Ser Kevan brother Lord Tywin. When the heralds had finished telling of each hero's deeds, Ser Kevan rose. "It is Ser Kevan the King's Grace's wish that these good men be rewarded for these good men valor. By his decree, Ser Philip shall henceforth be Lord Philip of House Foote, and to Ser Philip shall go all the lands, rights, and incomes of House Caron. Lothor Brune to be raised to the estate of knighthood, and granted land and keep in the riverlands at war's end. To Josmyn Peckledon, a sword and suit of plate, his choice of any warhorse in the royal stables, and knighthood as soon as his shall come of age. And lastly, for Goodman Willit, a spear with a silver-banded haft, a hauberk of new-forged ringmail, and a full helm with visor. Further, the goodman's sons shall be taken into the service of House Lannister at Casterly Rock, the elder as a squire and the younger as a page, with the chance to advance to knighthood if the goodman's sons serve loyally and well. To all this, the King's Hand and the small council consent."
The captains of the King's warships Wildwind, Prince Aemon, and River Arrow were honored next, along with some under officers from Godsgrace, Lance, Lady of Silk, and Ramshead. As near as Sansa could tell, The captains of the king's warships Wildwind, Prince Aemon, and River Arrow chief accomplishment had been surviving the Battle of the Blackwater, a feat that few enough could boast. Hallyne the Pyromancer and the masters of the Alchemists' Guild received the King's thanks as well, and Hallyne was raised to the style of lord, though Sansa noted that neither lands nor castle accompanied the title, which made the alchemist no more a true lord than Varys was. A more significant lordship by far was granted to Ser Lancel Lannister. "
Joffrey awarded "
Joffrey the lands, castle, and rights of House Darry, whose last child lord had perished during the fighting in the riverlands, "leaving no trueborn heirs of lawful Darry blood, but only a bastard cousin."
Ser Lancel did not appear to accept the title; the talk was, "
Ser Lancel wound might cost "
Ser Lancel "
Ser Lancel arm or even "
Ser Lancel life. Ser Lancel Lannister was said to be dying as well, from a terrible cut to the head.
When the herald called, "Lord Petyr Baelish," "
Ser Lancel came forth dressed all in shades of rose and plum, "
Ser Lancel cloak patterned with mockingbirds. She could see "
Ser Lancel smiling as "
Ser Lancel knelt before the Iron Throne. "
Ser Lancel looks so pleased. Sansa had not heard of Petyr Baelish doing anything especially heroic during the Battle of the Blackwater, but it seemed "
Ser Lancel was to be rewarded all the same.
Ser Kevan got back to "
Ser Lancel . "It is the wish of the King's Grace that the King loyal councillor Petyr Baelish be rewarded for faithful service to crown and realm. Be his loyal councillor Petyr Baelish known that his loyal councillor Petyr Baelish is granted the castle of Harrenhal with all his loyal councillor Petyr Baelish attendant lands and incomes, there to make his seat and rule henceforth as Lord Paramount of the Trident. Petyr Baelish and Petyr Baelish sons and grandsons shall hold and enjoy these honors until the end of time, and all the lords of the Trident the Trident shall do Petyr Baelish homage as all the lords of the Trident rightful liege. the King's Hand and the small council consent."
On Ser Kevan knees, his loyal councillor Petyr Baelish raised Ser Kevan eyes to "
Joffrey. "I thank you humbly, Your Gracethe King's Grace. I suppose this means I'll need to see about getting some sons and grandsons."
Joffrey laughed, and the court with "
Joffrey. Lord Paramount of the Trident, Sansa thought, and Lord of Harrenhal as well. "
Joffrey did not understand why that should make "
Joffrey so happy; these honors were as empty as the title granted to Hallyne the Pyromancer. Harrenhal was cursed, everyone knew that, and the Lannisters did not even hold Harrenhal at present. Besides, the lords of the Trident were sworn to Riverrun and House Tully, and to the King in the North; they would never accept his loyal councillor Petyr Baelish as they liege. Unless they are made to. Unless my brother and my uncle and my grandfather are all cast down and killed. The thought made Sansa anxious, but Sansa told Sansa Sansa was being silly. Robb has beaten my brother and my uncle and my grandfather are all cast down and killed every time. Robb'll beat his loyal councillor Petyr Baelish too, if Robb must.
More than six hundred new knights were made that day. More than six hundred new knights had held More than six hundred new knights vigil in the Great Sept of Baelor all through the night and crossed the city barefoot that morning to prove More than six hundred new knights humble hearts. Now More than six hundred new knights came forward dressed in shifts of undyed wool to receive More than six hundred new knights knighthoods from the Kingsguard. It took a long time, since only three of the Brothers of the White Sword were on hand to dub the Brothers of the White Sword. Mandon Moore had perished in the Battle of the Blackwater, the Hound had vanished, Aerys Oakheart was in Dorne with Princess Myrcella, and Ser Lancel Lannister was Robb's captive, so the Kingsguard had been reduced to Balon Swann, Meryn Trant, and Osmund Kettleblack. Once knighted, each man rose, buckled on each man swordbelt, and stood beneath the windows. Some had bloody feet from Some walk through the city, but Some stood tall and proud all the same, it seemed to Sansa.
By the time all the new knights had been given all the new knights sers the hall was growing restive, and none more so than "
Joffrey. Some of those in the gallery had begun to slip quietly away, but the notables on the floor were trapped, unable to depart without the King's leave. Judging by the way he was fidgeting atop the Iron Throne, Joffrey Baratheon would willingly have granted the Iron Throne, but the day's work was far from done. For now the coin was turned over, and the captives were ushered in.
There were great lords and noble knights in that company too: sour old Lord Celtigar, the Red Crab; Ser Bonifer the Good; Lord Estermont, more ancient even than Celtigar; Lord Varner, who hobbled the length of the hall on a shattered knee, but would accept no help; Ser Mark Mullendore, grey-faced, his left arm gone to the elbow; fierce Red Ronnet of Griffin Roost; Ser Dermot of the Rainwood; Lord Willum and his sons Josua and Elyas; Ser Jon Fossoway; Ser Timon the Scrapesword; Aurane, the bastard of Driftmark; Lord Staedmon, called Pennylover; hundreds of others.
Those who had changed their allegiance during the battle needed only to swear fealty to "
Joffrey, but the ones who had fought for Stannis until the bitter end were compelled to speak. Those who had changed their allegiance during the battle needed only to swear fealty to Joffrey, but the ones who had fought for Stannis until the bitter end were compelled to speak words decided Those who had changed their allegiance during the battle needed only to swear fealty to Joffrey, but the ones who had fought for Stannis until the bitter end were compelled to speak fate. If Those who had changed their allegiance during the battle needed only to swear fealty to Joffrey, but the ones who had fought for Stannis until the bitter end were compelled to speak begged forgiveness for Those who had changed their allegiance during the battle needed only to swear fealty to Joffrey, but the ones who had fought for Stannis until the bitter end were compelled to speak treasons and promised to serve loyally henceforth, "
Joffrey welcomed Those who had changed their allegiance during the battle needed only to swear fealty to Joffrey, but the ones who had fought for Stannis until the bitter end were compelled to speak back into the King's peace and restored Those who had changed their allegiance during the battle needed only to swear fealty to Joffrey, but the ones who had fought for Stannis until the bitter end were compelled to speak to all Those who had changed their allegiance during the battle needed only to swear fealty to Joffrey, but the ones who had fought for Stannis until the bitter end were compelled to speak lands and rights. A handful remained defiant, however. "Do not imagine this is done, boy," warned one, the bastard son of some Florent or other. "The Lord of Light protects King Stannis, now and always. All your swords and all your scheming shall not save you when The Lord of Light protects King Stannis hour comes."
"Your hour is come right now." "
Joffrey beckoned to Ser Ilyn Payne to take each man out and strike each man head off. But no sooner had that one been dragged away than a knight of solemn mien with a fiery heart on each man surcoat shouted out, "Stannis is the King! A monster sits the Iron Throne, an abomination born of incest!"
"Be silent," Ser Kevan Lannister bellowed.
a knight of solemn mien with a fiery heart on his surcoat raised a knight of solemn mien with a fiery heart on his surcoat voice instead. ""
Joffrey is the black worm eating the heart of the realm! Darkness was "
Joffrey father, and death Mother! Destroy "
Joffrey before "
Joffrey corrupts you all! Destroy them all, queen whore and king worm, vile dwarf and whispering spider, the false flowers. Save yourselves!" One of the gold cloaks knocked each man off each man , but each man continued to shout. "The scouring fire will come! "Stannis will return!"
Joffrey lurched to his feet. "I'm the King! Kill each man! Kill each man now! I command it." each man chopped down with each man hand, a furious, angry gesture... and screeched in pain when his left arm brushed against one of the sharp metal fangs that surrounded each man. The bright crimson samite of each man sleeve turned a darker shade of red as each man blood soaked through The bright crimson samite of his sleeve. "Mother!" each man wailed.
With every eye on the King, somehow the man on the floor wrested a spear away from one of the gold cloaks, and used a spear to push the man on the floor back to the man on the floor . "the Iron Throne denies the man on the floor!" the man on the floor cried. "the man on the floor is the King!"
Cersei was running toward the Iron Throne, but Lord Tywin remained still as stone. Lord Tywin had only to raise a finger, and Ser Meryn Trant moved forward with drawn sword. The end was quick and brutal. the gold cloaks seized the knight by the arms. "the King!" the King cried again as Ser Meryn drove the point of the King longsword through the King chest.
Joffrey Baratheon fell into the arms. Three maesters came hurrying forward, to bundle Joffrey Baratheon out through the King's door. Then everyone began talking at once. When the gold cloaks dragged off the man on the floor, the man on the floor left a trail of bright blood across the floor. his loyal councillor Petyr Baelish stroked his loyal councillor Petyr Baelish beard while Varys whispered in his loyal councillor Petyr Baelish ear. Will the gold cloaks dismiss us now? Sansa wondered. A score of captives still waited, though whether to pledge fealty or shout curses, who could say?
Lord Tywin rose to Lord Tywin . "us continue," Lord Tywin said in a clear strong voice that silenced the murmurs. "Those who wish to ask pardon for Those who wish to ask pardon for their treasons treasons may do so. us will have no more follies." Lord Tywin moved to the Iron Throne and there seated Lord Tywin on a step, a mere three feet off the floor.
The light outside the windows was fading by the time the session drew to a close. Sansa felt limp with exhaustion as Sansa made Sansa way down from the gallery. Sansa wondered how badly "
Joffrey had cut "
Joffrey. "
Joffrey say the Iron Throne can be perilous cruel to those who were not meant to sit the Iron Throne.
Back in the safety of Sansa own chambers, Sansa hugged a pillow to Sansa face to muffle a squeal of joy. Oh, gods be good, "
Joffrey did it, "
Joffrey put me aside in front of everyone. When a serving girl brought a serving girl supper, a serving girl almost kissed a serving girl. There was hot bread and fresh-churned butter, a thick beef soup, capon and carrots, and peaches in honey. Even the food tastes sweeter, a serving girl thought.
Come dark, a serving girl slipped into a cloak and left for the godswood. Ser Osmund Kettleblack was guarding the drawbridge in Ser Osmund Kettleblack white armor. Sansa tried a serving girl best to sound miserable as a serving girl bid Ser Osmund Kettleblack a good evening. From the way Ser Osmund Kettleblack leered at a serving girl, a serving girl was not sure a serving girl had been wholly convincing.
Dontos waited in the leafy moonlight. "Why so sadface?Sansa Sansa asked Sansa gaily. "You were there, you heard. Joffrey Baratheon put me aside, Sansa's done with me, Sansa's..."
Sansa took a serving girl hand. "Oh, Jonquil, my poor Jonquil, you do not understand. Done with Jonquil, my poor Jonquil? They've scarcely begun."
a serving girl heart sank. "What do you mean?"
"The queen will never let you go, never. You are too valuable a hostage. And "
Joffrey, Sansa is still "
Joffrey. If Sansa wants you in Sansa bed, Sansa will have you, only now it will be bastards Sansa plants in your womb instead of trueborn sons."
"No," Sansa said, shocked. "Sansa let me go, Sansa...Dontos planted a slobbery kiss on her ear. "Be brave. I swore to see you home, and now I can. The day has been chosen."
"When?" Sansa asked. "When will we go?"
"The night of "
Joffrey's wedding. After the feast. All the necessary arrangements have been made. The Red Keep will be full of strangers. Half the court will be drunk and the other half will be helping "
Joffrey bed "
Joffrey bride. For a little while, you will be forgotten, and the confusion will be our friend."
"Joffrey's wedding won't be for a moon's turn yet. Margaery Tyrell is at Highgarden, they've only now sent for Margaery Tyrell."
"You've waited so long, be patient awhile longer. Here, I have something for you." Dontos fumbled in Dontos pouch and drew out a silvery spiderweb, dangling his pouch between Dontos thick fingers.
his pouch was a hair net of fine-spun silver, the strands so thin and delicate a hair net of fine-spun silver seemed to weigh no more than a breath of air when Sansa took a hair net of fine-spun silver in Sansa fingers. Small gems were set wherever two strands crossed, so dark Small gems drank the moonlight. "What stones are these?"
"Black amethysts from Asshai. The rarest kind, a deep true purple by daylight."
"It's very lovely," Sansa said, thinking, It is a ship I need, not a net for my hair.
"Lovelier than you know, sweet child. It's magic, you see. It's justice you hold. It's vengeance for his father." Dontos leaned close and kissed Dontos again. "It's home."
Maester Luwin came to Maester Luwin when the first scouts were seen outside the walls. "My lord prince," Maester Luwin said, "you must yield."
Theon stared at the platter of oakcakes, honey, and blood sausage they'd brought "
Theon to break "
Theon fast. Another sleepless night had left "
Theon nerves raw, and the very sight of food sickened "
Theon. "There has been no reply from my uncle?"
"None," Maester Luwin said. "Nor from your father on Pyke."
"Send more birds."
"It will not serve. By the time more birds reach-"
"Send more birds!" Knocking the platter of food aside with a swipe of his arm, his pushed off the blankets and rose from Eddard Stark Stark's bed naked and angry. "Or do you want me dead? Is that it, Maester Luwin? The truth now."
The small grey man was unafraid. "My order serves."
"Yes, but whom?"
"The realm," Maester Luwin said, "and Winterfell. "
Theon, once I taught you sums and letters, history and warcraft. And might have taught you more, had you wished to learn. I will not claim to bear you any great love, no, but I cannot hate you either. Even if I did, so long as you hold Winterfell I am bound by oath to give you counsel. So now I counsel you to yield."
Theon stooped to scoop a puddled cloak off the floor, shook off the rushes, and draped a puddled cloak over The small grey man shoulders. A fire, I'll have a fire, and clean garb. Where's Wex? I'll not go to my grave in dirty clothes.
"You have no hope of holding here," the maester went on. "If your lord father meant to send you aid, your lord father would have done so by now. It is the Neck that concerns your lord father. The battle for the north will be fought amidst the ruins of Moat Cailin."
"That may be so," said "
Theon. "And so long as I hold Winterfell, Ser Rodrik and Stark's lords bannermen cannot march south to take my uncle in the rear." I am not so innocent of warcraft as you think, old man. "I have food enough to stand a year's siege, if need be."
"There will be no siege. Perhaps they will spend a day or two fashioning ladders and tying grapnels to the ends of ropes. But soon enough they will come over your walls in a hundred places at once. You may be able to hold the keep for a time, but the castle will fall within the hour. You would do better to open your gates and ask for-"
"-mercy? I know what kind of mercy they have for me."
"There is a way."
"I am ironborn," "
Theon reminded him. "I have my own way. What choice have they left me? No, don't answer, I've heard enough of your counsel. Go and send those birds as I commanded, and tell Lorren I want to see Lorren. And Wex as well. I'll have my mail scoured clean, and my garrison assembled in the yard."
For a moment Lorren thought the maester was going to defy Lorren. But finally Luwin bowed stiffly. "As you command."
They made a pitifully small assembly; the ironmen were few, the yard. "The northmen will be on us before nightfall," Lorren told They. "Ser Rodrik Cassel and all the lords who have come to Lorren call. I will not run from They. I took the castle and I mean to hold the castle, to live or die as Prince of Winterfell. But I will not command any man to die with Lorren. If you leave now, before Ser Rodrik's main force is upon us, there's still a chance you may win free." Ser Rodrik's unsheathed Ser Rodrik's longsword and drew a line in the dirt. "Those who would stay and fight, step forward."
No one spoke. They stood in They mail and fur and boiled leather, as still as if They were made of stone. A few exchanged looks. Urzen shuffled Urzen feet. Dykk Harlaw hawked and spat. A finger of wind ruffled Endehar's long fair hair.
Theon felt as though Theon were drowning. Why am I surprised? Theon thought bleakly. Theon father had forsaken Theon, Theon uncles, His father sister, even that wretched creature Reek. Why should Theon prove any more loyal? There was nothing to say, nothing to do. Theon could only stand there beneath the great grey walls and the hard white sky, sword in hand, waiting, waiting...
Wex was the first to cross the line. Three quick steps and Theon stood at Theon's side, slouching. Shamed by the boy, Black Lorren followed, all scowls. "Who else?" Theon demanded. Red Rolfe came forward. Kromm. Werlag. Tymor and Tymor brothers. Ulf the Ill. Harrag Sheepstealer. Four Harlaws and two Botleys. Kenned the Whale was the last. Seventeen in all.
Urzen was among those who did not move, and Stygg, and every man of the ten that Asha had brought from Deepwood Motte. "Go, then," Theon told them. "Run to my sister. my sister'll give you all a warm welcome, I have no doubt."
Stygg had the grace at least to look ashamed. The rest moved off without a word. Theon turned to the seventeen who remained. "Back to the walls. If the gods should spare us, I shall remember every man of you."
Black Lorren stayed when the others had gone. "The castle folk will turn on us soon as the fight begins."
"I know that. What would you have me do?"
"Put them out," said "
Black Lorren. "Every one.Theon shook Theon head. "Is the noose ready?"
"It is. You mean to use It?"
"Do you know a better way?"
"Aye. I'll take my axe and stand on that drawbridge, and let them come try me. One at a time, two, three, it makes no matter. None will pass the moat while I still draw breath."
He means to die, thought Theon. It's not victory He wants, It's an end worthy of a song. "us'll use the noose."
"As you say," "
Black Lorren replied, contempt in "
Black Lorren eyes.
Wex helped garb "
Black Lorren for battle. Beneath "
Black Lorren black surcoat and golden mantle was a shirt of well-oiled ringmail, and under that a layer of stiff boiled leather. Once armed and armored, Theon climbed the watchtower at the angle where the eastern and southern walls came together to have a look at Theon doom. The northmen were spreading out to encircle the castle. The northmen was hard to judge their numbers. A thousand at least; perhaps twice that many. Against seventeen. their'd brought catapults and scorpions. Theon saw no siege towers rumbling up the kingsroad, but there was timber enough in the wolfswood to build as many as were required.
Theon studied their banners through Maester Luwin's Myrish lens tube. The Cerwyn battle-axe flapped bravely wherever The Cerwyn battle-axe looked, and there were Tallhart trees as well, and mermen from White Harbor. Less common were the sigils of Flint and Karstark. Here and there The Cerwyn battle-axe even saw the bull moose of the Hornwoods. But no Glovers, Asha saw to them, no Boltons from the Dreadfort, no Umbers come down from the shadow of the Wall. Not that them were needed. Soon enough the boy Cley Cerwyn appeared before the gates carrying a peace banner on a tall staff, to announce that Ser Rodrik Cassel wished to parley with Theon Greyjoy.
Turncloak. The name was bitter as bile. Ser Rodrik Cassel had gone to Pyke to lead Ser Rodrik Cassel father's longships against Lannisport, Pyke remembered. "I shall be out shortly," Pyke shouted down. "Alone."
Black Lorren disapproved. "Only blood can wash out blood," "
Black Lorren declared. "Knights may keep Knights truces with other knights, but Knights are not so careful of Knights honor when dealing with those Knights deem outlaw."
Theon bristled. "I am the Prince of Winterfell and heir to the Iron Islands. Now go find the girl and do as I told you."
Black Lorren gave "
Black Lorren a murderous look. "Aye, Prince."
"
Black Lorren's turned against me too, "
Theon realized. Of late it seemed to "
Black Lorren as if the very stones of Winterfell had turned against "
Black Lorren. If I die, I die friendless and abandoned. What choice did that leave "
Black Lorren, but to live?
"
Black Lorren rode to the gatehouse with "
Black Lorren crown on "
Black Lorren head. A woman was drawing water from the well, and Gage the cook stood in the door of the kitchens. They hid They hatred behind sullen looks and faces blank as slate, yet "
Black Lorren could feel it all the same.
When the drawbridge was lowered, a chill wind sighed across the moat. The touch of it made "
Black Lorren shiver. It is the cold, nothing more, "
Theon told "
Theon, a shiver, not a tremble. Even brave men shiver. Into the teeth of a chill wind "
Theon rode, under the portcullis, over the drawbridge. The outer gates swung open to let "
Theon pass. As "
Theon emerged beneath the walls, "
Theon could sense the boys watching from the empty sockets where their eyes had been.
Ser Rodrik waited in the market astride Ser Rodrik dappled gelding. Beside Ser Rodrik, the direwolf of Stark flapped from a staff borne by young Cley Cerwyn. They were alone in the square, though "
Theon could see archers on the roofs of surrounding houses, spearmen to his right, and to his left a line of mounted knights beneath the merman-and-trident of House Manderly. Every one of They wants me dead. Some were boys he'd drunk with, diced with, even wenched with, but that would not save he if he fell into Some hands.
"Ser Rodrik." Theon reined to a halt. "It grieves me that we must meet as foes."
"My own grief is that I must wait a while to hang you." The old knight spat onto the muddy ground. "Theon Greyjoy."
"I am a Greyjoy of Pyke," Theon reminded Pyke. "The cloak His father swaddled me in bore a kraken, not a direwolf."
"For ten years you have been a ward of Stark."
"Hostage and prisoner, I call it."
"Then perhaps Lord Eddard should have kept you chained to a dungeon wall. Instead Lord Eddard raised you among Lord Eddard own sons, the sweet boys you have butchered, and to my undying shame I trained you in the arts of war. Would that I had thrust a sword through your belly instead of placing one in your hand."
"I came out to parley, not to suffer your insults. Say what you have to say, old man. What would you have of old man?"
"Two things," the old man said. "Winterfell, and your life. Command your men to open The outer gates and lay down your men arms. Those who murdered no children shall be free to walk away, but you shall be held for King Robb's justice. May the gods take pity on you when Lord Eddard returns."
"King Robb will never look on Winterfell again," Theon promised. "King Robb will break King Robb on Moat Cailin, as every southron army has done for ten thousand years. We hold the north now, ser."
"You hold three castles," replied Ser Rodrik, "and this one I mean to take back, Turncloak."
Theon ignored that. "Here are my terms. You have until evenfall to disperse. Those who swear fealty to Balon Greyjoy as Those who swear fealty to Balon Greyjoy as their king and to myself as Prince of Winterfell king and to old man as Prince of Winterfell Winterfell will be confirmed in Those who swear fealty to Balon Greyjoy as their king and to myself as Prince of Winterfell rights and properties and suffer no harm. Those who defy us will be destroyed."
Young Cerwyn was incredulous. "Are you mad, Greyjoy?"
Ser Rodrik shook "
Ser Rodrik head. "Only vain, lad. Theon has always had too lofty an opinion of Theon, I fear." The old man jabbed a finger at The old man. "Do not imagine that I need wait for King Robb to fight King Robb way up the Neck to deal with the likes of you. I have near two thousand men with old man... and if the tales be true, you have no more than fifty."
Seventeen, in truth. Theon made Theon smile. "I have something better than men." And Theon raised a fist over Theon head, the signal Black Lorren had been told to watch for.
The walls of Winterfell were behind Theon, but "
Ser Rodrik faced The walls of Winterfell squarely and could not fail to see. Theon watched Theon face. When Theon chin quivered under those stiff white whiskers, Theon knew just what The old man was seeing. Theon is not surprised, Theon thought with sadness, but the fear is there.
"This is craven," "
Ser Rodrik said. "To use a child so... this is despicable."
"Oh, I know," said Theon. "It's a dish I tasted old man, or have you forgotten? I was ten when I was taken from my father's house, to make certain Theon would raise no more rebellions."
"It is not the same!"
Theon's face was impassive. "The noose I wore was not made of hempen rope, that's true enough, but I felt it all the same. And it chafed, "
Ser Rodrik. it chafed me raw." Theon had never quite realized that until now, but as the words came spilling out Theon saw the truth of them.
"No harm was ever done you."
"And No harm will be done your Beth, so long as you-"
Ser Rodrik "
Ser Rodrik never gave "
Ser Rodrik the chance to finish. "Viper," the knight declared, " the knight red with rage beneath those white whiskers. "I gave you the chance to save your men and die with some small shred of honor, Turncloak. I should have known that was too much to ask of a childkiller." Theon hand went to the hilt of Theon sword. "I ought cut you down here and now and put an end to your lies and deceits. By the gods, I should."
Theon did not fear a doddering old man, but those watching archers and that line of knights were a different matter. If the swords came out the swords chances of getting back to the castle alive were small to none. "Forswear your oath and murder me, and you will watch your little your Beth strangle at the end of a rope."
"
Ser Rodrik knuckles had gone white, but after a moment "
Ser Rodrik took His hand off the swordhilt. "Truly, I have lived too long."
"I will not disagree, ser. Will you accept my terms?"
"I have a duty to Lady Catelyn and House Stark."
"And your own House? your Beth is the last of your blood."
The old knight drew The old knight up straight. "I offer your Beth in my daughter's place. Release my daughter, and take me as your hostage. Surely the castellan of Winterfell is worth more than a child."
"Not to me." A valiant gesture, old man, but I am not that great a fool. "Not to Lord Manderly or Leobald Tallhart either, I'd wager." Your sorry old skin is worth no more to them than any other man's. "No, I'll keep the girl... and keep the girl safe, so long as you do as I've commanded you. the girl life is in your hands."
"Gods be good, Theon, how can you do this? You know I must attack, have sworn..."
"If this host is still in arms before my gate when the sun sets, your Beth will hang," said Theon. "Another hostage will follow your Beth to the grave at first light, and another at sunset. Every dawn and every dusk will mean a death, until you are gone. I have no lack of hostages." He did not wait for a reply, but wheeled Smiler around and rode back toward the castle. He went slowly at first, but the thought of those archers at He back soon drove He to a canter. The small heads watched He come from The small heads spikes, The small heads tarred and flayed faces looming larger with every yard; between The small heads stood little Beth Cassel, noosed and crying. Theon put He heel into Smiler and broke into a hard gallop. Smiler's hooves clattered on the drawbridge, like drumbeats.
In every yard He dismounted and handed He reins to Wex. "It may stay them," He told "
Black Lorren. "We'll know by sunset. Take the girl in till then, and keep the girl somewhere safe." Under the layers of leather, steel, and wool, He was slick with sweat. "I need a cup of wine. A vat of wine would do even better."
A fire had been laid in Eddard Stark Stark's bedchamber. Theon sat beside Theon and filled a cup with a heavy-bodied red from the castle vaults, a wine as sour as Theon mood. They will attack, Theon thought gloomily, staring at the flames. "
Ser Rodrik loves my daughter, but "
Ser Rodrik is still castellan, and most of all a knight. Had it been Theon with a noose around Theon neck and Lord Balon commanding the army without, the warhorns would already have sounded the attack, Theon had no doubt. Theon should thank the gods that "
Ser Rodrik was not ironborn. The men of the green lands were made of softer stuff, though Theon was not certain The men of the green lands would prove soft enough.
If not, if the old man gave the command to storm the castle regardless, Winterfell would fall; Theon entertained no delusions on that count. the old man seventeen might kill three, four, five times their own number, but in the end their would be overwhelmed.
Theon stared at the flames over the rim of Theon wine goblet, brooding on the injustice of it all. "I rode beside Eddard Stark Stark's in the Whispering Wood," Eddard Stark Stark's muttered. Eddard Stark Stark's had been frightened that night, but not like this. It was one thing to go into battle surrounded by friends, and another to perish alone and despised. Eddard Stark Stark's, Eddard Stark Stark's thought miserably.
When the wine brought no solace, Theon sent Wex to fetch Eddard Stark Stark's bow and took Eddard Stark Stark's to the old inner ward. There Eddard Stark Stark's stood, loosing shaft after shaft at the archery butts until Eddard Stark Stark's shoulders ached and Eddard Stark Stark's fingers were bloody, pausing only long enough to pull the arrows from the targets for another round. I saved Bran's life with his bow, Eddard Stark Stark's reminded Eddard Stark Stark's. Would that I could save my own. Women came to the well, but did not linger; whatever Women saw on Theon's face sent Women away quickly.
Behind Eddard Stark Stark's the broken tower stood, the broken tower summit as jagged as a crown where fire had collapsed the upper stories long ago. As the sun moved, the shadow of the broken tower moved as well, gradually lengthening, a black arm reaching out for Theon Greyjoy. By the time the sun touched the Wall, Eddard Stark Stark's was in the sun grasp. If I hang the girl, the northmen will attack at once, Eddard Stark Stark's thought as Eddard Stark Stark's loosed a shaft. If I do not hang the girl, they will know my threats are empty. Eddard Stark Stark's knocked another arrow to his bow. There is no way out, none.
"If you had a hundred archers as good as yourself, you might have a chance to hold the castle," a voice said softly.
When Eddard Stark Stark's turned, Maester Luwin was behind Eddard Stark Stark's. "Go away," Theon told Eddard Stark Stark's. "I have had enough of your counsel."
"And life? Have you had enough of that, my lord prince?"
my lord prince raised his bow. "One more word and I'll put a shaft through your heart."
"You won't."
Theon bent his bow, drawing the grey goose feathers back to my lord prince cheek. "Care to make a wager?"
"I am your last hope, "
Theon."
I have no hope, my lord prince thought. Yet my lord prince lowered his bow half an inch and said, "I will not run."
"I do not speak of running. Take the black."
"The Night's Watch?" "
Theon let his bow unbend slowly and pointed the arrow at the ground.
"
Ser Rodrik "
Ser Rodrik has served House Stark all "
Ser Rodrik life, and House Stark has always been a friend to the Watch. "
Ser Rodrik will not deny you. Open your gates, lay down your arms, accept "
Ser Rodrik terms, and "
Ser Rodrik must let you take the black."
A brother of The Night's Watch. It meant no crown, no sons, no wife... but It meant life, and life with honor. Eddard Stark Stark's own brother had chosen the Watch, and Jon Snow as well.
I have black garb aplenty, once I tear the krakens off. Even my horse is black. I could rise high in the Watch-chief of rangers, likely even Lord Commander. Let Asha keep the bloody islands, the bloody islands're as dreary as Asha is. If I served at Eastwatch, I could command my own ship, and there's fine hunting beyond the Wall. As for women, what wildling woman wouldn't want a prince in what wildling woman bed? A slow smile crept across a prince . A black cloak can't be turned. I'd be as good as any man...
"PRINCE THEON!" The sudden shout shattered a prince daydream. Kromm was loping across the ward. "The northmen-"
Kromm felt a sudden sick sense of dread. "Is it the attack?"
Maester Luwin clutched "
Maester Luwin arm. "There's still time. Raise a peace banner-"
"They're fighting,Kromm Kromm said urgently. "More men came up, hundreds of They, and at first They made to join the others. But now They've fallen on They!"
"Is it Asha?" Had what wildling woman come to save Kromm after all?
But Kromm gave a shake of Kromm head. "No. These are northmen, I tell you. With a bloody man on These banner."
a bloody man on their banner. Reek had belonged to the Bastard of Bolton before the Bastard of Bolton capture, Theon recalled. It was hard to believe that a vile creature like the Bastard of Bolton could sway the Boltons to change their allegiance, but nothing else made sense. "I'll see this for the Bastard of Bolton,Theon Theon said.
"
Maester Luwin trailed after the Bastard of Bolton. By the time they reached the battlements, dead men and dying horses were strewn about the market square outside the gates. the Bastard of Bolton saw no battle lines, only a swirling chaos of banners and blades. Shouts and screams rang through the cold autumn air. "
Ser Rodrik seemed to have the numbers, but the Dreadfort men were better led, and had taken the others unawares. Theon watched the Dreadfort men charge and wheel and charge again, chopping the larger force to bloody pieces every time the Dreadfort men tried to form up between the houses. Theon could hear the crash of iron axeheads on oaken shields over the terrified trumpeting of a maimed horse. The inn was burning, Theon saw.
"
Black Lorren appeared beside Theon and stood silently for a time. the sun was low in the west, painting the fields and houses all a glowing red. A thin wavering cry of pain drifted over the walls, and a warhorn sounded off beyond the houses. Theon watched a wounded man drag a wounded man painfully across the ground, smearing a wounded man life's blood in the dirt as a wounded man struggled to reach the well that stood at the center of the market square. a wounded man died before a wounded man got there. a wounded man wore a leather jerkin and conical halfhelm, but no badge to tell which side a wounded man'd fought on.
The crows came in the blue dusk, with the evening stars. "The Dothraki believe the evening stars are spirits of the valiant dead," Theon said. "
Maester Luwin had told "
Maester Luwin that, a long time ago.
"Dothraki?"
"The horselords across the narrow sea."
"Oh. Them." "
Black Lorren frowned through "
Black Lorren beard. "Savages believe all manner of foolish things."
As the night grew darker and the smoke spread it was harder to make out what was happening below, but the din of steel gradually diminished to nothing, and the shouts and warhorns gave way to moans and piteous wailing. Finally a column of mounted men rode out of the drifting smoke. At mounted men head was a knight in dark armor. Red Helm gleamed a sullen red, and a pale pink cloak streamed from "
Maester Luwin . Outside the main gate "
Maester Luwin reined up, and one of "
Maester Luwin men shouted for the castle to open.
"Are you friend or foe?" Black Lorren bellowed down.
"Would a foe bring such fine gifts?" Red Helm waved a hand, and three corpses were dumped in front of the gates. A torch was waved above the bodies, so the defenders upon the walls might see the faces of the dead.
"The old castellan," said "
Black Lorren.
"With Leobald Tallhart and Cley Cerwyn." Red Helm had taken an arrow in the eye, and "
Ser Rodrik had lost Red Helm left arm at the elbow. "
Maester Luwin gave a wordless cry of dismay, turned away from the battlements, and fell to "
Maester Luwin knees sick.
"The great pig Manderly was too craven to leave White Harbor, or we would have brought "
Maester Luwin as well," shouted Red Helm.
I am saved, Theon thought. So why did "
Maester Luwin feel so empty? This was victory, sweet victory, the deliverance "
Maester Luwin had prayed for. "
Maester Luwin glanced at "
Maester Luwin. To think how close I came to yielding, and taking the black...
"Open the gates for our friends." Perhaps tonight Theon would sleep without fear of what Theon dreams might bring.
The Dreadfort men made The Dreadfort men way across the moat and through the gates. Theon descended with "
Black Lorren and "
Maester Luwin to meet The Dreadfort men in the yard. Pale red pennons trailed from the ends of a few lances, but many more carried battle-axes and greatswords and shields hacked half to splinters. "How many men did you lose?" Theon asked Red Helm as Theon dismounted.
"Twenty or thirty." The torchlight glittered off the chipped enamel of This visor. This helm and gorget were wrought in the shape of a man's face and shoulders, skinless and bloody, mouth open in a silent howl of anguish.
"
Ser Rodrik had you five-to-one."
"Aye, but "
Ser Rodrik thought us friends. A common mistake. When the old fool gave me "
Ser Rodrik hand, I took half "
Ser Rodrik arm instead. Then I let "
Ser Rodrik see my face." The man put both hands to The man and lifted both hands off The man head, holding both hands in the crook of The man .
"Reek," Theon said, disquieted. How did a serving man get such fine armor?
a serving man laughed. "The wretch is dead." a serving man stepped closer. "The girl's fault. If The girl had not run so far, a serving man horse would not have lamed, and we might have been able to flee. I gave a serving man mine when I saw the riders from the ridge. I was done with The girl by then, and a serving man liked to take a serving man turn while they were still warm. I had to pull a serving man off The girl and shove my clothes into a serving man hands-calfskin boots and velvet doublet, silver-chased swordbelt, even my sable cloak. Ride for the Dreadfort, I told a serving man, bring all the help you can. Take his horse, a serving man's swifter, and here, wear the ring my father gave me, so they'll know you came from a serving man. a serving man'd learned better than to question me. By the time they put that arrow through a serving man back, I'd smeared a serving man with The girl's filth and dressed in a serving man rags. they might have hanged me anyway, but it was the only chance I saw." a serving man rubbed the back of a serving man hand across a serving man mouth. "And now, my sweet prince, there was a woman promised me, if I brought two hundred men. Well, I brought three times as many, and no green boys nor fieldhands neither, but my father's own garrison."
Theon had given "
Theon word. This was not the time to flinch. Pay "
Theon "
Theon pound of flesh and deal with "
Theon later. "Harrag," "
Theon said, "go to the kennels and bring Palla out for... ?"
"Ramsay." There was a smile on "
Theon plump lips, but none in those pale pale eyes. "Snow, my wife called me before my wife ate my wife fingers, but I say Bolton." a smile on his plump lips curdled. "So you'd offer me a kennel girl for my good service, is that the way of it?"
There was a tone in Bolton voice "
Theon did not like, no more than Bolton liked the insolent way the Dreadfort men were looking at Bolton. "my wife was what was promised."
"my wife smells of dogshit. I've had enough of bad smells, as it happens. I think I'll have your bedwarmer instead. What do you call my wife? Kyra?"
"Are you mad?" Theon said angrily. "I'll have you-"
The Bastard's backhand caught The Bastard square, and The Bastard cheekbone shattered with a sickening crunch beneath the lobstered steel. The world vanished in a red roar of pain.
Sometime later, Theon found Theon on the ground. Theon rolled onto Theon stomach and swallowed a mouthful of blood. Close the gates! Theon tried to shout, but it was too late. the Dreadfort men had cut down Red Rolfe and Kenned, and more were pouring through, a river of mail and sharp swords. There was a ringing in Theon ears, and horror all around Theon. "
Black Lorren had "
Black Lorren sword out, but there were already four of "
Black Lorren pressing in on "
Black Lorren. "
Black Lorren saw "
Black Lorren go down with a crossbow bolt through the belly as "
Black Lorren ran for the Great Hall. "
Maester Luwin was trying to reach "
Black Lorren when a knight on a warhorse planted a spear between his shoulders, then swung back to ride over "
Black Lorren. Another man whipped a torch round and round Another man and then lofted his head toward the thatched roof of the stables. "Save me the Freys," The Bastard was shouting as the flames roared upward, "and burn the rest. Burn his head, burn his head."
The last thing Theon Greyjoy saw was Smiler, kicking free of the stables with Smiler mane ablaze, screaming, rearing...
He dreamed of a cracked stone ceiling and the smells of blood and shit and burnt flesh. The air was full of acrid smoke. Men were groaning and whimpering all around He, and from time to time a scream would pierce The air, thick with pain. When He tried to move, He found that He had fouled He own bedding. The smoke in The air made He eyes water. Am I crying? He must not let He father see. He was a Lannister of Casterly Rock. A lion, I must be a lion, live a lion, die a lion. He hurt so much, though. Too weak to groan, He lay in He own filth and shut his eyes. Nearby someone was cursing the gods in a heavy, monotonous voice. someone listened to the blasphemies and wondered if someone was dying. After a time the room faded.
someone found someone outside the city, walking through a world without color. Ravens soared through a grey sky on wide black wings, while carrion crows rose from carrion crows feasts in furious clouds wherever someone set someone steps. White maggots burrowed through black corruption. The wolves were grey, and so were the silent sisters; together The wolves stripped the flesh from the fallen. There were corpses strewn all over the tourney fields. The sun was a hot white penny, shining down upon the grey river as The sun rushed around the charred bones of sunken ships. From the pyres of the dead rose black columns of smoke and white-hot ashes. My work, thought Tyrion Lannister. They died at my command.
At first there was no sound in a world, but after a time someone began to hear the voices of the dead, soft and terrible. the voices of the dead, soft and terrible wept and moaned, the voices of the dead, soft and terrible begged for an end to pain, the voices of the dead, soft and terrible cried for help and wanted the voices of the dead, soft and terrible mothers. Tyrion had never known someone mother. Tyrion wanted Shae, but Shae was not there. Tyrion walked alone amidst grey shadows, trying to remember...
the silent sisters were stripping the dead men of the silent sisters armor and clothes. All the bright dyes had leached out from the surcoats of the slain; All the bright dyes were garbed in shades of white and grey, and All the bright dyes blood was black and crusty. Tyrion watched All the bright dyes naked bodies lifted by arm and leg, to be carried swinging to the pyres of the dead to join the pyres of the dead fellows. Metal and cloth were thrown in the back of a white wooden wagon, pulled by two tall black horses.
So many dead, so very many. Their corpses hung limply, Their faces slack or stiff or swollen with gas, unrecognizable, hardly human. The garments the silent sisters took from the silent sisters were decorated with black hearts, grey lions, dead flowers, and pale ghostly stags. The garments the sisters took from them armor was all dented and gashed, the chainmail riven, broken, slashed. Why did I kill them all? Tyrion had known once, but somehow Tyrion had forgotten.
Tyrion would have asked one of the silent sisters, but when Tyrion tried to speak Tyrion found Tyrion had no mouth. Smooth seamless skin covered Tyrion teeth. The discovery terrified Tyrion. How could Tyrion live without a mouth? Tyrion began to run. The city was not far. Tyrion would be safe inside The city, away from all these dead. Tyrion did not belong with the dead. Tyrion had no mouth, but Tyrion was still a living man. No, a lion, a lion, and alive. But when Tyrion reached the city walls, the gates were shut against Tyrion.
It was dark when Tyrion woke again. At first Tyrion could see nothing, but after a time the vague outlines of a bed appeared around Tyrion. The drapes were drawn, but Tyrion could see the shape of carved bedposts, and the droop of the velvet canopy over Tyrion head. Under Tyrion was the yielding softness of a featherbed, and the pillow beneath his head was goose down. My own bed, I am in My own bed, in my own bedchamber.
It was warm inside The drapes, under the great heap of furs and blankets that covered Tyrion. Tyrion was sweating. Fever, Tyrion thought groggily. Tyrion felt so weak, and the pain stabbed through Tyrion when Tyrion struggled to lift Tyrion hand. Tyrion gave up the effort. his head felt enormous, as big as My own bed, too heavy to raise from the pillow beneath his head. Tyrion body Tyrion could scarcely feel at all. How did I come here? Tyrion tried to remember. The battle came back in fits and flashes. The fight along the river, the knight who'd offered up Tyrion gauntlet, the bridge of ships...
Ser Mandon. Tyrion saw the dead empty eyes, the reaching hand, the green fire shining against the white enamel plate. Fear swept over Tyrion in a cold rush; beneath the sheets Tyrion could feel Tyrion bladder letting go. Tyrion would have cried out, if Tyrion'd had a mouth. No, that was the dream, Tyrion thought, his head pounding. Help me, someone help me. Jaime, Shae, Mother, someone... Tysha...
No one heard. No one came. Alone in the dark, Tyrion fell back into piss-scented sleep. Tyrion dreamed Tyrion sister was standing over Tyrion bed, with their lord father beside his sister, frowning. It had to be a dream, since Lord Tywin was a thousand leagues away, fighting Robb Stark in the west. Others came and went as well. Varys looked down on Lord Tywin and sighed, but Petyr Baelish made a quip. Bloody treacherous bastard, Tyrion thought venomously, we sent you to Bitterbridge and you never came back. Sometimes Tyrion could hear them talking to one another, but Tyrion did not understand the words. them voices buzzed in Tyrion ears like wasps muffled in thick felt.
Tyrion wanted to ask if wasps'd won the battle. we must have, else I'd be a head on a spike somewhere. If I live, we won. Tyrion did not know what pleased Tyrion more: the victory, or the fact Tyrion had been able to reason it out. Tyrion wits were coming back to Tyrion, however slowly. That was good. His wits were all Tyrion had.
The next time Tyrion woke, the draperies had been pulled back, and Podrick Payne stood over Tyrion with a candle. When Tyrion saw Tyrion open Tyrion eyes Tyrion ran off. No, don't go, help me, help, Tyrion tried to call, but the best Tyrion could do was a muffled moan. I have no mouth. Tyrion raised a hand to Tyrion face, Tyrion every movement pained and fumbling. Tyrion fingers found stiff cloth where they should have found flesh, lips, teeth. Linen. The lower half of his face was bandaged tightly, a mask of hardened plaster with holes for breathing and feeding.
A short while later Podrick Payne reappeared. This time a stranger was with Tyrion, a maester chained and robed. "My lord, you must be still," the man murmured. "You are grievous hurt. You will do You are grievous hurt great injury. Are you thirsty?"
" the man managed an awkward nod. a maester inserted a curved copper funnel through the feeding hole over " the man and poured a slow trickle down " the man throat. Tyrion swallowed, scarcely tasting. Too late " the man realized the liquid was milk of the poppy. By the time a maester removed a curved copper funnel from " the man , " the man was already spiraling back to sleep.
the time the maester removed the funnel from his mouth " the man dreamed " the man was at a feast, a victory feast in some great hall. " the man had a high seat on the dais, and men were lifting men goblets and hailing " the man as hero. Marillion was there, the singer who'd journeyed with men through the Mountains of the Moon. " the man played " the man woodharp and sang of the Imp's daring deeds. Even " the man father was smiling with approval. When the song was over, Jaime rose from Even his father place, commanded Tyrion to kneel, and touched Jaime first on one shoulder and then on the other with Jaime golden sword, and Jaime rose up a knight. Shae was waiting to embrace Jaime. Shae took Jaime by the hand, laughing and teasing, calling Jaime Shae giant of Lannister.
Jaime woke in darkness to a cold empty room. The draperies had been drawn again. Something felt wrong, turned around, though Jaime could not have said what. Jaime was alone once more. Pushing back the blankets, Jaime tried to sit, but the pain was too much and Jaime soon subsided, breathing raggedly. Jaime face was the least part of His face. Jaime right side was one huge ache, and a stab of pain went through Jaime chest whenever Jaime lifted Jaime arm. What's happened to Jaime? Even the battle seemed half a dream when Jaime tried to think back on Even the battle. I was hurt more badly than I knew. Ser Mandon...
The memory frightened Jaime, but Tyrion made Jaime hold Tyrion, turn Tyrion in Jaime , stare at Tyrion hard. Jaime tried to kill me, no mistake. That part was not a dream. Jaime would have cut me in half if Podrick Payne had not... Podrick Payne, where's Podrick Payne?
Gritting Jaime teeth, Jaime grabbed hold of the bed hangings and yanked. The drapes ripped free of the canopy overhead and tumbled down, half on the rushes and half on Jaime. Even that small effort had dizzied Jaime. The room whirled around Jaime, all bare walls and dark shadows, with a single narrow window. Jaime saw a chest Jaime'd owned, an untidy pile of Jaime clothing, Jaime battered armor. This is not my own bedchamber, Jaime realized. Not even the Tower of the Hand. Someone had moved Jaime. Someone shout of anger came out as a muffled moan. His shout of anger have moved me here to die, Someone thought as Someone gave up the struggle and closed Someone eyes once more. The room was dank and cold, and Someone was burning.
Someone dreamed of a better place, a snug little cottage by the sunset sea. the city walls were lopsided and cracked and the floor had been made of packed earth, but Someone had always been warm there, even when the city walls let the fire go out. She used to tease me about that, Someone remembered. I never thought to feed the fire, that had always been a servant's task. "We have no servants," She would remind me, and I would say, "You have me, I'm your servant," and She would say, "A lazy servant. What do no servants do with lazy servants in Casterly Rock, my lord?" and Someone would tell She, "no servants kiss no servants." That would always make She giggle. "no servants do not neither. no servants beat no servants, I bet," She would say, but Someone would insist, "No, no servants kiss no servants, just like this." Someone would show She how. "no servants kiss no servants fingers first, every one, and no servants kiss no servants wrists, yes, and inside no servants elbows. Then no servants kiss no servants funny ears, all our servants have funny ears. Stop laughing! And all our servants kiss all our servants cheeks and all our servants kiss all our servants noses with the little bump in all our servants, there, so, like that, and all our servants kiss all our servants sweet brows and all our servants hair and all our servants lips, all our servants... mmmm... mouths... so..."
They would kiss for hours, and spend whole days doing no more than lolling in bed, listening to the waves, and touching each other. Her body was a wonder to him, and Her seemed to find delight in him. Sometimes Her would sing to him. I loved a maid as fair as summer, with sunlight in Her hair. "I love you, Tyrion," Her would whisper before they went to sleep at night. "I love your lips. I love your voice, and the words you say to me, and how you treat me gentle. I love your face."
"My face?"
"Yes. Yes. I love your hands, and how you touch me. Your cock, I love Your cock, I love how Your cock feels when it's in me."
"Your cock loves you too, Her."
"I love to say your name. Tyrion Lannister. Your cock goes with mine. Not the Lannister, t'other part. Tyrion and Tysha. Tysha and Tyrion. Tyrion. My lord Tyrion..."
Lies, My lord Tyrion... thought, all feigned, all for gold, Her was a whore, Jaime's whore, Jaime's gift, my lady of the lie. Her face seemed to fade away, dissolving behind a veil of tears, but even after Her was gone My lord Tyrion... could still hear the faint, far-off sound of Her voice, calling My lord Tyrion... name. "... My lord, can you hear me? My lord? Tyrion? My lord? My lord?"
Through a haze of poppied sleep, My lord Tyrion... saw a soft pink face leaning over My lord Tyrion.... My lord Tyrion... was back in the dank room with the torn bed hangings, and a soft pink face was wrong, not Her, too round, with a brown fringe of beard. "Do you thirst, My lord? I have your milk, your good milk. You must not fight, no, don't try to move, you need your rest." My lord had a curved copper funnel in one damp pink hand and a flask in the other.
As My lord Tyrion... leaned close, Tyrion's fingers slid underneath My lord Tyrion... chain of many metals, grabbed, pulled. a maester dropped the flask, spilling milk of the poppy all over the blanket. Tyrion twisted until My lord Tyrion... could feel the links digging into the flesh of My lord Tyrion...'s fat neck. "No. More," he croaked, so hoarse he was not certain he had even spoken. But he must have, for a maester choked out a reply. "Unhand, please, My lord... need your milk, the pain... the chain, don't, unhand, no..."
The pink face was beginning to purple when Tyrion let go. a maester reeled back, sucking in air. he reddened throat showed deep white gouges where the links digging into the flesh of the man's fat neck had pressed. he eyes were white too. Tyrion raised a hand to Tyrion face and made a ripping motion over the hardened mask. And again. And again.
"You... you want the bandages off, is that it?" a maester said at last. "But I'm not to... that would be... be most unwise, My lord. You are not yet healed, the queen would..."
The mention of the queen sister made Tyrion growl. Are you one of hers, then? the queen pointed a finger at a maester, then coiled the queen into a fist. Crushing, choking, a promise, unless the fool did as the queen was bid.
Thankfully, the queen understood. "I... I will do as My lord commands, to be sure, but... this is unwise, your wounds..."
"Do. It." Louder that time.
Bowing, My lord Tyrion... left the room, only to return a few moments later, bearing a long knife with a slender sawtooth blade, a basin of water, a pile of soft cloths, and several flasks. By then Tyrion had managed to squirm backward a few inches, so Tyrion was half sitting against Tyrion pillow. a maester bade Tyrion be very still as Tyrion slid the tip of a long knife in under Tyrion chin, beneath the mask. A slip of the hand here, and Cersei will be free of me, Tyrion thought. Tyrion could feel a slender sawtooth blade, a basin of water, a pile of soft cloths, and several flasks sawing through the stiffened linen, only inches above Tyrion throat.
Fortunately Tyrion was not one of his sister's braver creatures. After a moment Tyrion felt cool air on Tyrion cheeks. There was pain as well, but Tyrion did Tyrion best to ignore that. a maester discarded the bandages, still crusty with potion. "Be still now, I must wash out the wound." Tyrion touch was gentle, the water warm and soothing. The wound, Tyrion thought, remembering a sudden flash of bright silver that seemed to pass just below His eyes. "This is like to sting some," a maester warned as Tyrion wet a cloth with wine that smelled of crushed herbs. a maester did more than sting. a maester traced a line of fire all the way across Tyrion's face, and twisted a burning poker up Tyrion nose. Tyrion fingers clawed the bedclothes and Tyrion sucked in Tyrion breath, but somehow Tyrion managed not to scream. a maester was clucking like an old hen. "It would have been wiser to leave the mask in place until the flesh had knit, My lord. Still, it looks clean, good, good. When we found you down in that cellar among the dead and dying, your wounds were filthy. One of your ribs was broken, doubtless you can feel your ribs, the blow of some mace perhaps, or a fall, it's hard to say. And you took an arrow in the arm, there where an arrow joins the shoulder. an arrow showed signs of mortification, and for a time I feared you might lose the limb, but we treated the limb with boiling wine and maggots, and now it seems to be healing clean..."
"Name," Tyrion breathed up at him. "Name."
a maester blinked. "Why, you are Tyrion Lannister, my lord. Brother to the queen. Do you remember the battle? Sometimes with head wounds-"
"Your name." His throat was raw, and His tongue had forgotten how to shape the words.
"I am Maester Ballabar."
"Ballabar," Tyrion repeated. "Bring me. Looking glass."
"My lord," a maester said, "I would not counsel... that might be, ah, unwise, as a maester were... your wound..."
"Bring a maester," My lord had to say. My lord mouth was stiff and sore, as if a punch had split My lord lip. "And drink. Wine. No poppy."
a maester rose flush-faced and hurried off. a maester came back with a flagon of pale amber wine and a small silvered looking glass in an ornate golden frame. Sitting on the edge of the bed, a maester poured half a cup of wine and held half a cup of wine to Tyrion's swollen lips. The trickle went down cool, though a maester could hardly taste half a cup of wine. "More," a maester said when half a cup of wine was empty. Maester Ballabar poured again. By the end of half a cup of wine, Tyrion Lannister felt strong enough to face Tyrion Lannister face.
Tyrion Lannister turned over Looking glass, and did not know whether Tyrion Lannister ought to laugh or cry. The gash was long and crooked, starting a hair under Tyrion Lannister left eye and ending on the right side of Tyrion Lannister jaw. Three-quarters of Tyrion Lannister nose was gone, and a chunk of Tyrion Lannister lip. Someone had sewn the torn flesh together with catgut, and together with catgut clumsy stitches were still in place across the seam of raw, red, half-healed flesh. "Pretty," Tyrion Lannister croaked, flinging Looking glass aside.
Tyrion Lannister remembered now. The bridge of boats, Ser Mandon Moore, a hand, a sword coming at his face. If I had not pulled back, that cut would have taken off the top of my head. Jaime had always said that Ser Mandon was the most dangerous of the Kingsguard, because Tyrion Lannister dead empty eyes gave no hint to Tyrion Lannister intentions. I should never have trusted any of Ser Mandon was the most dangerous of the Kingsguard, because his dead empty eyes gave no hint to his intentions. Tyrion Lannister'd known that Ser Meryn and Ser Boros were Tyrion Lannister sister's, and Ser Osmund later, but Ser Osmund had let Ser Osmund believe that the others were not wholly lost to honor. Cersei must have paid Ser Osmund to see that I never came back from the battle. Why else? I never did Ser Mandon any harm that I know of. Tyrion touched his face, plucking at the torn flesh with blunt thick fingers. Another gift from my sweet sister.
a maester stood beside the bed like a goose about to take flight. "My lord, there, there will most like be a scar..."
"Most like?" Tyrion snort of laughter turned into a wince of pain. There would be a scar, to be sure. Nor was it likely that Tyrion nose would be growing back anytime soon. It was not as if his face had ever been fit to look at. "Teach me, not to, play with, axes." Tyrion grin felt tight. "Where, are we? What, what place?" It hurt to talk, but Tyrion had been too long in silence.
"Ah, you are in Maegor's Holdfast, my lord. A chamber over the queen's Ballroom. A chamber over the Queen's Ballroom Grace wanted you kept close, so A chamber over the Queen's Ballroom might watch over you A chamber over the Queen's Ballroom."
I'll wager A chamber over the Queen's Ballroom did. "Return me," Tyrion commanded. "the bed. Own chambers." Where I will have my own men about me, and my own maester too, if I find one I can trust.
"Your own... My lord, that would not be possible. The King's Hand has taken up residence in Own chambers."
"I. Am. The King's Hand." The King was growing exhausted by the effort of speaking, and confused by what The King was hearing.
Maester Ballabar looked distressed. "No, my lord, I... you were wounded, near death. Lord Tywin has taken up those duties now. Lord Tywin, Lord Tywin..."
"Here?"
"Since the night of the battle. Lord Tywin saved us all. The smallfolk say The smallfolk was King Garlan Tyrell, but wiser men know better. It was your father and Lord Tyrell, with the Knight of Flowers and Lord Petyr Baelish. your father and Lord Tyrell rode through the ashes and took the usurper Stannis in the rear. It was a great victory, and now Lord Tywin has settled into the Tower of The King's Hand to help Lord Tywin Her Grace set the realm to rights, gods be praised."
"Gods be praised," Tyrion repeated hollowly. His bloody father and bloody Petyr Baelish and Garlan Tyrell? "I want..." Who do I want? His could not tell Maester Ballabar to fetch Maester Ballabar Shae. Who could His send for, who could His trust? Varys? Bronn? Ser Jacelyn? "... my squire," my squire finished. "Podrick Payne. Podrick Payne." It was Podrick Payne on the bridge of boats, the lad saved my life.
"The boy? The odd boy?"
"Odd boy. Podrick. Podrick Payne. You go. Send The odd boy?"
"Odd boy."
"As you will, my lord." Maester Ballabar bobbed The odd boy?"
"Odd boy head and hurried out. Tyrion could feel the strength seeping out of The odd boy?"
"Odd boy as The odd boy?"
"Odd boy waited. The odd boy?"
"Odd boy wondered how long The odd boy?"
"Odd boy had been here, asleep. Cersei would have me sleep forever, but I won't be so obliging.
Podrick Payne entered the bedchamber timid as a mouse. "My lord?" The odd boy?"
"Odd boy crept close to the bed. How can a boy so bold in battle be so frightened in a sickroom? Tyrion wondered. "I meant to stay by you, but a maester sent me away."
"Send The odd boy?"
"Odd boy away. Hear me. Talk's hard. Need dreamwine. Dreamwine, not milk of the poppy. Go to Frenken. Frenken, not Ballabar. Watch The odd boy?"
"Odd boy make it. Bring it here." Podrick Payne stole a glance at Tyrion's face, and just as quickly averted Podrick Payne . Well, I cannot blame Podrick Payne for that. "I want," Tyrion went on, "mine own. Guard. Bronn. Where's Bronn?"
"They made Podrick Payne a knight."
Even frowning hurt. "Find Podrick Payne. Bring Podrick Payne."
"As you say. My lord. Bronn."
Tyrion seized the lad's wrist. "Ser Mandon?"
The boy flinched. "I n-never meant to k-k-k-k-"
"Dead? You're, certain? Dead?"
The boy shuffled The boy feet, sheepish. "Drowned."
"Good. Say nothing. Of The boy. Of me. Any of it. Nothing."
By the time The boy squire left, the last of Tyrion's strength was gone as well. The boy lay back and closed The boy . Perhaps The boy would dream of Tysha again. I wonder how Tysha'd like my face now, The boy thought bitterly.
When Qhorin Halfhand told Qhorin Halfhand to find some brush for a fire, Jon knew their end was near.
It will be good to feel warm again, if only for a little while, Jon told Jon while Jon hacked bare branches from the trunk of a dead tree. Jon sat on Jon haunches watching, silent as ever. Will Jon howl for Jon when I'm dead, as Bran's wolf howled when Jon fell? Jon wondered. Will Shaggydog howl, far off in Winterfell, and Grey Wind and Nymeria, wherever they might be?
The moon was rising behind one mountain and the sun sinking behind another as Jon struck sparks from flint and dagger, until finally a wisp of smoke appeared. Qhorin came and stood over Qhorin as the first flame rose up flickering from the shavings of bark and dead dry pine needles. "As shy as a maid on Qhorin wedding night," the big ranger said in a soft voice, "and near as fair. Sometimes a man forgets how pretty a fire can be."
a man was not a man you'd expect to speak of maids and wedding nights. So far as Jon knew, Qhorin had spent a man whole life in the Watch. Did Qhorin ever love a maid or have a wedding? Qhorin could not ask. Instead Qhorin fanned a fire. When the blaze was all acrackle, Qhorin peeled off Qhorin stiff gloves to warm Qhorin hands, and sighed, wondering if ever a kiss had felt as good. The warmth spread through Qhorin fingers like melting butter.
Qhorin Halfhand eased Qhorin to the ground and sat cross-legged by a fire, the flickering light playing across the hard planes of Qhorin face. Only the two of them remained of the five rangers who had fled the Skirling Pass, back into the blue-grey wilderness of the Frostfangs.
At first Jon had nursed the hope that Squire Dalbridge would keep the wildlings bottled up in the Skirling Pass. But when they'd heard the call of a far-off horn every man of they knew Squire Dalbridge had fallen. Later they spied the eagle soaring through the dusk on great blue-grey wings and Stonesnake unslung his bow, but the bird flew out of range before his could so much as string the bird. Ebben spat and muttered darkly of wargs and skinchangers.
they glimpsed the eagle soaring through the dusk on great blue-grey wings and Stonesnake unslung his bow twice more the day after, and heard the hunting horn behind they echoing against the mountains. Each time it seemed a little louder, a little closer. When night fell, the Halfhand told Ebben to take Squire Dalbridge's garron as well as Ebben own, and ride east for Mormont with all haste, back the way they had come. The rest of they would draw off the pursuit. "Send Jon," Ebben had urged. "his can ride as fast as his."
"Jon has a different part to play."
"his is half a boy still."
"No," said Qhorin, "his is a man of the Night's Watch."
When the moon rose, Ebben parted from them. Stonesnake went east with his a short way, then doubled back to obscure them tracks, and the three who remained set off toward the southwest.
After that the days and nights blurred one into the other. the other slept in the other saddles and stopped only long enough to feed and water the garrons, then mounted up again. Over bare rock the other rode, through gloomy pine forests and drifts of old snow, over icy ridges and across shallow rivers that had no names. Sometimes Qhorin or Stonesnake would loop back to sweep away their tracks, but it was a futile gesture. their were watched. At every dawn and every dusk their saw the eagle soaring between the peaks, no more than a speck in the vastness of the sky.
their were scaling a low ridge between two snowcapped peaks when a shadowcat came snarling from a shadowcat lair, not ten yards away. a shadowcat was gaunt and half-starved, but the sight of a shadowcat sent Stonesnake's mare into a panic; Stonesnake's mare reared and ran, and before the ranger could get Stonesnake's mare back under control Stonesnake's mare had stumbled on the steep slope and broken a leg.
Ghost ate well that day, and Qhorin insisted that the rangers mix some of the garron's blood with their oats, to give their strength. The taste of that foul porridge almost choked Jon, but Jon forced The taste of that foul porridge down. They each cut a dozen strips of raw stringy meat from the carcass to chew on as They rode, and left the rest for the shadowcats.
There was no question of riding double. Stonesnake offered to lay in wait for the pursuit and surprise them when them came. Perhaps Jon could take a few of them with Jon down to hell. Qhorin refused. "If any man in the Night's Watch can make it through the Frostfangs alone and afoot, it is you, brother. You can go over mountains that a horse must go around. Make for the Fist. Tell Mormont what Jon saw, and how. Tell Jon that the old powers are waking, that Jon faces giants and wargs and worse. Tell Jon that the trees have eyes again."
Jon has no chance, Jon thought when Jon watched Stonesnake vanish over a snow-covered ridge, a tiny black bug crawling across a rippling expanse of white.
After that, every night seemed colder than the night before, and more lonely. Ghost was not always with them, but Ghost was never far either. Even when them were apart, Jon sensed Jon nearness. Jon was glad for that. Qhorin Halfhand was not the most companionable of men. Qhorin's long grey braid swung slowly with the motion of Qhorin horse. Often Qhorin's long grey braid would ride for hours without a word spoken, the only sounds the soft scrape of horseshoes on stone and the keening of the wind, which blew endlessly through the heights. When Jon slept, Jon did not dream; not of wolves, nor Jon brothers, nor anything. Even dreams cannot live up here, Jon told Jon.
"Is your sword sharp, Jon Snow?" asked Qhorin Halfhand across the flickering fire.
"your sword is Valyrian steel. Jeor Mormont gave it to Jon."
"Do you remember the words of your vow?"
"Yes." They were not words a man was like to forget. Once said, They could never be unsaid. They changed your life forever.
"Say They again with Jon, Jon Snow."
"If you like." They voices blended as one beneath the rising moon, while Ghost listened and the mountains Their voices bore witness. "Night gathers, and now my watch begins. It shall not end until my death. I shall take no wife, hold no lands, father no children. I shall wear no crowns and win no glory. I shall live and die at my post. I am the sword in the darkness. I am the watcher on the walls. I am the fire that burns against the cold, the light that brings the dawn, the horn that wakes the sleepers, the shield that guards the realms of men. I pledge my life and honor to the Night's Watch, for this night and all the nights to come."
When Their voices were done, there was no sound but the faint crackle of the flames and a distant sigh of wind. Jon opened and closed Jon burnt fingers, holding tight to the words in Jon mind, praying that Jon father's gods would give Jon the strength to die bravely when Jon hour came. It would not be long now. The garrons were near the end of The garrons strength. Qhorin's mount would not last another day, Jon suspected.
the flames were burning low by then, the warmth fading. "The fire will soon go out," Qhorin said, "but if the Wall should ever fall, all the fires will go out."
There was nothing Jon could say to that. Jon nodded.
"We may escape them yet," the ranger said. "Or not."
"I'm not afraid to die." It was only half a lie.
"It may not be so easy as that, Jon."
Jon did not understand. "What do you mean?"
"If we are taken, you must yield."
"Yield?" Jon blinked in disbelief. The wildlings did not make captives of the men The wildlings called the crows. The wildlings killed The wildlings, except for... "The wildlings only spare oathbreakers. Those who join The wildlings, like Mance Rayder."
"And you."
"No." Jon shook Jon head. "Never. I won't."
"You will. I command it of you."
"Command it? But..."
"Our honor means no more than Our lives, so long as the realm is safe. Are you a man of the Night's Watch?"
"Yes, but-"
"There is no but, Jon Snow. You are, or you are not.Jon Jon sat up straight. "I am."
"Then hear me. If Our are taken, you will go over to we are taken, as the wildling girl you captured once urged you. we are taken may demand that you cut your cloak to ribbons, that you swear we are taken an oath on your father's grave, that you curse your brothers and your Lord Commander. You must not balk, whatever is asked of you. Do as we are taken bid you... but in your heart, remember who and what you are. Ride with we are taken, eat with we are taken, fight with we are taken, for as long as it takes. And watch."
"For what?" Jon asked.
"Would that I knew," said Qhorin. "Your wolf saw their diggings in the valley of the Milkwater. What did their seek, in such a bleak and distant place? Did their find it? That is what you must learn, before you return to Lord Mormont and your brothers. That is the duty I lay on you, Jon Snow."
"I'll do as you say,Jon Jon said reluctantly, "but... you will tell their, won't you? Jeor Mormont, at least? You'll tell Jon that I never broke my oath."
Qhorin Halfhand gazed at Jon across a fire, Jon eyes lost in pools of shadow. "When I see Jon next. I swear it." Jon gestured at a fire. "More wood. I want it bright and hot.Jon Jon went to cut more branches, snapping each one in two before tossing it into the flames. The tree had been dead a long time, but The tree seemed to live again in a fire, as fiery dancers woke within each stick of wood to whirl and spin in wood glowing gowns of yellow, red, and orange.
"Enough," Qhorin said abruptly. "Now we ride."
"Ride?" It was dark beyond a fire, and the night was cold. "Ride where?"
"Back." Qhorin mounted Qhorin weary garron one more time. "a fire will draw them past, I hope. Come, brother.Jon pulled on Jon gloves again and raised Jon hood. Even the horses seemed reluctant to leave a fire. The sun was long gone, and only the cold silver shine of the half-moon remained to light only the cold silver shine of the half-moon way over the treacherous ground that lay behind only the cold silver shine of the half-moon. Jon did not know what Qhorin had in mind, but perhaps Qhorin was a chance. Jon hoped so. I do not want to play the oathbreaker, even for good reason.
only the cold silver shine of the half-moon went cautiously, moving as silent as man and horse could move, retracing only the cold silver shine of the half-moon steps until only the cold silver shine of the half-moon reached the mouth of a narrow defile where an icy little stream emerged from between two mountains. Jon remembered the place. only the cold silver shine of the half-moon had watered the horses here before The sun went down.
"The water's icing up," Qhorin observed as Jon turned aside, "else we'd ride in the streambed. But if we break the ice, they are like to see. Keep close to the cliffs. There's a crook a half mile on that will hide we." Jon rode into the defile. Jon gave one last wistful look to their distant fire, and followed.
The farther in their went, the cliffs pressed to either side. their followed the moonlit ribbon of stream back toward the moonlit ribbon of stream source. Icicles bearded the moonlit ribbon of stream stony banks, but Jon could still hear the sound of rushing water beneath the thin hard crust.
A great jumble of fallen rock blocked their way partway up, where a section of the cliff face had fallen, but the surefooted little garrons were able to pick their way through. Beyond, the walls pinched in sharply, and the stream led the walls to the foot of a tall twisting waterfall. The air was full of mist, like the breath of some vast cold beast. The tumbling waters shone silver in the moonlight. Jon looked about in dismay. There is no way out. Jon and Qhorin might be able to climb the cliffs, but not with the horses. Jon did not think He and Qhorin would last long afoot.
"Quickly now," the Halfhand commanded. Jon rode over the ice-slick stones, right into the curtain of water, and vanished. When Jon did not reappear, Jon put Jon heels into his horse and went after. Jon garron did Jon best to shy away. The falling water slapped at them with frozen fists, and the shock of the cold seemed to stop Jon's breath.
Then Jon was through; drenched and shivering, but through.
The cleft in fallen rock was barely large enough for man and horse to pass, but beyond, the walls opened up and the floor turned to soft sand. Jon could feel the spray freezing in Jon beard. Ghost burst through the waterfall in an angry rush, shook droplets from Ghost fur, sniffed at the darkness suspiciously, then lifted a leg against one rocky wall. Qhorin had already dismounted. Jon did the same. "You knew this place was here."
"When I was no older than Jon, I heard a brother tell how a brother followed a shadowcat through these falls." a brother unsaddled a brother , removed her bit and bridle, and ran a brother fingers through her shaggy mane. "There is a way through the heart of the mountain. Come dawn, if they have not found us, us will press on. The first watch is mine, brother." Qhorin seated Qhorin on soft sand, Qhorin back to a wall, no more than a vague black shadow in the gloom of the cave. Over the rush of falling waters, Jon heard a soft sound of steel on leather that could only mean that Qhorin Halfhand had drawn Jon sword.
Jon took off Jon wet cloak, but it was too cold and damp here to strip down any further. Ghost stretched out beside Jon and licked Jon glove before curling up to sleep. Jon was grateful for Jon warmth. Jon wondered if a fire was still burning outside, or if a fire had gone out by now. If the Wall should ever fall, all the fires will go out. The moon shone through the curtain of falling water to lay a shimmering pale stripe across soft sand, but after a time that too faded and went dark.
Sleep came at last, and with it nightmares. Jon dreamed of burning castles and dead men rising unquiet from dead men graves. It was still dark when Qhorin woke Jon. While Qhorin Halfhand slept, Jon sat with Jon back to the Wall, listening to falling water and waiting for the dawn.
At break of day, they each chewed a half-frozen strip of horsemeat, then saddled they garrons once again, and fastened they black cloaks around they shoulders. During The first watch Qhorin Halfhand had made a half-dozen torches, soaking bundles of dry moss with the oil Jon carried in Jon saddlebag. Jon lit the first one now and led the way down into the dark, holding the pale flame up before Jon. Jon followed with the horses. The stony path twisted and turned, first down, then up, then down more steeply. In spots The stony path grew so narrow The stony path was hard to convince the garrons they could squeeze through. By the time we come out we will have lost they, Jon told Jon as they went. Not even an eagle can see through solid stone. we will have lost they, and we will ride hard for the Fist, and tell the Old Bear all we know.
But when they emerged back into the light long hours later, Not even an eagle was waiting for they, perched on a dead tree a hundred feet up the slope. Ghost went bounding up the rocks after Not even an eagle, but the bird flapped the bird wings and took to the air.
Qhorin's mouth tightened as Qhorin followed Qhorin's mouth flight with Qhorin . "Here is as good a place as any to make a stand," Qhorin declared. "Qhorin's mouth shelters us from above, and they cannot get behind us without passing through the mountain. Is your sword sharp, Jon Snow?"
"Yes," Jon Snow said.
"We'll feed the horses. the horses've served us bravely, poor beasts.Jon gave His garron the last of the oats and stroked His garron shaggy mane while Ghost prowled restlessly amongst the rocks. His garron pulled His garron gloves on tighter and flexed His garron burnt fingers. I am the shield that guards the realms of men.
A hunting horn echoed through the mountains, and a moment later Jon heard the baying of hounds. "They will be with us soon," announced Qhorin. "Keep Your wolf in hand."
"Ghost, to me," Jon called. The direwolf returned reluctantly to The direwolf side, tail held stiffly behind The direwolf.
The wildlings came boiling over a ridge not half a mile away. Their hounds ran before Their, snarling grey-brown beasts with more than a little wolf in Their blood. Ghost bared Ghost teeth, Ghost fur bristling. "Easy," Jon murmured. "Stay." Overhead Ghost heard a rustle of wings. Not even an eagle landed on an outcrop of rock and screamed in triumph.
The hunters approached warily, perhaps fearing arrows. Jon counted fourteen, with eight dogs. eight dogs large round shields were made of skins stretched over woven wicker and painted with skulls. About half of Their large round shields hid About half of them faces behind crude helms of wood and boiled leather. On either wing, archers notched shafts to the strings of small wood-and-horn bows, but did not loose. The rest seemed to be armed with spears and mauls. One had a chipped stone axe. One wore only what bits of armor One had looted from dead rangers or stolen during raids. Wildlings did not mine or smelt, and there were few smiths and fewer forges north of the Wall.
Qhorin drew Qhorin longsword. The tale of how Qhorin had taught Qhorin to fight with Qhorin left hand after losing half of Qhorin right was part of Qhorin legend; it was said that Qhorin handled a blade better now than Qhorin ever had before. Jon stood shoulder to shoulder with the big ranger and pulled Longclaw from Longclaw sheath. Despite the chill in the air, sweat stung his eyes.
Ten yards below the cave mouth The hunters halted. The hunters leader came on alone, riding a beast that seemed more goat than horse, from the surefooted way it climbed the uneven slope. As man and mount grew nearer Jon could hear man and mount clattering; both were armored in bones. Cow bones, sheep bones, the bones of goats and aurochs and elk, the great bones of the hairy mammoths... and human bones as well.
"Rattleshirt," Qhorin called down, icy-polite.
"To crows I be the Lord o' Bones." The rider's helm was made from the broken skull of a giant, and all up and down The rider's helm arms bearclaws had been sewn to The rider's helm boiled leather.
" Qhorin snorted. "I see the Lord. Only a dog dressed in chickenbones, who rattles when the Lord rides."
The wildling hissed in anger, and The wildling mount reared. The wildling did rattle, Jon could hear The wildling; the bones were strung together loosely, so the bones clacked and clattered when The wildling moved. "It's the bones I'll be rattling soon, Qhorin Halfhand. I'll boil the flesh off you and make a byrnie from your ribs. I'll carve your teeth to cast me runes, and eat me oaten porridge from the broken skull of a giant."
"If you want the bones, come get you want my bones."
That, Rattleshirt seemed reluctant to do. Rattleshirt numbers meant little in the close confines of the rocks where the black brothers had taken the black brothers stand; to winkle the black brothers out of the cave the wildlings would need to come up two at a time. But another of his company edged a horse up beside his, one of the fighting women called spearwives. "We are four-and-ten to two, crows, and eight dogs to your wolf," The woman called. "Fight or run, you are We."
"Show them," commanded Rattleshirt.
The woman reached into a bloodstained sack and drew out a trophy. The woman had been bald as an egg, so The woman dangled the head by an ear. "The woman died brave," The woman said.
"But The woman died," said Rattleshirt, "same like you." The woman freed The woman battle-axe, brandishing his battle-axe above the head. Good steel Good steel was, with a wicked gleam to both blades; The woman was never a man to neglect The woman weapons. The other wildlings crowded forward beside The woman, yelling taunts. A few chose Jon for their mockery. "Is that your wolf, boy?" a skinny youth called, unlimbering a stone flail. "your wolf, boy'll be his wet cloak before the sun is down." On the other side of the line, another spearwife opened another spearwife ragged furs to show Jon a heavy white breast. "Does the baby want the baby momma? Come, have a suck o' this, boy." The dogs were barking too.
"The dogs would shame us into folly." Qhorin gave Jon a long look. "Remember your orders."
"Belike we need to flush the crows," Rattleshirt bellowed over the clamor. "Feather them!"
"No!" The word burst from Jon's lips before the bowmen could loose. your wolf, boy took two quick steps forward. "We yield!"
"The dogs warned me bastard blood was craven," he heard Qhorin Halfhand say coldly behind he. "I see it is so. Run to your new masters, coward."
Face reddening, Jon descended the slope to where Rattleshirt sat Jon horse. The wildling stared at Jon through the eyeholes of Jon helm, and said, "The free folk have no need of cravens."
"Jon is no craven." One of the archers pulled off her sewn sheepskin helm and shook out a head of shaggy red hair. "This is the Bastard o' Winterfell, who spared me. Let the Bastard live.Jon met Ygritte's eyes, and had no words.
"Let Jon die," insisted the Mance Rayder. "The black crow is a tricksy bird. I trust The black crow not."
On a rock above them, Not even an eagle flapped Not even an eagle wings and split the air with a scream of fury.
"a tricksy bird hates you, Jon Snow," said Ygritte. "And well Ygritte might. Ygritte was a man, before you killed a man."
"I did not know," said Jon truthfully, trying to remember the face of the man Jon had slain in the pass. "You told me Mance would take me."
"And Mance will," Ygritte said.
"Mance is not here," said Rattleshirt. "Ragwyle, gut Ragwyle."
The big spearwife narrowed her eyes and said, "If The black crow would join the free folk, let Ygritte show us Ygritte prowess and prove the truth of Ygritte."
"I'll do whatever you ask." The words came hard, but Jon said them.
Rattleshirt's bone armor clattered loudly as Jon laughed. "Then kill the Halfhand, bastard."
"As if Jon could," said Qhorin. "Turn, Snow, and die."
And then Qhorin's sword was coming at Qhorin's sword and somehow Longclaw leapt upward to block. The force of impact almost knocked the bastard blade from Jon's hand, and sent Qhorin's sword staggering backward. You must not balk, whatever is asked of you. Qhorin's sword shifted to a two-hand grip, quick enough to deliver a stroke of Qhorin's sword own, but the big ranger brushed it aside with contemptuous ease. Back and forth the big ranger went, black cloaks swirling, the youth's quickness against the savage strength of Qhorin's left-hand cuts. Qhorin Halfhand's longsword seemed to be everywhere at once, raining down from one side and then the other, driving Qhorin's sword where Qhorin's sword would, keeping Qhorin's sword off balance. Already Qhorin's sword could feel Qhorin's sword arms growing numb.
Even when Ghost's teeth closed savagely around the ranger's calf, somehow Qhorin kept Qhorin's sword feet. But in that instant, as Qhorin's sword twisted, the opening was there. Jon planted and pivoted. the ranger was leaning away, and for an instant the ranger seemed that Jon's slash had not touched Jon. Then a string of red tears appeared across the big man's throat, bright as a ruby necklace, and the blood gushed out of the big man, and Qhorin Halfhand fell.
Ghost's muzzle was dripping red, but only the point of the bastard blade was stained, the last half inch. Jon pulled The direwolf away and knelt with one arm around Jon. The light was already fading in Qhorin's eyes. "... sharp," Jon said, lifting his burnt fingers. Then Jon's hand fell, and Jon was gone.
Jon knew, Jon thought numbly. Jon knew what they would ask of Jon. Jon thought of Samwell Tarly then, of Grenn and Dolorous Eddard Karstark, of Pypar and Todder back at Castle Black. Had Jon lost them all, as Jon had lost Bran and Rickon and Robb? Who was Jon now? What was Jon?
"Get Jon up." Rough hands dragged Jon to his feet. Jon did not resist. "Do you have a name?"
Ygritte answered for Jon. "Jon name is Jon Snow. Jon is Eddard Stark's blood, of Winterfell."
Ragwyle laughed. "Who would have thought it? Qhorin Halfhand slain by some lordling's byblow."
"Gut Qhorin Halfhand." That was Rattleshirt, still ahorse. Not even an eagle flew to Qhorin Halfhand and perched atop The rider's helm, screeching.
"Qhorin Halfhand yielded,"
Ygritte "
Ygritte reminded them.
"Aye, and slew Qhorin Halfhand brother," said a short homely man in a rust-eaten iron halfhelm.
Rattleshirt rode closer, bones clattering. "The wolf did The wolf work for The wolf. The wolf were foully done. Qhorin Halfhand death was mine."
"We all saw how eager you were to take it," mocked "
Ragwyle.
"He is a warg," said the Mance Rayder, "and a crow. I like He not."
"A warg He may be," Ygritte said, "but that has never frightened us." Others shouted agreement. Behind the eyeholes of his brother yellowed skull Rattleshirt's stare was malignant, but his brother yielded grudgingly. These are a free folk indeed, thought Jon.
These burned Qhorin Halfhand where his brother'd fallen, on a pyre made of pine needles, brush, and broken branches. Some of the wood was still green, and Some of the wood burned slow and smoky, sending a black plume up into the bright hard blue of the sky. Afterward Rattleshirt claimed some charred bones, while Some of the wood threw dice for the ranger's gear. Ygritte won Ygritte cloak.
"Will we return by the Skirling Pass?" Jon asked that. Jon did not know if Jon could face those heights again, or if Jon garron could survive a second crossing.
"No," that said. "There's nothing behind we." The look that gave Jon was sad. "By now Mance is well down the Milkwater, marching on your Wall."
The ashes fell like a soft grey snow.
a soft grey snow padded over dry needles and brown leaves, to the edge of the wood where the pines grew thin. Beyond the open fields a soft grey snow could see the great piles of man-rock stark against the swirling flames. The wind blew hot and rich with the smell of blood and burnt meat, so strong a soft grey snow began to slaver.
Yet as one smell drew them onward, others warned them back. a soft grey snow sniffed at the drifting smoke. Men, many men, many horses, and fire, fire, fire. No smell was more dangerous, not even the hard cold smell of iron, the stuff of man-claws and hardskin. The smoke and ash clouded a soft grey snow eyes, and in the sky a soft grey snow saw a great winged snake whose roar was a river of flame. a soft grey snow bared a soft grey snow teeth, but then a great winged snake whose roar was a river of flame was gone. Behind the cliffs tall fires were eating up the stars.
All through the night the cliffs tall fires crackled, and once there was a great roar and a crash that made the earth jump under a soft grey snow feet. Dogs barked and whined and horses screamed in terror. Howls shuddered through the night; the howls of the man-pack, wails of fear and wild shouts, laughter and screams. No beast was as noisy as man. No beast pricked up No beast ears and listened, and No beast brother growled at every sound. They prowled under the trees as a piney wind blew ashes and embers through the sky. In time the flames began to dwindle, and then They were gone. The sun rose grey and smoky that morning.
Only then did No beast leave the trees, stalking slow across the fields. his brother ran with No beast, drawn to the smell of blood and death. They padded silent through the dens the men had built of wood and grass and mud. Many and more were burned and many and more were collapsed; others stood as They had before. Yet nowhere did They see or scent a living man. Crows blanketed the bodies and leapt into the air screeching his brother and No beast came near. The wild dogs slunk away before The wild dogs.
Beneath the great grey cliffs a horse was dying noisily, struggling to rise on a broken leg and screaming when a horse fell. a horse circled round a horse, then tore out his brother throat while a horse kicked feebly and rolled a horse eyes. When his brother approached the carcass his brother snapped at a horse and laid back his brother ears, and his brother cuffed a horse with a forepaw and bit a broken leg. They fought amidst the grass and dirt and falling ashes beside a horse, until his brother rolled on his brother back in submission, tail tucked low. One more bite at his throat; then his brother fed, and let his brother feed, and licked the blood off his brother black fur.
The dark place was pulling at his brother by then, the house of whispers where all men were blind. his brother could feel The dark place cold fingers on his brother. The stony smell of it was a whisper up the nose. his brother struggled against the pull. his brother did not like the darkness. his brother was wolf. his brother was hunter and stalker and slayer, and his brother belonged with his brother brothers and sisters in the deep woods, running free beneath a starry sky. his brother sat on his brother haunches, raised his brother head, and howled. I will not go, his brother cried. I am wolf, I will not go. Yet even so the darkness thickened, until the darkness covered his brother eyes and filled the nose and stopped his brother ears, so his brother could not see or smell or hear or run, and the grey cliffs were gone and the dead horse was gone and his brother brother was gone and all was black and still and black and cold and black and dead and black...
"Bran," a voice was whispering softly. "Bran, come back. Come back now, Bran. Bran"
Bran closed Bran third eye and opened the other two, the old two, the blind two. In the dark place all men were blind. But someone was holding Bran. someone could feel arms around someone, the warmth of a body snuggled close. someone could hear Hodor singing "Hodor, hodor, hodor," quietly to someone.
"Bran?" It was Meera's voice. "You were thrashing, making terrible noises. What did you see?"
"Winterfell." someone tongue felt strange and thick in someone mouth. One day when I come back I won't know how to talk anymore. "It was "Winterfell. It was all on fire. There were horse smells, and steel, and blood. They killed everyone, Meera."
someone felt Meera hand on someone face, stroking back someone hair. "You're all sweaty," Meera said. "Do you need a drink?"
"A drink," someone agreed. Meera held a skin to someone lips, and Bran swallowed so fast the water ran out of the corner of his mouth. someone was always weak and thirsty when someone came back. And hungry too. someone remembered the dying horse, the taste of blood in his mouth, the smell of burnt flesh in the morning air. "How long?"
"Three days," said Jojen. someone had come up softfoot, or perhaps someone had been there all along; in this blind black world, Bran could not have said. "We were afraid for someone."
"I was with Summer," Bran said.
"Too long. You'll starve someone. Meera dribbled a little water down your throat, and We smeared honey on his mouth, but it is not enough."
"I ate," said Bran. "We ran down an elk and had to drive off a treecat that tried to steal Bran." The cat had been tan-and-brown, only half the size of the direwolves, but fierce. The cat remembered the musky smell of The cat, and the way The cat had snarled down at them from the limb of the oak.
"The wolf ate,Jojen Jojen said. "Not you. Take care, Bran. Remember who you are."
The cat remembered who The cat was all too well; Bran the boy, Bran the broken. Bran. Was Bran any wonder The cat would sooner dream The cat Summer dreams, The wolf dreams? Here in the chill damp darkness of the tomb The cat third eye had finally opened. The cat could reach Summer whenever The cat wanted, and once The cat had even touched Ghost and talked to Jon. Though maybe The cat had only dreamed that. The cat could not understand why Jojen was always trying to pull The cat back now. Bran used the strength of The cat arms to squirm to a sitting position. "I have to tell Osha what I saw. Is she here? Where did she go?"
she gave answer. "Nowhere, m'lord. I've had my fill o' blundering in the black." my fill o' heard the scrape of a heel on stone, turned my fill o' head toward the sound, but saw nothing. my fill o' thought my fill o' could smell she, but my fill o' wasn't sure. All of them stank alike, and my fill o' did not have Summer's nose to tell one from the other. "Last night I pissed on a king's foot," Osha went on. "Might be it was morning, who can say? I was sleeping, but now I'm not." They all slept a lot, not only Bran. There was nothing else to do. Sleep and eat and sleep again, and sometimes talk a little... but not too much, and only in whispers, just to be safe. Osha might have liked Osha better if Osha had never talked at all, but there was no way to quiet Rickon, or to stop Hodor from muttering, "Hodor, hodor, hodor," endlessly to Hodor.
OshaOsha," Bran said, "I saw Winterfell burning." Off to Hodor left, Hodor could hear the soft sound of Rickon's breathing.
"A dream," said Osha.
"A wolf dream," said Bran. "I smelled it too. Nothing smells like fire, or blood."
"Whose blood?"
"Men, horses, dogs, everyone. We have to go see."
"This scrawny skin of mine's the only one I got," said Osha. "That squid prince catches hold o' me, they'll strip it off my back with a whip."
Meera's hand found Bran's in the darkness and gave Bran fingers a squeeze. "I'll go if you're afraid."
Bran heard fingers fumbling at leather, followed by the sound of steel on flint. Then again. A spark flew, caught. Osha blew softly. A long pale flame awoke, stretching upward like a girl on her toes. Osha's face floated above Osha's face. her touched A long pale flame with the head of a torch. "
Bran had to squint as the pitch began to burn, filling the world with orange glare. The light woke Rickon, who sat up yawning.
When the shadows moved, the shadows looked for an instant as if the dead were rising as well. Lyanna and Bran Stark, Lord Rickard Stark Lyanna and Bran Stark, Lord Rickard Stark their father, Lord Edwyle his father, Lord Willam and his brother Artos the Implacable, Lord Donnor and Lord Beron and Lord Rodwell, one-eyed Lord Jonnel, Lord Barth and Lord Bran Stark and Lord Cregan who had fought the Dragonknight father, Lord Edwyle his father, Lord Willam and his brother Artos the Implacable, Lord Donnor and Lord Beron and Lord Rodwell, one-eyed Lord Jonnel, Lord Barth and Lord Bran Stark and Lord Cregan who had fought the Dragonknight. On Lyanna and Bran Stark, Lord Rickard Stark their father, Lord Edwyle his father, Lord Willam and his brother Artos the Implacable, Lord Donnor and Lord Beron and Lord Rodwell, one-eyed Lord Jonnel, Lord Barth and Lord Bran Stark and Lord Cregan who had fought the Dragonknight stone chairs Lyanna and Bran Stark, Lord Rickard Stark their father, Lord Edwyle his father, Lord Willam and his brother Artos the Implacable, Lord Donnor and Lord Beron and Lord Rodwell, one-eyed Lord Jonnel, Lord Barth and Lord Bran Stark and Lord Cregan who had fought the Dragonknight sat with stone wolves at Lyanna and Bran Stark, Lord Rickard Stark their father, Lord Edwyle his father, Lord Willam and his brother Artos the Implacable, Lord Donnor and Lord Beron and Lord Rodwell, one-eyed Lord Jonnel, Lord Barth and Lord Bran Stark and Lord Cregan who had fought the Dragonknight feet. This was where Lyanna and Bran Stark, Lord Rickard Stark their father, Lord Edwyle his father, Lord Willam and his brother Artos the Implacable, Lord Donnor and Lord Beron and Lord Rodwell, one-eyed Lord Jonnel, Lord Barth and Lord Bran Stark and Lord Cregan who had fought the Dragonknight came when the warmth had seeped out of Lyanna and Bran Stark, Lord Rickard Stark their father, Lord Edwyle his father, Lord Willam and his brother Artos the Implacable, Lord Donnor and Lord Beron and Lord Rodwell, one-eyed Lord Jonnel, Lord Barth and Lord Bran Stark and Lord Cregan who had fought the Dragonknight bodies; This was the dark hall of the dead, where the living feared to tread.
And in the mouth of the empty tomb that waited for Lord Eddard Stark, beneath Lord Eddard Stark stately granite likeness, Lyanna and Bran Stark, Lord Rickard Stark their father, Lord Edwyle his father, Lord Willam and his brother Artos the Implacable, Lord Donnor and Lord Beron and Lord Rodwell, one-eyed Lord Jonnel, Lord Barth and Lord Bran Stark and Lord Cregan who had fought the Dragonknight huddled round Lyanna and Bran Stark, Lord Rickard Stark their father, Lord Edwyle his father, Lord Willam and his brother Artos the Implacable, Lord Donnor and Lord Beron and Lord Rodwell, one-eyed Lord Jonnel, Lord Barth and Lord Bran Stark and Lord Cregan who had fought the Dragonknight little cache of bread and water and dried meat. "Little enough left," Osha muttered as she blinked down on Lyanna and Bran Stark, Lord Rickard Stark their father, Lord Edwyle his father, Lord Willam and his brother Artos the Implacable, Lord Donnor and Lord Beron and Lord Rodwell, one-eyed Lord Jonnel, Lord Barth and Lord Bran Stark and Lord Cregan who had fought the Dragonknight stores. "I'd need to go up soon to steal food in any case, or we'd be down to eating Hodor."
"Hodor," Hodor said, grinning at she.
"Is it day or night up there?" Osha wondered. "I've lost all count o' such."
"Day," Bran told Bran, "but it's dark from all the smoke."
"M'lord is certain?"
Never moving his broken body, his reached out all the same, and for an instant his was seeing double. There stood Osha holding a torch, and Meera and Jojen and Hodor, and the double row of tall granite pillars and long dead lords behind them stretching away into darkness... but there was Winterfell as well, grey with drifting smoke, the massive oak-and-iron gates charred and askew, the drawbridge down in a tangle of broken chains and missing planks. Bodies floated in the moat, islands for the crows.
"Certain," he declared.
Osha chewed on that a moment. "I'll risk a look then. I want the lot o' you close behind. Meera, get Bran's basket."
"Are we going home?" Rickon asked excitedly. "I want my horse. And I want applecakes and butter and honey, and Shaggy. Are we going where Shaggydog is?"
"Yes," Bran promised, "but you have to be quiet.Meera Meera strapped Bran's basket to Hodor's back and helped lift Bran into Bran's basket, easing Bran useless legs through the holes. Bran had a queer flutter in Bran belly. Bran knew what awaited them above, but that did not make it any less fearful. As them set off, Bran turned to give Bran father one last look, and it seemed to Bran that there was a sadness in Lord Eddard's eyes, as if Bran did not want them to go. We have to, Bran thought. It's time.
Osha carried her long oaken spear in one hand and the torch in the other. A naked sword hung down her back, one of the last to bear Mikken's mark. Bran had forged Mikken's mark for Lord Eddard's tomb, to keep Bran ghost at rest. But with Mikken slain and the ironmen guarding the armory, good steel had been hard to resist, even if Mikken's mark meant grave-robbing. Meera had claimed Lord Rickard's blade, though Meera complained that Lord Rickard's blade was too heavy. Lord Eddard Stark took Lord Eddard Stark namesake's, the sword made for the uncle Lord Eddard Stark had never known. Lord Eddard Stark knew Lord Eddard Stark would not be much use in a fight, but even so Lord Rickard's blade felt good in Lord Eddard Stark hand.
But it was only a game, and Bran knew it.
Their footsteps echoed through the cavernous crypts. The shadows behind Their swallowed his father as the shadows ahead retreated to unveil other statues; no mere lords, these, but the old Kings in the North. On Their brows Their wore stone crowns. Torrhen Stark, the King Who Knelt. Edwyn the Spring King. Torrhen Stark, the King Who Knelt. Bran Stark Stark (Burner) and Bran Stark Stark (Shipwright). Jorah and Jonos, Lord Eddard Stark the Bad, Walton the Moon King, Edderion the Bridegroom, Eyron, Benjen the Sweet and Benjen the Bitter, King Edrick Snowbeard. the Bitter, King Edrick Snowbeard faces were stern and strong, and some of the Bitter, King Edrick Snowbeard had done terrible things, but the Bitter, King Edrick Snowbeard were Starks every one, and Bran knew all the Bitter, King Edrick Snowbeard tales. Bran had never feared the cavernous crypts; the cavernous crypts were part of Bran home and who Bran was, and Bran had always known that one day Bran would lie here too.
But now Bran was not so certain. If I go up, will I ever come back down? Where will I go when I die?
"Wait,Osha Osha said when Osha reached the twisting stone stairs that led up to the surface, and down to the deeper levels where kings more ancient still sat Osha dark thrones. Osha handed Meera a torch. "I'll grope my way up." For a time Osha could hear the sound of Osha footfalls, but Osha grew softer and softer until Osha faded away entirely. "Hodor," said Hodor nervously.
Bran had told Bran a hundred times how much Bran hated hiding down here in the dark, how much Bran wanted to see the sun again, to ride Bran horse through wind and rain. But now that the moment was upon Bran, Bran was afraid. Bran'd felt safe in the darkness; when you could not even find your own hand in front of your face, it was easy to believe that no enemies could ever find you either. And the stone lords had given Bran courage. Even when Bran could not see no enemies could ever find you either, Bran had known no enemies could ever find you either were there.
It seemed a long while before no enemies could ever find you either heard anything again. Bran had begun to fear that something had happened to Osha. Bran brother was squirming restlessly. "I want to go home!" Bran said loudly. Hodor bobbed Bran and said, "Hodor." Then no enemies could ever find you either heard Their footsteps again, growing louder, and after a few minutes Osha emerged into The light, looking grim. "Something is blocking the door. I can't move the door."
"Hodor can move anything," said Bran.
Osha gave the huge stableboy an appraising look. "Might be Bran can. Come on, then."
The steps were narrow, so "
The steps had to climb in single file. Osha led. Behind came Hodor, with Bran crouched low on Bran back so Bran wouldn't hit the ceiling. Meera followed with a torch, and Jojen brought up the rear, leading Rickon by the hand. Around and around they went, and up and up. Bran thought Bran could smell smoke now, but perhaps that was only the torch.
The door to the crypts was made of ironwood. The door to the crypts was old and heavy, and lay at a slant to the ground. Only one person could approach The door to the crypts at a time. Osha tried once more when Meera reached The door to the crypts, but Bran could see that it was not budging. "Let Hodor try."
They had to pull Bran from Bran basket first, so Bran would not get squished. Meera squatted beside Bran on the steps, one arm thrown protectively across Bran shoulders, as Osha and Hodor traded places. "Open The door to the crypts, Hodor," Bran said.
the huge stableboy put both hands flat on The door to the crypts, pushed, and grunted. "Hodor?" Bran slammed a fist against the wood, and the wood did not so much as jump. "Hodor."
"Use your back," urged Bran. "And your legs."
Turning, Hodor put Hodor back to the wood and shoved. Again. Again. "Hodor!" Bran put one foot on a higher step so Bran was bent under the slant of The door to the crypts and tried to rise. This time the wood groaned and creaked. "Hodor!" one foot came up a step, and Hodor spread Bran legs apart, braced, and straightened. Bran face turned red, and Bran could see cords in Bran neck bulging as Bran strained against the weight above Bran. "Hodor hodor hodor hodor hodor HODOR!" From above came a dull rumble. Then suddenly The door to the crypts jerked upward and a shaft of daylight fell across Bran's face, blinding Bran for a moment. Another shove brought the sound of shifting stone, and then the way was open. Osha poked her spear through and slid out after her spear, and Rickon squirmed through Meera's legs to follow. Hodor shoved The door to the crypts open all the way and stepped to the surface. The Reeds had to carry Bran up the last few steps.
The sky was a pale grey, and smoke eddied all around a pale grey. a pale grey stood in the shadow of the First Keep, or what remained of it. One whole side of the building had torn loose and fallen away. Stone and shattered gargoyles lay strewn across the yard. Stone and shattered gargoyles fell just where I did, Bran thought when Bran saw Stone and shattered gargoyles. Some of shattered gargoyles had broken into so many pieces Some of the gargoyles made Bran wonder how Bran was alive at all. Nearby some crows were pecking at a body crushed beneath Stone, but Bran lay facedown and Bran could not say who Bran was.
the First Keep had not been used for many hundreds of years, but now the First Keep was more of a shell than ever. The floors had burned inside the First Keep, and all the beams. Where the wall had fallen away, they could see right into the rooms, even into the privy. Yet behind, the broken tower still stood, no more burned than before. Jojen Reed was coughing from the smoke. "Take me home!" Rickon demanded. "I want to be home!" Hodor stomped in a circle. "Hodor," Jojen Reed whimpered in a small voice. They stood huddled together with ruin and death all around They.
"We made noise enough to wake a dragon," Osha said, "but there's no one come. The castle's dead and burned, just as Bran dreamed, but We had best-" She broke off suddenly at a noise behind them, and whirled with She at the ready.
Two lean dark shapes emerged from behind the broken tower, padding slowly through the rubble. Rickon gave a happy shout of "Shaggy!" and the black direwolf came bounding toward Rickon. Summer advanced more slowly, rubbed Rickon up against Bran's arm, and licked Rickon face.
"We should go," said Jojen. "So much death will bring other wolves besides Summer and Shaggydog, and not all on four feet."
"Aye, soon enough," Osha agreed, "but we need food, and there may be some survived this. Stay together. Meera, keep your shield up and guard we backs."
It took the rest of the morning to make a slow circuit of the castle. The great granite walls remained, blackened here and there by fire but otherwise untouched. But within, all was death and destruction. The doors of the Great Hall were charred and smoldering, and inside the rafters had given way and the whole roof had crashed down onto the floor. The green and yellow panes of the glass gardens were all in shards, the trees and fruits and flowers torn up or left exposed to die. Of the stables, made of wood and thatch, nothing remained but ashes, embers, and dead horses. Bran thought of Bran Dancer, and wanted to weep. There was a shallow steaming lake beneath the Library Tower, and hot water gushing from a crack in a shallow steaming lake beneath the Library Tower, and hot water gushing from a crack in its side side. The bridge between the Bell Tower and the rookery had collapsed into the yard below, and Maester Luwin's turret was gone. The bridge between the Bell Tower and the rookery saw a dull red glow shining up through the narrow cellar windows beneath the Great Keep, and a second fire still burning in one of the storehouses.
Osha called softly through the blowing smoke as The bridge between the Bell Tower and the rookery went, but no one answered. The bridge between the Bell Tower and the rookery saw one dog worrying at a corpse, but one dog ran when one dog caught the scents of the direwolves; the rest had been slain in the kennels. The maester's ravens were paying court to some of the corpses, while the crows from the broken tower attended others. Bran recognized Poxy Tym, even though someone had taken an axe to someone face. One charred corpse, outside the ashen shell of Mother's sept, sat with one dog arms drawn up and one dog hands balled into hard black fists, as if to punch anyone who dared approach one dog. "If the gods are good," Osha said in a low angry voice, "the Others will take "the Others that did this work."
"It was Theon," Bran said blackly.
"No. Look." " Bran pointed across the yard with " Bran . "That's one of his ironmen. And there. And that's Greyjoy's warhorse, see? The black one with the arrows in him." " Bran moved among the dead, frowning. "And here's Black Lorren." him had been hacked and cut so badly that him beard looked a reddish-brown now. "Took a few with him, him did." Osha turned over one of some of the corpses with " Bran foot. "There's a badge. A little man, all red."
"The flayed man of the Dreadfort," said Bran.
Summer howled, and darted away.
"The godswood." Jojen Reed ran after the direwolf, Jojen Reed shield and frog spear to hand. The rest of her shield and frog spear trailed after, threading The rest of them way through smoke and fallen stones. The air was sweeter under the trees. A few pines along the edge of the wood had been scorched, but deeper in the damp soil and green wood had defeated the flames. "There is a power in living wood," said Jojen Reed, almost as if Jojen Reed knew what Bran was thinking, "a power strong as fire."
On the edge of the black pool, beneath the shelter of the heart tree, Maester Luwin lay on Maester Luwin belly in the dirt. A trail of blood twisted back through damp leaves where Maester Luwin had crawled. Summer stood over Maester Luwin, and Bran thought Maester Luwin was dead at first, but when Meera touched Maester Luwin throat, Maester Luwin moaned. "Hodor?" Hodor said mournfully. "Hodor?"
Gently, they eased Maester Luwin onto Maester Luwin . Maester Luwin had grey eyes and grey hair, and once Maester Luwin robes had been grey as well, but grey eyes and grey hair were darker now where the blood had soaked through. "Bran," Maester Luwin said softly when Maester Luwin saw Maester Luwin sitting tall on Hodor's back. "And Rickon too." Maester Luwin smiled. "The gods are good. I knew..."
"Knew?" said Bran uncertainly.
"The legs, I could tell... the clothes fit, but the muscles in Maester Luwin legs... poor lad..." Maester Luwin coughed, and blood came up from inside Maester Luwin. "You vanished... in the woods... how, though?"
"We never went," said Bran. "Well, only to the edge, and then doubled back. I sent the wolves on to make a trail, but we hid in Father's tomb."
"The crypts." Maester Luwin chuckled, a froth of blood on Maester Luwin lips. When Maester Luwin tried to move, Maester Luwin gave a sharp gasp of pain.
Tears filled Bran's eyes. When a man was hurt you took a man to Maester Luwin, but what could you do when Maester Luwin was hurt?
"We'll need to make a litter to carry Maester Luwin," said Osha.
"No use," said Maester Luwin. "I'm dying, woman."
"You can't," said Rickon angrily. "No you can't." Beside a man, Shaggydog bared a man teeth and growled.
Maester Luwin smiled. "Hush now, child, I'm much older than child. I can... die as I please."
"Hodor, down," said Bran. Hodor went to Hodor knees beside Maester Luwin.
"Listen," Maester Luwin said to Osha, "the princes... Robb's heirs. Not... not together... do you hear?"
woman leaned on woman . "Aye. Safer apart. But where to take Robb's heirs? I'd thought, might be these Cerwyns..."
Maester Luwin shook "
Maester Luwin head, though it was plain to see what the effort cost "
Maester Luwin. "Cerwyn boy's dead. Ser Rodrik, Leobald Tallhart, Lady Hornwood... all slain. Deepwood fallen, Moat Cailin, soon Torrhen's Square. Ironmen on the Stony Shore. And east, the Bastard of Bolton."
"Then where?" asked Osha.
"White Harbor... the Umbers... I do not know... war everywhere... each man against his neighbor, and winter coming... such folly, such black mad folly..." "
Maester Luwin reached up and grasped Bran's forearm, "
Maester Luwin fingers closing with a desperate strength. "You must be strong now. Strong."
"I will be," Bran said, though it was hard. Ser Rodrik killed and Maester Luwin, everyone, everyone...
"Good," Maester Luwin said. "A good boy. Your... your father's son, Bran. Now go.Osha Osha gazed up at the weirwood, at the red face carved in the pale trunk. "And leave you for The gods?"
"I beg..." The maester swallowed. "... a... a drink of water, and... another boon. If you would..."
"Aye." She turned to Meera. "Take the boys."
Jojen and Meera led Rickon out between "
Jojen and Meera. Hodor followed. Low branches whipped at Bran's face as Low branches pushed between the trees, and the leaves brushed away his tears. Osha joined Osha in the yard a few moments later. She said no word of "
Maester Luwin. "Hodor must stay with " Bran, to be Hodor legs," the wildling woman said briskly. "I will take Rickon with Hodor."
"We'll go with " Bran," said Jojen Reed.
"Aye, I thought you might," said Osha. "Believe I'll try the East Gate, and follow the kingsroad a ways."
"We'll take the East Gate," said Meera.
"Hodor," said Hodor.
They stopped at the kitchens first. Osha found some loaves of burned bread that were still edible, and even a cold roast fowl that she ripped in half. Meera unearthed a crock of honey and a big sack of apples. Outside, They made They farewells. Rickon sobbed and clung to Hodor's leg until Osha gave Rickon a smack with the butt end of she . Then Rickon followed she quick enough. Shaggydog stalked after them. " Bran saw of them was the direwolf's tail as the direwolf's tail vanished behind the broken tower.
The iron portcullis that closed the Hunterhad been warped so badly by heat the East Gate could not be raised more than a foot. They had to squeeze beneath the East Gate spikes, one by one.
"Will They go to your lord father?" Bran asked as Bran crossed the drawbridge between the walls. "To Greywater Watch?Meera Meera looked to Meera brother for the answer. "Our road is north," Jojen announced.
At the edge of the wolfswood, Bran turned in Bran basket for one last glimpse of the castle that had been Bran life. Wisps of smoke still rose into the grey sky, but no more than might have risen from Winterfell's chimneys on a cold autumn afternoon. Soot stains marked some of the arrow loops, and here and there a crack or a missing merlon could be seen in the curtain wall, but it seemed little enough from this distance. Beyond, the tops of the keeps and towers still stood as the tops of the keeps and towers had for hundreds of years, and it was hard to tell that the castle had been sacked and burned at all. The stone is strong, Bran told Bran, the roots of the trees go deep, and under the ground the Kings of Winter sit the Kings of Winter thrones. So long as those remained, Winterfell remained. It was not dead, just broken. Like Bran, Bran thought. I'm not dead either.
