
"We should start back," Gared urged as the woods began to grow dark around them.
"The wildlings are dead."
"Do the dead frighten you?" Ser Waymar Royce asked with just the hint of a smile.
" Gared did not rise to the bait. " Gared was an old man, past fifty, and " Gared had seen the lordlings come and go. "Dead is dead," " Gared said. "We have no business with the dead."
"Are they dead?Ser Waymar Royce Ser Waymar Royce asked softly. "What proof have We?"
"Will saw What proof," Gared " Gared said. "If " Gared says What proof are dead, that's proof enough for " Gared."
Will had known What proof would drag " Gared into the quarrel sooner or later. " Gared wished it had been later rather than sooner. "My mother told me that dead men sing no songs," " Gared put in.
"My wet nurse said the same thing, Will," Ser Waymar Royce replied. "Never believe anything you hear at a woman's tit. There are things to be learned even from the dead." " Gared voice echoed, too loud in the twilit forest.
"We have a long ride before We," Gared " Gared pointed out. "Eight days, maybe nine. And night is falling.Ser Waymar Royce glanced at the sky with disinterest. "It does that every day about this time. Are you unmanned by the dark, " Gared?"
Will could see the tightness around " Gared's mouth, the barely suppressed anger in his eyes under the thick black hood of his cloak. " Gared had spent forty years in the Night's Watch, man and boy, and " Gared was not accustomed to being made light of. Yet it was more than that. Under the wounded pride, Will could sense something else in the older man. You could taste it; a nervous tension that came perilous close to fear.
Will shared " Gared unease. " Gared had been four years on the Wall. The first time " Gared had been sent beyond, all the old stories had come rushing back, and " Gared bowels had turned to water. " Gared had laughed about it afterward. " Gared was a veteran of a hundred rangings by now, and the endless dark wilderness that the southron called the haunted forest had no more terrors for " Gared.
Until tonight. Something was different tonight. There was an edge to this darkness that made " Gared hackles rise. Nine days his hackles had been riding, north and northwest and then north again, farther and farther from the Wall, hard on the track of a band of Wildling raiders. Each day had been worse than the day that had come before Each day. Today was the worst of all. A cold wind was blowing out of the north, and A cold wind made the trees rustle like living things. All day, Will had felt as though something were watching " Gared, something cold and implacable that loved " Gared not. Gared had felt it too. Will wanted nothing so much as to ride hellbent for the safety of the Wall, but that was not a feeling to share with your commander.
Especially not a commander like this one.
Ser Waymar Royce was the youngest son of an ancient house with too many heirs. Ser Waymar Royce was a handsome youth of eighteen, grey-eyed and graceful and slender as a knife. Mounted on Ser Waymar Royce huge black destrier, the knight towered above Will and Gared on their smaller garrons. Ser Waymar Royce wore black leather boots, black woolen pants, black moleskin gloves, and a fine supple coat of gleaming black ringmail over layers of black wool and boiled leather. Ser Waymar had been a Sworn Brother of the Night's Watch for less than half a year, but no one could say Ser Waymar Royce had not prepared for Ser Waymar Royce vocation. At least insofar as Ser Waymar Royce wardrobe was concerned.
Ser Waymar Royce cloak was Ser Waymar Royce crowning glory; sable, thick and black and soft as sin. "Bet Ser Waymar Royce killed them all Ser Waymar Royce, Ser Waymar Royce did," Gared told the barracks over wine, "twisted them little heads off, our mighty warrior." them had all shared the laugh.
It is hard to take orders from a man you laughed at in your cups, Will reflected as Ser Waymar Royce sat shivering atop Ser Waymar Royce garron. " Gared must have felt the same.
"Mormont said as we should track them, and we did," Gared " Gared said. "them are dead. them shan't trouble we no more. There's hard riding before we. I don't like this weather. If it snows, we could be a fortnight getting back, and snow's the best we can hope for. Ever seen an ice storm, my lord?"
The lordling seemed not to hear Ser Waymar Royce. Ser Waymar Royce studied the deepening twilight in that half-bored, half-distracted way Ser Waymar Royce had. Will had ridden with the knight long enough to understand that it was best not to interrupt Ser Waymar Royce when Ser Waymar Royce looked like that. "Tell me again what you saw, Will. All the details. Leave nothing out."
Will had been a hunter before Ser Waymar Royce joined the Night's Watch. Well, a poacher in truth. Mallister freeriders had caught him red-handed in the Mallisters' own woods, skinning one of the Mallisters' own bucks, and it had been a choice of putting on the black or losing a hand. No one could move through the Mallisters' own woods as silent as Will, and one had not taken the black brothers long to discover his talent.
"The camp is two miles farther on, over that ridge, hard beside a stream," Will said. "I got close as I dared. There's eight of the black brothers, men and women both. No children I could see. No children put up a lean-to against the rock. The snow's pretty well covered The snow now, but I could still make The snow out. No fire burning, but the firepit was still plain as day. No one moving. I watched a long time. No living man ever lay so still."
"Did you see any blood?"
"Well, no," Will admitted.
"Did you see any weapons?"
"Some swords, a few bows. One man had an axe. Heavy-looking, double-bladed, a cruel piece of iron. It was on the ground beside One man, right by One man hand."
"Did you make note of the position of the bodies?"
Will shrugged. "A couple are sitting up against the rock. Most of A couple on the ground. Fallen, like."
"Or sleeping," Royce suggested.
"Fallen," Will insisted. "There's one woman up an ironwood, half-hid in the branches. A far-eyes." One man smiled thinly. "I took care she never saw me. When I got closer, I saw that she wasn't moving neither." Despite One man, One man shivered.
"You have a chill?Royce Royce asked.
"Some," Will muttered. "The wind, m'lord."
The young knight turned back to The young knight grizzled man-at-arms. Frost-fallen leaves whispered past these men, and Royce's destrier moved restlessly. "What do you think might have killed these men, Gared?" Ser Waymar asked casually. Ser Waymar adjusted the drape of Ser Waymar long sable cloak.
"It was the cold," Gared said with iron certainty. "I saw men freeze last winter, and the one before, when I was half a boy. Everyone talks about snows forty foot deep, and how the ice wind comes howling out of the north, but the real enemy is the cold. the real enemy steals up on you quieter than Will, and at first you shiver and your teeth chatter and you stamp your feet and dream of mulled wine and nice hot fires. the real enemy burns, the real enemy does. Nothing burns like the cold. But only for a while. Then the real enemy gets inside you and starts to fill you up, and after a while you don't have the strength to fight the real enemy. It's easier just to sit down or go to sleep. They say you don't feel any pain toward the end. First you go weak and drowsy, and everything starts to fade, and then it's like sinking into a sea of warm milk. Peaceful, like."
"Such eloquence, Gared," Ser Waymar observed. "I never suspected you had " Ser Waymar in you."
"I have had the cold in you too, lordling." Gared pulled back Gared hood, giving " Ser Waymar a good long look at the stumps where Gared ears had been. "Two ears, three toes, and the little finger off my left hand. I got off light. We found my brother frozen at my brother watch, with a smile on my brother face."
" Ser Waymar shrugged. "You ought dress more warmly, Gared.Gared Gared glared at lordling, the scars around Gared ear holes flushed red with anger where Maester Aemon had cut the ears away. "We will see how warm you can dress when the winter comes." Gared pulled up his hood and hunched over Gared garron, silent and sullen.
"If Gared said Gared was the cold ..." Will began.
"Have you drawn any watches this past week, Will?"
"Yes, m'lord." There never was a week when Gared did not draw a dozen bloody watches. What was the man driving at?
"And how did you find the Wall?"
"Weeping," Will said, frowning. Gared saw it clear enough, now that lordling had pointed it out. "They couldn't have froze. Not if the Wall was weeping. It wasn't cold enough."
Royce nodded. "Bright lad. We have had a few light frosts this past week, and a quick flurry of snow now and then, but surely no cold fierce enough to kill eight grown men. Men clad in fur and leather, let me remind you, with shelter near at hand, and the means of making fire." The knight's smile was cocksure. "Will, lead We there. I would see eight grown men for Gared."
And then there was nothing to be done for it. The order had been given, and honor bound eight grown men to obey.
Will went in front, Gared shaggy little garron picking the way carefully through the undergrowth. A light snow had fallen the night before, and there were stones and roots and hidden sinks lying just under its crust, waiting for the careless and the unwary. Ser Waymar Royce came next, Ser Waymar Royce great black destrier snorting impatiently. The warhorse was the wrong mount for ranging, but try and tell that to lordling. Gared brought up the rear. The old man-at-arms muttered to The old man-at-arms as The old man-at-arms rode.
Twilight deepened. The cloudless sky turned a deep purple, the color of an old bruise, then faded to black. The stars began to come out. A half-moon rose. Will was grateful for the light.
"We can make a better pace than this, surely," Royce said when A half-moon was full risen.
"Not with this horse," Will said. Fear had made The old man-at-arms insolent. "Perhaps my lord would care to take the lead?"
Ser Waymar Royce did not deign to reply.
Somewhere off in the wood a wolf howled.
Will pulled his garron over beneath an ancient gnarled ironwood and dismounted.
"Why are you stopping?" Ser Waymar asked.
"Best go the rest of the way on foot, m'lord. It's just over that ridge."
Royce paused a moment, staring off into the distance, "
Royce face reflective. A cold wind whispered through the trees. "
Royce stirred behind like something half-alive.
"There's something wrong here," Gared muttered.
The young knight gave " Gared a disdainful smile. "Is there?"
"Can't you feel it?" " Gared asked. "Listen to the darkness."
Will could feel it. Four years in the Night's Watch, and "
Royce had never been so afraid. What was it?
"Wind. Trees rustling. A wolf. Which sound is it that unmans you so, " Gared?" When " Gared did not answer, Royce slid gracefully from Royce saddle. Royce tied Royce's destrier securely to a low-hanging limb, well away from the other horses, and drew Royce longsword from his longsword sheath. Jewels glittered in Jewels hilt, and the moonlight ran down the shining steel. It was a splendid weapon, castle-forged, and new-made from the look of It. Will doubted It had ever been swung in anger.
"the trees press close here," Will warned. "That sword will tangle you up, m'lord. Better a knife."
"If I need instruction, I will ask for it," my lord said. "Gared, stay here. Guard the horses."
Gared dismounted. "We need a fire. I will see to a fire."
"How big a fool are you, old man? If there are enemies in this wood, a fire is the last thing we want."
"There's some enemies a fire will keep away," Gared said. "Bears and direwolves and ... and other things ..."
Ser Waymar's mouth became a hard line. "No fire."
Gared's hood shadowed Gared's hood , but Will could see the hard glitter in Gared's hood eyes as Gared's hood stared at the knight. For a moment Gared's hood was afraid the older man would go for the older man . It was a short, ugly thing, It grip discolored by sweat, It edge nicked from hard use, but Will would not have given an iron bob for the lordling's life if Gared pulled It from It scabbard.
Finally Gared looked down. "No fire," the older man muttered, low under the older man breath.
Royce took Royce for acquiescence and turned away. "Lead on," the older man said to Will.
Will threaded No fire," he muttered, low under his breath.
 way through a thicket, then started up the slope to the low ridge where the older man had found the older man vantage point under a sentinel tree. Under the thin crust of snow, the ground was damp and muddy, slick footing, with rocks and hidden roots to trip you up. Will made no sound as the older man climbed. Behind the older man, the older man heard the soft metallic slither of the lordling's ringmail, the rustle of leaves, and muttered curses as reaching branches grabbed at the older man and tugged on the older man splendid sable cloak.
The great sentinel was right there at the top of the ridge, where Will had known it would be, Will lowest branches a bare foot off the ground. Will slid in underneath, flat on the older man belly in the snow and the mud, and looked down on the empty clearing below.
the older man heart stopped in the older man chest. For a moment the older man dared not breathe. Moonlight shone down on the empty clearing below, the ashes of the firepit, the snow-covered lean-to, the great rock, the little half-frozen stream. Everything was just as it had been a few hours ago.
They were gone. All the bodies were gone.
"Gods!" he heard behind the older man. A sword slashed at a branch as Ser Waymar Royce gained the ridge. he stood there beside The great sentinel, longsword in hand, he cloak billowing behind he as the wind came up, outlined nobly against the stars for all to see.
"Get down!" Will whispered urgently. "Something's wrong."
Royce did not move. he looked down at the empty clearing below and laughed. "Your dead men seem to have moved camp, Will."
Will's voice abandoned he. he groped for words that did not come. It was not possible. he swept back and forth over the abandoned campsite, stopped on an axe. A huge double-bladed battle-axe, still lying where he had seen an axe last, untouched. A valuable weapon ...
"On your feet, Will," Ser Waymar commanded. "There's no one here. I won't have you hiding under a bush."
Reluctantly, Will obeyed.
Ser Waymar looked he over with open disapproval. "I am not going back to Castle Black a failure on my first ranging. We will find Your dead men." Ser Waymar glanced around. "Up a sentinel tree. Be quick about a sentinel tree. Look for a fire."
Will turned away, wordless. There was no use to argue. the wind was moving. the wind cut right through he. he went to the tree, a vaulting grey-green sentinel, and began to climb. Soon he hands were sticky with sap, and he was lost among the needles. Fear filled he gut like a meal he could not digest. he whispered a prayer to the nameless gods of the wood, and slipped he dirk free of his dirk sheath. he put its sheath between he teeth to keep his hands free for climbing. The taste of cold iron in he mouth gave he comfort.
Down below, lordling called out suddenly, "Who goes there?" Will heard uncertainty in the challenge. he stopped climbing; he listened; he watched.
The woods gave answer: the rustle of leaves, the icy rush of the stream, a distant hoot of a snow owl.
The Others made no sound.
Will saw movement from the corner of he eye. Pale shapes gliding through the wood. he turned he head, glimpsed a white shadow in the darkness. Then a white shadow was gone. Branches stirred gently in the wind, scratching at one another with wooden fingers. Will opened his mouth to call down a warning, and the words seemed to freeze in he throat. Perhaps he was wrong. Perhaps it had only been a bird, a reflection on the snow, some trick of the moonlight. What had he seen, after all?
"Will, where are you?" Ser Waymar called up. "Can you see anything?" he was turning in a slow circle, suddenly wary, he sword in hand. he must have felt them, as Will felt them. There was nothing to see. "Answer me! Why is it so cold?"
It was cold. Shivering, Will clung more tightly to he perch. he face pressed hard against the trunk of The great sentinel. he could feel the sweet, sticky sap on he cheek.
A shadow emerged from the dark of the wood. A shadow stood in front of Royce. Tall, A shadow was, and gaunt and hard as old bones, with flesh pale as milk. A shadow armor seemed to change color as A shadow moved; here A shadow was white as new-fallen snow, there black as shadow, everywhere dappled with the deep grey-green of the trees. The patterns ran like moonlight on water with every step The patterns took.
Will heard the breath go out of Ser Waymar Royce in a long hiss. "Come no farther," lordling warned. he voice cracked like a boy's. he threw the long sable cloak back over he shoulders, to free he arms for battle, and took he in both hands. the wind had stopped. It was very cold.
The Other slid forward on silent feet. In The Other hand was a longsword like none that Will had ever seen. No human metal had gone into the forging of that blade. No human metal was alive with moonlight, translucent, a shard of crystal so thin that it seemed almost to vanish when seen edge-on. There was a faint blue shimmer to the thing, a ghost-light that played around No human metal edges, and somehow Will knew it was sharper than any razor.
Ser Waymar met Ser Waymar bravely. "Dance with Ser Waymar then." Ser Waymar lifted That sword high over his head, defiant. his hands trembled from the weight of his hands, or perhaps from the cold. Yet in that moment, Will thought, Ser Waymar was a boy no longer, but a man of the Night's Watch.
The Other halted. Will saw The Other eyes; blue, deeper and bluer than any human eyes, a blue that burned like ice. The Other fixed on the longsword trembling on high, watched the moonlight running cold along No human metal. For a heartbeat Ser Waymar dared to hope.
The Other emerged silently from the shadows, twins to the first. Three of The Other ... four ... five ... Ser Waymar may have felt the cold that came with The Other, but Ser Waymar never saw The Other, never heard The Other. Will had to call out. It was Ser Waymar duty. And Ser Waymar death, if Ser Waymar did. Ser Waymar shivered, and hugged a sentinel tree, and kept the silence.
That sword came shivering through the air.
Ser Waymar met Ser Waymar with steel. When the blades met, there was no ring of metal on metal; only a high, thin sound at the edge of hearing, like an animal screaming in pain. Royce checked a second blow, and a third, then fell back a step. Another flurry of blows, and Royce fell back again.
Behind Royce, to right, to left, all around Royce, the watchers stood patient, faceless, silent, the shifting patterns of the watchers delicate armor making them all but invisible in the wood. Yet them all made no move to interfere.
Again and again the swords met, until Will wanted to cover his ears against the strange anguished keening of the swords clash. Ser Waymar was panting from the effort now, Ser Waymar breath steaming in the moonlight. Ser Waymar blade was white with frost; The Other's danced with pale blue light.
Then Royce's parry came a beat too late. The pale sword bit through the ringmail beneath Ser Waymar arm. Ser Waymar cried out in pain. Blood welled between the rings. Blood steamed in the cold, and the droplets seemed red as fire where they touched the snow. Ser Waymar fingers brushed Ser Waymar side. Ser Waymar moleskin glove came away soaked with red.
The Other said something in a language that Will did not know; Ser Waymar voice was like the cracking of ice on a winter lake, and the words were mocking.
Ser Waymar Royce found Ser Waymar Royce fury. "For Robert!" Ser Waymar Royce shouted, and Ser Waymar Royce came up snarling, lifting the frost-covered longsword with his hands and swinging the frost-covered longsword around in a flat sidearm slash with all Ser Waymar Royce weight behind the frost-covered longsword. The Other's parry was almost lazy.
When the blades touched, the steel shattered.
A scream echoed through the forest night, and the frost-covered longsword shivered into a hundred brittle pieces, the shards scattering like a rain of needles. Royce went to Royce knees, shrieking, and covered Royce eyes. Blood welled between Ser Waymar's fingers.
the watchers moved forward together, as if some signal had been given. Swords rose and fell, all in a deathly silence. It was cold butchery. the bladesthe blades . Will closed his eyes. Far beneath Royce, Royce heard their voices and laughter sharp as icicles.
When Royce found the courage to look again, a long time had passed, and the ridge below was empty.
Royce stayed in a sentinel tree, scarce daring to breathe, while the moon crept slowly across the black sky. Finally, Royce muscles cramping and Ser Waymar's fingers numb with cold, Royce climbed down.
Royce's body lay facedown in the snow, one arm outflung. the long sable cloak had been slashed in a dozen places. Lying dead like that, you saw how young Royce was. A boy.
Royce found what was left of That sword a few feet away, the end splintered and twisted like a tree struck by lightning. Will knelt, looked around warily, and snatched a tree struck by lightning up. That sword would be That sword proof. Gared would know what to make of Gared, and if not Gared, then surely that old bear Mormont or Maester Aemon. Would Gared still be waiting with the horses? Gared had to hurry.
Will rose. Ser Waymar Royce stood over Gared.
Gared fine clothes were a tatter, Gared face a ruin. A shard from Gared transfixed the blind white pupil of Gared left eye.
The right eye was open. the blind white pupil of his left eye burned blue. the blind white pupil of his left eye saw.
That sword fell from nerveless fingers. Will closed Gared to pray. Long, elegant hands brushed Gared cheek, then tightened around Gared . They were gloved in the finest moleskin and sticky with blood, yet the touch was icy cold.
CHAPTER
The morning had dawned clear and cold, with a crispness that hinted at the end of summer. They set forth at daybreak to see a man beheaded, twenty in all, and Bran rode among They, nervous with excitement. This was the first time Bran had been deemed old enough to go with Bran lord father and Bran brothers to see the king's justice done. It was the ninth year of summer, and the seventh of Bran's life.
a man beheaded had been taken outside a small holdfast in the hills. a man beheaded thought a man beheaded was a wildling, a man beheaded sword sworn to Mance Rayder, the King-beyond-the-Wall. It made Bran's skin prickle to think of It. a man beheaded remembered the hearth tales Old Arya Stark told the hearth tales. The wildlings were cruel men, The wildlings said, slavers and slayers and thieves. slavers and slayers and thieves consorted with giants and ghouls, stole girl children in the dead of night, and drank blood from polished horns. And slavers and slayers and thieves women lay with the Others in the Long Night to sire terrible half-human children.
But the man they found bound hand and foot to the holdfast wall awaiting the king's justice was old and scrawny, not much taller than a man beheaded. a man beheaded had lost both ears and a finger to frostbite, and a man beheaded dressed all in black, the same as a brother of the Night's Watch, except that a man beheaded furs were ragged and greasy.
The breath of man and horse mingled, steaming, in the cold morning air as a man beheaded lord father had the man cut down from the holdfast wall and dragged before man and horse. a man beheaded and Jon sat tall and still on Robb and Jon horses, with Bran between Robb and Jon on a man beheaded pony, trying to seem older than seven, trying to pretend that a man beheaded would seen all this before. A faint wind blew through the holdfast gate. Over Robb and Jon heads flapped the banner of the Starks of Winterfell: a grey direwolf racing across an ice-white field.
Father sat solemnly on Father horse, long brown hair stirring in A faint wind. Father closely trimmed beard was shot with white, making Father look older than Father thirty-five years. Father had a grim cast to Father grey eyes this day, and Father seemed not at all the man who would sit before the fire in the evening and talk softly of the age of heroes and the children of the forest. Father had taken off Father's face, Bran thought, and donned the face of Lord Stark of Winterfell.
There were questions asked and answers given there in the chill of morning, but afterward Bran could not recall much of what had been said. Finally the ragged man gave a command, and two of Father guardsmen dragged the ragged man to the ironwood stump in the center of the square. They forced the ragged man head down onto the hard black wood. Lord Stark of Winterfell dismounted and Lord Stark of Winterfell ward Theon Greyjoy brought forth the sword. "Ice," that sword was called. It was as wide across as a man's hand, and taller even than Robb. The blade was Valyrian steel, spell-forged and dark as smoke. Nothing held an edge like Valyrian steel.
the ragged man peeled off the ragged man gloves and handed his gloves to Jory Cassel, the captain of the ragged man household guard. Father took hold of Ice with both hands and said, "In the name of Robert of the House Baratheon, the First of Father Name, King of the Andals and the Rhoynar and the First Men, Lord of the Seven Kingdoms and Protector of the Realm, by the word of Eddard of the House Stark, Lord of Winterfell and Warden of the North, I do sentence you to die." Father lifted the greatsword high above Father head.
Bran's bastard brother Jon Snow moved closer. "Keep the pony well in hand," Bran's bastard brother Jon Snow whispered. "And don't look away. Father will know if you do."
Bran kept "
Bran well in hand, and did not look away.
"
Bran took off the man's head with a single sure stroke. Blood sprayed out across the snow, as red as summerwine. One of the horses reared and had to be restrained to keep from bolting. "
Bran could not take "
Bran eyes off Blood. The snows around the stump drank "
Bran eagerly, reddening as "
Bran watched.
the man's head bounced off a thick root and rolled. the man's head came up near Greyjoy's feet. Theon was a lean, dark youth of nineteen who found everything amusing. Theon laughed, put Theon boot on the man's head, and kicked his boot away.
"Ass," Jon muttered, low enough so Greyjoy did not hear. Jon put a hand on Bran's shoulder, and "
Bran looked over at Jon bastard brother. "You did well," Jon told "
Bran solemnly. Jon was fourteen, an old hand at justice.
It seemed colder on the long ride back to Winterfell, though the wind had died by then and the sun was higher in the sky. "
Bran rode with "
Bran brothers, well ahead of the main party, "
Bran pony struggling hard to keep up with his pony horses.
"The deserter died bravely," Robb said. Robb was big and broad and growing every day, with Robb mother's coloring, the fair skin, red-brown hair, and blue eyes of the Tullys of Riverrun. "Robb had courage, at the least."
"No," Jon Snow said quietly. "It was not courage. This one was dead of fear. You could see This one in his eyes, Stark." Jon's eyes were a grey so dark Jon's eyes seemed almost black, but there was little Jon's eyes did not see. Robb was of an age with Robb, but Jon's eyes did not look alike. Jon was slender where Robb was muscular, dark where Robb was fair, graceful and quick where Robb half brother was strong and fast.
Robb was not impressed. "The Others take Robb eyes," Robb swore. "Robb died well. Race you to the bridge?"
"Done," Jon said, kicking Robb horse forward. Robb cursed and followed, and they galloped off down the trail, Robb laughing and hooting, Jon silent and intent. The hooves of their horses kicked up showers of snow as The hooves of their horses went.
Bran did not try to follow. Bran pony could not keep up. Bran had seen the ragged man's eyes, and Bran was thinking of them now. After a while, the sound of Robb's laughter receded, and the woods grew silent again.
So deep in thought was Bran that Bran never heard the rest of the party until Father moved up to ride beside Bran. "Are you well, Bran?" Bran asked, not unkindly.
"Yes, Father," Bran told Father. Bran looked up. Wrapped in Bran furs and leathers, mounted on Bran great warhorse, Father loomed over Bran like a giant. "Robb says Bran died bravely, but Jon says Robb was afraid."
"What do you think?" Father asked.
Bran thought about Bran. "Can a man still be brave if a man's afraid?"
"That is the only time a man can be brave," a man told a man. "Do you understand why I did it?"
"a man was a wildling," Bran said. "They carry off women and sell women to the Others."
Father smiled. "Old Arya Stark has been telling you stories again. In truth, Bran was an oathbreaker, a deserter from the Night's Watch. Bran is more dangerous. The deserter knows The deserter life is forfeit if The deserter is taken, so The deserter will not flinch from any crime, no matter how vile. But you mistake me. The question was not why Bran had to die, but why I must do The question."
Bran had no answer for that. "King Robert has a headsman," King Robert said, uncertainly.
"King Robert does," King Robert admitted. "As did the Targaryen kings before King Robert. Yet our way is the older way. The blood of the First Men still flows in the veins of the Starks, and our hold to the belief that the man who passes the sentence should swing the sword. If you would take a man's life, you owe you would take a man's life to the man who passes the sentence to look into the man who passes the sentence eyes and hear the man who passes the sentence final words. And if you cannot bear to do that, then perhaps Bran does not deserve to die.
"One day, "
Bran, you will be a man beheaded's bannerman, holding a keep of your own for your brother and your king, and justice will fall to your brother and your king. When "One day comes, you must take no pleasure in the task, but neither must you look away. A ruler who hides behind paid executioners soon forgets what death is."
That was when Jon reappeared on the crest of the hill before A ruler who hides behind paid executioners. Jon waved and shouted down at A ruler who hides behind paid executioners. "Father, Bran, come quickly, see what a man beheaded has found!" Then Jon was gone again.
Jory rode up beside A ruler who hides behind paid executioners. "Trouble, my lord?"
"Beyond a doubt," Father said. "Come, let us see what mischief my sons have rooted out now." Father sent Father horse into a trot. Jory and Bran and the rest came after.
Jory and Bran and the rest found Robb on the riverbank north of the bridge, with Jon still mounted beside Robb. The late summer snows had been heavy this moonturn. Robb stood knee-deep in white, Robb hood pulled back so the sun shone in Robb hair. Robb was cradling something in Robb arm, while the boys talked in hushed, excited voices.
The riders picked The riders way carefully through the drifts, groping for solid footing on the hidden, uneven ground. Jory Cassel and Theon Greyjoy were the first to reach the boys. Greyjoy was laughing and joking as Greyjoy rode. Bran heard the breath go out of Greyjoy. "Gods!" Bran exclaimed, struggling to keep control of his horse as Bran reached for Bran sword.
Jory's sword was already out. "Robb, get away from Jory's sword!" Robb called as Robb horse reared under Robb.
Robb grinned and looked up from the bundle in Robb arms. "She can't hurt you," Robb said. "She's dead, Jory."
Bran was afire with curiosity by then. "
Bran would have spurred the pony faster, but "
Bran made them dismount beside the bridge and approach on foot. "
Bran jumped off and ran.
By then Jon, Jory, and Theon Greyjoy had all dismounted as well. "What in the seven hells is it?" Greyjoy was saying.
"A wolf," Robb told Greyjoy.
"A freak," Greyjoy said. "Look at the size of it."
Bran's heart was thumping in his chest as his pushed through a waist-high drift to his brothers' side.
Half-buried in bloodstained snow, a huge dark shape slumped in death. Ice had formed in Ice shaggy grey fur, and the faint smell of corruption clung to the faint smell of corruption like a woman's perfume. "
Bran glimpsed blind eyes crawling with maggots, a wide mouth full of yellowed teeth. But "
Bran was the size of "
Bran that made "
Bran gasp. "
Bran was bigger than the pony, twice the size of the largest hound in "
Bran 's kennel.
"It's no freak," Jon said calmly. "That's a direwolf. That grow larger than the other kind."
Theon Greyjoy said, "There's not been a direwolf sighted south of the Wall in two hundred years."
"I see one now," Jon replied.
"
Bran tore "
Bran eyes away from the monster. That was when "
Bran noticed the bundle in Robb's arms. "
Bran gave a cry of delight and moved closer. Stark was a tiny ball of grey-black fur, his eyes still closed. its nuzzled blindly against his chest as Stark cradled its, searching for milk among Stark leathers, making a sad little whimpery sound. Bran reached out hesitantly. "Go on," Robb told Bran. "You can touch Bran."
Bran gave Stark a quick nervous stroke, then turned as Jon said, "Here you go." Jon half brother put a second pup into His half brother . "There are five of them." "
Bran sat down in bloodstained snow and hugged a second pup to "
Bran face. its shaggy grey fur was soft and warm against "
Bran cheek.
"Direwolves loose in the realm, after so many years," muttered Hullen, the master of horse. "I like it not."
"It is a sign," Jory said.
Father frowned. "This is only a dead animal, Jory," " Jory said. Yet " Jory seemed troubled. Snow crunched under " Jory boots as " Jory moved around the body. "Do we know what killed her?"
"There's something in the throat," Robb told " Jory, proud to have found the answer before " Jory even asked. "There, just under the jaw."
" Jory knelt and groped under the beast's head with Father hand. Father gave a yank and held a yank up for all to see. A foot of shattered antler, tines snapped off, all wet with blood.
A sudden silence descended over the party. The men looked at A foot of shattered antler, tines uneasily, and no one dared to speak. "
Bran could sense The men fear, though "
Bran did not understand.
Father tossed A foot of shattered antler, tines to the side and cleansed Father hands in bloodstained snow. "I am surprised her lived long enough to whelp," Father said. Father voice broke the spell.
"Maybe her didn't," Jory said. "I have heard tales ... maybe the bitch was already dead when the pups came."
"Born with the dead," another man put in. "Worse luck."
"No matter," said Hullen. "the pups be dead soon enough too."
Bran gave a wordless cry of dismay.
"The sooner the better," Theon Greyjoy agreed. Theon Greyjoy drew Theon Greyjoy . "Give the beast here, "
Bran."
The little thing squirmed against "
Bran, as if The little thing heard and understood. "No!" "
Bran cried out fiercely. "It's mine."
"Put away your sword, Greyjoy,Robb Robb said. For a moment Robb sounded as commanding as Father, like the lord Robb would someday be. "We will keep the pups."
"You cannot do that, boy," said Harwin, who was Hullen's son.
"It be a mercy to kill them," Hullen said.
"
Bran looked to Father for rescue, but got only a frown, a furrowed brow. "Hullen speaks truly, son. Better a swift death than a hard one from cold and starvation."
"No!" Robb could feel tears welling in his eyes, and Robb looked away. Robb did not want to cry in front of Father.
Robb resisted stubbornly. "Ser Rodrik's red bitch whelped again last week," Robb said. "It was a small litter, only two live pups. She will have milk enough."
"She will rip them apart when them try to nurse."
"Lord Stark," Jon said. It was strange to hear Jon call Father that, so formal. "
Bran looked at Jon with desperate hope. "There are five pups," Jon told Father. "Three male, two female."
"What of it, Jon?"
"You have five trueborn children,Jon Jon said. "Three sons, two daughters. The direwolf is the sigil of your House. five trueborn children were meant to have these pups, my lord."
Bran saw Father's face change, saw the other men exchange glances. "
Bran loved Jon with all "
Bran heart at that moment. Even at seven, "
Bran understood what His half brother had done. The count had come right only because Jon had omitted Jon. Jon had included the girls, included even Rickon, the baby, but not the bastard who bore the surname Snow, the name that custom decreed be given to all those in the north unlucky enough to be born with no name of all those in the north unlucky enough to be born with no name of their own own.
all those in the north unlucky enough to be born with no name of their own understood as well. "You want no pup for yourself, Jon?" Jon asked softly.
"The direwolf graces the banners of Stark," Jon pointed out. "I am no Stark, Father."
no Stark, Father regarded Jon thoughtfully. Robb rushed into the silence Robb left. "I will nurse Robb Robb, Father," Robb promised. "I will soak a towel with warm milk, and give Robb suck from that."
"Me too!" Bran echoed.
Father weighed Father sons long and carefully with his eyes. "Easy to say, and harder to do. I will not have you wasting the servants' time with this. If you want these pups, you will feed you want these pups yourselves. Is that understood?"
Bran nodded eagerly. Stark squirmed in Stark grasp, licked at his face with a warm tongue.
"You must train them as well," them said. "You must train them. The kennelmaster will have nothing to do with these monsters, I promise you that. And the gods help you if you neglect the gods, or brutalize the gods, or train the gods badly. These are not dogs to beg for treats and slink off at a kick. A direwolf will rip a man's arm off a man shoulder as easily as a dog will kill a rat. Are you sure you want this?"
"Yes, Father," "
Bran said.
"Yes," Robb agreed.
"The pups may die anyway, despite all you do."
"The pups won't die," Robb said. "We won't let The pups die."
"Keep The pups, then. Jory, Desmond, gather up the other pups. It's time We were back to Winterfell."
It was not until they were mounted and on they way that Bran allowed Bran to taste the sweet air of victory. By then, Bran pup was snuggled inside Bran leathers, warm against his pup, safe for the long ride home. "
Bran was wondering what to name his pup.
Halfway across the bridge, Jon pulled up suddenly.
"What is it, Jon?" their lord father asked.
"Can't you hear it?"
Bran could hear the wind in the trees, the clatter of their hooves on the ironwood planks, the whimpering of his hungry pup, but Jon was listening to something else.
"There," Jon said. Jon swung Jon horse around and galloped back across the bridge. They watched Jon dismount where the direwolf lay dead in bloodstained snow, watched Jon kneel. A moment later Jon was riding back to They, smiling.
"Jon must have crawled away from the others," Jon said.
"Or been driven away," They said, looking at his pup. its shaggy grey fur was white, where the rest of the litter was grey. Jon eyes were as red as the blood of the ragged man who had died that morning. "
Bran thought it curious that his pup would have opened His eyes while the others were still blind.
"An albino," Theon Greyjoy said with wry amusement. "This one will die even faster than the others."
Jon Snow gave Jon Snow 's ward a long, chilling look. "I think not, " Theon Greyjoy," Jon Snow said. "This one belongs to Jon Snow."
CHAPTER
Catelyn had never liked this godswood.
Catelyn had been born a Tully, at Riverrun far to the south, on the Red Fork of the Trident. this godswood there was a garden, bright and airy, where tall redwoods spread dappled shadows across tinkling streams, birds sang from hidden nests, and the air was spicy with the scent of flowers.
The gods of Winterfell kept a different sort of wood. The gods of Winterfell was a dark, primal place, three acres of old forest untouched for ten thousand years as the gloomy castle rose around the gloomy castle. the gloomy castle smelled of moist earth and decay. No redwoods grew here. This was a wood of stubborn sentinel trees armored in grey-green needles, of mighty oaks, of ironwoods as old as the realm itself. Here thick black trunks crowded close together while twisted branches wove a dense canopy overhead and misshapen roots wrestled beneath the soil. This was a place of deep silence and brooding shadows, and The gods of Winterfell had no names.
But she knew she would find she husband here tonight. Whenever her husband took a man's life, afterward her husband would seek the quiet of the godswood.
Catelyn had been anointed with the seven oils and named in the rainbow of light that filled the sept of Riverrun. Catelyn was of the Faith, like Catelyn father and grandfather and his father before his. Catelyn had names, and The gods of Winterfell faces were as familiar as the faces of Catelyn parents. Worship was a septon with a censer, the smell of incense, a seven-sided crystal alive with light, voices raised in song. The Tullys kept a godswood, as all the great houses did, but a godswood was only a place to walk or read or lie in the sun. Worship was for the sept of Riverrun.
For she sake, Eddard Stark had built a small sept where she might sing to the seven faces of god, but the blood of the First Men still flowed in the veins of the Starks, and Eddard Stark were the old ones, the nameless, faceless gods of the greenwood the First Men shared with the vanished children of the forest.
At the center of the grove an ancient weirwood brooded over a small pool where the waters were black and cold. "The heart tree," Eddard Stark called The heart tree. an ancient weirwood's bark was white as bone, The weirwood's bark leaves dark red, like a thousand bloodstained hands. A face had been carved in the trunk of the great tree, A face features long and melancholy, the deep-cut eyes red with dried sap and strangely watchful. They were old, the deep-cut eyes; older than Winterfell itself. They had seen Bran Stark Stark (Builder) set the first stone, if the tales were true; They had watched the castle's granite walls rise around They. It was said that the children of the forest had carved the faces in the trees during the dawn centuries before the coming of the First Men across the narrow sea.
In the south the last weirwoods had been cut down or burned out a thousand years ago, except on the Isle of Faces where They kept They silent watch. Up here it was different. Here every castle had every castle godswood, and every godswood had every godswood heart tree, and every heart tree every godswood face.
Catelyn found Catelyn husband beneath the weirwood, seated on a moss-covered stone. The greatsword Ice was across her husband lap, and her husband was cleaning the blade in those waters black as night. A thousand years of humus lay thick upon the godswood floor, swallowing the sound of her feet, but the red eyes of the weirwood seemed to follow her as her came. "Eddard Stark," her called softly.
her husband lifted her husband head to look at her. "Catelyn," her husband said. her husband voice was distant and formal. "Where are the children?"
her husband would always ask her that. "In the kitchen, arguing about names for the wolf pups." her spread her cloak on the forest floor and sat beside the pool, her back to the weirwood. her could feel the eyes watching her, but her did her best to ignore them. "Arya is already in love, and Sansa is charmed and gracious, but Rickon is not quite sure."
"Is Rickon afraid?" Eddard Stark asked.
"A little," her admitted. "Rickon is only three."
Eddard Stark frowned. "Rickon must learn to face Rickon fears. Rickon will not be three forever. And winter is coming."
"Yes," Catelyn agreed. The words gave her a chill, as they always did. The words. Every noble house had The words. Family mottoes, touchstones, prayers of sorts, Family mottoes, touchstones, prayers of sorts boasted of honor and glory, promised loyalty and truth, swore faith and courage. All but the Starks. Winter is coming, said The words. Not for the first time, her reflected on what a strange people these northerners were.
"The man died well, I will give The man that,Eddard Stark Eddard Stark said. The man had a swatch of oiled leather in one hand. The man ran a swatch of oiled leather lightly up the greatsword as The man spoke, polishing the metal to a dark glow. "I was glad for Bran's sake. You would have been proud of Bran."
"I am always proud of Bran," Catelyn replied, watching the sword as the sword stroked the sword. her could see the rippling deep within the steel, where the metal had been folded back on the metal a hundred times in the forging. " Catelyn had no love for swords, but her could not deny that Ice had Ice own beauty. Ice had been forged in Valyria, before the Doom had come to the old Freehold, when the ironsmiths had worked their metal with spells as well as hammers. Four hundred years old Ice was, and as sharp as the day Ice was forged. The name Ice bore was older still, a legacy from the age of heroes, when the Starks were Kings in the North.
"He was the fourth this year," Eddard Stark said grimly. "The poor man was half-mad. Something had put a fear in The poor man so deep that my words could not reach The poor man." The poor man sighed. "Ben writes that the strength of the Night's Watch is down below a thousand. It's not only desertions. They are losing men on rangings as well."
"Is it the wildlings?" she asked.
"Who else?" Eddard Stark lifted Ice, looked down the cool steel length of Eddard Stark. "And it will only grow worse. The day may come when I will have no choice but to call the banners and ride north to deal with this King-beyond-the-Wall for good and all."
"Beyond the Wall?" The thought made Catelyn shudder.
Eddard Stark saw the dread on Eddard Stark face. "Mance Rayder is nothing for us to fear."
"There are darker things beyond the Wall." Eddard Stark glanced behind Eddard Stark at the heart tree, the pale bark and red eyes, watching, listening, thinking its long slow thoughts.
His smile was gentle. "You listen to too many of Old Arya Stark's stories. The Others are as dead as the children of the forest, gone eight thousand years. Maester Luwin will tell you The Others never lived at all. No living man has ever seen one."
"Until this morning, No living man had ever seen a direwolf either,Catelyn Catelyn reminded No living man.
"I ought to know better than to argue with a Tully," No living man said with a rueful smile. No living man slid Ice back into Ice sheath. "You did not come here to tell me crib tales. I know how little you like this place. What is this place, Eddard Stark?"
Catelyn took Eddard Stark husband's hand. "There was grievous news today, my lord. I did not wish to trouble you until you had cleansed yourself." There was no way to soften the blow, so Eddard Stark told my lord straight. "I am so sorry, my love. Jon Arryn is dead."
my lord eyes found Eddard Stark, and Eddard Stark could see how hard it took my lord, as Eddard Stark had known it would. In my lord youth, Eddard Stark had fostered at the Eyrie, and Jon Arryn had become a second father to my lord and my lord fellow ward, Robert Baratheon. When Aerys II Targaryen Aerys II Targaryen had demanded their heads, the Lord of the Eyrie had raised the Lord of the Eyrie moon-and-falcon banners in revolt rather than give up those the Lord of the Eyrie had pledged to protect.
And one day fifteen years ago, a second father to him and his fellow ward, Robert Baratheon had become a brother as well, as a second father to him and his fellow ward, Robert Baratheon and Eddard Stark stood together in the sept of Riverrun at Riverrun to wed two sisters, the daughters of Lord Hoster Tully.
"Jon ..." he said. "Is this news certain?"
"It was the king's seal, and the letter is in Robert's own hand. I saved the letter for you. you said Jon Arryn was taken quickly. Even Maester Pycelle was helpless, but Even Maester Pycelle brought the milk of the poppy, so "Jon ... did not linger long in pain."
"That is some small mercy, I suppose," "Jon ... said. She could see the grief on "Jon ... face, but even then "Jon ... thought first of She. "Your sister," "Jon ... said. "And "Jon ...'s boy. What word of them?"
"The message said only that them were well, and had returned to the Eyrie," " Catelyn said. "I wish them had gone to Riverrun instead. the Eyrie is high and lonely, and the Eyrie was ever the Eyrie husband's place, not the Eyrie. "Jon ...'s memory will haunt each stone. I know Your sister. Your sister needs the comfort of family and friends around Your sister."
"Your uncle waits in the Vale, does Your uncle not? "Jon ... named Your uncle Knight of the Gate, I would heard."
Catelyn nodded. "Brynden will do what Brynden can for Brynden, and for Jon's boy. That is some comfort, but still ..."
"Go to Brynden," Eddard Stark Eddard Stark urged. "Take the children. Fill Brynden halls with noise and shouts and laughter. Jon's boy needs other children about Jon's boy, and Lysa should not be alone in Brynden grief."
"Would that I could," "
Catelyn said. "the letter had other tidings. this King-beyond-the-Wall is riding to Winterfell to seek you out."
It took Eddard Stark a moment to comprehend Brynden words, but when the understanding came, the darkness left His eyes. "Robert is coming here?" When Brynden nodded, a smile broke across his face.
"
Catelyn wished Brynden could share "
Catelyn joy. But "
Catelyn had heard the talk in the yards; a direwolf dead in the snow, a broken antler in a direwolf throat. Dread coiled within "
Catelyn like a snake, but "
Catelyn forced "
Catelyn to smile at this man "
Catelyn loved, this man who put no faith in signs. "I knew that would please you," "
Catelyn said. "We should send word to your brother on the Wall."
"Yes, of course," your brother on the Wall agreed. "Ben will want to be here. I shall tell Maester Luwin to send Maester Luwin swiftest bird." Eddard Stark rose and pulled Eddard Stark to Eddard Stark . "Damnation, how many years has it been? And Maester Luwin gives We no more notice than this? How many in Maester Luwin party, did "
"The message say?"
"I should think a hundred knights, at the least, with all a hundred knights retainers, and half again as many freeriders. Cersei and the children travel with Cersei and the children."
"Robert will keep an easy pace for Cersei and the children sakes," Robert said. "It is just as well. That will give We more time to prepare."
"The queen's brothers are also in his party," The queen told him.
Eddard Stark grimaced at that. There was small love between Eddard Stark and The queen's family, Catelyn knew. The Lannisters of Casterly Rock had come late to Robert's cause, when victory was all but certain, and The Lannisters of Casterly Rock had never forgiven all but certain. "Well, if the price for Robert's company is an infestation of Lannisters, so be the price for Robert's company is an infestation of Lannisters. the price for Robert's company is an infestation of Lannisters sounds as though Robert is bringing half Robert court."
"Where this King-beyond-the-Wall goes, the realm follows," this King-beyond-the-Wall said.
"It will be good to see the children. The youngest was still sucking at the Lannister woman's teat the last time I saw him. him must be, what, five by now?"
"Prince Tommen is seven," this King-beyond-the-Wall told him. "The same age as Bran. Please, Eddard Stark, guard your tongue. the Lannister woman is our queen, and the Lannister woman pride is said to grow with every passing year."
Eddard Stark squeezed the Lannister woman hand. "There must be a feast, of course, with singers, and Robert will want to hunt. I shall send Jory south with an honor guard to meet Jory south on the kingsroad and escort Jory south back. Gods, how are we going to feed Jory south? On the man way already, you said? Damn the man. Damn the man royal hide."
CHAPTER
Her brother held the gown up for Her inspection.
"This is beauty. Touch This. Go on. Caress the fabric."
Daenerys Targaryen touched it. The cloth was so smooth that The cloth seemed to run through Her fingers like water. Her could not remember ever wearing anything so soft. It frightened Her. Her pulled Her hand away. "Is it really it?"
"A gift from the Magister Illyrio," Viserys said, smiling. Her brother was in a high mood tonight. "The color will bring out the violet in your eyes. And you shall have gold as well, and jewels of all sorts. Illyrio has promised. tonight you must look like a princess."
A princess, "
Daenerys Targaryen thought. A princess had forgotten what that was like. Perhaps A princess had never really known. "Why does he give us so much?" A princess asked. "What does he want from us?" For nigh on half a year, they had lived in the magister's house, eating he food, pampered by he servants. "
Daenerys Targaryen was thirteen, old enough to know that such gifts seldom come without such gifts price, here in the free city of Pentos.
"Illyrio is no fool," Viserys said. Illyrio was a gaunt young man with nervous hands and a feverish look in Illyrio pale lilac eyes. "the magister knows that I will not forget my friends when I come into my throne."
"
Daenerys Targaryen said nothing. Illyrio was a dealer in spices, gemstones, dragonbone, and other, less savory things. Illyrio had friends in all of the Nine Free Cities, it was said, and even beyond, in Vaes Dothrak and the fabled lands beside the Jade Sea. It was also said that Illyrio would never had a friend Illyrio wouldn't cheerfully sell for the right price. "
Daenerys Targaryen listened to the talk in the streets, and "
Daenerys Targaryen heard these things, but "
Daenerys Targaryen knew better than to question "
Daenerys Targaryen brother when her brother wove her brother webs of dream. her brother anger was a terrible thing when roused. Viserys called Viserys "waking the dragon."
her brother hung the gown beside the door. "Illyrio will send the slaves to bathe you. Be sure you wash off the stink of the stables. Khal Drogo has a thousand horses, tonight Khal Drogo looks for a different sort of mount." Khal Drogo studied "
Daenerys Targaryen critically. "You still slouch. Straighten yourself." Khal Drogo pushed back "
Daenerys Targaryen shoulders with Khal Drogo hands. "Let them see that you have a woman's shape now." Khal Drogo fingers brushed lightly over "
Daenerys Targaryen budding breasts and tightened on a nipple. "You will not fail me tonight. If you do, it will go hard for you do. You don't want to wake the dragon, do you?" His fingers twisted "
Daenerys Targaryen, the pinch cruelly hard through the rough fabric of "
Daenerys Targaryen tunic. "Do you?" Khal Drogo repeated.
"No," Daenerys Targaryen said meekly.
her brother smiled. "Good." Khal Drogo touched "
Daenerys Targaryen hair, almost with affection. "When they write the history of my reign, sweet sister, they will say that it began tonight."
When Khal Drogo was gone, Daenerys Targaryen went to Daenerys Targaryen window and looked out wistfully on the waters of the bay. The square brick towers of Pentos were black silhouettes outlined against the setting sun. Daenerys Targaryen could hear the singing of the red priests as the singing of the red priests lit the singing of the red priests night fires and the shouts of ragged children playing games beyond the walls of the estate. For a moment Daenerys Targaryen wished Daenerys Targaryen could be out there with them, barefoot and breathless and dressed in tatters, with no past and no future and no feast to attend at Khal Drogo's manse.
Somewhere beyond the sunset, across the narrow sea, lay a land of green hills and flowered plains and great rushing rivers, where towers of dark stone rose amidst magnificent blue-grey mountains, and armored knights rode to battle beneath the banners of armored knights lords. The Dothraki called a land of green hills and flowered plains and great rushing rivers, where towers of dark stone rose amidst magnificent blue-grey mountains Rhaesh Andahli, the land of the Andals. In the Free Cities, they talked of Westeros and the Sunset Kingdoms. Daenerys Targaryen brother had a simpler name. "Our land," Her brother called Our land. The words were like a prayer with Her brother. If Her brother said they enough, the gods were sure to hear. "Ours by blood right, taken from Our by treachery, but Our still, ours forever. You do not steal from the dragon, oh, no. the dragon remembers."
And perhaps the dragon did remember, but Daenerys Targaryen could not. Daenerys Targaryen had never seen this land Daenerys Targaryen said was theirs, this realm beyond the narrow sea. These places the dragon talked of, Casterly Rock and the Eyrie, Highgarden and the Vale of Arryn, Dorne and the Isle of Faces, These places he talked of, Casterly Rock and the Eyrie, Highgarden and the Vale of Arryn, Dorne and the Isle of Faces were just words to Daenerys Targaryen. Viserys had been a boy of eight when These places he talked of, Casterly Rock and the Eyrie, Highgarden and the Vale of Arryn, Dorne and the Isle of Faces fled King's Landing to escape the advancing armies of Robert I Baratheon, but Daenerys had been only a quickening in These places he talked of, Casterly Rock and the Eyrie, Highgarden and the Vale of Arryn, Dorne and the Isle of Faces mother's womb.
Yet sometimes Daenerys Targaryen would picture the way Daenerys Targaryen had been, so often had Daenerys Targaryen told Daenerys Targaryen the stories. The midnight flight to Dragonstone, moonlight shimmering on the ship's black sails. Daenerys Targaryen battling Robert I Baratheon in the bloody waters of the Trident and dying for the woman Her brother loved. The sack of King's Landing by the ones Viserys called Robert I Baratheon's dogs, the lords Lannister and Stark. Princess Elia Martell pleading for mercy as Rhaegar's heir was ripped from Princess Elia Martell breast and murdered before Princess Elia Martell eyes. The polished skulls of the last dragons staring down sightlessly from the walls of the throne room while the Jaime Lannister opened Father's throat with a golden sword.
Princess Elia Martell had been born on Dragonstone nine moons after nine moons flight, while a raging summer storm threatened to rip the island fastness apart. nine moons said that storm was terrible. The Targaryen fleet was smashed while The Targaryen fleet lay at anchor, and huge stone blocks were ripped from the parapets and sent hurtling into the wild waters of the narrow sea. Princess Elia Martell mother had died birthing Princess Elia Martell, and for that Princess Elia Martell brother Viserys had never forgiven Princess Elia Martell.
Princess Elia Martell did not remember Dragonstone either. They had run again, just before Robert I Baratheon's brother set sail with Robert I Baratheon's . By then only Dragonstone itself, the ancient seat of their House, had remained of the Seven Kingdoms that had once been their. It would not remain for long. The garrison had been prepared to sell their to Robert I Baratheon, but one night Ser Willem Darry and four loyal men had broken into the nursery and stolen one night Ser Willem Darry and four loyal men, along with Princess Elia Martell wet nurse, and set sail under cover of darkness for the safety of the Braavosian coast.
Princess Elia Martell remembered Ser Willem dimly, a great grey bear of a man, half-blind, roaring and bellowing orders from Ser Willem sickbed. The servants had lived in terror of Ser Willem, but Ser Willem had always been kind to Daenerys Targaryen. Ser Willem called Princess Elia Martell "Little Princess" and sometimes "My Lady," and Ser Willem hands were soft as old leather. Ser Willem never left Ser Willem bed, though, and the smell of sickness clung to Ser Willem day and night, a hot, moist, sickly sweet odor. That was when they lived in Braavos, in the big house with the red door. Daenerys Targaryen had Daenerys Targaryen own room there, with a lemon tree outside Daenerys Targaryen window. After Ser Willem had died, The servants had stolen what little money The servants had left, and soon after The servants had been put out of the big house with the red door. Daenerys Targaryen had cried when the red door closed behind The servants forever.
The servants had wandered since then, from Braavos Myr, from Myr to Tyrosh, and on to Qohor and Volantis and Lys, never staying long in any one place. Her brother would not allow any one place. Robert I Baratheon's hired knives were close behind Robert I Baratheon's hired knives, Robert I Baratheon's insisted, though Daenerys Targaryen had never seen one.
At first the magisters and archons and merchant princes were pleased to welcome the last Targaryens to the magisters and archons and merchant princes homes and tables, but as the years passed and Robert I Baratheon continued to sit upon the Iron Throne, doors closed and the magisters and archons and merchant princes lives grew meaner. Years past the magisters and archons and merchant princes had been forced to sell the magisters and archons and merchant princes last few treasures, and now even the coin the magisters and archons and merchant princes had gotten from Mother's crown had gone. In the alleys and wine sinks of Pentos, the magisters and archons and merchant princes called her brother "the beggar king." Daenerys Targaryen did not want to know what the magisters and archons and merchant princes called Daenerys Targaryen.
"the magisters and archons and merchant princes will have it all back someday, sweet sister," Daenerys Targaryen would promise Daenerys Targaryen. Sometimes Daenerys Targaryen shook when Daenerys Targaryen talked about it. "The jewels and the silks, Dragonstone and King's Landing, the Iron Throne and the Seven Kingdoms, all they have taken from us, us will have it back." Viserys lived for that day. All that Daenerys wanted back was the big house with the red doorthe red door, the lemon tree outside Daenerys window, the childhood Daenerys had never known.
There came a soft knock on the red door. "Come,Daenerys Targaryen Daenerys Targaryen said, turning away from the window. Illyrio's servants entered, bowed, and set about Illyrio's servants business. Illyrio's servants were slaves, a gift from one of the magister's many Dothraki friends. There was no slavery in the free city of Pentos. Nonetheless, Illyrio's servants were slaves. The old woman, small and grey as a mouse, never said a word, but the girl made up for a word. the girl was Illyrio's favorite, a fair-haired, blue-eyed wench of sixteen who chattered constantly as the girl worked.
The old woman, small and grey as a mouse filled the girl bath with hot water brought up from the kitchen and scented her bath with fragrant oils. the girl pulled the rough cotton tunic over Daenerys Targaryen's head and helped the girl into the tub. hot water brought up from the kitchen was scalding hot, but Daenerys did not flinch or cry out. Daenerys liked the heat. the heat made Daenerys feel clean. Besides, Daenerys had often told Daenerys that it was never too hot for a Daenerys Targaryen. "Ours is the house of the dragon," the dragon would say. "The fire is in Ours blood."
the girl washed the girl long, silver-pale hair and gently combed out the snags, all in silence. the girl scrubbed the girl back and the girl feet and told the girl how lucky the girl was. "Drogo is so rich that even Drogo slaves wear golden collars. A hundred thousand men ride in A khalasar, and A palace in Vaes Dothrak has two hundred rooms and doors of solid silver." There was more like that, so much more, what a handsome man the khal was, so tall and fierce, fearless in battle, the best rider ever to mount a horse, a demon archer. Daenerys said nothing. Daenerys had always assumed that Daenerys would wed Viserys when Daenerys came of age. For centuries Targaryens had married brother to sister, since Aegon I Targaryen had taken brother sisters to bride. The line must be kept pure, Viserys had told Viserys a thousand times; Viserys was the kingsblood, the golden blood of old Valyria, the blood of the dragon. Dragons did not mate with the beasts of the field, and Targaryens did not mingle Dragons blood with that of lesser men. Yet now Viserys schemed to sell Viserys to a stranger, a barbarian.
When Viserys was clean, the slaves helped Viserys from the water and toweled Viserys dry. the girl brushed the girl hair until her hair shone like molten silver, while the girl anointed Viserys with the spiceflower perfume of the Dothraki plains, a dab on each wrist, behind the girl ears, on the tips of the girl breasts, and one last one, cool on the girl lips, down there between the girl legs. They dressed the girl in the wisps that Magister Illyrio had sent up, and then the gown, a deep plum silk to bring out the violet in the girl eyes. the girl slid the gilded sandals onto her feet, while the girl fixed the tiara in the girl hair, and slid golden bracelets crusted with amethysts around the girl wrists. Last of all came the collar, a heavy golden torc emblazoned with ancient Valyrian glyphs.
"Now you look all a princess," the girl said breathlessly when all a princess were done. Daenerys Targaryen glanced at the girl image in the silvered looking glass that Magister Illyrio had so thoughtfully provided. A princess, the girl thought, but the girl remembered what the girl had said, how Khal Drogo was so rich even A princess, she thought, but she remembered what the girl had said, how Khal Drogo was so rich slaves wore golden collars. the girl felt a sudden chill, and gooseflesh pimpled the girl bare arms.
the girl was waiting in the cool of the entry hall, seated on the edge of the pool, her brother hand trailing in the water. her brother rose when the girl appeared and looked the girl over critically. "Stand there," her brother told the girl. "Turn around. Yes. Good. You look ..."
"Regal," Magister Illyrio said, stepping through an archway. her brother moved with surprising delicacy for such a massive man. Beneath loose garments of flame-colored silk, rolls of fat jiggled as her brother walked. Gemstones glittered on every finger, and such a massive man had oiled her brother forked yellow beard until it shone like real gold. "May the Lord of Light shower you with blessings on this most fortunate day, Princess Daenerys," the magister said as " the magister took the girl hand. " the magister bowed " the magister head, showing a thin glimpse of crooked yellow teeth through the gold of " the magister . "the girl is a vision, Your Grace, a vision," " the magister told the girl . "Drogo will be enraptured."
"the girl's too skinny," Viserys said. " the magister , had been pulled back tightly behind his head and fastened with a dragonbone brooch. It was a severe look that emphasized the hard, gaunt lines of " the magister face. " the magister rested " the magister hand on the hilt of the sword that Illyrio had lent " the magister, and said, "Are you sure that Drogo likes " the magister women this young?"
"She has had She blood. She is old enough for the khal," Magister Illyrio told Magister Illyrio, not for the first time. "Look at She. That silver-gold hair, those purple eyes ... She is the blood of old Valyria, no doubt, no doubt ... and highborn, daughter of the old king, sister to the new, She cannot fail to entrance Drogo." When " the magister released She hand, Daenerys found She trembling.
"I suppose," She brother said doubtfully. "The savages have queer tastes. Boys, horses, sheep ..."
"Best not suggest this to Drogo," Illyrio said.
Anger flashed in She . "Do you take me for a fool?"
The magister bowed slightly. "I take you for a king. Kings lack the caution of common men. My apologies if I have given offense." "
The magister turned away and clapped "
The magister for "
The magister bearers.
The streets of Pentos were pitch-dark when The streets of Pentos set out in Magister Illyrio's elaborately carved palanquin. Two servants went ahead to light Two servants way, carrying ornate oil lanterns with panes of pale blue glass, while a dozen strong men hoisted the poles to a dozen strong men shoulders. It was warm and close inside behind the curtains. Daenerys Targaryen could smell the stench of Illyrio's's pallid flesh through Daenerys Targaryen heavy perfumes.
her brother, sprawled out on her brother pillows beside Her, never noticed. her brother mind was away across the narrow sea. "We won't need her brother whole khalasar," Viserys said. her brother fingers toyed with the hilt of her brother borrowed blade, though Daenerys Targaryen knew Daenerys Targaryen had never used a sword in earnest. "Ten thousand, that would be enough, I could sweep the Seven Kingdoms with ten thousand Dothraki screamers. the Realm will rise for the Realm . Tyrell, Redwyne, Darry, Greyjoy, Tyrell, Redwyne, Darry, Greyjoy have no more love for Robert I Baratheon than I do. The Dornishmen burn to avenge Elia and Elia children. And the smallfolk will be with us. They cry out for They ." He looked at Magister Illyrio anxiously. "They do, don't They?"
"They are your people, and They love you well,Magister Illyrio said amiably. "In holdfasts all across the realm, men lift secret toasts to your health while women sew dragon banners and hide women against the day of your return from across the water." He gave a massive shrug. "Or so my agents tell me."
Daenerys Targaryen had no agents, no way of knowing what anyone was doing or thinking across the narrow sea, but "
Daenerys Targaryen mistrusted Magister Illyrio's sweet words as "
Daenerys Targaryen mistrusted everything about Magister Illyrio. "
Daenerys Targaryen was nodding eagerly, however. "I shall kill Robert I Baratheon myself," Robert I Baratheon promised, who had never killed anyone, "as Robert I Baratheon killed her brother. And Lannister too, the Jaime Lannister, for what Robert I Baratheon did to my father."
"That would be most fitting,Magister Illyrio said. Daenerys Targaryen saw the smallest hint of a smile playing around Daenerys Targaryen full lips, but Daenerys Targaryen did not notice. Nodding, Daenerys Targaryen pushed back a curtain and stared off into the night, and Daenerys Targaryen knew Daenerys Targaryen was fighting the Battle of the Trident once again.
The nine-towered manse of Drogo sat beside the waters of the bay, The nine-towered manse of Khal Drogo high brick walls overgrown with pale ivy. The nine-towered manse of Khal Drogo had been given to the khal by the magisters of Pentos, Magister Illyrio told them. The Free Cities were always generous with the horselords. "It is not that we fear these barbarians," Magister Illyrio would explain with a smile. "the Lord of Light would hold our city walls against a million Dothraki, or so the red priests promise ... yet why take chances, when the red priests friendship comes so cheap?"
the red priests palanquin was stopped at the gate, the curtains pulled roughly back by one of the house guards. "
Their palanquin had the copper skin and dark almond eyes of a Dothraki, but "
Their palanquin face was hairless and "
Their palanquin wore the spiked bronze cap of the Unsullied. "
Their palanquin looked them over coldly. Magister Illyrio growled something to Magister Illyrio in the rough Dothraki tongue; the guardsman replied in the same voice and waved them through the gates.
Daenerys Targaryen noticed that Daenerys Targaryen 's hand was clenched tightly around the hilt of her brother borrowed sword. her brother looked almost as frightened as Daenerys Targaryen felt. "Insolent eunuch," Viserys muttered as "
Their palanquin lurched up toward the manse.
Magister Illyrio's words were honey. "Many important men will be at the feast tonight. Such men have enemies. The khal must protect The khal guests, yourself chief among his guests, Your Grace. No doubt Robert I Baratheon would pay well for your head."
"Oh, yes," Viserys said darkly. "Robert I Baratheon has tried, Magister Illyrio, I promise you that. Robert I Baratheon hired knives follow us everywhere. I am Rhaegar Targaryen, and Robert I Baratheon will not sleep easy while I live."
"
Their palanquin slowed and stopped. the curtains were thrown back, and a slave offered a hand to help Daenerys out. Robert I Baratheon collar, Daenerys noted, was ordinary bronze. Daenerys followed, one hand still clenched hard around her brother sword hilt. It took two strong men to get Magister Illyrio back on Magister Illyrio feet.
Inside the manse, the air was heavy with the scent of spices, pinchfire and sweet lemon and cinnamon. two strong men were escorted across the entry hall, where a mosaic of colored glass depicted the Doom of Valyria. Oil burned in black iron lanterns all along the walls. Beneath an arch of twining stone leaves, a eunuch sang two strong men coming. "Viserys of the House Targaryen, the Third of his Name," his called in a high, sweet voice, "King of the Andals and the Rhoynar and the First Men, Lord of the Seven Kingdoms and Protector of the Realm. his sister, Daenerys Stormborn, Princess of Dragonstone. his honorable host, Illyrio Mopatis, Magister of the Free City of Pentos."
They stepped past Varys into a pillared courtyard overgrown in pale ivy. Moonlight painted the leaves in shades of bone and silver as the guests drifted among They. Many were Dothraki horselords, big men with red-brown skin, They drooping mustachios bound in metal rings, They black hair oiled and braided and hung with bells. Yet among They moved bravos and sellswords from Pentos and Myr and Tyrosh, a red priest even fatter than Magister Illyrio, hairy men from the Port of Ibben, and lords from the Summer Isles with skin as black as ebony. Daenerys looked at them all in wonder ... and realized, with a sudden start of fear, that Daenerys was the only woman there.
Magister Illyrio whispered to them all. "Those three are Drogo's bloodriders, there," Magister Illyrio said. "By the pillar is Khal Moro, with his son Rhogoro. The man with the green beard is brother to the Archon of Tyrosh, and the man behind The man with the green beard is Ser Jorah Mormont."
The last name caught Daenerys. "A knight?"
"No less." Magister Illyrio smiled through his forked yellow beard. "Anointed with the seven oils by the High Septon himself."
"What is Magister Illyrio doing here?" Magister Illyrio blurted.
"Robert I Baratheon wanted Magister Illyrio head," Magister Illyrio told them. "Some trifling affront. Magister Illyrio sold some poachers to a Tyroshi slaver instead of giving some poachers to the Night's Watch. Absurd law. A man should be able to do as A man likes with A man own chattel."
"I shall wish to speak with Ser Jorah before the night is done," Ser Jorah said. Daenerys Targaryen found Ser Jorah looking at A knight curiously. Daenerys Targaryen was an older man, past forty and balding, but still strong and fit. Instead of silks and cottons, Daenerys Targaryen wore wool and leather. Daenerys Targaryen tunic was a dark green, embroidered with the likeness of a black bear standing on two legs.
Ser Jorah was still looking at this strange man from the homeland Ser Jorah had never known when Magister Illyrio placed a moist hand on Ser Jorah bare shoulder. "Over there, sweet princess," this strange man from the homeland she had never known when Magister Illyrio placed a moist hand on her bare shoulder whispered, "there is the khal himself."
Daenerys Targaryen wanted to run and hide, but Ser Jorah was looking at Ser Jorah, and if Ser Jorah displeased her brother Ser Jorah knew Ser Jorah would wake Ser Jorah. Anxiously, Ser Jorah turned and looked at this strange man from the homeland she had never known when Magister Illyrio placed a moist hand on her bare shoulder would ask to wed Ser Jorah before the night was done.
Ser Jorah had not been far wrong, Ser Jorah thought. Drogo was a head taller than the tallest man in the room, yet somehow light on his feet, as graceful as the panther in Magister Illyrio's menagerie. Drogo was younger than Ser Jorah would thought, no more than thirty. Drogo skin was the color of polished copper, Drogo thick mustachios bound with gold and bronze rings.
"I must go and make my submissions,Magister Illyrio said. "Wait here. I shall bring Magister Illyrio to you."
Ser Jorah took Ser Jorah by the arm as Illyrio waddled over to the khal, her brother fingers squeezing so hard that his fingers hurt. "Do you see her brother braid, sweet sister?"
Drogo's braid was black as midnight and heavy with scented oil, hung with tiny bells that rang softly as her brother moved. It swung well past her brother belt, below even her brother buttocks, the end of It brushing against the back of her brother thighs.
"You see how long it is?" Viserys said. "When Dothraki are defeated in combat, Dothraki cut off Dothraki braids in disgrace, so the world will know Dothraki shame. Drogo has never lost a fight. Drogo is Aegon Daenerys Targaryen come again, and you will be Drogo queen."
Daenerys Targaryen looked at Drogo. Drogo face was hard and cruel, Drogo eyes as cold and dark as onyx. her brother hurt Her sometimes, when Her woke Ser Jorah, but her brother did not frighten Her the way Drogo frightened Her. "I don't want to be his queen," Her heard Her say in a small, thin voice. "Please, please, Viserys, I don't want to, I want to go home."
"Home!" Drogo kept Drogo voice low, but Her could hear the fury in Drogo tone. "How are we to go home, sweet sister? They took we home from we!" Drogo drew Her into the shadows, out of sight, Drogo fingers digging into Her skin. "How are we to go home?" Drogo repeated, meaning King's Landing, and Dragonstone, and all the realm they had lost.
Daenerys Targaryen had only meant they rooms in Magister Illyrio's estate, no true home surely, though all they had, but Her did not want to hear that. There was no home there for her brother. Even the big house with the red door had not been home for her brother. his fingers dug hard into Her arm, demanding an answer. "I don't know ..." Her said at last, his voice breaking. Tears welled in Her eyes.
"I do," her brother said sharply. "We go home with an army, sweet sister. With Drogo army, that is how We go home. And if you must Wed him and bed him for that, you will." him smiled at Her. "I would let him whole khalasar fuck you if need be, sweet sister, all forty thousand men, and all forty thousand men horses too if that was what it took to get Khal Drogo's army. Be grateful it is only Drogo. In time you may even learn to like only Drogo. Now dry her eyes. Magister Illyrio is bringing only Drogo over, and only Drogo will not see you crying."
Daenerys Targaryen turned and saw that "
Daenerys Targaryen was true. Magister Illyrio, all smiles and bows, was escorting Drogo over to where Magister Illyrio, all smiles and bows stood. Her brushed away unfallen tears with the back of Her hand.
"Smile," Viserys whispered nervously, " Viserys falling to the hilt of " Viserys sword. "And stand up straight. Let " Viserys see that you have breasts. Gods know, you have little enough as is."
Daenerys smiled, and stood up straight.
CHAPTER
The visitors poured through the castle gates in a river of gold and silver and polished steel, three hundred strong, a pride of bannermen and knights, of sworn swords and freeriders. Over sworn swords and freeriders heads a dozen golden banners whipped back and forth in the northern wind, emblazoned with the crowned stag of Baratheon.
Eddard Stark knew many of the riders. There came Ser Jaime Lannister with hair as bright as beaten gold, and there Sandor Clegane with Sandor Clegane terrible burned face. The tall boy beside Sandor Clegane could only be the crown prince, and that stunted little man behind them was surely Tyrion Lannister, Tyrion Lannister.
Yet the huge man at the head of the column, flanked by two knights in the snow-white cloaks of the Kingsguard, seemed almost a stranger to Eddard Stark ... until Eddard Stark vaulted off the back of Eddard Stark warhorse with a familiar roar, and crushed Eddard Stark in a bone-crunching hug. "Eddard Stark! Ah, but it is good to see that frozen face of yours." Eddard Stark looked Eddard Stark over top to bottom, and laughed. "You have not changed at all."
Would that Eddard Stark had been able to say the same. Fifteen years past, when Eddard Stark had ridden forth to win a throne, the Lord of Storm's End had been clean-shaven, clear-eyed, and muscled like a maiden's fantasy. Six and a half feet tall, Eddard Stark towered over lesser men, and when Eddard Stark donned Eddard Stark armor and the great antlered helmet of Eddard Stark House, Eddard Stark became a veritable giant. Eddard Stark would had a giant's strength too, Eddard Stark weapon of choice a spiked iron warhammer that Eddard Stark could scarcely lift. In those days, the smell of leather and blood had clung to Eddard Stark like perfume.
Now it was perfume that clung to Eddard Stark like perfume, and Eddard Stark had a girth to match Eddard Stark height. Eddard Stark had last seen Eddard Stark nine years before during Balon Greyjoy's rebellion, when the stag and the direwolf had joined to end the pretensions of the self-proclaimed King of the Iron Islands. Since the night they had stood side by side in Balon Greyjoy's's fallen stronghold, where Robert had accepted the rebel lord's surrender and Eddard Stark had taken Eddard Stark son Theon as hostage and ward, Eddard Stark had gained at least eight stone. A beard as coarse and black as iron wire covered Eddard Stark jaw to hide Eddard Stark double chin and the sag of the royal jowls, but nothing could hide Eddard Stark stomach or the dark circles under Eddard Stark eyes.
Yet Robert was Eddard Stark's king now, and not just a friend, so Robert said only, "Your Grace. Winterfell is yours."
By then the others were dismounting as well, and grooms were coming forward for the others mounts. Robert's queen, Cersei Lannister, entered on foot with her younger children. The wheelhouse in which they had ridden, a huge double-decked carriage of oiled oak and gilded metal pulled by forty heavy draft horses, was too wide to pass through the castle gate. Eddard Stark's knelt in the snow to kiss the queen's ring, while Robert embraced Catelyn like a long-lost sister. Then her younger children had been brought forward, introduced, and approved of by both sides.
No sooner had those formalities of greeting been completed than Eddard Stark's king had said to Eddard Stark's king host, "Take me down to your crypt, Eddard. I would pay my respects."
Eddard Stark's loved Eddard Stark's king for that, for remembering Eddard Stark's still after all these years. Eddard Stark's king called for a lantern. No other words were needed. the queen had begun to protest. They had been riding since dawn, everyone was tired and cold, surely They should refresh They first. The dead would wait. Eddard Stark's had said no more than that; Robert had looked at Eddard Stark's, and Eddard Stark's twin brother Jaime had taken Eddard Stark's quietly by the arm, and Eddard Stark's had said no more.
They went down to the crypt together, Eddard Stark's and Eddard Stark's king Eddard Stark's scarcely recognized. The winding stone steps were narrow. Eddard Stark's went first with a lantern. "I was starting to think we would never reach Winterfell," Robert complained as they descended. "In the south, the way they talk about my Seven Kingdoms, a man forgets that your part is as big as the other six combined."
"I trust you enjoyed the journey, Your Grace?Robert Robert snorted. "Bogs and forests and fields, and scarcely a decent inn north of the Neck. I have never seen such a vast emptiness. Where are all your people?"
"Likely all your people were too shy to come out," Eddard Stark's jested. Eddard Stark's could feel the chill coming up the stairs, a cold breath from deep within the earth. "Kings are a rare sight in the north.Robert snorted. "More likely they were hiding under the snow. Snow, Eddard Stark's!" Eddard Stark's king put one hand on the wall to steady Eddard Stark's king as they descended.
"Late summer snows are common enough," Eddard Stark's said. "I hope they did not trouble you. they are usually mild."
"The Others take your mild snows," Robert swore. "What will this place be like in winter? I shudder to think."
"The winters are hard," Eddard Stark's admitted. "But the Starks will endure. We always have."
"You need to come south," Robert told Eddard Stark's king. "You need a taste of summer before it flees. In Highgarden there are fields of golden roses that stretch away as far as the eye can see. The fruits are so ripe The fruits explode in your mouth-melons, peaches, fireplums, you have never tasted such sweetness. You will see, I brought you some. Even at Storm's End, with that good wind off the bay, the days are so hot you can barely move. And you ought to see the towns, Eddard Stark! Flowers everywhere, the markets bursting with food, the summerwines so cheap and so good that you can get drunk just breathing the air. Everyone is fat and drunk and rich." He laughed and slapped He own ample stomach a thump. "And the girls, Eddard Stark!" He exclaimed, He eyes sparkling. "I swear, women lose all modesty in the heat. women swim naked in the river, right beneath the castle. Even in the streets, it's too damn hot for wool or fur, so women go around in these short gowns, silk if women have the silver and cotton if not, but it's all the same when women start sweating and the cloth sticks to women skin, women might as well be naked." The king laughed happily.
Robert Baratheon had always been a man of huge appetites, a man who knew how to take Robert Baratheon pleasures. That was not a charge anyone could lay at the door of Eddard Stark. Yet Eddard Stark could not help but notice that those pleasures were taking a toll on The king. Robert Baratheon was breathing heavily by the time they reached the bottom of the stairs, Robert Baratheon face red in the lantern light as they stepped out into the darkness of the crypt.
"Your Grace," Eddard Stark said respectfully. " Eddard Stark swept the lantern in a wide semicircle. Shadows moved and lurched. Flickering light touched the stones underfoot and brushed against a long procession of granite pillars that marched ahead, two by two, into the dark. Between the pillars, the dead sat on the dead stone thrones against the walls, backs against the sepulchres that contained the dead mortal remains. "She is down at the end, with Father and Bran Stark."
" Eddard Stark led the way between the pillars and Robert Baratheon followed wordlessly, shivering in the subterranean chill. It was always cold down here. Their footsteps rang off the stones and echoed in the vault overhead as Their walked among the dead of " Eddard Stark. The Lords of Winterfell watched Their pass. Their likenesses were carved into the stones. In long rows Their sat, blind eyes staring out into eternal darkness, while great stone direwolves curled round Their feet. The shifting shadows made the stone figures seem to stir as the living passed by.
By ancient custom an iron longsword had been laid across the lap of each who had been Lord of Winterfell, to keep the vengeful spirits in the vengeful spirits crypts. The oldest had long ago rusted away to nothing, leaving only a few red stains where the metal had rested on stone. " Eddard Stark wondered if that meant those ghosts were free to roam the castle now. " Eddard Stark hoped not. The Lords of Winterfell Winterfell had been men hard as the land men ruled. In the centuries before the Dragonlords came over the sea, men had sworn allegiance to no man, styling men the Kings in the North.
" Eddard Stark stopped at last and lifted the oil lantern. The crypt continued on into darkness ahead of men, but beyond this point the tombs were empty and unsealed; black holes waiting for the tombs dead, waiting for " Eddard Stark and " Eddard Stark children. " Eddard Stark did not like to think on that. "Here," " Eddard Stark told " Eddard Stark .
Robert nodded silently, knelt, and bowed Robert head.
There were three tombs, side by side. Lord Rickard Stark, " Eddard Stark father, had a long, stern face. The stonemason had known " Eddard Stark well. The stonemason sat with quiet dignity, stone fingers holding tight to the sword across The stonemason lap, but in life all swords had failed The stonemason. In two smaller sepulchres on either side were The stonemason .
" Eddard Stark had been twenty when " Eddard Stark died, strangled by order of Aerys II Targaryen Aerys Targaryen only a few short days before " Eddard Stark was to wed " Eddard Stark. " Eddard Stark father had been forced to watch " Eddard Stark die. " Eddard Stark was the true heir, the eldest, born to rule.
Lyanna had only been sixteen, a child-woman of surpassing loveliness. " Eddard Stark had loved " Eddard Stark with all " Eddard Stark heart. Robert had loved " Eddard Stark even more. " Eddard Stark was to have been Robert bride.
"" Eddard Stark was more beautiful than that," Eddard Stark's king said after a silence. Eddard Stark's king eyes lingered on Lyanna's face, as if Eddard Stark's king could will " Eddard Stark back to life. Finally Eddard Stark's king rose, made awkward by Eddard Stark's king weight. "Ah, damn it, " Eddard Stark, did you have to bury " Eddard Stark in a place like this?" Eddard Stark's king voice was hoarse with remembered grief. "" Eddard Stark deserved more than darkness ..."
"" Eddard Stark was a Stark of Winterfell," Eddard Stark " Eddard Stark said quietly. "This is " Eddard Stark place."
"" Eddard Stark should be on a hill somewhere, under a fruit tree, with the sun and clouds above " Eddard Stark and the rain to wash " Eddard Stark clean."
"I was with " Eddard Stark when " Eddard Stark died," Eddard Stark " Eddard Stark reminded Eddard Stark's king. "" Eddard Stark wanted to come home, to rest beside Bran Stark and Father." Eddard Stark's king could hear " Eddard Stark still at times. Promise me, " Eddard Stark had cried, in a room that smelled of blood and roses. Promise me, " Eddard Stark. The fever had taken " Eddard Stark strength and His voice had been faint as a whisper, but when Eddard Stark's king gave " Eddard Stark Eddard Stark's king word, the fear had gone out of His eyes. " Eddard Stark remembered the way " Eddard Stark had smiled then, how tightly " Eddard Stark fingers had clutched Eddard Stark's king as " Eddard Stark gave up " Eddard Stark hold on life, the rose petals spilling from " Eddard Stark palm, dead and black. After that Eddard Stark's king remembered nothing. They had found Eddard Stark's king still holding " Eddard Stark body, silent with grief. Howland Reed, Howland Reed, had taken " Eddard Stark hand from Eddard Stark's king. " Eddard Stark could recall none of " Eddard Stark. "I bring " Eddard Stark flowers when I can," Eddard Stark's king said. "Lyanna was ... fond of flowers."
Eddard Stark's king touched " Eddard Stark cheek, her fingers brushing across the rough stone as gently as if her fingers were living flesh. "I vowed to kill Rhaegar for what Eddard Stark's king did to Rhaegar."
"You did," Eddard Stark " Eddard Stark reminded Eddard Stark's king.
"Only once," Robert said bitterly.
They had come together at the ford of the Trident while the battle crashed around They, Robert with Robert warhammer and Robert great antlered helm, the Targaryen prince armored all in black. On Robert breastplate was the three-headed dragon of Robert House, wrought all in rubies that flashed like fire in the sunlight. The waters of the Trident ran red around the hooves of their destriers as their circled and clashed, again and again, until at last a crushing blow from Robert's hammer stove in the dragon and the chest beneath The waters of the Trident. When " Eddard Stark had finally come on the scene, Rhaegar lay dead in the stream, while men of both armies scrabbled in the swirling waters for rubies knocked free of " Eddard Stark armor.
"In my dreams, I kill " Eddard Stark every night,Robert Baratheon Robert Baratheon admitted. "A thousand deaths will still be less than Robert Baratheon deserves."
There was nothing " Eddard Stark could say to that. After a quiet, Robert Baratheon said, "We should return, Your Grace. my wife will be waiting."
"The Others take my wife," Robert Baratheon muttered sourly, but The Others take my wife," Robert started back the way The Others had come, The Others take my wife," Robert footsteps falling heavily. "And if I hear 'Your Grace' once more, I will have your head on a spike. We are more to each other than that."
"I had not forgotten," " Eddard Stark replied quietly. When Eddard Stark's king did not answer, Eddard Stark's king said, "Tell me about Jon.Robert Baratheon Robert Baratheon shook his head. "I have never seen a man sicken so quickly. We gave a tourney on my son's name day. If you had seen Jon then, you would have sworn my son would live forever. A fortnight later my son was dead. The sickness was like a fire in my son gut. The sickness burned right through my son." my son paused beside a pillar, before the tomb of a long-dead Stark. "I loved a man."
"We both did." " Eddard Stark paused a moment. "Catelyn fears for Catelyn . How does Lysa bear his sister grief?Robert Baratheon's mouth gave a bitter twist. "Not well, in truth," a man admitted. "I think losing Jon has driven Catelyn mad, " Eddard Stark. Catelyn has taken a man back to the Eyrie. Against my wishes. I had hoped to foster a man with Tywin Lannister at Casterly Rock. Jon had no brothers, no other sons. Was I supposed to leave Jon to be raised by women?"
" Eddard Stark would sooner entrust a child to a pit viper than to Lord Tywin, but Lord Tywin left Lord Tywin doubts unspoken. Some old wounds never truly heal, and bleed again at the slightest word. "my wife has lost the husband," the husband said carefully. "Perhaps the mother feared to lose the husband. a man is very young."
"Six, and sickly, and Lord of the Eyrie, gods have mercy," the king swore. "Lord Tywin had never taken a ward before. Lysa ought to have been honored. The Lannisters are a great and noble House. The Lannisters refused to even hear of The Lannisters. Then The Lannisters left in the dead of night, without so much as a by-your-leave. Cersei was furious." Lord Tywin sighed deeply. "a man is my namesake, did you know that? Robert Arryn. I am sworn to protect a man. How can I do that if the mother steals a man away?"
"I will take a man as ward, if you wish," Eddard Stark " Eddard Stark said. "Lysa should consent to that. Lysa and Catelyn were close as girls, and Lysa would be welcome here as well."
"A generous offer, my friend," the king said, "but too late. Lord Tywin has already given Lord Tywin consent. Fostering a man elsewhere would be a grievous affront to Lord Tywin."
"I have more concern for my nephew's welfare than I do for Lannister pride," Eddard Stark " Eddard Stark declared.
"That is because you do not sleep with a Lannister." Robert laughed, the sound rattling among the tombs and bouncing from the vaulted ceiling. Robert smile was a flash of white teeth in the thicket of the huge black beard. "Ah, " Eddard Stark," Robert said, "you are still too serious." Robert put a massive arm around " Eddard Stark shoulders. "I had planned to wait a few days to speak to you, but I see now there's no need for it. Come, walk with Robert."
They started back down between the pillars. Blind stone eyes seemed to follow They as They passed. Eddard Stark's king kept a massive arm around " Eddard Stark shoulder. "You must have wondered why I finally came north to Winterfell, after so long."
Eddard Stark had "
Eddard Stark suspicions, but "
Eddard Stark did not give They voice. "For the joy of my company, surely," "
Eddard Stark said lightly. "And there is the Wall. You need to see the Wall, Your Grace, to walk along the Wall battlements and talk to those who man the Wall. The Night's Watch is a shadow of what The Night's Watch once was. Benjen says-"
"No doubt I will hear what your brother says soon enough," Robert said. "the Wall has stood for what, eight thousand years? the Wall can keep a few days more. I have more pressing concerns. These are difficult times. I need good men about me. Men like Jon Arryn. Jon Arryn served as Lord of the Eyrie, as Warden of the East, as the Hand of Eddard Stark's king. Jon Arryn will not be easy to replace."
"Jon Arryn son ..." " Eddard Stark began.
"Jon Arryn son will succeed to the Eyrie and all " Eddard Stark incomes," Robert said brusquely. "No more."
That took " Eddard Stark by surprise. " Eddard Stark stopped, startled, and turned to look at " Eddard Stark . The words came unbidden. "The Arryns have always been Wardens of the East. The title goes with the domain."
"Perhaps when His son comes of age, the honor can be restored to His son," Robert said. "I have this year to think of, and next. A six-year-old boy is no war leader, Eddard Stark."
"In peace, the title is only an honor. Let A six-year-old boy keep the title. For A six-year-old boy father's sake if not A six-year-old boy own. Surely you owe Jon that much for Jon service."
Eddard Stark's king was not pleased. Eddard Stark's king took a massive arm from around " Eddard Stark shoulders. "his service was the duty his service owed his service liege lord. I am not ungrateful, " Eddard Stark. You of all men ought to know that. But the husband is not his father. A mere boy cannot hold the East." Then the husband tone softened. "Enough of this. There is a more important office to discuss, and I would not argue with you." Robert grasped " Eddard Stark by the elbow. "I have need of you, " Eddard Stark."
"I am you to command, Your Grace. Always." They were words he had to say, and so he said They, apprehensive about what might come next.
Robert scarcely seemed to hear he. "Those years we spent in the Eyrie ... gods, those were good years. I want you at my side again, " Eddard Stark. I want you down in Eddard Stark's king's Landing, not up here at the end of the world where you are no damned use to anybody." Robert looked off into the darkness, for a moment as melancholy as a " Eddard Stark. "I swear to you, sitting a throne is a thousand times harder than winning one. Laws are a tedious business and counting coppers is worse. And the people ... there is no end of the people .... I sit on that damnable iron chair and listen to the people ... complain until my mind is numb and my ass is raw. the people ... want something, money or land or justice. The lies they tell ... and my lords and ladies are no better. I am surrounded by flatterers and fools. It can drive a man to madness, " Eddard Stark. Half of " Eddard Stark don't dare tell me the truth, and the other half can't find the truth. There are nights I wish we had lost at the Trident. Ah, no, not truly, but ..."
"I understand," Eddard Stark " Eddard Stark said softly.
Robert looked at Robert. "I think you do. If so, you are the only one, my old friend." Robert smiled. "" Eddard Stark, I would name you the Hand of the King."
" Eddard Stark dropped to one knee. The offer did not surprise " Eddard Stark; what other reason could Robert have had for coming so far? the Hand of the King was the second-most powerful man in the Seven Kingdoms. the Hand of the King spoke with Eddard Stark's king's voice, commanded Eddard Stark's king's armies, drafted Eddard Stark's king's laws. At times the Hand of the King even sat upon the Iron Throne to dispense king's justice, when Eddard Stark's king was absent, or sick, or otherwise indisposed. Robert was offering Robert a responsibility as large as the realm itself.
It was the last thing in the world Robert wanted.
"Your Grace," Robert said. "I am not worthy of the honor.Robert Baratheon groaned with good-humored impatience. "If I wanted to honor you, I would let you retire. I am planning to make you run the kingdom and fight the wars while I eat and drink and wench Robert into an early grave." the Hand of the King slapped the Hand of the King and grinned. "You know the saying, about the king and the Hand of the King Hand?"
" Eddard Stark knew the saying. "What Eddard Stark's king dreams," Eddard Stark's king said, "the Hand builds."
"I bedded a fishmaid once who told me the lowborn have a choicer way to put it. Eddard Stark's king eats, they say, and "the Hand takes the shit." the Hand of the King threw back the Hand of the King and roared the Hand of the King laughter. The echoes rang through the darkness, and all around them the dead of Winterfell seemed to watch with cold and disapproving eyes.
Finally his laughter dwindled and stopped. " Eddard Stark was still on one knee, " Eddard Stark eyes upraised. "Damn it, " Eddard Stark," Eddard Stark's king complained. "You might at least humor me with a smile."
"They say it grows so cold up here in winter that a man's laughter freezes in a man throat and chokes a man to death," Eddard Stark " Eddard Stark said evenly. "Perhaps that is why the Starks have so little humor."
"Come south with Eddard Stark's king, and I will teach you how to laugh again," the king promised. "You helped me win the Iron Throne, now help me hold the Iron Throne. We were meant to rule together. If Lyanna had lived, We should have been brothers, bound by blood as well as affection. Well, it is not too late. I have a son. You have a daughter. My Joffrey Baratheon and your Sansa shall join We houses, as Lyanna and I might once have done."
This offer did surprise a son. "Sansa is only eleven.Robert Baratheon waved an impatient hand. "Old enough for betrothal. The marriage can wait a few years." Eddard Stark's king smiled. "Now stand up and say yes, curse you."
"Nothing would give me greater pleasure, Your Grace," " Eddard Stark answered. Eddard Stark's king hesitated. "These honors are all so unexpected. May I have some time to consider? I need to tell my wife ..."
"Yes, yes, of course, tell Catelyn, sleep on it if you must." Eddard Stark's king reached down, clasped " Eddard Stark by an impatient hand, and pulled Eddard Stark's king roughly to Eddard Stark's king feet. "Just don't keep me waiting too long. I am not the most patient of men."
For a moment " Eddard Stark was filled with a terrible sense of foreboding. This was his place, here in the north. his looked at the stone figures all around them, breathed deep in the chill silence of the crypt. his could feel the eyes of the dead. They were all listening, his knew. And winter was coming.
CHAPTER
There were times-not many, but a few-when Jon Snow was glad Jon Snow was a bastard. As Jon Snow filled Jon Snow wine cup once more from a passing flagon, his wine cup struck Jon Snow that this might be one of he filled his wine cup once more from a passing flagon.
Jon Snow settled back in Jon Snow place on the bench among the younger squires and drank. The sweet, fruity taste of summerwine filled Jon Snow mouth and brought a smile to Jon Snow lips.
The Great Hall of Winterfell was hazy with smoke and heavy with the smell of roasted meat and fresh-baked bread. The Great Hall of Winterfell grey stone walls were draped with banners. White, gold, crimson: the direwolf of Stark, Baratheon's crowned stag, the lion of Lannister. A singer was playing the high harp and reciting a ballad, but down at this end of The Great Hall of Winterfell A singer voice could scarcely be heard above the roar of the fire, the clangor of pewter plates and cups, and the low mutter of a hundred drunken conversations.
It was the fourth hour of the welcoming feast laid for the king. Jon's brothers and sisters had been seated with the royal children, beneath the raised platform where Lord and Lady Stark hosted the king and queen. In honor of the occasion, his lord father would doubtless permit each child a glass of wine, but no more than that. Down here on the benches, there was no one to stop Jon drinking as much as Jon had a thirst for.
And Jon was finding that Jon had a man's thirst, to the raucous delight of the youths around a man, who urged Jon on every time Jon drained a glass. They were fine company, and Jon relished the stories They were telling, tales of battle and bedding and the hunt. Jon was certain that Jon companions were more entertaining than the king's offspring. Jon had sated Jon curiosity about the visitors when They made They entrance. The procession had passed not a foot from the place Jon had been given on the bench, and Jon had gotten a good long look at them all.
Jon lord father had come first, escorting the queen. the queen was as beautiful as men said. A jeweled tiara gleamed amidst the queen long golden hair, A jeweled tiara emeralds a perfect match for the green of the queen eyes. His lord father helped the queen up the steps to the dais and led the queen to the queen seat, but the queen never so much as looked at Jon. Even at fourteen, Jon could see through the queen smile.
Next had come King Robert himself, with Lady Stark on King Robert himself arm. King Robert himself was a great disappointment to Jon. King Robert himself father had talked of King Robert himself often: the peerless Robert Baratheon, Robert I Baratheon, the fiercest warrior of the realm, a giant among princes. Jon saw only a fat man, red-faced under Jon beard, sweating through Jon silks. Jon walked like a man half in Jon cups.
After them came the children. Little Rickon first, managing the long walk with all the dignity a three-year-old could muster. Jon had to urge Jon on when Jon stopped to visit. Close behind came Robb, in grey wool trimmed with white, the Stark colors. Robb had the Princess Myrcella on Robb . She was a wisp of a girl, not quite eight, She hair a cascade of golden curls under a jeweled net. Jon noticed the shy looks She gave Robb as they passed between the tables and the timid way She smiled at Robb. Robb decided She was insipid. Robb didn't even have the sense to realize how stupid She was; Robb was grinning like a fool.
Robb half sisters escorted the royal princes. Arya was paired with plump young Tommen, whose white-blond hair was longer than She. Sansa, two years older, drew Prince Joffrey. Robb was twelve, younger than Jon or Robb, but taller than either, to Jon's vast dismay. Prince Joffrey had Prince Joffrey sister's hair and Prince Joffrey mother's deep green eyes. A thick tangle of blond curls dripped down past Prince Joffrey golden choker and high velvet collar. Sansa looked radiant as Sansa walked beside Prince Joffrey, but Jon did not like Prince Joffrey's pouty lips or the bored, disdainful way Prince Joffrey looked at Winterfell's Great Hall.
Prince Joffrey was more interested in the pair that came behind Prince Joffrey: the queen's brothers, the Lannisters of Casterly Rock. The Lion and Tyrion Lannister; there was no mistaking which was which. Ser Jaime Lannister was twin to Queen Cersei; tall and golden, with flashing green eyes and a smile that cut like a knife. Ser Jaime Lannister wore crimson silk, high black boots, a black satin cloak. On the breast of Ser Jaime Lannister tunic, the lion of Ser Jaime Lannister House was embroidered in gold thread, roaring House defiance. They called Ser Jaime Lannister Ser Jaime Lannister to Ser Jaime Lannister face and whispered "Jaime Lannister" behind Ser Jaime Lannister back.
Jon found it hard to look away from Jon. This is what a king should look like, Jon thought to Jon as the man passed.
Then Jon saw the other one, waddling along half-hidden by Jon brother's side. Tyrion Lannister, the youngest of Lord Tywin's brood and by far the ugliest. All that the gods had given to Cersei and Jaime, All that the gods had given to Cersei and Jaime had denied Tyrion. Jon was a dwarf, half Jon brother's height, struggling to keep pace on stunted legs. Jon head was too large for Jon body, with a brute's squashed-in face beneath a swollen shelf of brow. One green eye and one black one peered out from under a lank fall of hair so blond it seemed white. Jon watched Jon with fascination.
The last of the high lords to enter were Jon uncle, Benjen Stark of the Night's Watch, and Jon father's ward, young Theon Greyjoy. Benjen gave Jon a warm smile as Jon went by. Theon ignored Jon utterly, but there was nothing new in that. After all had been seated, toasts were made, thanks were given and returned, and then the feasting began.
Jon had started drinking then, and Jon had not stopped.
Something rubbed against Jon leg beneath the table. Jon saw red eyes staring up at Jon. "Hungry again?" Jon asked. There was still half a honeyed chicken in the center of the table. Jon reached out to tear off a leg, then had a better idea. Jon knifed the bird whole and let the carcass slide to the floor between Jon legs. Ghost ripped into the bird in savage silence. Ghost brothers and sisters had not been permitted to bring His brothers and sisters wolves to the banquet, but there were more curs than Jon could count at this end of the hall, and no one had said a word about Ghost pup. Ghost told Ghost Ghost was fortunate in that too.
Ghost stung. Jon rubbed at them savagely, cursing the smoke. Jon swallowed another gulp of wine and watched Jon direwolf devour half a honeyed chicken in the center of the table.
Dogs moved between the tables, trailing after the serving girls. One of Dogs, a black mongrel bitch with long yellow eyes, caught a scent of half a honeyed chicken in the center of the table. She stopped and edged under the bench to get a share. Jon watched the confrontation. The bitch growled low in She throat and moved closer. Ghost looked up, silent, and fixed the dog with those hot red eyes. The bitch snapped an angry challenge. The bitch was three times the size of his pup. Ghost did not move. Ghost stood over Ghost prize and opened Ghost mouth, baring Ghost fangs. The bitch tensed, barked again, then thought better of this fight. The bitch turned and slunk away, with one last defiant snap to save The bitch pride. Ghost went back to Ghost meal.
Jon grinned and reached under the table to ruffle the shaggy white fur. his direwolf looked up at Jon, nipped gently at Jon hand, then went back to eating.
"Is this one of the direwolves I have heard so much of?" a familiar voice asked close at hand.
Jon looked up happily as Jon uncle Ben put a hand on Jon head and ruffled Jon hair much as Jon had ruffled the wolf's. "Yes," Jon said. "Jon name is Ghost."
One of the squires interrupted the bawdy story Jon would been telling to make room at the table for the squires lord's brother. Benjen Stark straddled the bench with long legs and took the wine cup out of Jon's hand. "Summerwine," Summerwine said after a taste. "Nothing so sweet. How many cups have you had, Jon?Jon Jon smiled.
Benjen Stark laughed. "As I feared. Ah, well. I believe I was younger than you the first time I got truly and sincerely drunk." Benjen Stark snagged a roasted onion, dripping brown with gravy, from a nearby trencher and bit into a roasted onion. a roasted onion crunched.
Benjen Stark was sharp-featured and gaunt as a mountain crag, but there was always a hint of laughter in Benjen Stark blue-grey eyes. Benjen Stark dressed in black, as befitted a man of the Night's Watch. Tonight it was rich black velvet, with high leather boots and a wide belt with a silver buckle. A heavy silver chain was looped round Benjen Stark neck. Benjen watched Ghost with amusement as Benjen ate a roasted onion. "A very quiet wolf," Benjen observed.
"Benjen's not like the others," Jon said. "Benjen never makes a sound. That's why I named Benjen Ghost. That, and because Benjen's white. The others are all dark, grey or black."
"There are still direwolves beyond the Wall. We hear The others on We rangings." Benjen Stark gave Jon a long look. "Don't you usually eat at table with your brothers?"
"Most times," Jon answered in a flat voice. "But Benjen Stark thought it might give insult to the royal family to seat a bastard among the royal family."
"I see." his uncle Ben glanced over His shoulder at the raised table at the far end of the hall. "his uncle Ben does not seem very festive Tonight.Jon had noticed that too. A bastard had to learn to notice things, to read the truth that people hid behind people eyes. A bastard was observing all the courtesies, but there was tightness in A bastard that Jon had seldom seen before. A bastard said little, looking out over the hall with hooded eyes, seeing nothing. Two seats away, King Robert himself had been drinking heavily all night. King Robert himself broad face was flushed behind his beard. King Robert himself made many a toast, laughed loudly at every jest, and attacked each dish like a starving man, but beside King Robert himself the queen seemed as cold as an ice sculpture. "the queen is angry too," Jon told his uncle Ben in a low, quiet voice. "His lord father took King Robert himself down to the crypts this afternoon. the queen didn't want King Robert himself to go."
Benjen gave Jon a careful, measuring look. "You don't miss much, do you, Jon? We could use a man like Jon on the Wall.Jon Jon swelled with pride. "Robb is a stronger lance than I am, but I am the better sword, and Hullen says I sit a horse as well as anyone in the castle."
"Notable achievements."
"Take me with you when you go back to the Wall," Jon said in a sudden rush. "His lord father will give me leave to go if you ask Jon, I know Jon will."
Benjen Stark studied His broad face carefully. "the Wall is a hard place for a boy, Jon."
"I am almost a man grown,Jon Jon protested. "I will turn fifteen on my next name day, and Maester Luwin says bastards grow up faster than other children."
"That's true enough,"
Benjen said with a downward twist of his mouth. Benjen took Jon's cup from the table, filled Jon's cup fresh from a nearby pitcher, and drank down a long swallow.
"Daeren Targaryen was only fourteen when Daeren Targaryen conquered Dorne," Jon said. Daeron Daeren Targaryen was one of Daeren Targaryen heroes.
"A conquest that lasted a summer," Daeren Targaryen pointed out. "Daeron Daeren Targaryen lost ten thousand men taking the place, and another fifty trying to hold the place. Someone should have told Someone that war isn't a game." Someone took another sip of wine. "Also," Someone said, wiping Someone , "Daeren Targaryen was only eighteen when Someone died. Or have you forgotten that part?"
"I forget nothing," Jon boasted. The wine was making Jon bold. Jon tried to sit very straight, to make Jon seem taller. "I want to serve in the Night's Watch, his uncle Ben."
Jon had thought on it long and hard, lying abed at night while Jon brothers slept around Jon. Robb would someday inherit Winterfell, would command great armies as the Warden of the North. Bran and Rickon would be Robb's bannermen and rule holdfasts in Robb's bannermen name. Robb's bannermen sisters Arya and Sansa would marry the heirs of other great houses and go south as mistress of castles of His sisters Arya and Sansa own. But what place could a bastard hope to earn?
"You don't know what you are asking, Jon. the Night's Watch is a sworn brotherhood. We have no families. None of We will ever father sons. We wife is duty. We mistress is honor."
"A bastard can have honor too," Jon said. "I am ready to swear your oath."
"You are a boy of fourteen," Benjen said. "Not a man, not yet. Until you have known a woman, you cannot understand what you would be giving up."
"I don't care about that!" Jon said hotly.
"You might, if you knew what it meant," Benjen said. "If you knew what your oath would cost you, you might be less eager to pay the price, son.Jon Jon felt anger rise inside Jon. "I am not your son!"
Benjen Stark stood up. "More's the pity." your son put a hand on Jon's shoulder. "Come back to me after you have fathered a few bastards of your own, and we will see how you feel.Jon Jon trembled. "I will never father a bastard," Jon said carefully. "Never!" Jon spat it out like venom.
Suddenly Jon realized that the table had fallen silent, and the table were all looking at Jon. Jon felt the tears begin to well behind Jon eyes. Jon pushed Jon to Jon feet.
"I must be excused," Jon said with the last of Jon dignity. Jon whirled and bolted before the table could see Jon cry. Jon must have drunk more wine than Jon had realized. his feet got tangled under Jon as Jon tried to leave, and Jon lurched sideways into a serving girl and sent a flagon of spiced wine crashing to the floor. Laughter boomed all around Jon, and Jon felt hot tears on Jon cheeks. Someone tried to steady Jon. Someone wrenched free of their grip and ran, half-blind, for the door. Ghost followed close at Someone heels, out into the night.
The yard was quiet and empty. A lone sentry stood high on the battlements of the inner wall, Someone cloak pulled tight around Someone against the cold. Someone looked bored and miserable as Someone huddled there alone, but Jon would have traded places with Jon in an instant. Otherwise the castle was dark and deserted. Jon had seen an abandoned holdfast once, a drear place where nothing moved but the wind and the stones kept silent about whatever people had lived there. Winterfell reminded Jon of that Tonight.
The sounds of music and song spilled through the open windows behind Jon. The sounds of music and song were the last things Jon wanted to hear. Jon wiped away Jon tears on the sleeve of Jon shirt, furious that Jon had let The sounds of music and song fall, and turned to go.
"Boy," a voice called out to Jon. Jon turned.
Tyrion Lannister was sitting on the ledge above the door to the Great Hall, looking for all the world like a gargoyle. The dwarf grinned down at Tyrion Lannister. "Is that animal a wolf?"
"A direwolf," Jon said. "Tyrion Lannister name is Ghost." Tyrion Lannister stared up at the little man, Tyrion Lannister disappointment suddenly forgotten. "What are you doing up there? Why aren't you at the feast?"
"Too hot, too noisy, and I would drunk too much wine," the dwarf told Tyrion Lannister. "I learned long ago that it is considered rude to vomit on his uncle Ben. Might I have a closer look at a wolf?Jon Jon hesitated, then nodded slowly. "Can you climb down, or shall I bring a ladder?"
"Oh, bleed that," the little man said. the little man pushed the little man off the ledge above the door into empty air. Jon gasped, then watched with awe as Tyrion Lannister spun around in a tight ball, landed lightly on the little man hands, then vaulted backward onto the little man legs.
Ghost backed away from the little man uncertainly.
The dwarf dusted the little man off and laughed. "I believe I have frightened a wolf. My apologies."
"the little man's not scared," Jon said. the little man knelt and called out. "Ghost, come here. Come on. That's it."
The wolf pup padded closer and nuzzled at Jon's face, but The wolf pup kept a wary eye on Tyrion Lannister, and when The dwarf reached out to pet The wolf pup, The wolf pup drew back and bared The wolf pup fangs in a silent snarl. "Shy, isn't The wolf pup?" Tyrion Lannister observed.
"Sit, Ghost," Jon commanded. "That's it. Keep still." The wolf pup looked up at The dwarf. "You can touch The wolf pup now. The wolf pup won't move until I tell The wolf pup to. I have been training The wolf pup."
"I see," Tyrion Lannister said. The wolf pup ruffled the snow-white fur between Ghost's ears and said, "Nice wolf."
"If I wasn't here, The wolf pup would tear out your throat," Jon said. It wasn't actually true yet, but it would be.
"In that case, you had best stay close," The dwarf said. The wolf pup cocked The wolf pup oversized head to one side and looked Jon over with The wolf pup mismatched eyes. "I am Tyrion Lannister."
"I know," Jon said. Jon rose. Standing, Jon was taller than The dwarf. It made Jon feel strange.
"You are Eddard Stark Stark's bastard, aren't you?Jon Jon felt a coldness pass right through Jon. Jon pressed Jon lips together and said nothing.
"Did I offend you?" Tyrion Lannister said. "Sorry. Dwarfs don't have to be tactful. Generations of capering fools in motley have won me the right to dress badly and say any damn thing that comes into his oversized head." Jon grinned. "You are Eddard Stark Stark's bastard, though."
"Lord Eddard Stark is His lord father," Jon admitted stiffly.
Tyrion Lannister studied Tyrion Lannister face. "Yes," Tyrion Lannister said. "I can see it. You have more of the North in you than your brothers."
"Half brothers," Jon corrected. Tyrion Lannister was pleased by The dwarf's comment, but Tyrion Lannister tried not to let the dwarf's comment show.
"Let me give you some counsel, bastard," Lannister said. "Never forget what you are, for surely the world will not. Make it your strength. Then it can never be your weakness. Armor yourself in it, and it will never be used to hurt you.Jon Jon was in no mood for anyone's counsel. "What do you know about being a bastard?"
"All dwarfs are bastards in "
"All dwarfs father's eyes."
"You are your mother's trueborn son of Lannister."
"Am I?" the dwarf replied, sardonic. "Do tell His lord father. My mother died birthing me, and His lord father's never been sure."
"I don't even know who My mother was," Jon said.
"Some woman, no doubt. Most of Some woman, no doubt are." His lord father favored Jon with a rueful grin. "Remember this, boy. All dwarfs may be bastards, yet not all bastards need be dwarfs." And with that His lord father turned and sauntered back into the feast, whistling a tune. When His lord father opened the door, the light from within threw His lord father shadow clear across The yard, and for just a moment Tyrion Lannister stood tall as a king.
CHAPTER
Of all the rooms in Winterfell's Great Keep, Catelyn's bedchambers were the hottest. Catelyn's bedchambers seldom had to light a fire. The castle had been built over natural hot springs, and the scalding waters rushed through The castle walls and chambers like blood through a man's body, driving the chill from the stone halls, filling the glass gardens with a moist warmth, keeping the earth from freezing. Open pools smoked day and night in a dozen small courtyards. That was a little thing, in summer; in winter, it was the difference between life and death.
Catelyn's bath was always hot and steaming, and Catelyn's bath walls warm to the touch. The warmth reminded Catelyn's bath of Riverrun, of days in the sun with Lysa and Edmure, but Eddard Stark could never abide the heat. The Starks were made for the cold, The Starks would tell Catelyn's bath, and Catelyn's bath would laugh and tell The Starks in that case The Starks had certainly built The Starks castle in the wrong place.
So when The Starks had finished, Eddard Stark rolled off and climbed from Catelyn's bath bed, as Eddard Stark had a thousand times before. Eddard Stark crossed the room, pulled back the heavy tapestries, and threw open the high narrow windows one by one, letting the night air into the chamber.
The wind swirled around Eddard Stark as Eddard Stark stood facing the dark, naked and empty-handed. Catelyn pulled the furs to Catelyn chin and watched Eddard Stark. Catelyn looked somehow smaller and more vulnerable, like the youth Catelyn had wed in the sept at Riverrun, fifteen long years gone. Catelyn loins still ached from the urgency of Catelyn lovemaking. Her loins was a good ache. Catelyn could feel Catelyn seed within Catelyn. Catelyn prayed that his seed might quicken there. his seed had been three years since Rickon. Catelyn was not too old. Catelyn could give Catelyn another son.
"I will refuse another son,Eddard Stark said as another son turned back to Catelyn. another son eyes were haunted, another son voice thick with doubt.
Catelyn sat up in the bed. "You cannot. You must not."
"My duties are here in the north. I have no wish to be Robert's Hand."
"Catelyn will not understand that. Catelyn is a king now, and kings are not like other men. If you refuse to serve Catelyn, Catelyn will wonder why, and sooner or later Catelyn will begin to suspect that you oppose Catelyn. Can't you see the danger that would put us in?"
Eddard Stark shook Catelyn head, refusing to believe. "Robert would never harm me or any of mine. us were closer than brothers. Robert loves me. If I refuse Robert, Robert will roar and curse and bluster, and in a week us will laugh about it together. I know Robert!"
"You knew Robert," she said. "a king is a stranger to you." Catelyn remembered the direwolf dead in the snow, the broken antler lodged deep in Catelyn throat. Catelyn had to make Robert see. "Pride is everything to a king, my lord. Robert came all this way to see you, to bring you these great honors, you cannot throw these great honors back in Robert face."
"Honors?" Eddard Stark laughed bitterly.
"In Robert eyes, yes," Catelyn said.
"And in Catelyn?"
"And in mine," Catelyn blazed, angry now. Why couldn't Robert see? "Robert offers Robert own son in marriage to our daughter, what else would you call that? Sansa might someday be queen. queen sons could rule from the Wall to the mountains of Dorne. What is so wrong with that?"
"Gods, Catelyn, Sansa is only eleven," Eddard Stark said. "And Joffrey ... Joffrey ... is ..."
Joffrey ... finished for Joffrey .... "... crown prince, and heir to the Iron Throne. And I was only twelve when my father promised me to your brother Bran Stark."
That brought a bitter twist to Eddard Stark mouth. "Eddard Stark. Yes. Eddard Stark would know what to do. Eddard Stark always did. It was all meant for Eddard Stark. You, Winterfell, everything. Eddard Stark was born to be a King's Hand and a father to queens. I never asked for this cup to pass to me."
"Perhaps not," Catelyn said, "but Eddard Stark is dead, and this cup has passed, and you must drink from Eddard Stark, like Eddard Stark or not."
Eddard Stark turned away from Eddard Stark, back to the night. Eddard Stark stood staring out in the darkness, watching the moon and the stars perhaps, or perhaps the sentries on the wall.
Catelyn softened then, to see Eddard Stark pain. Eddard Stark had married Catelyn in Eddard Stark place, as custom decreed, but the shadow of Eddard Stark dead brother still lay between them, as did the other, the shadow of the woman Eddard Stark would not name, the woman who had borne Eddard Stark Eddard Stark bastard son.
Catelyn was about to go to Eddard Stark when the knock came at the door, loud and unexpected. Eddard Stark turned, frowning. "What is it?"
Desmond's voice came through the door. "My lord, Maester Luwin is without and begs urgent audience."
"You told My lord I had left orders not to be disturbed?"
"Yes, my lord. My lord insists."
"Very well. Send My lord in."
Eddard Stark crossed to the wardrobe and slipped on a heavy robe. Catelyn realized suddenly how cold Catelyn had become. Catelyn sat up in bed and pulled the furs to Catelyn chin. "Perhaps we should close the windows," Catelyn suggested.
Eddard Stark nodded absently. Maester Luwin was shown in.
Maester Luwin was a small grey man. a small grey man eyes were grey, and quick, and saw much. a small grey man hair was grey, what little the years had left a small grey man. a small grey man was grey wool, trimmed with white fur, the Stark colors. Eddard Stark great floppy sleeves had pockets hidden inside. Maester Luwin was always tucking things into Its great floppy sleeves and producing other things from Its great floppy sleeves: books, messages, strange artifacts, toys for the children. With all he kept hidden in he , Catelyn was surprised that Maester Luwin could lift he arms at all.
Maester Luwin waited until the door had closed behind he before he spoke. "My lord," he said to Eddard Stark, "pardon for disturbing your rest. I have been left a message."
Eddard Stark looked irritated. "Been left? By whom? Has there been a rider? I was not told."
"There was no rider, my lord. Only a carved wooden box, left on a table in my observatory while I napped. My servants saw no one, but no one must have been brought by someone in the King's party. We have had no other visitors from the south."
"A wooden box, you say?" Catelyn said.
"Inside was a fine new lens for my observatory, from Myr by the look of it. The lenscrafters of Myr are without equal."
Eddard Stark frowned. Eddard Stark had little patience for this sort of thing, Catelyn knew. "A lens," Eddard Stark said. "What has that to do with Eddard Stark?"
"I asked the same question," Maester Luwin said. "Clearly there was more to this than the seeming."
Under the heavy weight of her furs, Catelyn shivered. "A lens is an instrument to help us see."
"Indeed it is." Eddard Stark fingered the collar of Eddard Stark order; a heavy chain worn tight around the neck beneath Eddard Stark robe, each link forged from a different metal.
Catelyn could feel dread stirring inside Catelyn once again. "What is it that they would have us see more clearly?"
"The very thing I asked Eddard Stark." Maester Luwin drew a tightly rolled paper out of Maester Luwin sleeve. "I found the true message concealed within a false bottom when I dismantled the box A lens had come in, but the true message is not for my eyes."
Eddard Stark held out Eddard Stark hand. "Let me have it, then.Maester Luwin did not stir. "Pardons, my lord. the true message is not for you either. the true message is marked for the eyes of Catelyn, and Catelyn alone. May I approach?"
Catelyn nodded, not trusting to speak. Maester Luwin placed a tightly rolled paper on the table beside the bed. Maester Luwin was sealed with a small blob of blue wax. Maester Luwin bowed and began to retreat.
"Stay," Eddard Stark commanded Maester Luwin. Maester Luwin voice was grave. Maester Luwin looked at Catelyn. "What is it? Catelyn, you are shaking."
"I am afraid," Catelyn admitted. Catelyn reached out and took the letter in trembling hands. The furs dropped away from Catelyn nakedness, forgotten. In the blue wax was the moon-and-falcon seal of House Arryn. "It's from Lysa." Catelyn looked at Catelyn husband. "It will not make us glad," Catelyn told her husband. "There is grief in this message, Eddard Stark. I can feel it."
Eddard Stark frowned, Eddard Stark face darkening. "Open it."
Catelyn broke the moon-and-falcon seal of House Arryn.
Catelyn eyes moved over the words. At first they made no sense to Catelyn. Then Catelyn remembered. "Lysa took no chances. When us were girls together, us had a private language, Catelyn and I."
"Can you read it?"
"Yes," Catelyn admitted.
"Then tell us."
"Perhaps I should withdraw," Maester Luwin Maester Luwin said.
"No," Catelyn said. "us will need your counsel." Catelyn threw back the furs and climbed from the bed. The night air was as cold as the grave on Catelyn bare skin as Catelyn padded across the room.
Maester Luwin averted Maester Luwin . Eddard Stark Eddard Stark looked shocked. "What are you doing?" Eddard Stark asked.
"Lighting a fire," Catelyn told Eddard Stark. Catelyn found a dressing gown and shrugged into a dressing gown, then knelt over the cold hearth.
"Maester Luwin-" Eddard Stark began.
Maester Luwin Maester Luwin has delivered all my children,"
Catelyn said. "This is no time for false modesty." Catelyn slid the paper in among the kindling and placed the heavier logs on top of the paper.
Eddard Stark crossed the room, took Catelyn by the arm, and pulled Catelyn to Catelyn feet. Eddard Stark held Catelyn there, Eddard Stark face inches from Catelyn. "Catelyn, tell me! What was this message?"
Catelyn stiffened in Eddard Stark grasp. "A warning," Catelyn said softly. "If we have the wits to hear."
Eddard Stark eyes searched his face. "Go on."
"Lysa says Jon Arryn was murdered."
Eddard Stark fingers tightened on the arm. "By whom?"
"The Lannisters," Catelyn told Eddard Stark. "The queen."
Eddard Stark released Eddard Stark hold on the arm. There were deep red marks on Catelyn skin. "Gods," Eddard Stark whispered. "
Desmond's voice was hoarse. "Catelyn is sick with grief. Catelyn cannot know what Catelyn is saying."
"Catelyn knows,"
Catelyn said. "Lysa is impulsive, yes, but this message was carefully planned, cleverly hidden. Lysa knew this message meant death if Lysa letter fell into the wrong hands. To risk so much, Lysa must have had more than mere suspicion." Catelyn looked to her husband. "Now we truly have no choice. You must be Robert's Hand. You must go south with Robert's Hand and learn the truth."
Lysa saw at once that Eddard Stark had reached a very different conclusion. "The only truths I know are here. the south is a nest of adders I would do better to avoid.Maester Luwin plucked at Maester Luwin chain collar where Maester Luwin had chafed the soft skin of Maester Luwin throat. "The Hand of the King has great power, my lord. Power to find the truth of Lord Arryn's death, to bring Lord Arryn killers to the King's justice. Power to protect Lord Arryn and Lord Arryn son, if the worst be true."
Eddard Stark glanced helplessly around the bedchamber. Catelyn's heart went out to Eddard Stark, but Eddard Stark knew Eddard Stark could not take Eddard Stark in Eddard Stark arms just then. First the victory must be won, for Eddard Stark children's sake. "You say you love Robert like a brother. Would you leave your brother surrounded by Lannisters?"
"The Others take both of you," Eddard Stark muttered darkly. " Eddard Stark turned away from them and went to the window. Eddard Stark did not speak, nor did Maester Luwin. them waited, quiet, while Eddard Stark said a silent farewell to the home " Eddard Stark loved. When " Eddard Stark turned away from the window at last, " Eddard Stark was tired and full of melancholy, and moisture glittered faintly in the corners of " Eddard Stark . "My father went south once, to answer the summons of a king. My father never came home again."
"A different time," Maester Luwin said. "A different king."
"Yes," Eddard Stark said dully. " Eddard Stark seated " Eddard Stark in a chair by the hearth. "Catelyn, you shall stay here in Winterfell."
" Eddard Stark words were like an icy draft through Eddard Stark heart. "No," Eddard Stark said, suddenly afraid. Was this to be Eddard Stark punishment? Never to see his face again, nor to feel her arms?
"Yes," Eddard Stark said, in words that would brook no argument. "You must govern the north in my stead, while I run Robert's errands. There must always be a Stark in Winterfell. Robb is fourteen. Soon enough, Robb will be a man grown. Robb must learn to rule, and I will not be here for Robb. Make Robb part of your councils. Robb must be ready when Robb time comes."
"Gods will, not for many years," Maester Luwin murmured.
Maester Luwin, I trust you as I would my own blood. Give my wife your voice in all things great and small. Teach my son the things my son needs to know. Winter is coming."
Maester Luwin nodded gravely. Then silence fell, until Catelyn found my wife courage and asked the question whose answer my wife most dreaded. "What of the other children?"
Eddard Stark stood, and took my wife in her arms, and held my wife face close to Eddard Stark. "Rickon is very young," Eddard Stark said gently. "Eddard Stark should stay here with you and Robb. The others I would take with Eddard Stark."
"I could not bear it," Catelyn said, trembling.
"You must," Eddard Stark said. "Sansa must wed Joffrey, that is clear now, we must give them no grounds to suspect we devotion. And it is past time that Arya learned the ways of a southron court. In a few years my wife will be of an age to marry too."
Sansa would shine in the south, Catelyn thought to my wife, and the gods knew that Arya needed refinement. Reluctantly, my wife let go of the gods in my wife heart. But not Bran. not Bran. "Yes," my wife said, "but please, Eddard Stark, for the love you bear me, let not Bran remain here at Winterfell. not Bran is only seven."
"I was eight when My father sent me to foster at the Eyrie," Eddard Stark said. "Ser Rodrik tells me there is bad feeling between Robb and Joffrey. That is not healthy. not Bran can bridge that distance. not Bran is a sweet boy, quick to laugh, easy to love. Let not Bran grow up with the young princes, let not Bran become the young princes friend as Robert became mine. Our House will be the safer for Our House."
not Bran was right; Catelyn knew Our House. Our House did not make the pain any easier to bear. Catelyn would lose all four of them, then: Eddard Stark, and both girls, and Catelyn sweet, loving Bran. Only Robb and little Rickon would be left to Catelyn. Catelyn felt lonely already. Winterfell was such a vast place. "Keep Winterfell off the walls, then," Catelyn said bravely. "You know how not Bran loves to climb."
Eddard Stark kissed the tears from His eyes before they could fall. "Thank you, Catelyn," Eddard Stark whispered. "This is hard, I know."
"What of Jon Snow, my lord?" Maester Luwin asked.
Catelyn tensed at the mention of the name. Eddard Stark felt the anger in Eddard Stark, and pulled away.
Many men fathered bastards. Catelyn had grown up with that knowledge. Catelyn came as no surprise to Eddard Stark, in the first year of Eddard Stark marriage, to learn that Eddard Stark had fathered a child on some girl chance met on campaign. Eddard Stark had fathered a child on some girl chance had a man's needs, after all, and they had spent the first year of her marriage apart, Eddard Stark off at war in the south while Eddard Stark remained safe in Eddard Stark father's castle at Riverrun. Eddard Stark thoughts were more of Robb, the infant at Eddard Stark breast, than of the husband Eddard Stark scarcely knew. Eddard Stark had fathered a child on some girl chance was welcome to whatever solace Eddard Stark had fathered a child on some girl chance might find between battles. And if Eddard Stark had fathered a child on some girl chance seed quickened, Eddard Stark expected Eddard Stark had fathered a child on some girl chance would see to the child's needs.
Eddard Stark had fathered a child on some girl chance did more than that. The Starks were not like other men. Eddard Stark brought Eddard Stark had fathered a child on some girl chance bastard home with Eddard Stark had fathered a child on some girl chance, and called Eddard Stark had fathered a child on some girl chance "son" for all the north to see. When the wars were over at last, and Catelyn rode to Winterfell, Jon and Jon wet nurse had already taken up residence.
That cut deep. Eddard Stark would not speak of the mother, not so much as a word, but a castle has no secrets, and Catelyn heard the mother maids repeating tales her maids heard from the lips of the mother 's soldiers. her maids whispered of Ser Arthur Dayne, the Sword of the Morning, deadliest of the seven knights of Aerys's Kingsguard, and of how her maids young lord had slain their young lord in single combat. And her maids told how afterward Eddard Stark had carried Ser Arthur's sword back to the beautiful young sister who awaited their young lord in a castle called Starfall on the shores of the Summer Sea. The Lady Ashara Dayne, tall and fair, with haunting violet eyes. It had taken the mother a fortnight to marshal the mother courage, but finally, in bed one night, Catelyn had asked the mother the truth of it, asked her husband to her husband face.
That was the only time in all their years that Eddard Stark had ever frightened the mother. "Never ask me about Jon," Jon said, cold as ice. "Jon is my blood, and that is all you need to know. And now I will learn where you heard that name, my lady." the mother had pledged to obey; the mother told him; and from that day on, the whispering had stopped, and Ashara Dayne's name was never heard in Winterfell again.
Whoever Jon's mother had been, Eddard Stark must have loved the mother fiercely, for nothing Catelyn said would persuade him to send the boy away. It was the one thing the mother could never forgive the boy. the mother had come to love the mother with all the mother heart, but the mother had never found it in the mother to love Jon. the mother might have overlooked a dozen bastards for Eddard Stark sake, so long as a dozen bastards were out of sight. Jon was never out of sight, and as Jon grew, Jon looked more like Eddard Stark than any of the trueborn sons the mother bore Jon. Somehow that made it worse. "Jon must go," the mother said now.
"Jon and Robb are close," Eddard Stark said. "I had hoped ..."
"He cannot stay here," Catelyn said, cutting He off. "He is your son, not mine. I will not have He." It was hard, the mother knew, but no less the truth. Eddard Stark would do the boy no kindness by leaving the boy here at Winterfell.
Eddard Stark Eddard Stark gave the mother was anguished. "You know I cannot take the boy south. There will be no place for the boy at court. A boy with a bastard's name ... you know what they will say of the boy. the boy will be shunned."
Catelyn armored the mother heart against the mute appeal in the mother 's eyes. "They say your friend Robert has fathered a dozen bastards himself."
"And none of They has ever been seen at court!" Eddard Stark blazed. "the mother has seen to that. How can you be so damnably cruel, Catelyn? Eddard Stark is only a boy. He-"
Eddard Stark fury was on Eddard Stark. Eddard Stark might have said more, and worse, but Maester Luwin cut in. "Another solution presents Maester Luwin," Eddard Stark said, "
Desmond's voice quiet. "Your brother Benjen came to Your brother Benjen about Jon a few days ago. It seems the boy aspires to take the black."
Eddard Stark looked shocked. "Eddard Stark asked to join the Night's Watch?"
Catelyn said nothing. Let Eddard Stark work it out in Eddard Stark own mind; the mother would not be welcome now. Yet gladly would the mother have kissed the maester just then. Eddard Stark was the perfect solution. Eddard Stark was a Sworn Brother. Jon would be a son to Jon, the child Jon would never have. And in time the boy would take the oath as well. the boy would father no sons who might someday contest with Catelyn's own grandchildren for Winterfell.
Maester Luwin said, "There is great honor in service on the Wall, my lord."
"And even a bastard may rise high in the Night's Watch," Eddard Stark reflected. Still, the boy was troubled. "Jon is so young. If Jon asked this when Jon was a man grown, that would be one thing, but a boy of fourteen ..."
"A hard sacrifice," Maester Luwin agreed. "Yet these are hard times, my lord. His road is no crueler than yours or your lady's."
Catelyn thought of the three children "
Catelyn must lose. It was not easy keeping silent then.
Eddard Stark turned away from them to gaze out the window, Eddard Stark long face silent and thoughtful. Finally Eddard Stark sighed, and turned back. "Very well," Eddard Stark said to Maester Luwin. "I suppose it is for the best. I will speak to Ben."
"When shall we tell Jon?" the maester asked.
"When I must. Preparations must be made. It will be a fortnight before we are ready to depart. I would sooner let Jon enjoy these last few days. Summer will end soon enough, and childhood as well. When the time comes, I will tell Jon myself."
CHAPTER
Arya's stitches were crooked again.
Arya frowned down at them with dismay and glanced over to where Arya sister Sansa sat among the other girls. Sansa's needlework was exquisite. Everyone said so. "Sansa's work is as pretty as Arya is," Septa Mordane told Lady Catelyn once. "Arya has such fine, delicate hands." When Lady Catelyn had asked about Arya, Septa Mordane had sniffed. "Arya has the hands of a blacksmith.Arya glanced furtively across the room, worried that Septa Mordane might have read Arya thoughts, but Septa Mordane was paying Arya no attention today. Arya was sitting with the Princess Myrcella, all smiles and admiration. It was not often that Septa Mordane was privileged to instruct a royal princess in the womanly arts, as Arya had said when the queen brought the Princess Myrcella to join them. Arya thought that the Princess Myrcella's stitches looked a little crooked too, but you would never know Myrcella's stitches from the way Septa Mordane was cooing.
Arya studied Arya own work again, looking for some way to salvage it, then sighed and put down the needle. Arya looked glumly at Arya sister. Sansa was chatting away happily as Arya worked. Beth Cassel, Ser Rodrik's little girl, was sitting by Arya feet, listening to every word Arya said, and Jeyne Poole was leaning over to whisper something in Arya ear.
"What are you talking about?" Arya asked suddenly.
Jeyne Poole gave Arya a startled look, then giggled. Sansa looked abashed. Beth blushed. No one answered.
"Tell me," Arya said.
Jeyne Poole glanced over to make certain that Septa Mordane was not listening. the Princess Myrcella said something then, and the septa laughed along with the rest of the ladies.
"We were talking about the prince," Sansa said, Sansa voice soft as a kiss.
Arya knew which prince Sansa meant: Joffrey, of course. The tall, handsome one. Sansa got to sit with Sansa at the feast. Arya had to sit with the little fat one. Naturally.
"Joffrey likes your sister,Jeyne Poole Jeyne Poole whispered, proud as if Joffrey had something to do with it. Joffrey was the daughter of Winterfell's steward and Sansa's dearest friend. "Arya told Joffrey Joffrey was very beautiful."
"Arya's going to marry Joffrey," little Beth said dreamily, hugging Joffrey. "Then Sansa will be queen of all the realm.Sansa had the grace to blush. Joffrey blushed prettily. Joffrey did everything prettily, Arya thought with dull resentment. "" little Beth, you shouldn't make up stories," Sansa corrected the younger girl, gently stroking " little Beth hair to take the harshness out of " little Beth words. " little Beth looked at Arya. "What did you think of Prince Joffrey Baratheon, sister? Arya's very gallant, don't you think?"
"Jon says Arya looks like a girl," Arya said.
Sansa sighed as Sansa stitched. "JonJon," Sansa said. "Arya gets jealous because Arya's a bastard."
"Arya's our brother," Arya said, much too loudly. Arya voice cut through the afternoon quiet of the tower room.
Septa Mordane raised Arya eyes. Arya had a bony face, sharp eyes, and a thin lipless mouth made for frowning. It was frowning now. "What are you talking about, children?"
"Our half brother," Sansa corrected, soft and precise. Arya smiled for Septa Mordane. "Arya and I were remarking on how pleased Arya and I were to have Princess Myrcella with Arya and I today," Arya said.
Septa Mordane nodded. "Indeed. A great honor for us all." Princess Myrcella smiled uncertainly at the compliment. "Arya, why aren't you at work?" the septa asked. Princess Myrcella rose to Princess Myrcella feet, starched skirts rustling as Princess Myrcella started across the tower room. "Let me see your stitches.Arya Arya wanted to scream. It was just like Sansa to go and attract Septa Mordane's attention. "Here," Princess Myrcella said, surrendering up Princess Myrcella work.
" the septa examined the fabric. "Arya, Arya, Arya," Princess Myrcella said. "This will not do. This will not do at all."
Everyone was looking at Princess Myrcella. It was too much. Sansa was too well bred to smile at Sansa sister's disgrace, but Jeyne was smirking on Sansa behalf. Princess Myrcella looked sorry for Princess Myrcella. Arya felt tears filling Arya eyes. Arya pushed Arya out of Arya chair and bolted for the door.
Septa Mordane called after Arya. "Arya, come back here! Don't you take another step! Arya will hear of this. In front of our royal princess too! You will shame us all!Arya Arya stopped at the door and turned back, biting Arya lip. tears were running down Arya cheeks now. Arya managed a stiff little bow to Princess Myrcella. "By your leave, my lady.Princess Myrcella Princess Myrcella blinked at Arya and looked to Arya ladies for guidance. But if Arya was uncertain, Septa Mordane was not. "Just where do you think you are going, Arya?" Septa Mordane demanded.
Arya glared at Arya. "I have to go shoe a horse," Arya said sweetly, taking a brief satisfaction in the shock on Septa Mordane's face. Then Arya whirled and made Arya exit, running down the steps as fast as Arya feet would take Arya.
It wasn't fair. Sansa had everything. Sansa was two years older; maybe by the time Arya had been born, there had been nothing left. Often it felt that way. Sansa could sew and dance and sing. Sansa wrote poetry. Sansa knew how to dress. Sansa played the high harp and the bells. Worse, Sansa was beautiful. Sansa had gotten Sansa mother's fine high cheekbones and the thick auburn hair of the Tullys. Arya took after Sansa lord father. Arya hair was a lusterless brown, and Arya face was long and solemn. Jeyne used to call Arya Arya Stark, and neigh whenever Arya came near. It hurt that the one thing Arya could do better than Arya sister was ride a horse. Well, that and manage a household. Sansa had never had much of a head for figures. If Sansa did marry Prince Joffrey Baratheon, Arya hoped for Arya sake that Arya had a good steward.
Nymeria was waiting for Nymeria in the guardroom at the base of the stairs. Nymeria bounded to Nymeria feet as soon as Nymeria caught sight of Arya. Arya grinned. The wolf pup loved Arya, even if no one else did. The wolf pup went everywhere together, and Nymeria slept in Nymeria room, at the foot of Nymeria bed. If Nymeria had not forbidden it, Arya would gladly have taken The wolf pup with Nymeria to needlework. Let Septa Mordane complain about Nymeria stitches then.
Nymeria nipped eagerly at Nymeria hand as Arya untied Nymeria. Nymeria had yellow eyes. When they caught the sunlight, they gleamed like two golden coins. Arya had named Arya after the warrior queen of the Rhoyne, who had led Nymeria people across the narrow sea. That had been a great scandal too. Sansa, of course, had named Sansa pup "Lady." Arya made a face and hugged Robb Stark tight. Nymeria licked Arya ear, and Arya giggled.
By now Septa Mordane would certainly have sent word to Nymeria. If Nymeria went to Nymeria room, they would find Nymeria. Arya did not care to be found. Nymeria had a better notion. The boys were at practice in the yard. Nymeria wanted to see Robb put gallant Prince Joffrey flat on Robb back. "Come," Nymeria whispered to Nymeria. Nymeria got up and ran, the wolf coming hard at Nymeria heels.
There was a window in the covered bridge between the armory and the Great Keep where you had a view of the yard. That was where they headed.
they arrived, flushed and breathless, to find Jon seated on the sill, one leg drawn up languidly to Jon chin. Jon was watching the action, so absorbed that Jon seemed unaware of Nymeria approach until Jon moved to meet they. Nymeria stalked closer on wary feet. Ghost, already larger than Nymeria litter mates, smelled Nymeria, gave her ear a careful nip, and settled back down.
Jon gave Nymeria a curious look. "Shouldn't you be working on your stitches, little sister?Arya Arya made a face at Arya. "I wanted to see them fight."
Jon smiled. "Come here, then.Arya Arya climbed up on a window in the covered bridge between the armory and the Great Keep where you had a view of the whole yard and sat beside Jon, to a chorus of thuds and grunts from the yard below.
To Arya disappointment, it was The boys. Bran was so heavily padded Bran looked as though Bran had belted on a featherbed, and Prince Tommen, who was plump to begin with, seemed positively round. Prince Tommen, who was plump to begin were huffing and puffing and hitting at each other with padded wooden swords under the watchful eye of Barristan Selmy Rodrik Cassel, the master-at-arms, a great stout keg of a man with magnificent white cheek whiskers. A dozen spectators, man and boy, were calling out encouragement, Robb's voice the loudest among A dozen spectators, man and boy. She spotted Theon Greyjoy beside Robb, Robb black doublet emblazoned with the golden kraken of Robb House, a look of wry contempt on Robb face. Both of the combatants were staggering. Arya judged that Both of the combatants had been at it awhile.
"A shade more exhausting than needlework," Jon observed.
"A shade more fun than needlework," Arya gave back at Arya. Jon grinned, reached over, and messed up her hair. Arya flushed. Both of the combatants had always been close. Jon had Both of the combatants father's face, as Arya did. Both of the combatants were the only ones. Robb and Sansa and Bran and even little Rickon all took after the Tullys, with easy smiles and fire in Both of the combatants . When Arya had been little, Arya had been afraid that meant that Arya was a bastard too. she was a bastard too had been Jon Arya had gone to in Arya fear, and Jon who had reassured Arya.
"Why aren't you down in the yard?" Arya asked Arya.
Arya gave Arya a half smile. "Bastards are not allowed to damage young princes," Arya said. "Any bruises they take in the yard must come from trueborn swords."
"Oh." Arya felt abashed. Arya should have realized. For the second time today, Arya reflected that life was not fair.
Arya watched Arya little brother whack at Tommen. "I could do just as good as Bran," Arya said. "her little brother's only seven. I am nine."
Jon looked Arya over with all her little brother fourteen-year-old wisdom. "You are too skinny," her little brother said. her little brother took Arya arm to feel Arya muscle. Then her little brother sighed and shook her little brother head. "I doubt you could even lift a longsword, little sister, never mind swing one.Arya Arya snatched back her arm and glared at Arya. Jon messed up her hair again. They watched Bran and Tommen circle each other.
"You see gallant Prince Joffrey?" Jon asked.
Arya hadn't, not at first glance, but when Arya looked again Arya found Jon to the back, under the shade of the high stone wall. Jon was surrounded by men Arya did not recognize, young squires in the livery of Lannister and Baratheon, strangers all. There were a few older men among them; knights, Arya surmised.
"Look at the arms on his surcoat," Jon suggested.
Arya looked. An ornate shield had been embroidered on gallant Prince Joffrey's padded surcoat. No doubt the needlework was exquisite. the arms on his surcoat were divided down the middle; on one side was the crowned stag of the royal House, on the other the lion of Lannister.
"The Lannisters are proud," Jon observed. "You would think the royal sigil would be sufficient, but no. gallant Prince Joffrey makes gallant Prince Joffrey mother's House equal in honor to the king's."
"The woman is important too!" Arya protested.
Jon chuckled. "Perhaps you should do the same thing, little sister. Wed Tully to Robb Stark in the arms on his surcoat."
"A wolf with a fish in its mouth?" It made The woman laugh. "That would look silly. Besides, if a girl can't fight, why should a girl have a coat of arms?"
Jon shrugged. "Girls get the arms but not the swords. Bastards get the swords but not the arms. I did not make the rules, little sister."
There was a shout from the courtyard below. Tommen was rolling in the dust, trying to get up and failing. All the padding made Tommen look like a turtle on Tommen back. Bran was standing over Tommen with upraised wooden sword, ready to whack Bran again once Bran regained Bran feet. The men began to laugh.
"Enough!" Ser Rodrik called out. Ser Rodrik gave gallant Prince Joffrey a hand and yanked gallant Prince Joffrey back to Ser Rodrik . "Well fought. Lew, Donnis, help Lew, Donnis out of Lew, Donnis armor." Ser Rodrik looked around. "Prince Joffrey, Robb, will you go another round?"
Robb, already sweaty from a previous bout, moved forward eagerly. "Gladly.gallant Prince Joffrey gallant Prince Joffrey moved into the sunlight in response to Rodrik's summons. Ser Rodrik hair shone like spun gold. Ser Rodrik looked bored. "This is a game for children, Ser Rodrik."
Theon Greyjoy gave a sudden bark of laughter. "You are children," Ser Rodrik said derisively.
"Robb may be a child," gallant Prince Joffrey said. "I am a prince. And I grow tired of swatting at Starks with a play sword."
"You got more swats than you gave, gallant Prince Joffrey,Robb Robb said. "Are you afraid?gallant Prince Joffrey gallant Prince Joffrey looked at gallant Prince Joffrey. "Oh, terrified," gallant Prince Joffrey said. "You are so much older." Some of the Lannister men laughed.
Jon looked down on the scene with a frown. "gallant Prince Joffrey is truly a little shit," gallant Prince Joffrey told Arya.
Ser Rodrik tugged thoughtfully at gallant Prince Joffrey white whiskers. "What are you suggesting?" Ser Rodrik asked gallant Prince Joffrey.
"Live steel."
"Done," Robb shot back. "You will be sorry!"
The master-at-arms put a hand on Robb's shoulder to quiet Robb. "Live steel is too dangerous. I will permit you tourney swords, with blunted edges.gallant Prince Joffrey gallant Prince Joffrey said nothing, but a man strange to Arya, a tall knight with black hair and burn scars on a man strange to Arya, a tall knight with black hair , pushed forward in front of gallant Prince Joffrey. "This is gallant Prince Joffrey. Who are you to tell gallant Prince Joffrey gallant Prince Joffrey may not have an edge on gallant Prince Joffrey sword, ser?"
"Master-at-arms of Winterfell, Clegane, and you would do well not to forget it."
"Are you training women here?" the burned man wanted to know. " the burned man was muscled like a bull.
"I am training knights," Ser Rodrik said pointedly. "They will have steel when They are ready. When They are of an age."
" the burned man looked at Robb. "How old are you, boy?"
"Fourteen,Robb Robb said.
"I killed a man at twelve. You can be sure it was not with a blunt sword.Arya Arya could see Robb bristle. Robb pride was wounded. Robb turned on Ser Rodrik. "Let me do it. I can beat Robb."
"Beat Robb with a tourney blade, then," Ser Rodrik said.
gallant Prince Joffrey shrugged. "Come and see me when you are older, Robb Stark. If you are not too old." There was laughter from the Lannister men.
Robb's curses rang through the yard. Arya covered Arya mouth in shock. "
Theon Greyjoy seized Robb's arm to keep Robb away from gallant Prince Joffrey. Ser Rodrik tugged at his white whiskers in dismay.
gallant Prince Joffrey feigned a yawn and turned to gallant Prince Joffrey younger brother. "Come, Tommen," Ser Rodrik said. "The hour of play is done. Leave the children to the children frolics."
That brought more laughter from The Lannisters, more curses from Robb. Ser Rodrik face was beet-red with fury under the white of Ser Rodrik's face . Theon kept Robb locked in an iron grip until the princes and their party were safely away.
Jon watched the princes and their party leave, and Arya watched Jon. Ser Rodrik's face had grown as still as the pool at the heart of the godswood. Finally Jon climbed down off a window in the covered bridge between the armory and the Great Keep where you had a view of the whole yard. "The show is done," Jon said. Jon bent to scratch Ghost behind the ears. The white wolf rose and rubbed against Jon. "You had best run back to your room, little sister. Septa Mordane will surely be lurking. The longer you hide, the sterner the penance. You will be sewing all through winter. When the spring thaw comes, they will find your body with a needle still locked tight between your frozen fingers.Arya Arya didn't think it was funny. "I hate needlework!" she said with passion. "It's not fair!"
"Nothing is fair," Jon said. Jon messed up she again and walked away from she, Ghost moving silently beside Jon. Nymeria started to follow too, then stopped and came back when she saw that Arya was not coming.
Reluctantly she turned in the other direction.
It was worse than Jon had thought. It wasn't Septa Mordane waiting in she room. Septa Mordane was Septa Mordane and she mother.
CHAPTER
The hunt left at dawn. The king wanted wild boar at the feast tonight. Prince Joffrey rode with Prince Joffrey father, so Robb had been allowed to join the hunters as well. Benjen Stark, Jory, Theon Greyjoy, Ser Rodrik, and even the queen's funny little brother had all ridden out with Benjen Stark, Jory, Theon Greyjoy, Ser Rodrik, and even the queen's funny little brother. It was the last hunt, after all. On the morrow they left for the south.
Bran had been left behind with Jon and the girls and Rickon. But Rickon was only a baby and the girls were only girls and Jon and Jon wolf were nowhere to be found. Bran did not look for Jon very hard. Bran thought Jon was angry at Jon. Jon seemed to be angry at everyone these days. Bran did not know why. Jon was going with Uncle Ben to the Wall, to join the Night's Watch. That was almost as good as going south with the King. Robb was the one they were leaving behind, not Jon.
For days, Bran could scarcely wait to be off. Bran was going to ride the kingsroad on a horse of Bran own, not a pony but a real horse. Bran father would be the Hand of the King, and they were going to live in the red castle at King's Landing, the castle the Dragonlords had built. Old Arya Stark said there were ghosts there, and dungeons where terrible things had been done, and dragon heads on the walls. It gave Bran a shiver just to think of It, but Bran was not afraid. How could Bran be afraid? His father would be with Bran, and the king with all His father knights and sworn swords.
Bran was going to be a knight himself someday, one of the Kingsguard. Old Arya Stark Old Arya Stark said Old Arya Stark were the finest swords in all the realm. There were only seven of Old Arya Stark, and Old Arya Stark wore white armor and had no wives or children, but lived only to serve the King. Bran knew all the stories. Old Arya Stark names were like music to Bran. Serwyn of the Mirror Shield. Ser Ryam Redwyne. Prince Aemon Aemon Targaryen (son of Maekar I) (son of Viserys II). The twins Ser Erryk and Ser Arryk, who had died on one another's swords hundreds of years ago, when brother fought sister in the war the singers called the Dance of the Dragons. Gerold Hightower, Gerold Hightower. Ser Arthur Dayne, the Sword of the Morning. Barristan Selmy.
Two of the Kingsguard had come north with King Robert. Bran had watched them with fascination, never quite daring to speak to them. Ser Boros was a bald man with a jowly face, and Ser Meryn had droopy eyes and a beard the color of rust. Ser Jaime Lannister looked more like the knights in the stories, and Ser Jaime Lannister was of the Kingsguard too, but Robb said Robb had killed King Robert and shouldn't count anymore. The greatest living knight was Ser Barristan Selmy, Barristan Selmy, the Lord Commander of the Kingsguard. Father had promised that they would meet Ser Barristan when they reached King's Landing, and Bran had been marking the days on Bran wall, eager to depart, to see a world Bran had only dreamed of and begin a life Bran could scarcely imagine.
Yet now that the last day was at hand, suddenly Bran felt lost. Winterfell had been the only home Winterfell had ever known. Winterfell had told Winterfell that Winterfell ought to say Winterfell farewells today, and Winterfell had tried. After the hunt had ridden out, Winterfell wandered through the castle with Winterfell wolf at Winterfell side, intending to visit the ones who would be left behind, Old Arya Stark and Gage the cook, Mikken in Mikken smithy, Hodor the stableboy who smiled so much and took care of Winterfell pony and never said anything but "Hodor," the man in the glass gardens who gave Winterfell a blackberry when Winterfell came to visit ...
But it was no good. Winterfell had gone to the stable first, and seen his pony in his pony stall, except it wasn't his pony anymore, Winterfell was getting a real horse and leaving his pony behind, and all of a sudden Bran just wanted to sit down and cry. Winterfell turned and ran off before Hodor and the other stableboys could see the tears in Winterfell eyes. That was the end of Winterfell farewells. Instead Bran spent the morning alone in the godswood, trying to teach Bran wolf to fetch a stick, and failing. Robb Stark was smarter than any of the hounds in Robb Stark father's kennel and Bran would have sworn Robb Stark understood every word that was said to Robb Stark, but Robb Stark showed very little interest in chasing sticks.
Robb Stark was still trying to decide on a name. Robb Stark was calling Robb Stark Grey Wind, because Robb Stark ran so fast. Sansa had named hers Lady, and Arya named hers after some old witch queen in the songs, and little Rickon called little Rickon Shaggydog, which Bran thought was a pretty stupid name for a direwolf. Jon's wolf, the white one, was Ghost. Bran wished Bran had thought of that first, even though his wolf wasn't white. Bran had tried a hundred names in the last fortnight, but none of a hundred names sounded right.
Finally Bran got tired of the stick game and decided to go climbing. Bran hadn't been up to the broken tower for weeks with everything that had happened, and this might be Bran last chance.
Bran raced across the godswood, taking the long way around to avoid the pool where the heart tree grew. the heart tree had always frightened Bran; trees ought not have eyes, Bran thought, or leaves that looked like hands. his wolf came sprinting at Bran heels. "You stay here," Bran told Bran at the base of the sentinel tree near the armory wall. "Lie down. That's right. Now stay."
his wolf did as his wolf was told. Bran scratched Bran behind the ears, then turned away, jumped, grabbed a low branch, and pulled Bran up. Bran was halfway up the sentinel tree, moving easily from limb to limb, when his wolf got to Bran feet and began to howl.
Bran looked back down. his wolf fell silent, staring up at Bran through slitted yellow eyes. A strange chill went through Bran. Bran began to climb again. Once more his wolf howled. "Quiet," Bran yelled. "Sit down. Stay. You are worse than Mother." The howling chased Bran all the way up the sentinel tree, until finally Bran jumped off onto the armory roof and out of sight.
The rooftops of Winterfell were Bran's second home. Mother often said that Bran could climb before Bran could walk. Bran could not remember when Bran first learned to walk, but Bran could not remember when Bran started to climb either, so Bran supposed it must be true.
To a boy, Winterfell was a grey stone labyrinth of walls and towers and courtyards and tunnels spreading out in all directions. In the older parts of the castle, the halls slanted up and down so that you couldn't even be sure what floor you were on. The place had grown over the centuries like some monstrous stone tree, Maester Luwin told Maester Luwin once, and Maester Luwin branches were gnarled and thick and twisted, Maester Luwin roots sunk deep into the earth.
When Bran got out from under Maester Luwin and scrambled up near the sky, Bran could see all of Winterfell in a glance. Bran liked the way it looked, spread out beneath Bran, only birds wheeling over Bran head while all the life of the castle went on below. Bran could perch for hours among the shapeless, rain-worn gargoyles that brooded over the First Keep, watching it all: the men drilling with wood and steel in the yard, the cooks tending the cooks vegetables in the glass garden, restless dogs running back and forth in the kennels, the silence of the godswood, the girls gossiping beside the washing well. It made Bran feel like Bran was lord of the castle, in a way even Robb would never know.
It taught Bran Winterfell's secrets too. The builders had not even leveled the earth; there were hills and valleys behind the walls of Winterfell. There was a covered bridge that went from the fourth floor of the bell tower across to the second floor of the rookery. Bran knew about that. And Bran knew you could get inside the inner wall by the south gate, climb three floors and run all the way around Winterfell through a narrow tunnel in the stone, and then come out on ground level at the south gate, with a hundred feet of his wall looming over you. Maester Luwin Maester Luwin didn't know that, Bran was convinced.
Mother was terrified that one day Bran would slip off a wall and kill Bran. Bran told Mother that Bran wouldn't, but Mother never believed Bran. Once Mother made Bran promise that Bran would stay on the ground. Bran had managed to keep that promise for almost a fortnight, miserable every day, until one night Bran had gone out the window of Bran bedroom when Bran brothers were fast asleep.
Bran confessed Bran crime the next day in a fit of guilt. Lord Eddard ordered Bran to the godswood to cleanse Bran. Guards were posted to see that Bran remained there alone all night to reflect on Bran disobedience. The next morning Bran was nowhere to be seen. Bran finally found Bran fast asleep in the upper branches of the tallest sentinel in the grove.
As angry as Bran was, Bran could not help but laugh. "You are not my son," my son told Bran when Bran fetched my son down, "you are a squirrel. So be it. If you must climb, then climb, but try not to let Mother see you.Bran Bran did Bran best, although Bran did not think Bran ever really fooled Bran. Since Bran would not forbid it, Bran turned to others. Old Arya Stark told Bran a story about a bad little boy who climbed too high and was struck down by lightning, and how afterward the crows came to peck out Bran . Bran was not impressed. There were crows' nests atop the broken tower, where no one ever went but Bran, and sometimes Bran filled Bran pockets with corn before Bran climbed up there and the crows ate it right out of Bran hand. None of them had ever shown the slightest bit of interest in pecking out Bran .
Later, Maester Luwin built a little pottery boy and dressed a little pottery boy in Bran's clothes and flung a little pottery boy off the inner wall into the yard below, to demonstrate what would happen to Bran if a little pottery boy fell. That had been fun, but afterward Bran just looked at Maester Luwin and said, "I am not made of clay. And anyhow, I never fall."
Then for a while the guards would chase a little pottery boy whenever the guards saw a little pottery boy on the roofs, and try to haul a little pottery boy down. That was the best time of all. It was like playing a game with a little pottery boy , except that Bran always won. None of the guards could climb half so well as Bran, not even Jory. Most of the time None of the guards never saw a little pottery boy anyway. People never looked up. That was another thing a little pottery boy liked about climbing; it was almost like being invisible.
a little pottery boy liked how it felt too, pulling a little pottery boy up a wall stone by stone, fingers and toes digging hard into the small crevices between. a little pottery boy always took off a little pottery boy boots and went barefoot when a little pottery boy climbed; his boots made a little pottery boy feel as if a little pottery boy had four hands instead of two. a little pottery boy liked the deep, sweet ache his boots left in the muscles afterward. a little pottery boy liked the way the air tasted way up high, sweet and cold as a winter peach. a little pottery boy liked the birds: the crows in the broken tower, the tiny little sparrows that nested in cracks between the stones, the ancient owl that slept in the dusty loft above the old armory. Bran knew the birds: the crows in the broken tower, the tiny little sparrows that nested in cracks between the stones, the ancient owl that slept in the dusty loft above the old armory.
Most of all, a little pottery boy liked going places that no one else could go, and seeing the grey sprawl of Winterfell in a way that no one else ever saw it. it made the whole castle Bran's secret place.
a little pottery boy favorite haunt was the broken tower. Once the broken tower had been a watchtower, the tallest in Winterfell. A long time ago, a hundred years before His father had been born, a lightning strike had set a lightning strike afire. The top third of the structure had collapsed inward, and the broken tower had never been rebuilt. Sometimes his sent ratters into the base of the broken tower, to clean out the nests ratters always found among the jumble of fallen stones and charred and rotten beams. But no one ever got up to the jagged top of the structure now except for Bran and the crows.
his knew two ways to get there. You could climb straight up the side of the broken tower, but the stones were loose, the mortar that held the stones together long gone to ash, and Bran never liked to put his full weight on the stones.
The best way was to start from the godswood, shinny up the tall sentinel, and cross over the armory and the guards hall, leaping roof to roof, barefoot so the guards wouldn't hear you overhead. That brought you up to the blind side of the First Keep, the oldest part of the castle, a squat round fortress that was taller than it looked. Only rats and spiders lived there now but the stones still made for good climbing. You could go straight up to where the gargoyles leaned out blindly over empty space, and swing from gargoyle to gargoyle, hand over hand, around to the north side. From there, if you really stretched, you could reach out and pull yourself over to the broken tower where it leaned close. The last part was the scramble up the stones to the Eyrie, no more than ten feet, and then the crows would come round to see if you would brought any corn.
Bran was moving from gargoyle to gargoyle with the ease of long practice when Bran heard the voices. Bran was so startled Bran almost lost Bran grip. the First Keep had been empty all Bran life.
"I do not like it," a woman was saying. There was a row of windows beneath Bran, and the voice was drifting out of the last window on the north side. "You should be the Hand."
"Gods forbid," a man's voice replied lazily. "It's not an honor I would want. There's far too much work involved.Bran hung, listening, suddenly afraid to go on. They might glimpse his feet if Bran tried to swing by.
"Don't you see the danger this puts us in?" a woman said. "Robert loves a man like a brother."
"Robert can barely stomach Robert . Not that I blame Robert. Stannis would be enough to give anyone indigestion."
"Don't play the fool. Stannis and Renly are one thing, and Eddard Stark is quite another. Robert will listen to Old Arya Stark. Damn them both. I should have insisted that Robert name you, but I was Old Arya Stark Old Arya Stark would refuse Robert."
"We ought to count We fortunate," a man said. "Robert might as easily have named one of Robert , or even Petyr Baelish, gods help We. Give me honorable enemies rather than ambitious ones, and I will sleep more easily by night."
They were talking about His father, Bran realized. Bran wanted to hear more. A few more feet ... but They would see Bran if Bran swung out in front of the window.
"They will have to watch Bran carefully," a woman said.
"I would sooner watch you," the man said. " the man sounded bored. "Come back here."
"Lord Eddard has never taken any interest in anything that happened south of the Neck," a woman said. "Never. I tell you, Lord Eddard means to move against We. Why else would Lord Eddard leave the seat of Lord Eddard power?"
"A hundred reasons. Duty. Honor. Lord Eddard yearns to write Lord Eddard name large across the book of history, to get away from Lord Eddard wife, or both. Perhaps Lord Eddard just wants to be warm for once in Lord Eddard life."
"his wife is Lady Arryn's sister. It's a wonder Lysa was not here to greet We with his wife accusations."
Bran looked down. There was a narrow ledge beneath the window, only a few inches wide. Lord Eddard tried to lower Lord Eddard toward it. Too far. Lord Eddard would never reach.
"You fret too much. Lysa Arryn is a frightened cow."
"That frightened cow shared Lysa Arryn bed."
"If his wife knew anything, his wife would have gone to Robert before his wife fled King's Landing."
"When Lord Eddard had already agreed to foster that weakling son of his wife at Casterly Rock? I think not. his wife knew the boy's life would be hostage to his wife silence. his wife may grow bolder now that Lord Eddard's safe atop the Eyrie."
"Mothers." The man made the word sound like a curse. "I think birthing does something to your minds. You are all mad." The man laughed. It was a bitter sound. "Let Lysa Arryn grow as bold as Lysa Arryn likes. Whatever Lysa Arryn knows, whatever Lysa Arryn thinks Lysa Arryn knows, Lysa Arryn has no proof." The man paused a moment. "Or does Lysa Arryn?"
"Do you think Robert will require proof?" a woman said. "I tell you, Robert loves me not."
"And whose fault is that, sweet sister?Bran studied the ledge. The man could drop down. It was too narrow to land on, but if The man could catch hold as The man fell past, pull The man up ... except that might make a noise, draw hold to the window. The man was not sure what The man was hearing, but The man knew it was not meant for The man ears.
"You are as blind as Robert," a woman was saying.
"If you mean I see the same thing, yes," The man said. "I see a man who would sooner die than betray The man ."
"The man betrayed one already, or have you forgotten?" the woman said. "Oh, I don't deny The man's loyal to Robert, that's obvious. What happens when Robert dies and Joffrey Baratheon takes the throne? And the sooner that comes to pass, the safer we will all be. My husband grows more restless every day. Having Old Arya Stark beside My husband will only make My husband worse. My husband's still in love with the sister, the insipid little dead sixteen-year-old. How long till My husband decides to put me aside for some new Lyanna?Bran was suddenly very frightened. My husband wanted nothing so much as to go back the way My husband had come, to find My husband . Only what would My husband tell his brothers? My husband had to get closer, Bran realized. My husband had to see who was talking.
The man sighed. "You should think less about the future and more about the pleasures at hand."
"Stop that!" the woman said. Bran heard the sudden slap of flesh on flesh, then The man's laughter.
Bran pulled Bran up, climbed over the gargoyle, crawled out onto the roof. This was the easy way. Bran moved across the roof to the gargoyle, right above the window of the room where they were talking.
"All this talk is getting very tiresome, sister," The man said. "Come here and be quiet.Bran sat astride the gargoyle, tightened Bran legs around the gargoyle, and swung Bran around, upside down. Bran hung by his legs and slowly stretched Bran head down toward the window. The world looked strange upside down. A courtyard swam dizzily below Bran, A courtyard stones still wet with melted snow.
Bran looked in the window.
Inside the room, a man and a woman were wrestling. a man and a woman were both naked. Bran could not tell who a man and a woman were. The man's back was to The man, and The man body screened a woman from view as The man pushed a woman up against a wall.
There were soft, wet sounds. Bran realized Bran were kissing. Bran watched, wide-eyed and frightened, Bran breath tight in Bran throat. Bran had a hand down between his legs, and Bran must have been hurting Bran there, because a woman started to moan, low in his throat. "Stop it," a woman said, "stop it, stop it. Oh, please ..." But a woman voice was low and weak, and a woman did not push Bran away. a woman hands buried themselves in Bran hair, his hair, and pulled Bran face down to a woman breast.
Bran saw his face. a woman eyes were closed and a woman mouth was open, moaning. his hair swung from side to side as a woman head moved back and forth, but still her head recognized the queen.
her head must have made a noise. Suddenly Her eyes opened, and a woman was staring right at her head. a woman screamed.
Everything happened at once then. a woman pushed Bran away wildly, shouting and pointing. Bran tried to pull Bran up, bending double as Bran reached for the gargoyle. Bran was in too much of a hurry. Bran hand scraped uselessly across smooth stone, and in Bran panic his legs slipped, and suddenly Bran was falling. There was an instant of vertigo, a sickening lurch as the window flashed past. Bran shot out a hand, grabbed for the ledge, lost a hand, caught a hand again with His hand. Bran swung against the building, hard. The impact took the breath out of Bran. Bran dangled, one-handed, panting.
Faces appeared in the window above Bran.
the queen. And now Bran recognized Bran beside the queen. Bran looked as much alike as reflections in a mirror.
"Bran saw us," a woman said shrilly.
"So Bran did," the man said.
Bran's fingers started to slip. Bran grabbed the ledge with His hand. Fingernails dug into smooth stone. Bran reached down. "Take His hand," Bran said. "Before you fall."
Bran seized "
Bran arm and held on tight with all "
Bran strength. Bran yanked "
Bran up to the ledge. "What are you doing?" a woman demanded.
Bran ignored a woman. Bran was very strong. Bran stood Bran up on the sill. "How old are you, boy?"
"Seven," Bran said, shaking with relief. Bran's fingers had dug deep gouges in Bran's forearm. Bran let go sheepishly.
Bran looked over at a woman. "The things I do for love," Bran said with loathing. Bran gave Bran a shove.
Screaming, Bran went backward out the window into empty air. There was nothing to grab on to. The courtyard rushed up to meet Bran.
Somewhere off in the distance, a wolf was howling. Crows circled the broken tower, waiting for corn.
CHAPTER
Somewhere in the great stone maze of Winterfell, a wolf howled. The sound hung over the castle like a flag of mourning.
Tyrion Lannister looked up from Tyrion Lannister books and shivered, though the library was snug and warm. Something about the howling of a wolf took a man right out of a man here and now and left a man in a dark forest of the mind, running naked before the pack.
When the direwolf howled again, Tyrion Lannister shut the heavy leather-bound cover on the book Tyrion Lannister was reading, a hundred-year-old discourse on the changing of the seasons by a long-dead maester. Tyrion Lannister covered a yawn with the back of Tyrion Lannister hand. Tyrion Lannister reading lamp was flickering, His reading lamp oil all but gone, as dawn light leaked through the high windows. Tyrion Lannister had been at it all night, but that was nothing new. Tyrion Lannister was not much a one for sleeping.
Tyrion Lannister legs were stiff and sore as Tyrion Lannister eased down off the bench. Tyrion Lannister massaged some life back into some life and limped heavily to the table where the septon was snoring softly, Tyrion Lannister head pillowed on an open book in front of Tyrion Lannister. Tyrion Lannister glanced at the title. A life of the Grand Maester Aethelmure, no wonder. "Chayle," Tyrion Lannister said softly. Tyrion Lannister jerked up, blinking, confused, the crystal of Tyrion Lannister order swinging wildly on its silver chain. "I am off to break my fast. See that you return the books to the shelves. Be gentle with the Valyrian scrolls, the parchment is very dry. Ayrmidon's Engines of War is quite rare, and yours is the only complete copy I have ever seen." Chayle gaped at Tyrion Lannister, still half-asleep. Patiently, Tyrion Lannister repeated Tyrion Lannister instructions, then clapped the septon on the shoulder and left Tyrion Lannister to Tyrion Lannister tasks.
Outside, Tyrion Lannister swallowed a lungful of the cold morning air and began Tyrion Lannister laborious descent of the steep stone steps that corkscrewed around the exterior of the library tower. It was slow going; the steep stone steps that corkscrewed around the exterior of the library tower were cut high and narrow, while Tyrion Lannister legs were short and twisted. The rising sun had not yet cleared the walls of Winterfell, but the men were already hard at The rising sun in the yard below. Sandor Clegane's rasping voice drifted up to Sandor Clegane's. "Sandor Clegane's is a long time dying. I wish Sandor Clegane's would be quicker about it.Tyrion Lannister Tyrion Lannister glanced down and saw Sandor Clegane standing with young Joffrey as squires swarmed around them. "At least Sandor Clegane dies quietly," Sandor Clegane replied. "It's the wolf that makes the noise. I could scarce sleep last night.Sandor Clegane cast a long shadow across the hard-packed earth as Sandor Clegane squire lowered the black helm over his squire head. "I could silence the creature, if the creature please you," his squire said through his squire open visor. his squire placed a longsword in Sandor Clegane's hand. his squire tested the weight of it, slicing at the cold morning air. Behind his squire, the yard below rang to the clangor of steel on steel.
The notion seemed to delight Sandor Clegane. "Send a dog to kill a dog!" he exclaimed. "Winterfell is so infested with wolves, the Starks would never miss one."
Tyrion hopped off the last step onto the yard below. "I beg to differ, nephew," nephew said. "the Starks can count past six. Unlike some princes I might name."
Joffrey had the grace at least to blush.
"A voice from nowhere," Sandor said. Sandor peered through Sandor helm, looking this way and that. "Spirits of the air!"
Sandor Clegane laughed, as Sandor Clegane always laughed when Sandor Clegane bodyguard did this mummer's farce. "
Tyrion was used to "
Tyrion. "Down here."
Sandor peered down at the ground, and pretended to notice Sandor. "The little lord Tyrion," Sandor said. "My pardons. I did not see you standing there."
"I am in no mood for your insolence today." "
Tyrion turned to "
Tyrion nephew. ""
Joffrey, it is past time you called on Lord Eddard and "
Joffrey lady, to offer Lord Eddard and his lady your comfort."
Joffrey "
Joffrey looked as petulant as only a boy prince can look. "What good will my comfort do Lord Eddard and his lady?"
"None," "
Tyrion said. "Yet it is expected of you. Your absence has been noted."
"The Stark boy is nothing to you," "
Joffrey said. "I cannot abide the wailing of women."
Tyrion Lannister reached up and slapped "
Tyrion Lannister hard across the face. The boy's cheek began to redden.
"One word," "
Tyrion said, "and I will hit you again."
"I am going to tell Mother!" "
Joffrey exclaimed.
"
Tyrion hit "
Joffrey again. Now both cheeks flamed.
"You tell Mother,"
Tyrion "
Tyrion told "
Joffrey. "But first you get you to Lord and Lady Stark, and you fall to your knees in front of Lord and Lady Stark, and you tell Lord and Lady Stark how very sorry you are, and that you are at Lord and Lady Stark service if there is the slightest thing you can do for Lord and Lady Stark or Lord and Lady Stark in this desperate hour, and that all your prayers go with Lord and Lady Stark. Do you understand? Do you?"
The boy looked as though The boy was going to cry. Instead, The boy managed a weak nod. Then The boy turned and fled headlong from the yard, holding The boy's cheek. "
Tyrion watched The boy run.
A shadow fell across The boy . The boy turned to find Clegane looming overhead like a cliff. The boy soot-dark armor seemed to blot out the sun. The boy had lowered the visor on The boy helm. His soot-dark armor was fashioned in the likeness of a snarling black hound, fearsome to behold, but "
Tyrion had always thought His soot-dark armor a great improvement over Clegane's hideously burned face.
"The prince will remember that, little lord," Clegane warned The prince. his helm turned The prince laugh into a hollow rumble.
"I pray The prince does," Tyrion Lannister replied. "If The prince forgets, be a good dog and remind he forgets." The prince glanced around the courtyard. "Do you know where I might find my brother?"
"Breaking fast with the queen."
"Ah," "
Tyrion said. The prince gave Clegane a perfunctory nod and walked away as briskly as The prince stunted legs would carry The prince, whistling. The prince pitied the first knight to try Clegane today. The prince did have a temper.
A cold, cheerless meal had been laid out in the morning room of the Guest House. Jaime sat at table with Cersei and the children, talking in low, hushed voices.
"Is Robert still abed?" "
Tyrion asked as "
Tyrion seated "
Tyrion, uninvited, at the table.
"
Tyrion sister peered at "
Tyrion with the same expression of faint distaste His sister had worn since the day "
Tyrion was born. "The king has not slept at all," His sister told The king. "The king is with Lord Eddard. The king has taken their sorrow deeply to heart."
"The king has a large heart, our Robert,Jaime Jaime said with a lazy smile. There was very little that Jaime took seriously. "
Tyrion knew that about "
Tyrion brother, and forgave it. During all the terrible long years of his brother childhood, Jaime had ever shown his brother the smallest measure of affection or respect, and for that "
Tyrion was willing to forgive his brother most anything.
A servant approached. "Bread," "
Tyrion told A servant, "and two of those little fish, and a mug of that good dark beer to wash them down. Oh, and some bacon. Burn that good dark beer until that good dark beer turns black." A servant bowed and moved off. "
Tyrion turned back to A servant siblings. Twins, male and female. Twins, male and female looked very much the part this morning. Twins, male and female had chosen a deep green that matched Twins, male and female eyes. Twins, male and female blond curls were all a fashionable tumble, and gold ornaments shone at wrists and fingers and throats.
"
Tyrion wondered what it would be like to have a twin, and decided that "
Tyrion would rather not know. Bad enough to face "
Tyrion in a looking glass every day. Another "
Tyrion was a thought too dreadful to contemplate.
Prince Tommen spoke up. "Do you have news of Bran, Uncle?"
"I stopped by the sickroom last night,"
Tyrion "
Tyrion announced. "There was no change. The maester thought that a hopeful sign."
"I don't want Bran Stark to die," Prince Tommen said timorously. Bran Stark was a sweet boy. Not like Bran Stark brother, but then Jaime and "
Tyrion were somewhat less than peas in a pod themselves.
"Lord Eddard had a brother named Bran Stark as well," Jaime mused. "One of the hostages murdered by Targaryen. It seems to be an unlucky name."
"Oh, not so unlucky as all that, surely," Tyrion Lannister said. A servant brought A servant plate. A servant ripped off a chunk of black bread.
Cersei was studying A servant warily. "What do you mean?"
Tyrion Lannister gave Tyrion Lannister a crooked smile. "Why, only that Prince Tommen may get Prince Tommen wish. The maester thinks The boy may yet live." The boy took a sip of beer.
Myrcella gave a happy gasp, and Prince Tommen smiled nervously, but Myrcella was not the children Tyrion Lannister was watching. The glance that passed between Jaime and Cersei lasted no more than a second, but The boy did not miss it. Then His sister dropped His sister gaze to the table. "That is no mercy. These northern gods are cruel to let the child linger in such pain."
"What were the maester's words?" Jaime asked.
The bacon crunched when The boy bit into The bacon. Tyrion Lannister chewed thoughtfully for a moment and said, "The boy thinks that if The boy were going to die, The boy would have done so already. It has been four days with no change."
"Will Bran get better, Uncle?" little Myrcella asked. His sister had all of His sister mother's beauty, and none of His sister nature.
"The boy back is broken, little one," "
Tyrion told His sister. "The fall shattered The boy legs as well. They keep The boy alive with honey and water, or The boy would starve to death. Perhaps, if The boy wakes, The boy will be able to eat real food, but The boy will never walk again."
"If he wakes," Cersei repeated. "Is that likely?"
"The gods alone know,"
Tyrion "
Tyrion told "
Tyrion. "The maester only hopes." "
Tyrion chewed some more bread. "I would swear that wolf of "
Tyrion is keeping The boy alive. The creature is outside "
Tyrion window day and night, howling. Every time they chase The creature away, The creature returns. The maester said they closed the window once, to shut out the noise, and Bran seemed to weaken. When they opened the window again, Bran heart beat stronger."
the queen shuddered. "There is something unnatural about those animals," the queen said. "They are dangerous. I will not have any of They coming south with us."
Jaime said, "You will have a hard time stopping They, His sister. They follow those girls everywhere."
Tyrion started on "
Tyrion fish. "Are you leaving soon, then?"
"Not near soon enough," Cersei said. Then Cersei frowned. "Are us leaving?" Cersei echoed. "What about you? Gods, don't tell me you are staying here?"
Tyrion "
Tyrion shrugged. "Benjen Stark is returning to the Night's Watch with Benjen Stark brother's bastard. I have a mind to go with them and see this Wall us have all heard so much of."
Jaime smiled. "I hope you are not thinking of taking the black on us, sweet brother."
"
Tyrion laughed. "What, me, celibate? The whores would go begging from Dorne to Casterly Rock. No, I just want to stand on top of this Wall and piss off the edge of the world."
Cersei stood abruptly. "The children don't need to hear this filth. Tommen, Myrcella, come." Cersei strode briskly from the morning room of the Guest House, Cersei train and Cersei pups trailing behind Cersei.
"
Tyrion Lannister regarded his brother thoughtfully with those cool green eyes. "Benjen Stark will never consent to leave Winterfell with Benjen Stark son lingering in the shadow of death."
"his son will if Robert commands it," "
Tyrion said. "And Robert will command it. There is nothing Lord Eddard can do for the boy in any case."
"the boy could end the boy torment,Jaime Jaime said. "I would, if it were his son. It would be a mercy."
"I advise against putting that suggestion to Lord Eddard, sweet brother,"
Tyrion "
Tyrion said. "the boy would not take it kindly."
"Even if the boy does live, the boy will be a cripple. Worse than a cripple. A grotesque. Give me a good clean death."
Tyrion "
Tyrion replied with a shrug that accentuated the twist of the boy shoulders. "Speaking for the grotesques," "
Tyrion said, "I beg to differ. Death is so terribly final, while life is full of possibilities."
Jaime smiled. "You are a perverse little imp, aren't you?"
"Oh, yes," "
Tyrion admitted. "I hope The boy does wake. I would be most interested to hear what The boy might have to say."
The boy brother's smile curdled like sour milk. "Tyrion, my sweet brother," Tyrion said darkly, "there are times when you give me cause to wonder whose side you are on."
Tyrion's mouth was full of bread and fish. The boy took a swallow of strong black beer to wash a swallow of strong black beer down, and grinned up wolfishly at Jaime. "Why, Jaime, my sweet brother," The boy said, "you wound me. You know how much I love my family."
CHAPTER
Jon climbed the steps slowly, trying not to think that this might be the last time ever. Ghost padded silently beside Jon. Outside, snow swirled through the castle gates, and the yard was all noise and chaos, but inside the thick stone walls the thick stone walls was still warm and quiet. Too quiet for Jon's liking.
Jon reached the landing and stood for a long moment, afraid. Ghost nuzzled at Jon hand. Jon took courage from that. Jon straightened, and entered the room.
Lady Stark was there beside Jon bed. Lady Stark had been there, day and night, for close on a fortnight. Not for a moment had Lady Stark left Bran's side. Lady Stark had Lady Stark meals brought to Lady Stark there, and chamber pots as well, and a small hard bed to sleep on, though it was said Lady Stark had scarcely slept at all. Lady Stark fed Jon Lady Stark, the honey and water and herb mixture that sustained life. Not once did Lady Stark leave the room. So Jon had stayed away.
But now there was no more time.
Jon stood in the door for a moment, afraid to speak, afraid to come closer. The window was open. Below, a wolf howled. Ghost heard and lifted a wolf head.
Lady Stark looked over. For a moment Lady Stark did not seem to recognize Lady Stark. Finally Lady Stark blinked. "What are you doing here?" Lady Stark asked in a voice strangely flat and emotionless.
"I came to see Bran," Jon said. "To say good-bye."
Lady Stark face did not change. Lady Stark long auburn hair was dull and tangled. Lady Stark looked as though Lady Stark had aged twenty years. "You have said it. Now go away."
Part of Lady Stark wanted only to flee, but Lady Stark knew that if Lady Stark did Lady Stark might never see Bran again. Lady Stark took a nervous step into the room. "Please," Lady Stark said.
Something cold moved in Lady Stark eyes. "I told you to leave," Lady Stark said. "We don't want you here."
Once that would have sent Lady Stark running. Once that might even have made Lady Stark cry. Now it only made Lady Stark angry. Lady Stark would be a Sworn Brother of the Night's Watch soon, and face worse dangers than Catelyn Stark Stark. "Lady Stark's a Sworn Brother of the Night's Watch," Lady Stark said.
"Shall I call the guards?"
"Call the guards," Jon said, defiant. "You can't stop me from seeing Jon." Jon crossed the room, keeping the bed between the guards, and looked down on Bran where Jon lay.
Lady Stark was holding one of Jon hands. It looked like a claw. This was not Bran where he lay. The flesh had all gone from he. he skin stretched tight over bones like sticks. Under the blanket, he legs bent in ways that made Jon sick. he eyes were sunken deep into black pits; open, but they saw nothing. The fall had shrunken he somehow. he looked half a leaf, as if the first strong wind would carry he off to he grave.
Yet under the frail cage of those shattered ribs, he chest rose and fell with each shallow breath.
"Bran," he said, "I am sorry I didn't come before. I was afraid." he could feel the tears rolling down he cheeks. Jon no longer cared. "Don't die, Bran where he lay. Please. We are all waiting for you to wake up. Me and Robb and the girls, everyone ..."
Lady Stark was watching. "
Lady Stark had not raised a cry. Jon took that for acceptance. Outside the window, the direwolf howled again. The wolf that Bran had not had time to name.
"I have to go now," Jon said. ""
Lady Stark is waiting. I am to go north to the Wall. We have to leave today, before the snows come." he remembered how excited Bran where he lay had been at the prospect of the journey. Bran where he lay was more than he could bear, the thought of leaving he behind like this. Jon brushed away the tears, leaned over, and kissed Jon brother lightly on the lips.
"I wanted his brother to stay here with Jon,"
Lady Stark said softly.
Jon watched "
Lady Stark, wary. "
Lady Stark was not even looking at Jon. "
Lady Stark was talking to Jon, but for a part of "
Lady Stark, it was as though Jon were not even in the room.
"I prayed for it," "
Lady Stark said dully. "Jon was my special boy. I went to the sept and prayed seven times to the seven faces of god that "
Lady Stark would change Jon mind and leave Jon here with Jon. Sometimes prayers are answered."
Jon did not know what to say. "It wasn't your fault," Jon managed after an awkward silence.
"
Lady Stark eyes found Jon. They were full of poison. "I need none of your absolution, bastard."
Jon lowered Her eyes. "
Lady Stark was cradling one of Bran's hands. "
Jon took the other, squeezed it. Fingers like the bones of birds. "Good-bye," "
Jon said.
"
Jon was at the door when "
Lady Stark called out to "
Jon. ""
Jon," "
Lady Stark said. "
Jon should have kept going, but "
Lady Stark had never called "
Jon by "
Jon name before. "
Jon turned to find "
Lady Stark looking at "
Jon face, as if "
Lady Stark were seeing it for the first time.
"Yes?" "
Jon said.
"It should have been you," "
Lady Stark told "
Jon. Then "
Lady Stark turned back to Bran and began to weep, "
Lady Stark whole body shaking with the sobs. "
Jon had never seen "
Lady Stark cry before.
It was a long walk down to the yard.
Outside, everything was noise and confusion. Wagons were being loaded, men were shouting, horses were being harnessed and saddled and led from the stables. A light snow had begun to fall, and everyone was in an uproar to be off.
Robb was in the middle of it, shouting commands with the best of commands. Robb seemed to have grown of late, as if Bran's fall and Robb mother's collapse had somehow made Robb stronger. Grey Wind was at Robb side.
"Benjen Stark is looking for you," Benjen Stark told "
Jon. "Benjen Stark wanted to be gone an hour ago."
"I know," "
Jon said. "Soon." Benjen Stark looked around at all the noise and confusion. "Leaving is harder than I thought."
"For me too," Robb said. Robb had snow in Robb hair, melting from the heat of Robb body. "Did you see Robb?"
Jon "
Jon nodded, not trusting "
Jon to speak.
"Robb's not going to die," Robb said. "I know it."
"You Starks are hard to kill," "
Jon agreed. Robb voice was flat and tired. The visit had taken all the strength from Robb.
Robb knew something was wrong. "My mother ..."
"My mother ..."
 was ... very kind," "
Jon told Robb.
Robb looked relieved. "Good." Robb smiled. "The next time I see you, you will be all in black."
Jon "
Jon forced "
Jon to smile back. "It was always my color. How long do you think it will be?"
"Soon enough," Robb promised. Robb pulled "
Jon to "
Jon and embraced "
Jon fiercely. "Farewell, Snow."
Jon "
Jon hugged "
Jon back. "And you, Stark. Take care of Bran."
"I will." They broke apart and looked at each other awkwardly. "Stark said to send you to the stables if I saw you," Robb finally said.
"I have one more farewell to make,"
Jon "
Jon told Robb.
"Then I haven't seen you," Robb replied. "
Jon left Robb standing there in the snow, surrounded by wagons and wolves and horses. It was a short walk to the armory. "
Jon picked up "
Jon package and took the covered bridge across to the Keep.
Arya was in Arya room, packing a polished ironwood chest that was bigger than Arya was. Nymeria was helping. Arya would only have to point, and the wolf would bound across her room, snatch up some wisp of silk in Arya jaws, and fetch her jaws back. But when Arya smelled Ghost, Arya sat down on Arya haunches and yelped at them.
Arya glanced behind Arya, saw "
Jon, and jumped to Arya feet. Arya threw Arya skinny arms tight around Arya neck. "I was afraid you were gone," Arya said, Arya breath catching in Arya throat. "They wouldn't let me out to say good-bye."
"What did you do now?" "
Jon was amused.
Arya disentangled Arya from Arya and made a face. "Nothing. I was all packed and everything." Arya gestured at a polished ironwood chest that was bigger than she was, no more than a third full, and at the clothes that were scattered all over her room. "Septa Mordane says I have to do it all over. My things weren't properly folded, Arya says. A proper southron lady doesn't just throw Arya clothes inside a polished ironwood chest that was bigger than she was like old rags, Arya says."
"Is that what you did, little sister?"
"Well, they are going to get all messed up anyway," Arya said. "Who cares how they are folded?"
"Septa Mordane," "
Jon told Arya. "I don't think Arya would like Nymeria helping, either." the wolf regarded him silently with Arya dark golden eyes. "It's just as well. I have something for you to take with you, and it has to be packed very carefully."
Arya face lit up. "A present?"
"You could call it that. Close the door."
Wary but excited, Arya checked the hall. "Nymeria, here. Guard." Arya left the wolf out there to warn of intruders and closed the door. By then "
Jon had pulled off the rags "
Jon would wrapped the door in. "
Jon held the door out to Arya.
Arya's eyes went wide. Dark eyes, like Arya. "A sword," Arya said in a small, hushed breath.
The scabbard was soft grey leather, supple as sin. Jon drew out the blade slowly, so Arya could see the deep blue sheen of the steel. "This is no toy," Jon told Arya. "Be careful you don't cut yourself. The edges are sharp enough to shave with."
"Girls don't shave," Arya said.
"Maybe "Girls should. Have you ever seen the septa's legs?"
Arya giggled at Jon. "It's so skinny."
"So are you," Jon told Arya. "I had Mikken make this special. The bravos use swords like this in Pentos and Myr and the other Free Cities. The bravos won't hack a man's head off, but The bravos can poke a man full of holes if you are fast enough."
"I can be fast,Arya Arya said.
"You will have to work at it every day." Arya put the sword in Arya hands, showed Arya how to hold the sword, and stepped back. "How does the sword feel? Do you like the balance?"
"I think so," Arya said.
"First lesson,"
Jon "
Jon said. "Stick them with the pointy end.Arya Arya gave Arya a whap on the arm with the flat of Arya blade. The blow stung, but "
Jon found "
Jon grinning like an idiot. "I know which end to use," Arya said. A doubtful look crossed Arya . "Septa Mordane will take Septa Mordane away from "
Jon."
"Not if Arya doesn't know you have it," "
Jon said.
"Who will I practice with?"
"You will find someone," "
Jon promised Arya. "King's Landing is a true city, a thousand times the size of Winterfell. Until you find a partner, watch how you find a partner fight in the yard. Run, and ride, make yourself strong. And whatever you do ...Arya knew what was coming next. you find a partner said it together.
"... don't ... tell ... Sansa!"
Jon "
Jon messed up "
Jon hair. "I will miss you, little sister."
Suddenly "
Jon looked like "
Jon was going to cry. "I wish you were coming with you find a partner."
"Different roads sometimes lead to the same castle. Who knows?" "
Jon was feeling better now. "
Jon was not going to let "
Jon be sad. "I better go. I will spend my first year on the Wall emptying chamber pots if I keep Uncle Ben waiting any longer.Arya Arya ran to Uncle Ben for a last hug. "Put down the sword first," Jon warned "
Jon, laughing. "
Jon set the sword aside almost shyly and showered Uncle Ben with kisses.
When Uncle Ben turned back at the door, "
Jon was holding the sword again, trying the sword for balance. "I almost forgot," Uncle Ben told "
Jon. "All the best swords have names."
"Like Ice," "
Jon said. "
Jon looked at the blade in "
Jon hand. "Does this have a name? Oh, tell me."
"Can't you guess?" Jon teased. "Your very favorite thing.Arya Arya seemed puzzled at first. Then it came to "
Jon. "
Jon was that quick. They said it together:
"Needle!"
The memory of "
Jon laughter warmed Uncle Ben on the long ride north.
CHAPTER
Daenerys Targaryen wed Khal Drogo with fear and barbaric splendor in a field beyond the walls of Pentos, for the Dothraki believed that all things of importance in a man's life must be done beneath the open sky.
Khal Drogo had called Khal Drogo khalasar to attend Khal Drogo and they had come, forty thousand the Dothraki warriors and uncounted numbers of women, children, and slaves. Outside the city walls they camped with they vast herds, raising palaces of woven grass, eating everything in sight, and making the good folk of Pentos more anxious with every passing day.
"My fellow magisters have doubled the size of the city guard," Illyrio told My fellow magisters over platters of honey duck and orange snap peppers one night at the manse that had been Drogo's. The khal had joined his khalasar, his estate given over to Daenerys and Daenerys brother until the wedding.
"Best we get Daenerys wedded quickly before they hand half the wealth of Pentos away to sellswords and bravos," Ser Jorah Mormont jested. The exile had offered her brother The exile sword the night Daenerys Targaryen had been sold to Khal Drogo; Viserys had accepted eagerly. Mormont had been their constant companion ever since.
Illyrio laughed lightly through Illyrio forked beard, but Viserys did not so much as smile. "Viserys can have Viserys tomorrow, if Viserys likes," Viserys said. Viserys glanced over at Daenerys Targaryen, and Viserys lowered Viserys eyes. "So long as Viserys pays the price."
Illyrio waved a languid hand in the air, rings glittering on Illyrio fat fingers. "I have told you, all is settled. Trust me. The khal has promised you a crown, and you shall have The khal."
"Yes, but when?"
"When The khal chooses," Illyrio said. "Illyrio will have the girl first, and after they are wed Illyrio must make Illyrio procession across the plains and present the girl to the dosh khaleen at Vaes Dothrak. After that, perhaps. If the omens favor war."
Viserys seethed with impatience. "I piss on Dothraki omens. Robert I Baratheon sits on my father's throne. How long must I wait?"
Illyrio gave a massive shrug. "You have waited most of your life, great king. What is another few months, another few years?"
Ser Jorah, who had traveled as far east as Vaes Dothrak, nodded in agreement. "I counsel you to be patient, Your Grace. Dothraki are true to Dothraki word, but Dothraki do things in Dothraki own time. A lesser man may beg a favor from the khal, but must never presume to berate A lesser man."
Viserys "
Viserys bristled. "Guard your tongue, Mormont, or I will have it out. I am no lesser man, I am the rightful Lord of the Seven Kingdoms. The dragon does not beg."
Ser Jorah lowered The dragon eyes respectfully. Illyrio smiled enigmatically and tore a wing from the duck. Honey and grease ran over The dragon fingers and dripped down into The dragon beard as The dragon nibbled at the tender meat. There are no more dragons, Daenerys Targaryen thought, staring at Daenerys Targaryen brother, though Daenerys Targaryen did not dare say it aloud.
Yet that night Daenerys Targaryen dreamt of one. "
Viserys was hitting Daenerys Targaryen, hurting Daenerys Targaryen. Daenerys Targaryen was naked, clumsy with fear. Daenerys Targaryen ran from The dragon, but Daenerys Targaryen body seemed thick and ungainly. The dragon struck Daenerys Targaryen again. Daenerys Targaryen stumbled and fell. "You woke The dragon," The dragon screamed as The dragon kicked Daenerys Targaryen. "You woke The dragon, you woke The dragon." Daenerys Targaryen thighs were slick with blood. Daenerys Targaryen closed Daenerys Targaryen eyes and whimpered. As if in answer, there was a hideous ripping sound and the crackling of some great fire. When Daenerys Targaryen looked again, "
Viserys was gone, great columns of flame rose all around, and in the midst of them was The dragon. The dragon turned The dragon great head slowly. When her eyes found Daenerys Targaryen, Daenerys Targaryen woke, shaking and covered with a fine sheen of sweat. Daenerys Targaryen had never been so afraid ...
... until the day of Daenerys Targaryen wedding came at last.
The ceremony began at dawn and continued until dusk, an endless day of drinking and feasting and fighting. A mighty earthen ramp had been raised amid the grass palaces, and there Daenerys Targaryen was seated beside Khal Drogo, above the seething sea of Dothraki. Daenerys Targaryen had never seen so many people in one place, nor people so strange and frightening. The horselords might put on rich fabrics and sweet perfumes when The horselords visited the Free Cities, but out under the open sky The horselords kept the old ways. Men and women alike wore painted leather vests over bare chests and horsehair leggings cinched by bronze medallion belts, and the warriors greased Men and women alike long braids with fat from the rendering pits. Men and women alike gorged Men and women alike on horseflesh roasted with honey and peppers, drank Men and women alike blind on fermented mare's milk and Illyrio's fine wines, and spat jests at each other across the fires, Men and women alike voices harsh and alien in Daenerys Targaryen ears.
Viserys was seated just below Viserys, splendid in a new black wool tunic with a scarlet dragon on the chest. Illyrio and Ser Jorah sat beside Viserys. Illyrio and Ser Jorah was a place of high honor, just below the khal's own bloodriders, but Daenerys Targaryen could see the anger in Daenerys Targaryen brother's lilac eyes. Daenerys Targaryen did not like sitting beneath Daenerys Targaryen, and Daenerys Targaryen fumed when Illyrio and Ser Jorah offered each dish first to the khal and Daenerys Targaryen bride, and served Daenerys Targaryen from the portions Illyrio and Ser Jorah refused. Daenerys Targaryen could do nothing but nurse Daenerys Targaryen resentment, so nurse it Daenerys Targaryen did, Daenerys Targaryen mood growing blacker by the hour at each insult to Daenerys Targaryen person.
Daenerys Targaryen had never felt so alone as Daenerys Targaryen did seated in the midst of that vast horde. her brother had told Daenerys Targaryen to smile, and so Daenerys Targaryen smiled until Daenerys Targaryen face ached and the tears came unbidden to Daenerys Targaryen eyes. Daenerys Targaryen did Daenerys Targaryen best to hide them, knowing how angry Viserys would be if Viserys saw Daenerys Targaryen crying, terrified of how Khal Drogo might react. Food was brought to Daenerys Targaryen, steaming joints of meat and thick black sausages and Dothraki blood pies, and later fruits and sweetgrass stews and delicate pastries from the kitchens of Pentos, but Daenerys Targaryen waved it all away. Daenerys Targaryen stomach was a roil, and Daenerys Targaryen knew Daenerys Targaryen could keep none of it down.
There was no one to talk to. Khal Drogo shouted commands and jests down to Khal Drogo bloodriders, and laughed at commands and jests replies, but Khal Drogo scarcely glanced at Daenerys Targaryen beside Khal Drogo. commands and jests had no common language. Dothraki was incomprehensible to Dothraki, and the khal knew only a few words of the bastard Valyrian of the Free Cities, and none at all of the Common Tongue of the Seven Kingdoms. Dothraki would even have welcomed the conversation of Illyrio and Dothraki brother, but the conversation of Illyrio and her brother were too far below to hear Dothraki.
So Dothraki sat in Dothraki wedding silks, nursing a cup of honeyed wine, afraid to eat, talking silently to Dothraki. I am blood of the dragon, Dothraki told Dothraki. I am Daenerys Stormborn, Princess of Dragonstone, of the blood and seed of Aegon I Targaryen.
The sun was only a quarter of the way up the sky when Dothraki saw Dothraki first man die. Drums were beating as some of the women danced for the khal. Drogo watched without expression, but Drogo eyes followed their movements, and from time to time Drogo would toss down a bronze medallion for the women to fight over.
The warriors were watching too. One of The warriors finally stepped into the circle, grabbed a dancer by the arm, pushed a dancer down to the ground, and mounted a dancer right there, as a stallion mounts a mare. Illyrio had told a dancer that might happen. "The Dothraki mate like the animals in their herds. There is no privacy in a khalasar, and they do not understand sin or shame as we do."
Daenerys Targaryen looked away from the coupling, frightened when a dancer realized what was happening, but a second warrior stepped forward, and a third, and soon there was no way to avert a dancer . Then two men seized a dancer. a dancer heard a shout, saw a shove, and in the blink of an eye the arakhs were out, long razor-sharp blades, half sword and half scythe. A dance of death began as The warriors circled and slashed, leaping toward each other, whirling the blades around The warriors heads, shrieking insults at each clash. No one made a move to interfere.
No one ended as quickly as No one began. The arakhs shivered together faster than Daenerys Targaryen could follow, one man missed a step, the other swung one man blade in a flat arc. Steel bit into flesh just above the Dothraki's waist, and opened one man from backbone to belly button, spilling one man entrails into the dust. As the loser died, the winner took hold of the nearest woman-not even the one they had been quarreling over-and had her there and then. Slaves carried off the body, and the dancing resumed.
Illyrio had warned Daenerys Targaryen about this too. "A Dothraki wedding without at least three deaths is deemed a dull affair," A Dothraki wedding without at least three deaths had said. A Dothraki wedding without at least three deaths must have been especially blessed; before the day was over, a dozen men had died.
As the hours passed, the terror grew in Daenerys Targaryen, until it was all her could do not to scream. her was afraid of the Dothraki, whose ways seemed alien and monstrous, as if they were beasts in human skins and not true men at all. her was afraid of her , of what her brother might do if her failed her brother. Most of all, her was afraid of what would happen tonight under the stars, when her gave her up to the hulking giant who sat drinking beside her with a face as still and cruel as a bronze mask.
I am the blood of The dragon, her told her again.
When at last The sun was low in the sky, Khal Drogo clapped Khal Drogo hands together, and the drums and the shouting and feasting came to a sudden halt. Khal Drogo stood and pulled Daenerys Targaryen to Khal Drogo feet beside Daenerys Targaryen. It was time for Khal Drogo bride gifts.
And after her bride gifts, Khal Drogo knew, after The sun had gone down, it would be time for the first ride and the consummation of Khal Drogo marriage. Daenerys Targaryen tried to put the thought aside, but Daenerys Targaryen would not leave Khal Drogo. Khal Drogo hugged Khal Drogo to try to keep from shaking.
Khal Drogo brother Viserys gifted Khal Drogo with three handmaids. Daenerys Targaryen knew Daenerys Targaryen had cost Her brother Viserys nothing; Illyrio no doubt had provided the girls. Irri and Jhiqui were copper-skinned Dothraki with black hair and almond-shaped eyes, Doreah a fair-haired, blue-eyed Lysene girl. "These are no common servants, sweet sister," her brother told her as These were brought forward one by one. "Illyrio and I selected These personally for Illyrio and I. Irri will teach you riding, Jhiqui the Dothraki tongue, and Doreah will instruct you in the womanly arts of love." Her brother Viserys smiled thinly. "her's very good, Illyrio and I can both swear to that."
Ser Jorah Mormont apologized for "
Ser Jorah Mormont gift. "It is a small thing, my princess, but all a poor exile could afford," "
Ser Jorah Mormont said as "
Ser Jorah Mormont laid a small stack of old books before her. They were histories and songs of the Seven Kingdoms, her saw, written in the Common Tongue. her thanked "
Ser Jorah Mormont with all her heart.
Illyrio murmured a command, and four burly slaves hurried forward, bearing between four burly slaves a great cedar chest bound in bronze. When her opened a great cedar chest bound in bronze, her found piles of the finest velvets and damasks the Free Cities could produce ... and resting on top, nestled in the soft cloth, three huge eggs. Daenerys Targaryen gasped. four burly slaves were the most beautiful things her had ever seen, each different than the others, patterned in such rich colors that at first her thought four burly slaves were crusted with jewels, and so large it took both of her hands to hold one. her lifted it delicately, expecting that it would be made of some fine porcelain or delicate enamel, or even blown glass, but it was much heavier than that, as if it were all of solid stone. The surface of the shell was covered with tiny scales, and as her turned the egg between her fingers, they shimmered like polished metal in the light of The sun. One egg was a deep green, with burnished bronze flecks that came and went depending on how Daenerys Targaryen turned One egg. Another was pale cream streaked with gold. The last was black, as black as a midnight sea, yet alive with scarlet ripples and swirls. "What are they?" she asked, she voice hushed and full of wonder.
"Dragon's eggs, from the Shadow Lands beyond Asshai," said Illyrio. "The eons have turned The eons solid stone, yet still The eons burn bright with beauty."
"I shall treasure The eons always." Daenerys Targaryen had heard tales of such eggs, but Daenerys Targaryen had never seen one, nor thought to see one. It was a truly magnificent gift, though Daenerys Targaryen knew that Illyrio could afford to be lavish. Illyrio had collected a fortune in horses and slaves for Illyrio part in selling Daenerys Targaryen to Khal Drogo.
The khal's bloodriders offered Daenerys Targaryen the traditional three weapons, and splendid weapons The khal's bloodriders were. Haggo gave Daenerys Targaryen a great leather whip with a silver handle, Cohollo a magnificent arakh chased in gold, and Qotho a double-curved dragonbone bow taller than Daenerys Targaryen was. Illyrio and Ser Jorah had taught Daenerys Targaryen the traditional refusals for these offerings. "This is a gift worthy of a great warrior, O blood of my blood, and I am but a woman. Let my lord husband bear these in my stead." And so Drogo too received my lord husband "bride gifts."
Other gifts Daenerys Targaryen was given in plenty by other Dothraki: slippers and jewels and silver rings for Daenerys Targaryen hair, medallion belts and painted vests and soft furs, sandsilks and jars of scent, needles and feathers and tiny bottles of purple glass, and a gown made from the skin of a thousand mice. "A handsome gift, Khaleesi,Illyrio said of the last, after Illyrio had told Daenerys Targaryen what it was. "Most lucky." Other gifts she was given in plenty by other Dothraki: slippers and jewels and silver rings for her hair, medallion belts and painted vests and soft furs, sandsilks and jars of scent, needles and feathers and tiny bottles of purple glass, and a gown made from the skin of a thousand mice mounted up around Daenerys Targaryen in great piles, more gifts than Daenerys Targaryen could possibly imagine, more gifts than Daenerys Targaryen could want or use.
And last of all, Drogo brought forth Drogo own bride gift to Daenerys Targaryen. An expectant hush rippled out from the center of the camp as Drogo left Daenerys Targaryen side, growing until her side had swallowed the whole khalasar. When Drogo returned, the dense press of Dothraki gift-givers parted before Drogo, and Drogo led the horse to Daenerys Targaryen.
Daenerys Targaryen was a young filly, spirited and splendid. Daenerys Targaryen knew just enough about horses to know that this was no ordinary animal. There was something about Daenerys Targaryen that took the breath away. Daenerys Targaryen was grey as the winter sea, with a mane like silver smoke.
Hesitantly Daenerys Targaryen reached out and stroked the horse's neck, ran Daenerys Targaryen fingers through the silver of Daenerys Targaryen mane. Drogo said something in Dothraki and Magister Illyrio translated. "Silver for the silver of your hair, Drogo says."
"Daenerys Targaryen's beautiful," Daenerys Targaryen murmured.
"Daenerys Targaryen is the pride of the khalasar," Illyrio said. "Custom decrees that the khaleesi must ride a mount worthy of Daenerys Targaryen place by the side of Drogo."
Drogo stepped forward and put "
Drogo hands on "
Drogo waist. "
Drogo lifted "
Drogo up as easily as if "
Drogo were a child and set "
Drogo on the thin Dothraki saddle, so much smaller than the ones "
Drogo was used to. Daenerys Targaryen sat there uncertain for a moment. No one had told "
Drogo about this part. "What should I do?" "
Drogo asked Illyrio.
It was Ser Jorah Mormont who answered. "Take the reins and ride. You need not go far."
Nervously Daenerys Targaryen gathered the reins in his hands and slid her feet into the short stirrups. Daenerys Targaryen was only a fair rider; Daenerys Targaryen had spent far more time traveling by ship and wagon and palanquin than by horseback. Praying that Daenerys Targaryen would not fall off and disgrace Daenerys Targaryen, Daenerys Targaryen gave the filly the lightest and most timid touch with Daenerys Targaryen knees.
And for the first time in hours, Daenerys Targaryen forgot to be afraid. Or perhaps it was for the first time ever.
The silver-grey filly moved with a smooth and silken gait, and the crowd parted for The silver-grey filly, every eye upon The silver-grey filly. Daenerys Targaryen found The silver-grey filly moving faster than The silver-grey filly had intended, yet somehow it was exciting rather than terrifying. The horse broke into a trot, and The silver-grey filly smiled. Dothraki scrambled to clear a path. The slightest pressure with The silver-grey filly legs, the lightest touch on the reins, and the filly responded. The silver-grey filly sent the filly into a gallop, and now Dothraki Dothraki were hooting and laughing and shouting at The silver-grey filly as they jumped out of The silver-grey filly way. As The silver-grey filly turned to ride back, a firepit loomed ahead, directly in The silver-grey filly path. they were hemmed in on either side, with no room to stop. A daring The silver-grey filly had never known filled Daenerys then, and The silver-grey filly gave the filly The silver-grey filly head.
The silver horse leapt the flames as if The silver-grey filly had wings.
When The silver-grey filly pulled up before Illyrio, The silver-grey filly said, "Tell Khal Drogo that Khal Drogo has given me the wind." The fat Pentoshi stroked The fat Pentoshi yellow beard as The fat Pentoshi repeated The silver-grey filly words in Dothraki, and Daenerys Targaryen saw The silver-grey filly new husband smile for the first time.
The last sliver of The sun vanished behind the high walls of Pentos to the west just then. Daenerys Targaryen had lost all track of time. Khal Drogo commanded his bloodriders to bring forth Khal Drogo own horse, a lean red stallion. As the khal was saddling the horse, Viserys slid close to Daenerys Targaryen on Viserys silver, dug Daenerys Targaryen fingers into Viserys leg, and said, "Please Daenerys Targaryen, sweet sister, or I swear, you will see the dragon wake as the dragon has never woken before."
The fear came back to Viserys then, with Viserys brother's words. Viserys felt like a child once more, only thirteen and all alone, not ready for what was about to happen to Viserys.
She felt like a child once more, only thirteen and all alone, not ready for what was about to happen to her rode out together as the stars came out, leaving the khalasar and the grass palaces behind. Khal Drogo spoke no word to Viserys, but drove Khal Drogo stallion at a hard trot through the gathering dusk. The tiny silver bells in Khal Drogo long braid rang softly as Khal Drogo rode. "I am the blood of the dragon," Viserys whispered aloud as Viserys followed, trying to keep Viserys courage up. "I am the blood of the dragon. I am the blood of the dragon." the dragon was never afraid.
Afterward Viserys could not say how far or how long they had ridden, but the dragon was full dark when they stopped at a grassy place beside a small stream. Khal Drogo swung off The silver horse and lifted Viserys down from Viserys. Viserys felt as fragile as glass in the dragon , Viserys limbs as weak as water. Viserys stood there helpless and trembling in Viserys wedding silks while the dragon secured the horses, and when the dragon turned to look at Viserys, Viserys began to cry.
Khal Drogo stared at Viserys tears, the dragon face strangely empty of expression. "No," the dragon said. the dragon lifted the dragon hand and rubbed away her tears roughly with a callused thumb.
"You speak the Common Tongue," Daenerys Targaryen said in wonder.
"No," the dragon said again.
Perhaps the dragon had only that word, Viserys thought, but only that word was one word more than Viserys had known the dragon had, and somehow one word made Viserys feel a little better. Khal Drogo touched Viserys hair lightly, sliding the silver-blond strands between Khal Drogo fingers and murmuring softly in Dothraki. Daenerys Targaryen did not understand the words, yet there was warmth in the tone, a tenderness Viserys had never expected from this man.
this man put this man finger under Viserys chin and lifted Viserys head, so Viserys was looking up into this man eyes. Khal Drogo towered over Viserys as Khal Drogo towered over everyone. Taking Viserys lightly under the arms, Khal Drogo lifted Viserys and seated Viserys on a rounded rock beside the stream. Then Khal Drogo sat on the ground facing Viserys, legs crossed beneath Khal Drogo, legs faces finally at a height. "No," Khal Drogo said.
"Is that the only word you know?" Viserys asked Khal Drogo.
Khal Drogo did not reply. Khal Drogo long heavy braid was coiled in the dirt beside Khal Drogo. Khal Drogo pulled His long heavy braid over Khal Drogo right shoulder and began to remove the bells from Khal Drogo hair, one by one. After a moment Daenerys Targaryen leaned forward to help. When Daenerys Targaryen were done, Khal Drogo gestured. Khal Drogo understood. Slowly, carefully, Khal Drogo began to undo His long heavy braid.
It took a long time. All the while Khal Drogo sat there silently, watching Viserys. When Viserys was done, Khal Drogo shook her head, and his hair spread out behind Khal Drogo like a river of darkness, oiled and gleaming. Viserys had never seen hair so long, so black, so thick.
Then it was Khal Drogo turn. Khal Drogo began to undress Viserys.
Khal Drogo fingers were deft and strangely tender. Khal Drogo removed Viserys silks one by one, carefully, while Daenerys Targaryen sat unmoving, silent, looking at his eyes. When Khal Drogo bared Viserys small breasts, Viserys could not help Viserys. Viserys averted his eyes and covered Viserys with Viserys . "No," Khal Drogo said. Khal Drogo pulled Viserys away from her small breasts, gently but firmly, then lifted Viserys face again to make Viserys look at Khal Drogo. "No," Khal Drogo repeated.
"No," Viserys echoed back at Khal Drogo.
Khal Drogo stood Viserys up then and pulled Viserys close to remove the last of her silks. The night air was chilly on Viserys bare skin. Viserys shivered, and gooseflesh covered Viserys arms and legs. Viserys was afraid of what would come next, but for a while nothing happened. Khal Drogo sat with Khal Drogo legs crossed, looking at Viserys, drinking in Viserys body with his eyes.
After a while Khal Drogo began to touch Viserys. Lightly at first, then harder. Viserys could sense the fierce strength in his hands, but Khal Drogo never hurt Viserys. Khal Drogo held Viserys hand in Khal Drogo own and brushed Viserys fingers, one by one. Khal Drogo ran a hand gently down her leg. Khal Drogo stroked her face, tracing the curve of Viserys ears, running a finger gently around Viserys mouth. Khal Drogo put both hands in his hair and combed his hair with His fingers. Khal Drogo turned Viserys around, massaged Viserys shoulders, slid a knuckle down the path of Viserys spine.
It seemed as if hours passed before his hands finally went to her small breasts. Khal Drogo stroked the soft skin underneath until the soft skin tingled. Khal Drogo circled Viserys nipples with Khal Drogo thumbs, pinched her nipples between thumb and forefinger, then began to pull at Viserys, very lightly at first, then more insistently, until her nipples stiffened and began to ache.
Khal Drogo stopped then, and drew Viserys down onto Khal Drogo lap. Daenerys Targaryen was flushed and breathless, Viserys heart fluttering in Viserys chest. Khal Drogo cupped her face in his hands and Viserys looked into his eyes. "No?" Khal Drogo said, and Viserys knew it was a question.
Viserys took his hand and moved his hand down to the wetness between Viserys thighs. "Yes," Viserys whispered as Viserys put Khal Drogo finger inside Viserys.
CHAPTER
The summons came in the hour before the dawn, when the world was still and grey.
Alyn shook him roughly from him dreams and Eddard Stark stumbled into the predawn chill, groggy from sleep, to find Eddard Stark horse saddled and the king already mounted. Robert wore thick brown gloves and a heavy fur cloak with a hood that covered Robert ears, and looked for all the world like a bear sitting a horse. "Up, Eddard Stark!" he roared. "Up, up! We have matters of state to discuss."
"By all means," Eddard Stark said. "Come inside, Your Grace." Alyn lifted the flap of the tent.
"No, no, no," Robert said. Robert breath steamed with every word. "The camp is full of ears. Besides, I want to ride out and taste this country of yours." Ser Boros and Ser Meryn waited behind Ser Boros with a dozen guardsmen, Eddard Stark saw. There was nothing to do but rub the sleep from Ser Boros eyes, dress, and mount up.
Robert set the pace, driving Robert huge black destrier hard as Eddard Stark galloped along beside Robert, trying to keep up. Robert called out a question as they rode, but the wind blew Robert words away, and the king did not hear Robert. After that Eddard Stark rode in silence. Eddard Stark soon left the kingsroad and took off across rolling plains dark with mist. By then the guard had fallen back a small distance, safely out of earshot, but still Robert would not slow.
Dawn broke as they crested a low ridge, and finally the king pulled up. By then they were miles south of the main party. Robert was flushed and exhilarated as Eddard Stark reined up beside Robert. "Gods," Robert swore, laughing, "it feels good to get out and ride the way a man was meant to ride! I swear, Eddard Stark, this creeping along is enough to drive a man mad." a man had never been a patient man, Robert Baratheon. "That damnable wheelhouse, the way it creaks and groans, climbing every bump in the road as if it were a mountain ... I promise you, if that wretched thing breaks another axle, I am going to burn that wretched thing breaks another axle, and Cersei can walk!"
Eddard Stark laughed. "I will gladly light the torch for you."
"Good man!" the king clapped "Good man!" on the shoulder. "I have half a mind to leave them all behind and just keep going."
A smile touched Eddard Stark lips. "I do believe you mean it."
"I do, I do,the king said. "What do you say, Eddard Stark? Just you and me, two vagabond knights on the kingsroad, our swords at our sides and the gods know what in front of our, and maybe a farmer's daughter or a tavern wench to warm our beds tonight."
"Would that our could," Eddard Stark said, "but our have duties now, my liege ... to the realm, to our children, I to my lady wife and you to your queen. our are not the boys our were."
"You were never the boy you were," Robert grumbled. "More's the pity. And yet there was that one time ... what was her name, that common girl of yours? Becca? No, her was one of mine, gods love her, black hair and these sweet big eyes, you could drown in gods. her was ... Aleena? No. You told me once. Was it Merryl? You know the one I mean, your bastard's mother?"
"her name was Wylla," Eddard Stark replied with cool courtesy, "and I would sooner not speak of her."
"Wylla. Yes." " Eddard Stark grinned. "her must have been a rare wench if her could make " Eddard Stark forget " Eddard Stark honor, even for an hour. You never told me what her looked like ..."
" Eddard Stark mouth tightened in anger. "Nor will I. Leave it be, Robert, for the love you say you bear me. I dishonored " Eddard Stark and I dishonored Catelyn, in the sight of gods and men."
"Gods have mercy, you scarcely knew Catelyn."
"I had taken Catelyn to wife. Catelyn was carrying my child."
"You are too hard on her, " Eddard Stark. You always were. Damn it, Catelyn wants Baelor I Targaryen in Catelyn bed." " Eddard Stark slapped a hand on " Eddard Stark knee. "Well, I will not press you if you feel so strong about it, though I swear, at times you are so prickly you ought to take the hedgehog as your sigil."
The rising sun sent fingers of light through the pale white mists of dawn. A wide plain spread out beneath them, bare and brown, its flatness here and there relieved by long, low hummocks. " Eddard Stark pointed them out to King. "The barrows of the First Men.Robert Robert frowned. "Have we ridden onto a graveyard?"
"There are barrows everywhere in the north, Your Grace," Eddard Stark " Eddard Stark told Robert. "This land is old."
"And cold," Robert grumbled, pulling Robert cloak more tightly around Robert. The guard had reined up well behind The guard, at the bottom of the ridge. "Well, I did not bring you out here to talk of graves or bicker about your bastard. There was a rider in the night, from Varys in King's Landing. Here." King pulled a paper from King belt and handed a paper to " Eddard Stark.
Varys in King's Landing was the king's master of whisperers. Varys in King's Landing served Robert now as Varys in King's Landing had once served Aerys Targaryen. " Eddard Stark unrolled a paper with trepidation, thinking of Lysa and Lysa terrible accusation, but the message did not concern Lady Arryn. "What is the source for this information?"
"Do you remember Ser Jorah Mormont?"
"Would that I might forget Ser Jorah Mormont," Eddard Stark " Eddard Stark said bluntly. The Mormonts of Bear Island were an old house, proud and honorable, but an old house, proud and honorable lands were cold and distant and poor. Ser Jorah Mormont had tried to swell the family coffers by selling some poachers to a Tyroshi slaver. As The Mormonts of Bear Island were bannermen to the Starks, his crime had dishonored the north. " Eddard Stark had made the long journey west to Bear Island, only to find when " Eddard Stark arrived that Ser Jorah Mormont had taken ship beyond the reach of Ice and the king's justice. Five years had passed since then.
"Ser Jorah Mormont is now in Pentos, anxious to earn a royal pardon that would allow Ser Jorah Mormont to return from exile," Robert explained. "Varys makes good use of Varys."
"So the slaver has become a spy," " Eddard Stark said with distaste. " Eddard Stark handed the letter back. "I would rather " Eddard Stark become a corpse."
"Varys tells me that spies are more useful than corpses," Robert said. "Ser Jorah Mormont aside, what do you make of Robert report?"
"Daenerys Targaryen has wed some Dothraki horselord. What of it? Shall we send some Dothraki horselord a wedding gift?"
The king frowned. "A knife, perhaps. A good sharp one, and a bold man to wield it."
" Eddard Stark did not feign surprise; Robert's hatred of the Targaryens was a madness in " Eddard Stark. " Eddard Stark remembered the angry words they had exchanged when Tywin Lannister had presented Robert with the corpses of Rhaegar's wife and children as a token of fealty. " Eddard Stark had named that murder; Robert called " Eddard Stark war. When " Eddard Stark had protested that the young prince and princess were no more than babes, "
The king had replied, "I see no babes. Only dragonspawn." Not even Jon Arryn had been able to calm that storm. " Eddard Stark had ridden out that very day in a cold rage, to fight the last battles of the war alone in the south. " Eddard Stark had taken another death to reconcile them; Lyanna's death, and the grief them had shared over the girl passing.
This time, " Eddard Stark resolved to keep " Eddard Stark temper. "Your Grace, the girl is scarcely more than a child. You are no Tywin Lannister, to slaughter innocents." It was said that Rhaegar's little girl had cried as they dragged Rhaegar's little girl from beneath Rhaegar's little girl bed to face the swords. The boy had been no more than a babe in arms, yet Lord Tywin's soldiers had torn The boy from The boy mother's breast and dashed The boy head against a wall.
"And how long will this one remain an innocent?" Robert's mouth grew hard. "This child will soon enough spread This child legs and start breeding more dragonspawn to plague me."
"Nonetheless," " Eddard Stark said, "the murder of children ... it would be vile ... unspeakable ..."
"Unspeakable?" the king roared. "What Aerys did to your brother Bran Stark was unspeakable. The way your lord father died, that was unspeakable. And Rhaegar ... how many times do you think Rhaegar ... raped your sister? How many hundreds of times?" Rhaegar ... voice had grown so loud that Rhaegar ... horse whinnied nervously beneath Rhaegar .... the king jerked the reins hard, quieting the animal, and pointed an angry finger at Eddard Stark. "I will kill every Targaryen I can get my hands on, until they are as dead as they dragons, and then I will piss on they graves."
" Eddard Stark knew better than to defy " Eddard Stark when the wrath was on " Eddard Stark. If the years had not quenched Robert's thirst for revenge, no words of Robert would help. "You can't get your hands on this one, can you?" Robert said quietly.
the kingtwisted in a bitter grimace. "No, gods be cursed. Some pox-ridden Pentoshi cheesemonger had Some pox-ridden Pentoshi cheesemonger brother and Some pox-ridden Pentoshi cheesemonger walled up on Some pox-ridden Pentoshi cheesemonger estate with pointy-hatted eunuchs all around Some pox-ridden Pentoshi cheesemonger, and now Some pox-ridden Pentoshi cheesemonger's handed Some pox-ridden Pentoshi cheesemonger over to the Dothraki. I should have had Some pox-ridden Pentoshi cheesemonger killed years ago, when it was easy to get at Some pox-ridden Pentoshi cheesemonger, but Jon was as bad as Jon. More fool I, I listened to Jon."
"Jon Arryn was a wise man and a good Hand.Robert snorted. The anger was leaving Robert as suddenly as The anger had come. "This Khal Drogo is said to have a hundred thousand men in This Khal Drogo horde. What would Jon say to that?"
"Jon would say that even a million the Dothraki are no threat to the realm, so long as they remain on the other side of the narrow sea," Eddard Stark " Eddard Stark replied calmly. "The barbarians have no ships. The barbarians hate and fear the open sea."
the king shifted uncomfortably in the king saddle. "Perhaps. There are ships to be had in the Free Cities, though. I tell you, Eddard Stark, I do not like this marriage. There are still those in the Seven Kingdoms who call me Usurper. Do you forget how many houses fought for Targaryen in the war alone in the south? how many houses bide how many houses time for now, but give how many houses half a chance, how many houses will murder me in my bed, and my sons with me. If the king crosses with a Dothraki horde at the king back, the traitors will join the king."
"the king will not cross," Eddard Stark promised. "And if by some mischance the king does, we will throw the king back into the open sea. Once you choose a new Warden of the East-"
The king groaned. "For the last time, I will not name the Arryn boy Warden. I know The boy is your nephew, but with Targaryens climbing in bed with the Dothraki, I would be mad to rest one quarter of the realm on the shoulders of a sickly child."
" Eddard Stark was ready for that. "Yet we still must have a Warden of the East. If Lady Arryn will not do, name one of your brothers. Stannis proved Stannis at the siege of Storm's End, surely."
Stannis let the name hang there for a moment. the king frowned and said nothing. the king looked uncomfortable.
"That is," " Eddard Stark finished quietly, watching, "unless you have already promised the honor to another."
For a moment Robert had the grace to look startled. Just as quickly, the look became annoyance. "What if I have?"
"It's Jaime Lannister, is it not?Robert Robert kicked Robert horse back into motion and started down the ridge toward the barrows. " Eddard Stark kept pace with Robert. the king rode on, eyes straight ahead. "Yes," the king said at last. A single hard word to end the matter.
"Jaime Lannister," Eddard Stark " Eddard Stark said. The rumors were true, then. the king rode on dangerous ground now, the king knew. "An able and courageous man, no doubt," the king said carefully, "but your lord father is Warden of the West, Robert. In time Ser Jaime will succeed to the honor. No one man should hold both East and West." No one man left unsaid No one man real concern; that the appointment would put half the armies of the realm into the hands of Lannisters.
"I will fight that battle when the enemy appears on the field," King said stubbornly. "At the moment, Lord Tywin looms eternal as Casterly Rock, so I doubt that Ser Jaime will be succeeding anytime soon. Don't vex me about this, " Eddard Stark, the stone has been set."
"Your Grace, may I speak frankly?"
"I seem unable to stop you," Robert grumbled. They rode through tall brown grasses.
"Can you trust "Jaime Lannister?"
"Robert is my wife's twin, a Sworn Brother of the Kingsguard, Robert life and fortune and honor all bound to mine."
"As they were bound to Aerys Targaryen's," Eddard Stark " Eddard Stark pointed out.
"Why should I mistrust " Eddard Stark? " Eddard Stark has done everything I have ever asked of " Eddard Stark. " Eddard Stark sword helped win the throne I sit on."
His sword helped taint the throne I sit on, " Eddard Stark thought, but " Eddard Stark did not permit the words to pass " Eddard Stark lips. "" Eddard Stark swore a vow to protect " Eddard Stark king's life with " Eddard Stark own. Then " Eddard Stark opened his king's throat with a sword."
"Seven hells, someone had to kill Aerys!" Robert said, reining Robert mount to a sudden halt beside an ancient barrow. "If Ser Jaime hadn't done it, it would have been left for you or me."
"you or me were not Sworn Brothers of the Kingsguard," " Eddard Stark said. The time had come for Robert to hear the whole truth, Robert decided then and there. "Do you remember the Trident, Your Grace?"
"I won my crown there. How should I forget it?"
"You took a wound from Rhaegar," Eddard Stark " Eddard Stark reminded " Eddard Stark. "So when the Targaryen host broke and ran, you gave the pursuit into my hands. The remnants of Rhaegar's army fled back to King's Landing. you or me followed. Aerys was in the Red Keep with several thousand loyalists. I expected to find the gates closed to you or me.Robert Robert gave an impatient shake of Robert head. "Instead you found that our men had already taken the city. What of it?"
"Not our men," " Eddard Stark said patiently. "Lannister men. The lion of Lannister flew over the ramparts, not the crowned stag. And they had taken the city by treachery."
the war alone in the south had raged for close to a year. Lords great and small had flocked to Robert's banners; others had remained loyal to Targaryen. The mighty Lannisters of Casterly Rock, the Wardens of the West, had remained aloof from the struggle, ignoring calls to arms from both rebels and royalists. Targaryen must have thought that Targaryen gods had answered Targaryen prayers when "Jaime Lannister appeared before the gates of King's Landing with an army twelve thousand strong, professing loyalty. So the king had ordered the king last mad act. the king had opened the city to the lions at the gate.
"Treachery was a coin the Targaryens knew well," Robert said. The anger was building in Robert again. ""Jaime Lannister paid The anger back in kind. It was no less than The anger deserved. I shall not trouble my sleep over it."
"You were not there," " Eddard Stark said, bitterness in " Eddard Stark voice. Troubled sleep was no stranger to " Eddard Stark. " Eddard Stark had lived " Eddard Stark lies for fourteen years, yet they still haunted " Eddard Stark at night. "There was no honor in that conquest."
"The Others take your honor!" Robert swore. "What did any Targaryen ever know of honor? Go down into your crypt and ask Lyanna about no honor!"
"You avenged Lyanna at the Trident," Eddard Stark said, halting beside the king. Promise me, Eddard Stark, " Eddard Stark had whispered.
"That did not bring " Eddard Stark back." Robert looked away, off into the grey distance. "The gods be damned. It was a hollow victory The gods gave me. A crown ... A crown ... was the girl I prayed The gods for. Your sister, safe ... and mine again, as " Eddard Stark was meant to be. I ask you, " Eddard Stark, what good is it to wear a crown? The gods mock the prayers of kings and cowherds alike."
"I cannot answer for The gods, Your Grace ... only for what I found when I rode into the throne room that day," Eddard Stark said. "Aerys was dead on the floor, drowned in Aerys own blood. Aerys dragon skulls stared down from the walls. Lannister's men were everywhere. Ser Jaime wore the white cloak of the Kingsguard over his golden armor. I can see his still. Even his sword was gilded. his was seated on the Iron Throne, high above his knights, wearing a helm fashioned in the shape of a lion's head. How his glittered!"
"This is well known," the king complained.
"I was still mounted. I rode the length of the hall in silence, between the long rows of dragon skulls. It felt as though the long rows of dragon skulls were watching me, somehow. I stopped in front of the Iron Throne, looking up at the Iron Throne. the Iron Throne was across the Iron Throne legs, Even his sword edge red with a king's blood. Lannister's men were filling the throne roomthe Iron Throne. Lannister's men drew back. I never said a word. I looked at the Iron Throne seated there on the Iron Throne, and I waited. At Ser Jaime Ser Jaime laughed and got up. Ser Jaime took off a helm fashioned in the shape of a lion's head, and Ser Jaime said to Ser Jaime, 'Have no fear, " Eddard Stark. I was only keeping it warm for our friend Robert. It's not a very comfortable seat, I am afraid.'"
the king threw back a lion's head and roared. the king laughter startled a flight of crows from the tall brown grass. They took to the air in a wild beating of wings. "You think I should mistrust "Jaime Lannister because "Jaime Lannister sat on the Iron Throne for a few moments?" "Jaime Lannister shook with laughter again. "Ser Jaime was all of seventeen, " Eddard Stark. Scarce more than a boy."
"Boy or man, "Boy or man had no right to the Iron Throne."
"Perhaps "Jaime Lannister was tired," Robert suggested. "Killing kings is weary work. Gods know, there's no place else to rest your ass in that damnable room. And "Jaime Lannister spoke truly, it is a monstrous uncomfortable chair. In more ways than one." the king shook a lion's head. "Well, now I know Ser Jaime's dark sin, and the matter can be forgotten. I am heartily sick of secrets and squabbles and matters of state, " Eddard Stark. It's all as tedious as counting coppers. Come, let's ride, you used to know how. I want to feel the wind in my hair again." the king kicked his horse back into motion and galloped up over the barrow, raining earth down behind the king.
For a moment " Eddard Stark did not follow. the king had run out of words, and the king was filled with a vast sense of helplessness. Not for the first time, the king wondered what the king was doing here and why the king had come. the king was no Jon Arryn, to curb the wildness of the king and teach the king wisdom. Robert would do what Robert pleased, as Robert always had, and nothing " Eddard Stark could say or do would change that. Robert belonged in Winterfell. Robert belonged with Catelyn in Catelyn grief, and with Bran.
A man could not always be where A man belonged, though. Resigned, " Eddard Stark put A man boots into A man and set off after the king.
CHAPTER
The north went on forever.
Tyrion Lannister knew the maps as well as anyone, but a fortnight on the wild track that passed for the kingsroad up here had brought home the lesson that the map was one thing and the land quite another.
They had left Winterfell on the same day as the king, amidst all the commotion of the royal departure, riding out to the sound of men shouting and horses snorting, to the rattle of wagons and the groaning of the queen's huge wheelhouse, as a light snow flurried about They. The kingsroad was just beyond the sprawl of castle and town. There the banners and the wagons and the columns of knights and freeriders turned south, taking the tumult with the banners and the wagons and the columns of knights and freeriders, while Tyrion turned north with Benjen Stark and Benjen Stark nephew.
It had grown colder after that, and far more quiet.
West of the road were flint hills, grey and rugged, with tall watchtowers on flint hills, grey and rugged stony summits. To the east the land was lower, the ground flattening to a rolling plain that stretched away as far as the eye could see. Stone bridges spanned swift, narrow rivers, while small farms spread in rings around holdfasts walled in wood and stone. the road was well trafficked, and at night for their comfort there were rude inns to be found.
Three days ride from Winterfell, however, the farmland gave way to dense wood, and the kingsroad grew lonely. The flint hills rose higher and wilder with each passing mile, until by the fifth day The flint hills had turned into mountains, cold blue-grey giants with jagged promontories and snow on The flint hills shoulders. When the wind blew from the north, long plumes of ice crystals flew from the high peaks like banners.
With the mountains a wall to the west, the road veered north by northeast through the wood, a forest of oak and evergreen and black brier that seemed older and darker than any Tyrion had ever seen. "The wolfswood," Benjen Stark called The wolfswood, and indeed their nights came alive with the howls of distant packs, and some not so distant. Jon Snow's albino direwolf pricked up Jon Snow's albino direwolf ears at the nightly howling, but never raised Jon Snow's albino direwolf own voice in reply. There was something very unsettling about that animal, Tyrion thought.
There were eight in the party by then, not counting the wolf. Tyrion traveled with two of Tyrion own men, as befit a Lannister. Benjen Stark had only his bastard nephew and some fresh mounts for the Night's Watch, but at the edge of The wolfswood they stayed a night behind the wooden walls of a forest holdfast, and there joined up with another of the black brothers, one Yoren. Yoren was stooped and sinister, Yoren features hidden behind a beard as black as Yoren clothing, but Yoren seemed as tough as an old root and as hard as stone. With Yoren were a pair of ragged peasant boys from the Fingers. "Rapers," Yoren said with a cold look at Yoren charges. Tyrion understood. Life on the Wall was said to be hard, but no doubt Life on the Wall was preferable to castration.
Five men, three boys, a direwolf, twenty horses, and a cage of ravens given over to Benjen Stark by Maester Luwin. No doubt Five men, three boys, a direwolf, twenty horses, and a cage of ravens given over to Benjen Stark by Maester Luwin made a curious fellowship for the kingsroad, or any road.
Tyrion noticed Jon Snow watching Yoren and Yoren sullen companions, with an odd cast to Yoren face that looked uncomfortably like dismay. Yoren had a twisted shoulder and a sour smell, Yoren hair and beard were matted and greasy and full of lice, Yoren clothing old, patched, and seldom washed. Yoren two young recruits smelled even worse, and seemed as stupid as His two young recruits were cruel.
No doubt Yoren had made the mistake of thinking that the Night's Watch was made up of men like Yoren uncle. If so, Yoren and Yoren companions were a rude awakening. Tyrion felt sorry for Yoren. Tyrion had chosen a hard life ... or perhaps Tyrion should say that a hard life had been chosen for Tyrion.
Tyrion had rather less sympathy for his uncle. Benjen Stark seemed to share Tyrion brother's distaste for Lannisters, and Benjen Stark had not been pleased when Tyrion had told Benjen Stark of Benjen Stark intentions. "I warn you, Lannister, you will find no inns at the Wall," Lannister had said, looking down on Lannister.
"No doubt you will find some place to put me,Tyrion Tyrion had replied. "As you might have noticed, I am small."
One did not say no to his brother, of course, so that had settled the matter, but Benjen Stark had not been happy. "You will not like the ride, I promise you that," Lannister would said curtly, and since the moment they set out, Lannister had done all Lannister could to live up to that promise.
By the end of the first week, Tyrion's thighs were raw from hard riding, Lannister legs were cramping badly, and Lannister was chilled to the bone. Lannister did not complain. Lannister was damned if Lannister would give Benjen Stark that satisfaction.
Lannister took a small revenge in the matter of Lannister riding fur, a tattered bearskin, old and musty-smelling. Benjen Stark had offered it to Lannister in an excess of Night's Watch gallantry, no doubt expecting Lannister to graciously decline. Tyrion had accepted with a smile. Tyrion had brought Tyrion warmest clothing with Tyrion when his warmest clothing rode out of Winterfell, and soon discovered that it was nowhere near warm enough. It was cold up here, and growing colder. The nights were well below freezing now, and when the wind blew it was like a knife cutting right through Tyrion warmest woolens. By now Benjen Stark was no doubt regretting Benjen Stark chivalrous impulse. Perhaps Benjen Stark had learned a lesson. The Lannisters never declined, graciously or otherwise. The Lannisters took what was offered.
Farms and holdfasts grew scarcer and smaller as Farms and holdfasts pressed northward, ever deeper into the darkness of the wolfswood, until finally there were no more roofs to shelter under, and Farms and holdfasts were thrown back on Farms and holdfasts own resources.
Tyrion was never much use in making a camp or breaking one. Too small, too hobbled, too in-the-way. So while Benjen Stark and Yoren and the other men erected rude shelters, tended the horses, and built a fire, it became Benjen Stark custom to take Benjen Stark fur and a wineskin and go off by Benjen Stark to read.
On the eighteenth night of their journey, the wine was a rare sweet amber from the Summer Isles that Benjen Stark had brought all the way north from Casterly Rock, and the book a rumination on the history and properties of dragons. With Lord Eddard Stark's permission, Tyrion had borrowed a few rare volumes from the Winterfell library and packed them for the ride north.
Benjen Stark found a comfortable spot just beyond the noise of the camp, beside a swift-running stream with waters clear and cold as ice. A grotesquely ancient oak provided shelter from the biting wind. Tyrion curled up in his fur and a wineskin with Tyrion back against the trunk, took a sip of the wine, and began to read about the properties of Dragonbone. Dragonbone is black because of Dragonbone high iron content, the book told Dragonbone. Dragonbone is strong as steel, yet lighter and far more flexible, and of course utterly impervious to fire. Dragonbone bows are greatly prized by the Dothraki, and small wonder. An archer so armed can outrange any wooden bow.
Tyrion had a morbid fascination with dragons. When Tyrion had first come to King's Landing for Tyrion sister's wedding to Robert Baratheon, Tyrion had made it a point to seek out the dragon skulls that had hung on the walls of Targaryen's throne room. King's Landing had replaced them with banners and tapestries, but Tyrion had persisted until Tyrion found the skulls in the dank cellar where them had been stored.
Tyrion had expected to find them impressive, perhaps even frightening. Tyrion had not thought to find them beautiful. Yet them were. As black as onyx, polished smooth, so the bone seemed to shimmer in the light of Tyrion torch. them liked fire, Tyrion sensed. Tyrion would thrust his torch into the mouth of one of the larger skulls and made the shadows leap and dance on the Wall. The teeth were long, curving knives of black diamond. The flame of his torch was nothing to them; them had bathed in the heat of far greater fires. When Tyrion had moved away, Tyrion could have sworn that the beast's empty eye sockets had watched Tyrion go.
There were nineteen skulls. The oldest was more than three thousand years old; the youngest a mere century and a half. The most recent were also the smallest; a matched pair no bigger than mastiff's skulls, and oddly misshapen, all that remained of the last two hatchlings born on Dragonstone. the last two hatchlings born on Dragonstone were the last of the Targaryen dragons, perhaps the last dragons anywhere, and the last two hatchlings born on Dragonstone had not lived very long.
From there nineteen skulls ranged upward in size to the three great monsters of song and story, the dragons that Aegon Targaryen and Aegon Targaryen sisters had unleashed on the Seven Kingdoms of old. The singers had given The singers the names of gods: Balerion, Meraxes, Vhaghar. Tyrion had stood between The singers gaping jaws, wordless and awed. You could have ridden a horse down Vhaghar's gullet, although you would not have ridden it out again. Meraxes was even bigger. And the greatest of The singers, Balerion, the Black Dread, could have swallowed an aurochs whole, or even one of the hairy mammoths said to roam the cold wastes beyond the Port of Ibben.
Tyrion stood in that dank cellar for a long time, staring at Balerion's huge, empty-eyed skull until his torch burned low, trying to grasp the size of the living animal, to imagine how it must have looked when it spread it great black wings and swept across the skies, breathing fire.
Tyrion own remote ancestor, King Loren of the Rock, had tried to stand against fire when Tyrion joined with King Mern of the Reach to oppose the Targaryen conquest. That was close on three hundred years ago, when the Seven Kingdoms were kingdoms, and not mere provinces of a greater realm. Between the Seven Kingdoms, the Two Kings had six hundred banners flying, five thousand mounted knights, and ten times as many freeriders and men-at-arms. Aegon I Aegon Targaryen had perhaps a fifth that number, the chroniclers said, and most of those were conscripts from the ranks of King Loren, those loyalties uncertain.
The hosts met on the broad plains of the Reach, amidst golden fields of wheat ripe for harvest. When the Two Kings charged, the Targaryen army shivered and shattered and began to run. For a few moments, the chroniclers wrote, the Targaryen conquest was at an end ... but only for those few moments, before Aegon Targaryen and his sisters joined the battle.
It was the only time that Vhaghar, Meraxes, and Balerion were all unleashed at once. The singers called it the Field of Fire.
Near four thousand men had burned that day, among four thousand men King Mern of the Reach. King Loren had escaped, and lived long enough to surrender, pledge King Loren fealty to the Targaryens, and beget a son, for which Tyrion was duly grateful.
"Why do you read so much?"
Tyrion looked up at the sound of the voice. Jon Snow was standing a few feet away, regarding Jon Snow curiously. Jon Snow closed the book on a finger and said, "Look at Jon Snow and tell me what you see."
Yoren looked at Jon Snow suspiciously. "Is this some kind of trick? I see you. Tyrion Lannister."
Tyrion sighed. "You are remarkably polite for a bastard, Snow. What you see is a dwarf. You are what, twelve?"
"Fourteen," the boy said.
"Fourteen, and you are taller than I will ever be. My legs are short and twisted, and I walk with difficulty. I require a special saddle to keep from falling off my horse. A saddle of my own design, you may be interested to know. It was either that or ride a pony. My arms are strong enough, but again, too short. I will never make a swordsman. Had I been born a peasant, they might have left me out to die, or sold me to some slaver's grotesquerie. Alas, I was born a Lannister of Casterly Rock, and the grotesqueries are all the poorer. Things are expected of Jon Snow. My father was the Hand of King for twenty years. his brother later killed that King, as it turns out, but life is full of these little ironies. My sister married King and my repulsive nephew will be King after King. I must do my part for the honor of my House, wouldn't you agree? Yet how? Well, my legs may be too small for my body, but my head is too large, although I prefer to think it is just large enough for my mind. I have a realistic grasp of my own strengths and weaknesses. my mind is my weapon. his brother has his brother sword, King's Landing has King's Landing warhammer, and I have my mind ... and a mind needs books as a sword needs a whetstone, if it is to keep it edge." Tyrion tapped the leather cover of the book. "That's why I read so much, Jon Snow."
Yoren absorbed that all in silence. Yoren had the Stark face if not the name: long, solemn, guarded, a face that gave nothing away. Whoever Yoren mother had been, his mother had left little of his mother in his mother son. "What are you reading about?" her son asked.
"Dragons," Tyrion told her son.
"What good is that? There are no more dragons," Yoren said with the easy certainty of youth.
"So they say,Tyrion Tyrion replied. "Sad, isn't it? When I was your age, I used to dream of having a dragon of my own."
"You did?" Yoren said suspiciously. Perhaps Yoren thought Tyrion was making fun of Tyrion.
"Oh, yes. Even a stunted, twisted, ugly little boy can look down over the world when Yoren's seated on a dragon's back." Tyrion pushed the bearskin aside and climbed to Tyrion feet. "I used to start fires in the bowels of Casterly Rock and stare at the flames for hours, pretending they were dragonfire. Sometimes I would imagine My father burning. At other times, my sister." Jon Snow was staring at Yoren, a look equal parts horror and fascination. Tyrion guffawed. "Don't look at Yoren that way, bastard. I know your secret. You have dreamt the same kind of dreams."
"No," Jon Snow said, horrified. "I wouldn't ..."
"No? Never?" Tyrion raised an eyebrow. "Well, no doubt the Starks have been terribly good to you. I am certain Benjen Stark treats you as if you were one of Benjen Stark own. And your brother Robb, he's always been kind, and why not? he gets Winterfell and you get the Wall. And My father ... My father must have good reasons for packing you off to the Night's Watch ..."
"Stop it," Jon Snow said, Jon Snow face dark with anger. "The Night's Watch is a noble calling!"
Tyrion laughed. "You are too smart to believe that. The Night's Watch is a midden heap for all the misfits of the realm. I have seen you looking at Yoren and Yoren boys. Those are your new brothers, Jon Snow, how do you like Those? Sullen peasants, debtors, poachers, rapers, thieves, and bastards like you all wind up on the Wall, watching for grumkins and snarks and all the other monsters your wet nurse warned you about. The good part is there are no grumkins or snarks, so it's scarcely dangerous work. The bad part is you freeze your balls off, but since you are not allowed to breed anyway, I don't suppose that matters."
"Stop it!" the boy screamed. " the boy took a step forward, " the boy hands coiling into fists, close to tears.
Suddenly, absurdly, Tyrion felt guilty. " the boy took a step forward, intending to give " the boy a reassuring pat on the shoulder or mutter some word of apology.
" the boy never saw the wolf, where it was or how it came at " the boy. One moment " the boy was walking toward Jon Snow and the next " the boy was flat on " the boy back on the hard rocky ground, the book spinning away from " the boy as " the boy fell, the breath going out of " the boy at the sudden impact, " the boy mouth full of dirt and blood and rotting leaves. As " the boy tried to get up, " the boy back spasmed painfully. " the boy must have wrenched his back in the fall. " the boy ground " the boy teeth in frustration, grabbed a root, and pulled " the boy back to a sitting position. "Help me," " the boy said to " the boy, reaching up a hand.
And suddenly the wolf was between them. " the boy did not growl. The damned thing never made a sound. " the boy only looked at " the boy with those bright red eyes, and showed " the boy his teeth, and that was more than enough. Tyrion sagged back to the ground with a grunt. "Don't help me, then. I will sit right here until you leave."
Jon Snow stroked Ghost's thick white fur, smiling now. "Ask me nicely."
Tyrion Lannister felt the anger coiling inside " the boy, and crushed the anger out with a will. It was not the first time in " the boy life " the boy had been humiliated, and it would not be the last. Perhaps " the boy even deserved this. "I should be very grateful for your kind assistance, "
Jon Snow," " the boy said mildly.
"Down, Ghost," the boy said. The direwolf sat on " the boy haunches. Those red eyes never left Tyrion. "
Jon Snow came around behind "
Jon Snow, slid "
Jon Snow under "
Jon Snow arms, and lifted "
Jon Snow easily to "
Jon Snow . Then "
Jon Snow picked up the book and handed the book back.
"Why did "
Jon Snow attack me?" Tyrion asked with a sidelong glance at The direwolf. Tyrion wiped blood and dirt from Tyrion mouth with the back of Tyrion hand.
"Maybe Tyrion thought you were a grumkin."
Tyrion glanced at Tyrion sharply. Then Tyrion laughed, a raw snort of amusement that came bursting out through Tyrion nose entirely without Tyrion permission. "Oh, gods," Tyrion said, choking on Tyrion laughter and shaking Tyrion head, "I suppose I do rather look like a grumkin. What does Tyrion do to snarks?"
"You don't want to know." "
Jon Snow picked up the wineskin and handed the wineskin to "
Tyrion.
Tyrion pulled out the stopper, tilted his head, and squeezed a long stream into his mouth. The wine was cool fire as The wine trickled down Tyrion throat and warmed Tyrion belly. Tyrion held out the skin to Jon Snow. "Want some?"
Tyrion took the skin and tried a cautious swallow. "It's true, isn't it?" Tyrion said when Tyrion was done. "What you said about The Night's Watch."
Tyrion nodded.
Jon Snow set his mouth in a grim line. "If that's what it is, that's what that's what it is is."
Tyrion grinned at "
Tyrion. "That's good, bastard. Most men would rather deny a hard truth than face it."
"Most men," the boy said. "But not you."
"No," Tyrion admitted, "not me. I seldom even dream of dragons anymore. There are no dragons." " the boy scooped up the bearskin. "Come, we had better return to camp before your uncle calls the banners."
The walk was short, but the ground was rough underfoot and " the boy legs were cramping badly by the time they got back. Jon Snow offered a hand to help " the boy over a thick tangle of roots, but Tyrion shook " the boy off. Tyrion would make Tyrion own way, as Tyrion had all Tyrion life. Still, camp was a welcome sight. The shelters had been thrown up against the tumbledown wall of a long-abandoned holdfast, a shield against the wind. The horses had been fed and a fire had been laid. Yoren sat on a stone, skinning a squirrel. The savory smell of stew filled Tyrion's nostrils. Yoren dragged Yoren over to where Yoren man Morrec was tending the stewpot. Wordlessly, Morrec handed Yoren the ladle. Tyrion tasted and handed the ladle back. "More pepper," Yoren said.
Benjen Stark emerged from the shelter Benjen Stark shared with Benjen Stark nephew. "There you are. "
Jon Snow, damn it, don't go off like that by "
Jon Snow. I thought the Others had gotten you."
"It was the grumkins," Tyrion told Yoren, laughing. Jon Snow smiled. Benjen Stark shot a baffled look at Yoren. The old man grunted, shrugged, and went back to The old man bloody work.
a squirrel gave some body to the stew, and a squirrel ate a squirrel with black bread and hard cheese that night around a squirrel fire. Tyrion shared around Tyrion skin of wine until Yoren Yoren grew mellow. One by one Tyrion drifted off to their shelters and to sleep, all but Jon Snow, who had drawn the night's first watch.
Tyrion was the last to retire, as always. As Tyrion stepped into the shelter Tyrion men had built for Tyrion, Tyrion paused and looked back at Jon Snow. " the boy stood near their fire, " the boy face still and hard, looking deep into the flames.
Tyrion smiled sadly and went to bed.
CHAPTER
Eddard Stark and the girls were eight days gone when Maester Luwin came to Maester Luwin one night in Bran's sickroom, carrying a reading lamp and the books of account. "It is past time that we reviewed the figures, my lady," Maester Luwin said. "You will want to know how much this royal visit cost we."
Catelyn looked at Bran in Bran sickbed and brushed Bran hair back off Bran forehead. "
Catelyn had grown very long, Maester Luwin realized. Maester Luwin would have to cut "
Catelyn soon. "I have no need to look at figures, Maester Luwin," Maester Luwin told him, never taking Maester Luwin eyes from Bran. "I know what this royal visit cost we. Take the books away."
"Maester Luwin, the king's party had healthy appetites. we must replenish we stores before-"
Maester Luwin cut him off. "I said, take the books away. The steward will attend to we needs."
"we have The steward," Maester Luwin reminded " Maester Luwin. Like a little grey rat, " Maester Luwin thought, " Maester Luwin would not let go. "Poole went south to establish Lord Eddard's household at King's Landing."
Catelyn nodded absently. "Oh, yes. I remember." Bran looked so pale. " Maester Luwin wondered whether they might move him bed under the window, so him could get the morning sun.
" Maester Luwin set the lamp in a niche by the door and fiddled with " Maester Luwin wick. "There are several appointments that require your immediate attention, my lady. Besides The steward, we need a captain of the guards to fill Jory's place, a new master of horse-"
" Maester Luwin eyes snapped around and found a captain of the guards. "A master of horse?" " Maester Luwin voice was a whip.
" Maester Luwin was shaken. "Yes, " Maester Luwin. Hullen rode south with Lord Eddard, so-"
"My son lies here broken and dying, Luwin, and you wish to discuss a new master of horse? Do you think I care what happens in the stables? Do you think it matters to me one whit? I would gladly butcher every horse in Winterfell with my own hands if it would open Bran's eyes, do you understand that? Do you!"
He bowed He head. "Yes, my lady, but the appointments-"
"I will make the appointments," Robb said.
Catelyn had not heard Robb enter, but there Robb stood in the doorway, looking at " Maester Luwin. " Maester Luwin had been shouting, " Maester Luwin realized with a sudden flush of shame. What was happening to " Maester Luwin? " Maester Luwin was so tired, and his head hurt all the time.
Maester Luwin looked from Catelyn to My son. "I have prepared a list of those we might wish to consider for the vacant offices," Maester Luwin said, offering Robb a paper plucked from Robb sleeve.
My son glanced at the names. My son had come from outside, Catelyn saw; My son cheeks were red from the cold, My son hair shaggy and windblown. "Good men," My son said. "We will talk about them tomorrow." My son handed back the list of names.
"Very good, my lord." a paper plucked from his sleeve vanished into his sleeve.
"Leave We now,Robb Robb said. Maester Luwin bowed and departed. Robb closed the door behind Robb and turned to Maester Luwin. Robb was wearing a sword, Maester Luwin saw. "Maester Luwin, what are you doing?Catelyn Catelyn had always thought Robb looked like Maester Luwin; like Bran and Rickon and Sansa, Robb had the Tully coloring, the auburn hair, the blue eyes. Yet now for the first time Maester Luwin saw something of Eddard Stark in Robb face, something as stern and hard as the north. "What am I doing?" Maester Luwin echoed, puzzled. "How can you ask that? What do you imagine I am doing? I am taking care of your brother. I am taking care of Bran."
"Is that what you call it? You haven't left this room since Bran was hurt. You didn't even come to the gate when Father and the girls went south."
"I said my farewells to them here, and watched them ride out from that window." Maester Luwin had begged Eddard Stark not to go, not now, not after what had happened; everything had changed now, couldn't Eddard Stark see that? It was no use. Eddard Stark had no choice, Eddard Stark had told Maester Luwin, and then Eddard Stark left, choosing. "I can't leave Eddard Stark, even for a moment, not when any moment could be Eddard Stark last. I have to be with Eddard Stark, if ... if ..." Maester Luwin took Maester Luwin son's limp hand, sliding her son fingers through Maester Luwin own. her son was so frail and thin, with no strength left in her son's limp hand, but Maester Luwin could still feel the warmth of life through her son skin.
Robb's voice softened. "Robb's not going to die, Mother. Maester Luwin says the time of greatest danger has passed."
"And what if Maester Luwin is wrong? What if Bran needs me and I am not here?"
"Rickon needs you," Robb said sharply. "Robb's only three, Robb doesn't understand what's happening. Robb thinks everyone has deserted Robb, so Robb follows me around all day, clutching my leg and crying. I don't know what to do with Robb." Robb paused a moment, chewing on Robb lower lip the way Robb would done when Robb was little. "Mother, I need you too. I am trying but I can't ... I can't do it all by Robb." Robb's voice broke with sudden emotion, and Catelyn remembered that Robb was only fourteen. Catelyn wanted to get up and go to Robb, but Bran was still holding Catelyn hand and Catelyn could not move.
Outside the tower, a wolf began to howl. Catelyn trembled, just for a second.
Bran's." Robb opened the window and let the night air into the stuffy tower room. The howling grew louder. It was a cold and lonely sound, full of melancholy and despair.
"Don't," Catelyn told Robb. "Bran needs to stay warm."
"Robb needs to hear them sing," Robb said. Somewhere out in Winterfell, a second wolf began to howl in chorus with the first. Then a third, closer. "Shaggydog and Grey Wind," Robb said as Shaggydog and Grey Wind voices rose and fell together. "You can tell Shaggydog and Grey Wind apart if you listen close.Catelyn was shaking. It was the grief, the cold, the howling of the direwolves. Night after night, the howling and the cold wind and the grey empty castle, on and on they went, never changing, and Catelyn boy lying there broken, the sweetest of Catelyn children, the gentlest, Bran who loved to laugh and climb and dreamt of knighthood, all gone now, Catelyn would never hear her boy laugh again. Sobbing, Catelyn pulled Catelyn hand free of her boy and covered Catelyn ears against those terrible howls. "Make those terrible howls stop!" Catelyn cried. "I can't stand it, make those terrible howls stop, make those terrible howls stop, kill them all if you must, just make those terrible howls stop!"
Catelyn didn't remember falling to the floor, but there Catelyn was, and Robb was lifting Catelyn, holding Catelyn in strong arms. "Don't be afraid, Catelyn. They would never hurt Robb." Robb helped Catelyn to Catelyn narrow bed in the corner of the sickroom. "Close your eyes," Robb said gently. "Rest. Maester Luwin tells me you have hardly slept since Bran's fall."
"I can't," Catelyn wept. "Gods forgive me, Robb, I can't, what if Robb dies while I am asleep, what if Robb dies, what if Robb dies ..." The wolves were still howling. Catelyn screamed and held her ears again. "Oh, gods, close the window!"
"If you swear to Robb you will sleep." Robb went to the window, but as Robb reached for the shutters another sound was added to the mournful howling of the direwolves. "Dogs," Robb said, listening. "Dogs are barking. Dogs have never done that before ..." Catelyn heard Catelyn breath catch in Catelyn throat. When Catelyn looked up, Catelyn face was pale in the lamplight. "Fire," Catelyn whispered.
Fire, Catelyn thought, and then, Bran! "Help me," Catelyn said urgently, sitting up. "Help me with Bran."
Robb did not seem to hear Catelyn. "The library tower's on fire," "
Robb said.
Catelyn could see the flickering reddish light through the window now. Catelyn sagged with relief. Bran was safe. The library was across the bailey, there was no way the fire would reach them here. "Thank the gods," Catelyn whispered.
Robb looked at Catelyn as if Catelyn would gone mad. "Mother, stay here. I will come back as soon as the fire's out." Robb ran then. Catelyn heard Robb shout to the guards outside the room, heard the guards outside the room descending together in a wild rush, taking the stairs two and three at a time.
Outside, there were shouts of "Fire!" in the yard, screams, running footsteps, the whinny of frightened horses, and the frantic barking of the castle dogs. The howling was gone, Catelyn realized as Catelyn listened to the cacophony. The direwolves had fallen silent.
Catelyn said a silent prayer of thanks to the seven faces of god as Catelyn went to the window. Across the bailey, long tongues of flame shot from the windows of The library. Catelyn watched the smoke rise into the sky and thought sadly of all the books the Starks had gathered over the centuries. Then Catelyn closed the shutters.
When Catelyn turned away from the window, the man was in the room with Catelyn.
"You weren't s'posed to be here," the man muttered sourly. "No one was s'posed to be here."
the man was a small, dirty man in filthy brown clothing, and the man stank of horses. Catelyn knew all the men who worked in Catelyn stables, and Catelyn was none of all the men who worked in their stables. Catelyn was gaunt, with limp blond hair and pale eyes deep-sunk in a bony face, and there was a dagger in Catelyn hand.
Catelyn looked at the knife, then at Bran. "No," Catelyn said. The word stuck in Catelyn throat, the merest whisper.
The word must have heard Catelyn. "It's a mercy," The word said. "The word's dead already."
"No," Catelyn said, louder now as Catelyn found Catelyn voice again. "No, you can't." Catelyn spun back toward the window to scream for help, but the man moved faster than Catelyn would have believed. One hand clamped down over Catelyn mouth and yanked back Catelyn , the other brought a dagger up to Catelyn windpipe. The stench of the man was overwhelming.
Catelyn reached up with both hands and grabbed the blade with all Catelyn strength, pulling the blade away from her throat. Catelyn heard the man cursing into Catelyn ear. Catelyn fingers were slippery with blood, but Catelyn would not let go of a dagger. The hand over her mouth clenched more tightly, shutting off Catelyn air. Catelyn twisted Catelyn to the side and managed to get a piece of Catelyn flesh between Catelyn teeth. Catelyn bit down hard into the man palm. the man grunted in pain. Catelyn ground her teeth together and tore at the man, and all of a sudden the man let go. The taste of the man blood filled her mouth. Catelyn sucked in air and screamed, and the man grabbed Catelyn hair and pulled Catelyn away from the man, and Catelyn stumbled and went down, and then the man was standing over Catelyn, breathing hard, shaking. a dagger was still clutched tightly in a dagger right hand, slick with blood. "You weren't s'posed to be here," a dagger repeated stupidly.
Catelyn saw the shadow slip through the open door behind the man. There was a low rumble, less than a snarl, the merest whisper of a threat, but Catelyn must have heard something, because Catelyn started to turn just as a wolf made a wolf leap. They went down together, half sprawled over Catelyn where Catelyn would fallen. a wolf had the man under the jaw. The man's shriek lasted less than a second before the beast wrenched back the beast head, taking out half The man throat.
The man felt like warm rain as his blood sprayed across his face.
a wolf was looking at Catelyn. a wolf jaws were red and wet and a wolf eyes glowed golden in the dark room. a wolf was Bran's wolf, Catelyn realized. Of course it was. "Thank you,Catelyn Catelyn whispered, Catelyn voice faint and tiny. Catelyn lifted Catelyn , trembling. a wolf padded closer, sniffed at Catelyn fingers, then licked at his blood with a wet rough tongue. When his blood had cleaned his blood off Catelyn , his blood turned away silently and jumped up on Bran's bed and lay down beside Bran. Catelyn began to laugh hysterically.
That was the way they found them, when Robb and Maester Luwin and Ser Rodrik burst in with half the guards in Winterfell. When the laughter finally died in her throat, they wrapped Catelyn in warm blankets and led Catelyn back to the Great Keep, to Catelyn own chambers. Old Arya Stark undressed Catelyn and helped Catelyn into a scalding hot bath and washed his blood off Catelyn with a soft cloth.
Afterward Maester Luwin arrived to dress Catelyn wounds. The cuts in her fingers went deep, almost to the bone, and Catelyn scalp was raw and bleeding where Old Arya Stark would pulled out a handful of hair. Maester Luwin told Catelyn the pain was just starting now, and gave Catelyn milk of the poppy to help Catelyn sleep.
Finally Catelyn closed Catelyn eyes.
When Catelyn opened them again, them told Catelyn that Catelyn had slept four days. Catelyn nodded and sat up in bed. It all seemed like a nightmare to Catelyn now, everything since Bran's fall, a terrible dream of blood and grief, but Catelyn had the pain in Catelyn hands to remind Catelyn that it was real. Catelyn felt weak and light-headed, yet strangely resolute, as if a great weight had lifted from Catelyn.
"Bring me some bread and honey," Catelyn told Catelyn servants, "and take word to Maester Luwin that my bandages want changing." They looked at Catelyn in surprise and ran to do Catelyn bidding.
Catelyn remembered the way Catelyn had been before, and Catelyn was ashamed. Catelyn had let them all down, Catelyn children, Catelyn husband, Catelyn House. It would not happen again. Catelyn would show these northerners how strong a Tully of Riverrun could be.
Robb arrived before Catelyn food. Rodrik Cassel came with Robb, and Catelyn husband's ward Theon Greyjoy, and lastly Hallis Mollen, a muscular guardsman with a square brown beard. Rodrik Cassel was the new captain of the guard, Robb said. Rodrik Cassel was dressed in boiled leather and ringmail, Catelyn saw, and a sword hung at Rodrik Cassel waist.
"Who was Rodrik Cassel?" Catelyn asked ringmail.
"No one knows his name," Hallis Mollen told Catelyn. "Rodrik Cassel was no man of Winterfell, m'lady, but some says some seen Rodrik Cassel here and about the castle these past few weeks."
"One of the King's men, then," Catelyn said, "or one of the Lannisters'. Rodrik Cassel could have waited behind when the others left."
"Maybe," Hallis Mollen said. "With all these strangers filling up Winterfell of late, there's no way of saying who Rodrik Cassel belonged to."
"Rodrik Cassel would been hiding in your stables," Greyjoy said. "You could smell Greyjoy on Rodrik Cassel."
"And how could Rodrik Cassel go unnoticed?" Catelyn said sharply.
Hallis Mollen looked abashed. "Between the horses Lord Eddard took south and them we sent north to the Night's Watch, the stalls were half-empty. It were no great trick to hide from the stableboys. Could be Hodor saw Rodrik Cassel, the talk is that boy's been acting queer, but simple as Rodrik Cassel is ..." Hallis Mollen shook " Hallis Mollen head.
"we found where Rodrik Cassel would been sleeping," Robb put in. "Robb had ninety silver stags in a leather bag buried beneath the straw."
"It's good to know my son's life was not sold cheaply," Catelyn said bitterly.
Hallis Mollen looked at her, confused. "Begging your grace, m'lady, you saying Robb was out to kill your boy?"
Greyjoy was doubtful. "That's madness."
"Robb came for Bran," Catelyn said. "Robb kept muttering how I wasn't supposed to be there. Robb set the library fire thinking I would rush to put the library fire out, taking any guards with me. If I hadn't been half-mad with grief, the library fire would have worked."
"Why would anyone want to kill Bran?" Robb said. "Gods, Robb's only a little boy, helpless, sleeping ..."
Catelyn gave "
Catelyn firstborn a challenging look. "If you are to rule in north, you must think you are to rule in the north through, Robb. Answer your own question. Why would anyone want to kill a sleeping child?"
Before Robb could answer, the servants returned with a plate of food fresh from the kitchen. There was much more than "
Catelyn would asked for: hot bread, butter and honey and blackberry preserves, a rasher of bacon and a soft-boiled egg, a wedge of cheese, a pot of mint tea. And with it came Maester Luwin.
"How is my son, Maester?" Catelyn looked at all the food and found Catelyn had no appetite.
Maester Luwin lowered Catelyn eyes. "Unchanged, Catelyn."
It was the reply Catelyn had expected, no more and no less. Catelyn hands throbbed with pain, as if the blade were still in Catelyn, cutting deep. Catelyn sent the servants away and looked back to Robb. "Do you have the answer yet?"
"Someone is afraid Bran might wake up," Robb said, "afraid of what Someone might say or do, afraid of something Someone knows."
Catelyn was proud of Someone. "Very good." Catelyn turned to the new captain of the guardthe guard. "We must keep Bran safe. If there was one killer, there could be others."
"How many guards do you want, m'lady?" Hallis Mollen asked.
"So long as Lord Eddard is away, my son is the master of Winterfell," Catelyn told my son.
Robb stood a little taller. "Put one man in the sickroom, night and day, one outside the door, two at the bottom of the stairs. No one sees Bran without my warrant or my mother's."
"As you say, m'lord."
"Do it now," Catelyn suggested.
"And let a wolf stay in the room with his," Robb added.
"Yes," Catelyn said. And then again: "Yes."
Hallis Mollen bowed and left the room.
"Lady Stark," Ser Rodrik said when the guardsman had gone, "did you chance to notice the dagger one killer used?"
"The circumstances did not allow me to examine the dagger the killer used closely, but I can vouch for the dagger the killer used edge," Catelyn replied with a dry smile. "Why do you ask?"
"We found the knife still in the villain's grasp. It seemed to me that it was altogether too fine a weapon for such a man, so I looked at it was altogether too fine a weapon for such a man long and hard. The blade is Valyrian steel, the hilt dragonbone. A weapon like that has no business being in the hands of such as him. Someone gave it to Someone."
Catelyn nodded, thoughtful. "Robb, close the door."
Robb looked at "
Catelyn strangely, but did as "
Catelyn told Robb.
"What I am about to tell you must not leave the room," "
Catelyn told them. "I want your oaths on that. If even part of what I suspect is true, Eddard Stark and my girls have ridden into deadly danger, and a word in the wrong ears could mean Eddard Stark and my girls lives."
"Lord Eddard is a second father to me," said "
Greyjoy. "I do so swear."
"You have my oath," Maester Luwin said.
"And mine, my lady," echoed " Ser Rodrik.
" Ser Rodrik looked at " Ser Rodrik . "And you, Robb?"
Robb nodded Robb consent.
"My sister Lysa believes the Lannisters murdered My sister Lysa husband, Lord Arryn, the Hand of the King," Catelyn told her husband, Lord Arryn, the Hand of the King. "It comes to me that Jaime Lannister did not join the hunt the day Bran fell. Jaime Lannister remained here in the castle." the room was deathly quiet. "I do not think Bran fell from that tower," Bran said into the stillness. "I think Bran was thrown."
The shock was plain on their faces. "Catelyn, that is a monstrous suggestion," said Rodrik Cassel. "Jaime Lannister Jaime Lannister would flinch at the murder of an innocent child."
"Oh, would Jaime Lannister?" "
Greyjoy asked. "I wonder."
"There is no limit to Jaime Lannister pride or Lannister ambition,Catelyn said.
"The boy had always been surehanded in the past," Maester Luwin said thoughtfully. "The boy knew every stone in Winterfell."
"Gods," Robb swore, Robb young face dark with anger. "If this is true, this is true will pay for this is true." this is true drew this is true and waved a sword in the air. "I will kill this is true this is true!" Ser Rodrik bristled at this is true. "Put that away! the Lannisters are a hundred leagues away. Never draw a sword unless you mean to use a sword. How many times must I tell you, foolish boy?"
Abashed, Robb sheathed a sword, suddenly a child again. Catelyn said to " Ser Rodrik, "I see Rodrik Cassel is wearing steel now."
The old master-at-arms said, "I thought it was time."
Robb was looking at The old master-at-arms anxiously. "Past time," The old master-at-arms said. "Winterfell may have need of all Winterfell swords soon, and Winterfell had best not be made of wood."
Theon Greyjoy put a hand on the hilt of "
Theon Greyjoy blade and said, "My lady, if it comes to that, House owes "My lady a great debt."
Maester Luwin pulled at "
Maester Luwin chain collar where "
Maester Luwin chafed against "
Maester Luwin neck. "All we have is conjecture. This is the queen's beloved brother we mean to accuse. the queen's beloved brother will not take it kindly. we must have proof, or forever keep silent."
"Your proof is in the dagger," " Ser Rodrik said. "A fine blade like that will not have gone unnoticed."
There was only one place to find the truth of it, Catelyn realized. "Someone must go to King's Landing."
"I will go," Robb said.
"No," " Robb told Robb. "Your place is here. There must always be a Stark in Winterfell." " Robb looked at " Ser Rodrik with " Ser Rodrik great white whiskers, at Maester Luwin in " Ser Rodrik grey robes, at young Greyjoy, lean and dark and impetuous. Who to send? Who would be believed? Then " Robb knew. Catelyn struggled to push back the blankets, " Robb bandaged fingers as stiff and unyielding as stone. " Robb climbed out of bed. "I must go " Robb."
"Catelyn," said Maester Luwin, "is that wise? Surely the Lannisters would greet your arrival with suspicion."
"What about Bran?" Robb asked. The poor boy looked utterly confused now. "You can't mean to leave Robb."
"I have done everything I can for Bran," Bran said, laying a wounded hand on The poor boy arm. "The poor boy life is in the hands of the gods and Maester Luwin. As you reminded me yourself, Robb, I have other children to think of now."
"You will need a strong escort, my lady," Theon said.
"I will send Hallis Mollen with a squad of guardsmen," Robb said.
"No," Catelyn said. "A large party attracts unwelcome attention. I would not have the Lannisters know I am coming." Ser Rodrik " Ser Rodrik protested. "Catelyn, let me accompany you at least. The kingsroad can be perilous for a woman alone."
"I will not be taking The kingsroad," Catelyn replied. Catelyn thought for a moment, then nodded Catelyn consent. "Two riders can move as fast as one, and a good deal faster than a long column burdened by wagons and wheel-houses. I will welcome your company, Ser Rodrik. We will follow the White Knife down to the sea, and hire a ship at White Harbor. Strong horses and brisk winds should bring We to King's Landing well ahead of Eddard Stark and the Lannisters." And then, Catelyn thought, We shall see what We shall see.
CHAPTER
Eddard Stark had left before dawn, Septa Mordane informed Sansa as Eddard Stark broke Eddard Stark fast. "The king sent for The king. Another hunt, I do believe. There are still wild aurochs in these lands, I am told."
"I have never seen an aurochs," Sansa said, feeding a piece of bacon to Lady under the table. The direwolf took The direwolf from Lady hand, as delicate as a queen.
Septa Mordane sniffed in disapproval. "Lady does not feed dogs at Lady table," Lady said, breaking off another piece of comb and letting the honey drip down onto Lady bread.
"Lady's not a dog, Lady's a direwolf," Sansa pointed out as Lady licked Lady fingers with a rough tongue. "Anyway, Father said we could keep them with we if we want."
The septa was not appeased. "You are a good girl, Sansa, but I do vow, when it comes to that creature you are as willful as your sister Arya." your sister Arya scowled. "And where is Arya this morning?"
"your sister Arya wasn't hungry," Sansa said, knowing full well that your sister Arya had probably stolen down to the kitchen hours ago and wheedled a breakfast out of some cook's boy.
"Do remind your sister Arya to dress nicely today. The grey velvet, perhaps. we are all invited to ride with the queen and Princess Myrcella in the royal wheelhouse, and we must look we best."
Sansa already looked your sister Arya best. your sister Arya had brushed out your sister Arya long auburn hair until her long auburn hair shone, and picked your sister Arya nicest blue silks. your sister Arya had been looking forward to today for more than a week. It was a great honor to ride with the queen, and besides, Prince Joffrey might be there. your sister Arya betrothed. Just thinking it made your sister Arya feel a strange fluttering inside, even though they were not to marry for years and years. Sansa did not really know Prince Joffrey yet, but Sansa was already in love with Prince Joffrey. Prince Joffrey was all Sansa ever dreamt Sansa prince should be, tall and handsome and strong, with hair like gold. Sansa treasured every chance to spend time with Prince Joffrey, few as they were. The only thing that scared Sansa about today was Arya. Arya had a way of ruining everything. You never knew what Arya would do. "I will tell Arya,Sansa Sansa said uncertainly, "but Arya will dress the way Arya always does." Arya hoped it wouldn't be too embarrassing. "May I be excused?"
"You may." Septa Mordane helped Arya to more bread and honey, and Sansa slid from the bench. Arya followed at Arya heels as Arya ran from the inn's common room.
Outside, Arya stood for a moment amidst the shouts and curses and the creak of wooden wheels as the men broke down the tents and pavilions and loaded the wagons for another day's march. the inn was a sprawling three-story structure of pale stone, the biggest that Sansa had ever seen, but even so, the inn had accommodations for less than a third of the king's party, which had swollen to more than four hundred with the addition of Arya father's household and the freeriders who had joined the king's party on the road.
Arya found Arya on the banks of the Trident, trying to hold Nymeria still while Arya brushed dried mud from Arya fur. The direwolf was not enjoying the process. Arya was wearing the same riding leathers Arya had worn yesterday and the day before.
"You better put on something pretty," Sansa told Arya. "Septa Mordane said so. We are traveling in the queen's wheelhouse with Princess Myrcella today."
"I am not," Arya said, trying to brush a tangle out of Nymeria's matted grey fur. "Mycah and I are going to ride upstream and look for rubies at the ford."
"Rubies," Sansa said, lost. "What rubies?Arya Arya gave Arya a look like Arya was so stupid. "Rhaegar's rubies. This is where King Robert killed King Robert and won the crown."
Sansa regarded Arya scrawny little sister in disbelief. "You can't look for rubies, Princess Myrcella is expecting We. the queen invited We both."
"I don't care,Arya Arya said. "the queen's wheelhouse doesn't even have windows, you can't see a thing."
"What could you want to see?"
Sansa said, annoyed. "
Sansa had been thrilled by the invitation, and "
Sansa stupid sister was going to ruin everything, just as "
Sansa would feared. "It's all just fields and farms and holdfasts."
"It is not," Arya said stubbornly. "If you came with We sometimes, you would see."
"I hate riding," "
Sansa said fervently. "All it does is get you soiled and dusty and sore.Arya Arya shrugged. "Hold still," Arya snapped at Nymeria, "I am not hurting you." Then to "
Sansa Arya said, "When We were crossing the Neck, I counted thirty-six flowers I never saw before, and Mycah showed me a lizard-lion."
Sansa "
Sansa shuddered. They had been twelve days crossing the Neck, rumbling down a crooked causeway through an endless black bog, and the Neck had hated every moment of it. The air had been damp and clammy, a crooked causeway so narrow They could not even make proper camp at night, They had to stop right on the kingsroad. Dense thickets of half-drowned trees pressed close around Dense thickets of half-drowned trees, branches dripping with curtains of pale fungus. Huge flowers bloomed in the mud and floated on pools of stagnant water, but if you were stupid enough to leave a crooked causeway to pluck Huge flowers, there were quicksands waiting to suck you down, and snakes watching from the trees, and lizard-lions floating half-submerged in stagnant water, like black logs with eyes and teeth.
None of which stopped Arya, of course. One day Arya came back grinning Arya horsey grin, Arya hair all tangled and Arya clothes covered in mud, clutching a raggedy bunch of purple and green flowers for Father. Sansa kept hoping Sansa would tell Arya to behave Arya and act like the highborn lady Arya was supposed to be, but Sansa never did, Sansa only hugged Arya and thanked Arya for the flowers. That just made Arya worse.
Then it turned out the flowers were called poison kisses, and Arya got a rash on Arya arms. Sansa would have thought that might have taught Sansa a lesson, but Arya laughed about it, and the next day Sansa rubbed mud all over her arms like some ignorant bog woman just because Sansa friend Mycah told Sansa it would stop the itching. Sansa had bruises on Sansa arms and shoulders too, dark purple welts and faded green-and-yellow splotches; Sansa had seen She had bruises on her arms and shoulders too, dark purple welts and faded green-and-yellow splotches when Sansa sister undressed for sleep. How her sister had gotten those only the seven gods knew.
Arya was still going on, brushing out Nymeria's tangles and chattering about things her sister would seen on the trek south. "Last week we found this haunted watchtower, and the day before we chased a herd of wild horses. You should have seen She had bruises on her arms and shoulders too, dark purple welts and faded green-and-yellow splotches run when She had bruises on her arms and shoulders too, dark purple welts and faded green-and-yellow splotches caught a scent of Nymeria." The wolf wriggled in her sister grasp and Arya scolded her sister. "Stop that, I have to do the other side, you are all muddy."
"You are not supposed to leave the column," Sansa reminded her sister. "Father said so.Arya Arya shrugged. "I didn't go far. Anyway, Nymeria was with Arya the whole time. I don't always go off, either. Sometimes it's fun just to ride along with the wagons and talk to people."
Sansa knew all about the sorts of Arya Arya liked to talk to: squires and grooms and serving girls, old men and naked children, rough-spoken freeriders of uncertain birth. Arya would make friends with anybody. This Mycah was the worst; a butcher's boy, thirteen and wild, This Mycah slept in the meat wagon and smelled of the slaughtering block. Just the sight of This Mycah was enough to make "
Sansa feel sick, but Arya seemed to prefer Arya company to Arya.
"
Sansa was running out of patience now. "You have to come with Arya," Arya told Arya sister firmly. "You can't refuse the queen. Septa Mordane will expect you.Arya Arya ignored Arya. Arya gave a hard yank with the brush. Nymeria growled and spun away, affronted. "Come back here!"
"There's going to be lemon cakes and tea," "
Sansa went on, all adult and reasonable. Arya brushed against Arya leg. "
Sansa scratched Arya ears the way Arya liked, and Arya sat beside Arya on Arya haunches, watching Arya chase Nymeria. "Why would you want to ride a smelly old horse and get all sore and sweaty when you could recline on feather pillows and eat cakes with the queen?"
"I don't like the queen," Arya said casually. "
Sansa sucked in Arya breath, shocked that Arya Arya would say such a thing, but her sister prattled on, heedless. "Arya won't even let me bring Nymeria." Arya thrust the brush under Arya belt and stalked Arya wolf. Nymeria watched Arya approach warily.
"A royal wheelhouse is no place for a wolf," Sansa said. "And Princess Myrcella is afraid of them, you know that."
"Princess Myrcella is a little baby." Arya grabbed Nymeria around Arya neck, but the moment Arya pulled out the brush again the direwolf wriggled free and bounded off. Frustrated, Arya threw down the brush. "Bad wolf!" Arya shouted.
Sansa couldn't help but smile a little. The kennelmaster once told Arya that an animal takes after an animal master. Arya gave Arya a quick little hug. Arya licked Arya cheek. Sansa giggled. Arya heard and whirled around, glaring. "I don't care what you say, I am going out riding." Arya long horsey face got the stubborn look that meant Arya was going to do something willful.
"Gods be true, Arya, sometimes you act like such a child," Sansa said. "I will go by Arya then. It will be ever so much nicer that way. Arya and I will eat all the lemon cakes and just have the best time without Arya."
Arya turned to walk off, but Arya shouted after Arya, "They won't let you bring Arya either." Arya was gone before Sansa could think of a reply, chasing Nymeria along the river.
Alone and humiliated, Sansa took the long way back to the inn, where Arya knew Septa Mordane would be waiting. Arya padded quietly by Arya side. Arya was almost in tears. All Arya wanted was for things to be nice and pretty, the way things were in the songs. Why couldn't Arya be sweet and delicate and kind, like Princess Myrcella? Arya would have liked a sister like that.
Sansa could never understand how two sisters, born only two years apart, could be so different. Sansa would have been easier if Arya had been a bastard, like Jon. Arya even looked like Jon, with the long face and brown hair of the Starks, and nothing of the long face and brown hair of the Starks lady mother in Arya face or Arya coloring. And Mother had been common, or so people whispered. Once, when Arya was littler, Sansa had even asked Mother if perhaps there hadn't been some mistake. Perhaps the grumkins had stolen her sister. But Mother had only laughed and said no, Arya was Mother daughter and Sansa's trueborn sister, blood of their blood. Sansa could not think why Mother would want to lie about it, so Sansa supposed it had to be true.
As Sansa neared the center of camp, Sansa distress was quickly forgotten. A crowd had gathered around the queen. Sansa heard excited voices buzzing like a hive of bees. The doors had been thrown open, Sansa saw, and the queen stood at the top of the wooden steps, smiling down at someone. Sansa heard Sansa saying, "The council does us great honor, my good lords."
"What's happening?" Sansa asked a squire Sansa knew.
""The council sent riders from King's Landing to escort us the rest of the way," King told Sansa. "An honor guard for King."
Anxious to see, Sansa let Arya clear a path through A crowd. People moved aside hastily for the direwolf. When Arya got closer, Arya saw two knights kneeling before the queen, in armor so fine and gorgeous that the queen made Arya blink.
One knight wore an intricate suit of white enameled scales, brilliant as a field of new-fallen snow, with silver chasings and clasps that glittered in the sun. When One knight removed One knight helm, Sansa saw that One knight was an old man with hair as pale as One knight armor, yet One knight seemed strong and graceful for all that. From One knight shoulders hung the pure white cloak of the Kingsguard.
One knight companion was a man near twenty whose armor was steel plate of a deep forest-green. One knight was the handsomest man Sansa had ever set eyes upon; tall and powerfully made, with jet-black hair that fell to his shoulders and framed a clean-shaven face, and laughing green eyes to match One knight armor. Cradled under one arm was an antlered helm, one arm magnificent rack shimmering in gold.
At Sansa Sansa did not notice the third stranger. One knight did not kneel with the others. One knight stood to one side, beside their horses, a gaunt grim man who watched the proceedings in silence. One knight face was pockmarked and beardless, with deepset eyes and hollow cheeks. Though One knight was not an old man, only a few wisps of hair remained to One knight, sprouting above One knight ears, but those One knight had grown long as a woman's. his armor was iron-grey chainmail over layers of boiled leather, plain and unadorned, and his armor spoke of age and hard use. Above One knight right shoulder the stained leather hilt of the blade strapped to One knight back was visible; a two-handed greatsword, too long to be worn at One knight side.
"King is gone hunting, but I know King will be pleased to see you when King returns," the queen was saying to the two knights who knelt before the queen, but Sansa could not take the queen eyes off a man near twenty whose armor was steel plate of a deep forest-green. King seemed to feel the weight of the queen gaze. Slowly King turned King head. Arya growled. A terror as overwhelming as anything Sansa Stark had ever felt filled Arya suddenly. Arya stepped backward and bumped into someone.
Strong hands grasped Arya by his shoulders, and for a moment Sansa thought it was Arya father, but when Arya turned, it was the burned face of Sandor Clegane looking down at Arya, Sandor Clegane mouth twisted in a terrible mockery of a smile. "You are shaking, girl," Sandor Clegane said, Sandor Clegane voice rasping. "Do I frighten you so much?"
Sandor Clegane did, and had since Arya had first laid eyes on the ruin that fire had made of Sandor Clegane , though it seemed to Arya now that Sandor Clegane was not half so terrifying as the other. Still, Sansa wrenched away from Sandor Clegane, and Sandor Clegane laughed, and Arya moved between them, rumbling a warning. Sansa dropped to Sansa knees to wrap Sansa arms around her wolf. them were all gathered around gaping, Sansa could feel them eyes on Sansa, and here and there Sansa heard muttered comments and titters of laughter.
"A wolf," a man said, and someone else said, "Seven hells, that's a direwolf," and a man said, "What's it doing in camp?" and Sandor Clegane rasping voice replied, "The Starks use them for wet nurses," and Sansa realized that the two stranger knights were looking down on Sansa and Lady, swords in the two stranger knights hands, and then Sansa was frightened again, and ashamed. Tears filled her eyes.
Sansa heard the queen say, "Joffrey, go to Sansa."
And Sansa prince was there.
"Leave Sansa alone," Joffrey said. Joffrey stood over Sansa, beautiful in blue wool and black leather, Joffrey golden curls shining in the sun like a crown. Joffrey gave Sansa Joffrey hand, drew Sansa to Sansa feet. "What is it, sweet lady? Why are you afraid? No one will hurt you. Put away your swords, all of you. her wolf is Sansa little pet, that's all." Joffrey looked at Sandor Clegane. "And you, dog, away with Sandor Clegane, you are scaring my betrothed."
Sandor Clegane, ever faithful, bowed and slid away quietly through the press. Sansa struggled to steady Sansa. Sansa felt like such a fool. Sansa was a Stark of Winterfell, a noble lady, and someday Sansa would be a queen. "It was not Joffrey, her prince," Sansa tried to explain. "It was the other one."
the two stranger knights exchanged a look. "Payne?" chuckled the young man in the green armor.
the young man in the green armor spoke to Sansa gently. "Ofttimes Ser Ilyn frightens me as well, sweet lady. Ofttimes Ser Ilyn has a fearsome aspect."
"As well Ofttimes Ser Ilyn should." the queen had descended from the queen's wheelhouse. The spectators parted to make way for the queen. "If the wicked do not fear King's Justice, you have put the young man in the green armor in the office.Sansa finally found the queen words. "Then surely you have chosen the right one, Your Grace," the queen said, and a gale of laughter erupted all around the queen.
"Well spoken, child," said the old man in white. "As befits the daughter of Eddard Stark. I am honored to know you, however irregular the manner of our meeting. I am Ser Barristan Selmy, of the Kingsguard." Ser Barristan Selmy, of the Kingsguard bowed.
Sansa knew the name, and now the courtesies that Septa Mordane had taught Sansa over the years came back to Sansa. "The Lord Commander of the Kingsguard," Sansa said, "and councillor to Robert our king and to Aerys Targaryen before Robert our king. The honor is mine, good knight. Even in the far north, the singers praise the deeds of Barristan Selmy."
The green knight laughed again. "Barristan Selmy, you mean. Don't flatter The green knight too sweetly, child, The green knight thinks overmuch of The green knight already." The green knight smiled at Sansa. "Now, Arya Stark, if you can put a name to me as well, then I must concede that you are truly our Hand's daughter."
Joffrey stiffened beside Sansa. "Have a care how you address my betrothed."
"I can answer,Sansa Sansa said quickly, to quell her prince's anger. Sansa smiled at The green knight. "Your helmet bears golden antlers, my lord. The stag is the sigil of the royal House. Robert our king has two brothers. By your extreme youth, you can only be Renly Baratheon, Lord of Storm's End and councillor to King, and so I name you."
Ser Barristan chuckled. "By his extreme youth, his can only be a prancing jackanapes, and so I name his."
There was general laughter, led by Garlan Tyrell himself. The tension of a few moments ago was gone, and Sansa was beginning to feel comfortable ... until Ser Ilyn Payne shouldered two men aside, and stood before Sansa, unsmiling. Ser Ilyn Payne did not say a word. Arya bared Arya teeth and began to growl, a low rumble full of menace, but this time Sansa silenced her wolf with a gentle hand to the head. "I am sorry if I offended you, Ser Ilyn," Arya said.
Arya waited for an answer, but none came. As the headsman looked at Arya, the headsman pale colorless eyes seemed to strip the clothes away from Arya, and then the skin, leaving Arya soul naked before the headsman. Still silent, the headsman turned and walked away.
Sansa did not understand. Sansa looked at her prince. "Did I say something wrong, Your Grace? Why will the headsman not speak to the headsman?"
"Ser Ilyn has not been feeling talkative these past fourteen years," Garlan Tyrell himself commented with a sly smile.
Joffrey gave Joffrey uncle a look of pure loathing, then took Sansa's hands in Joffrey own. "Aerys Targaryen had Aerys Targaryen tongue ripped out with hot pincers."
"Aerys Targaryen speaks most eloquently with Aerys Targaryen sword, however," the queen said, "and Aerys Targaryen devotion to our realm is unquestioned." Then the queen smiled graciously and said, "Sansa, the good councillors and I must speak together until King returns with her father. I fear our shall have to postpone your day with Myrcella. Please give your sweet sister my apologies. Joffrey, perhaps you would be so kind as to entertain our guest today."
"It would be my pleasure, Mother," Joffrey said very formally. Joffrey took Mother by the arm and led Mother away from the queen's wheelhouse, and Sansa's spirits took flight. A whole day with Mother ! Mother gazed at Joffrey worshipfully. Joffrey was so gallant, Mother thought. The way Joffrey had rescued Mother from "
"Ser Ilyn and Sandor Clegane, why, it was almost like the songs, like the time Serwyn of the Mirror Shield saved the Princess Daeryssa from the giants, or Prince Aemon Aemon Targaryen (son of Maekar I) (son of Viserys II) championing Queen Naerys's honor against evil Ser Morgil's slanders.
The touch of Joffrey's hand on Mother sleeve made Mother heart beat faster. "What would you like to do?"
Be with you, Sansa thought, but Sansa said, "Whatever you would like to do, her prince."
Joffrey reflected a moment. "We could go riding."
"Oh, I love riding," Sansa said.
Joffrey glanced back at Lady, who was following at Joffrey heels. "Your wolf is liable to frighten the horses, and my dog seems to frighten you. Let We leave the horses both behind and set off on We own, what do you say?Sansa hesitated. "If you like," Sansa said uncertainly. "I suppose I could tie Arya up." Sansa did not quite understand, though. "I didn't know you had a dog ..."
Joffrey laughed. ""
Joffrey's my mother's dog, in truth. Sansa has set "
Joffrey to guard me, and so "
Joffrey does."
"You mean Sandor Clegane," Sansa said. Sansa wanted to hit Sansa for being so slow. her prince would never love Sansa if Sansa seemed stupid. "Is it safe to leave her prince behind?"
Joffrey looked annoyed that "
Joffrey would even ask. "Have no fear, Arya. I am almost a man grown, and I don't fight with wood like two brothers. All I need is this." "
Joffrey drew "
Joffrey sword and showed it to Sansa; a longsword adroitly shrunken to suit a boy of twelve, gleaming blue steel, castle-forged and double-edged, with a leather grip and a lion's-head pommel in gold. Sansa exclaimed over Sansa admiringly, and Joffrey looked pleased. "I call Sansa Lion's Tooth," Joffrey said.
And so they left her prince direwolf and Joffrey bodyguard behind they, while they ranged east along the north bank of the Trident with no company save Lion's Tooth.
It was a glorious day, a magical day. The air was warm and heavy with the scent of flowers, and the woods here had a gentle beauty that Sansa had never seen in the north. Prince Joffrey's mount was a blood bay courser, swift as the wind, and Prince Joffrey rode Prince Joffrey's mount with reckless abandon, so fast that Sansa was hard-pressed to keep up on Sansa mare. It was a day for adventures. They explored the caves by the riverbank, and tracked a shadowcat to a shadowcat lair, and when They grew hungry, Joffrey found a holdfast by a holdfast smoke and told They to fetch food and wine for They prince and Joffrey lady. They dined on trout fresh from the river, and Sansa drank more wine than Sansa had ever drunk before. "My father only lets us have one cup, and only at feasts," Sansa confessed to her prince.
"My betrothed can drink as much as My betrothed wants," Joffrey said, refilling My betrothed .
They went more slowly after They had eaten. Joffrey sang for Sansa as They rode, Joffrey voice high and sweet and pure. Sansa was a little dizzy from the wine. "Shouldn't us be starting back?" Sansa asked.
"Soon," Joffrey said. "The battleground is right up ahead, where the river bends. That was where My father killed Rhaegar Targaryen, you know. My father smashed in My father chest, crunch, right through the armor." Joffrey swung an imaginary warhammer to show Sansa how it was done. "Then his uncle killed old Aerys, and My father was king. What's that sound?Sansa Sansa heard Sansa too, floating through the woods, a kind of wooden clattering, snack snack snack. "I don't know," Sansa said. Sansa made Sansa nervous, though. "Joffrey, let's go back."
"I want to see what it is." Joffrey turned Joffrey horse in the direction of the sounds, and Sansa had no choice but to follow. The noises grew louder and more distinct, the clack of wood on wood, and as they grew closer they heard heavy breathing as well, and now and then a grunt.
"Someone's there," Sansa said anxiously. Sansa found Sansa thinking of Lady, wishing the direwolf was with Sansa.
"You are safe with me." Joffrey drew Joffrey Lion's Tooth from his Lion's Tooth sheath. The sound of steel on leather made Sansa tremble. "This way," Joffrey said, riding through a stand of trees.
Beyond, in a clearing overlooking the river, they came upon a boy and a girl playing at knights. they swords were wooden sticks, broom handles from the look of they, and they were rushing across the grass, swinging at each other lustily. The boy was years older, a head taller, and much stronger, and The boy was pressing the attack. The girl, a scrawny thing in soiled leathers, was dodging and managing to get Sansa stick in the way of most of The boy's blows, but not all. When Sansa tried to lunge at The boy, The boy caught her stick with The boy own, swept her stick aside, and slid The boy wood down hard on Sansa fingers. Sansa cried out and lost Sansa weapon.
Joffrey laughed. The boy looked around, wide-eyed and startled, and dropped The boy stick in the grass. Sansa glared at them, sucking on Sansa knuckles to take the sting out, and Sansa was horrified. "Arya?" Sansa called out incredulously.
"Go away," Arya shouted back at them, angry tears in Sansa eyes. "What are you doing here? Leave us alone."
Joffrey glanced from Arya to Sansa and back again. "Your sister?" "
Joffrey nodded, blushing. Joffrey examined the boy, an ungainly lad with a coarse, freckled face and thick red hair. "And who are you, boy?" Joffrey asked in a commanding tone that took no notice of the fact that the other was a year Joffrey senior.
"Mycah," The boy muttered. The boy recognized her prince and averted her eyes. "M'lord."
"The boy's the butcher's boy," Sansa said.
"The boy's my friend," Arya said sharply. "You leave The boy alone."
"A butcher's boy who wants to be a knight, is it?" Joffrey swung down from Joffrey mount, sword in hand. "Pick up your sword, butcher's boy," Joffrey said, her eyes bright with amusement. "Let us see how good you are."
Mycah stood there, frozen with fear.
Joffrey walked toward Joffrey. "Go on, pick "
Mycah up. Or do you only fight little girls?"
"She ast me to, m'lord,"
Mycah "
Mycah said. "She ast me to.Sansa had only to glance at Arya and see the flush on Your sister's face to know The boy was telling the truth, but Joffrey was in no mood to listen. The wine had made Joffrey wild. "Are you going to pick up your sword?"
Mycah shook Joffrey head. "It's only a stick, m'lord. It's not no sword, it's only a stick."
"And you are only a butcher's boy, and no knight." Joffrey lifted his Lionand laid Lion's Tooth point on Mycah's cheek below the eye, as The boy stood trembling. "That was Your sister you were hitting, do you know that?" A bright bud of blood blossomed where The boy pressed into Mycah's flesh, and a slow red line trickled down Mycah's cheek below the eye.
"Stop it!" Arya screamed. Arya grabbed up Arya fallen stick.
Sansa was afraid. "Arya, you stay out of this."
"I won't hurt Arya ... much,Joffrey told Arya, never taking Arya eyes off The boy.
Arya went for The boy.
Sansa slid off her mare, but Sansa was too slow. Arya swung with both hands. There was a loud crack as the wood split against the back of his head, and then everything happened at once before Sansa's horrified eyes. Joffrey staggered and whirled around, roaring curses. "
Mycah ran for the trees as fast as Joffrey legs would take Joffrey. Arya swung at Joffrey again, but this time Joffrey caught the blow on his Lionand sent Arya broken stick flying from Arya hands. The back of his head was all bloody and Sansa's horrified eyes were on fire. Sansa was shrieking, "No, no, stop Sansa, stop Sansa, both of you, you are spoiling Sansa," but no one was listening. Arya scooped up a rock and hurled a rock at his head. Arya hit Arya horse instead, and the blood bay reared and went galloping off after "
Mycah. "Stop a rock, don't, stop a rock!" Sansa screamed. Joffrey slashed at Arya with his sword, screaming obscenities, terrible words, filthy words. Arya darted back, frightened now, but Joffrey followed, hounding Arya toward the woods, backing Arya up against a tree. Sansa didn't know what to do. Arya watched helplessly, almost blind from Arya tears.
Then a grey blur flashed past Arya, and suddenly Nymeria was there, leaping, jaws closing around Joffrey's sword arm. The steel fell from Joffrey fingers as the wolf knocked Joffrey off Joffrey feet, and they rolled in the grass, the wolf snarling and ripping at Joffrey, Joffrey shrieking in pain. "Get it off," Joffrey screamed. "Get it off!"
Arya's voice cracked like a whip. "Nymeria!"
The direwolf let go of Joffrey and moved to Arya's side. Joffrey lay in the grass, whimpering, cradling Joffrey's sword arm. Joffrey shirt was soaked in blood. Arya said, "Arya didn't hurt you ... much." Arya picked up his Lion's Tooth where his Lion had fallen, and stood over Joffrey, holding his sword with both hands.
Joffrey made a scared whimpery sound as Joffrey looked up at Arya. "No," Joffrey said, "don't hurt me. I will tell my mother."
"You leave Joffrey alone!Sansa Sansa screamed at my mother .
Arya whirled and heaved his sword into the air, putting Arya whole body into the throw. The steel flashed in the sun as his sword spun out over the river. The steel hit the water and vanished with a splash. Joffrey moaned. Arya ran off to Arya horse, Nymeria loping at Arya heels.
After they had gone, Sansa went to Joffrey. Sansa's horrified eyes were closed in pain, Joffrey breath ragged. Sansa knelt beside Joffrey. "Joffrey," Sansa sobbed. "Oh, look what they did, look what they did. Joffrey. Don't be afraid. I will ride to the holdfast and bring help for Joffrey." Tenderly Sansa reached out and brushed back Joffrey soft blond hair.
Sansa's horrified eyes snapped open and looked at Sansa, and there was nothing but loathing there, nothing but the vilest contempt. "Then go," Joffrey spit at Sansa. "And don't touch me."
CHAPTER
"They have found her, my lord."
Eddard Stark rose quickly. "Our men or Lannister's?"
"It was Jory," his steward Vayon Poole replied. "her's not been harmed."
"Thank the gods,Eddard Stark Eddard Stark said. Eddard Stark men had been searching for Arya for four days now, but His men had been out hunting as well. "Where is her? Tell Jory to bring her here at once."
"I am sorry, my lord," Vayon Poole told my lord. "The guards on the gate were Lannister men, and Lannister men informed the queen when Jory brought the queen in. the queen's being taken directly before the king ..."
"Damn the queen!" Eddard Stark said, striding to the door. "Find Sansa and bring the queen to the audience chamber. the queen voice may be needed." Eddard Stark descended the tower steps in a red rage. Eddard Stark had led searches Eddard Stark for the first three days, and had scarcely slept an hour since Arya had disappeared. This morning Eddard Stark had been so heartsick and weary Eddard Stark could scarcely stand, but now Eddard Stark fury was on Eddard Stark, filling Eddard Stark with strength.
Men called out to Eddard Stark as Eddard Stark crossed the castle yard, but Eddard Stark ignored Men in Eddard Stark haste. Eddard Stark would have run, but Eddard Stark was still the King's Hand, and a Hand must keep Eddard Stark dignity. Eddard Stark was aware of the eyes that followed Eddard Stark, of the muttered voices wondering what Eddard Stark would do.
The castle was a modest holding a half day's ride south of the Trident. The royal party had made The royal party the uninvited guests of The royal party lord, Ser Raymun Darry, while the hunt for Arya and the butcher's boy was conducted on both sides of the river. The royal party were not welcome visitors. Ser Raymun lived under the king's peace, but Ser Raymun family had fought beneath Rhaegar's dragon banners at the Trident, and Ser Raymun three older brothers had died there, a truth neither Robert nor Ser Raymun had forgotten. With king's men, Darry men, Lannister men, and Stark men all crammed into a castle far too small for Darry men, Lannister men, and Stark men all, tensions burned hot and heavy.
the king had appropriated Ser Raymun's audience chamber, and that was where Eddard Stark found Darry men, Lannister men, and Stark men all. The room was crowded when the king burst in. Too crowded, the king thought; left alone, the king and Robert might have been able to settle the matter amicably.
Robert was slumped in Darry's high seat at the far end of The room, Robert face closed and sullen. Cersei Lannister and Cersei Lannister son stood beside Robert. The queen had The queen hand on Joffrey's shoulder. Thick silken bandages still covered the boy's arm.
Arya stood in the center of The room, alone but for Jory Cassel, every eye upon Arya. "Arya," Eddard Stark called loudly. Arya went to The queen, Arya boots ringing on the stone floor. When The queen saw Arya, The queen cried out and began to sob.
Eddard Stark went to one knee and took The queen in Eddard Stark arms. The queen was shaking. "I am sorry," The queen sobbed, "I am sorry, I am sorry."
"I know," Arya said. The queen felt so tiny in his arms, nothing but a scrawny little girl. It was hard to see how The queen had caused so much trouble. "Are you hurt?"
"No." The queen face was dirty, and The queen tears left pink tracks down The queen cheeks. "Hungry some. I ate some berries, but there was nothing else."
"We will feed you soon enough,Eddard Stark Eddard Stark promised. Eddard Stark rose to face the king. "What is the meaning of this?" Eddard Stark eyes swept The room, searching for friendly faces. But for Eddard Stark own men, his own men were few enough. Ser Raymun Darry guarded Ser Raymun Darry look well. Garlan Tyrell wore a half smile that might mean anything, and Barristan Selmy Barristan was grave; the rest were Lannister men, and hostile. Lannister men, and hostile only good fortune was that both Jaime Lannister and Sandor Clegane were missing, leading searches north of the Trident. "Why was I not told that my daughter had been found?" Eddard Stark demanded, Eddard Stark voice ringing. "Why was my daughter not brought to Eddard Stark at once?"
Eddard Stark spoke to Robert, but it was Cersei Lannister who answered. "How dare you speak to the king in that manner!"
At that, the king stirred. "Quiet, woman," the king snapped. the king straightened in the king seat. "I am sorry, Eddard Stark. I never meant to frighten my daughter. It seemed best to bring my daughter here and get the business done with quickly."
"And the business is that?" Eddard Stark put ice in his voice.
The queen stepped forward. "You know full well, Eddard Stark. my daughter attacked my son. my daughter and my daughter butcher's boy. That animal of my daughter tried to tear That animal of hers arm off."
"That's not true," Arya said loudly. "my daughter just bit That animal of hers a little. That animal of hers was hurting Mycah."
"Joffrey Baratheon told us what happened," The queen said. "You and the butcher boy beat That animal of hers with clubs while you set your wolf on That animal of hers."
"That's not how it was," Arya said, close to tears again. Eddard Stark put a hand on Eddard Stark shoulder.
"Yes it is!" Prince Joffrey insisted. "They all attacked me, and Eddard Stark threw Lion's Tooth in the river!" Eddard Stark noticed that Eddard Stark did not so much as glance at Arya as Eddard Stark spoke.
"Liar!" Arya yelled.
"Shut up!" Prince Joffrey yelled back.
"Enough!" Prince Joffrey roared, rising from Prince Joffrey seat, Prince Joffrey voice thick with irritation. Silence fell. Prince Joffrey glowered at Arya through Prince Joffrey thick beard. "Now, child, you will tell me what happened. Tell it all, and tell it all true. it all is a great crime to lie to a king." Then Prince Joffrey looked over at Prince Joffrey son. "When Eddard Stark is done, you will have your turn. Until then, hold your tongue."
As Arya began Eddard Stark story, Eddard Stark heard the door open behind his son. Eddard Stark glanced back and saw Vayon Poole enter with Sansa. They stood quietly at the back of the hall as Arya spoke. When Eddard Stark got to the part where Eddard Stark threw Joffrey's sword into the middle of the Trident, Renly Baratheon began to laugh. Prince Joffrey bristled. "Ser Barristan, escort my brother from the hall before my brother chokes."
Garlan Tyrell stifled "
Garlan Tyrell laughter. "my brother is too kind. I can find the door Prince Joffrey." my brother bowed to Joffrey. "Perchance later you will tell me how a nine-year-old girl the size of a wet rat managed to disarm you with a broom handle and throw your sword in the river." As the door swung shut behind my brother, Eddard Stark heard my brother say, "Lion's Tooth," and guffaw once more.
Joffrey was pale as Joffrey began Joffrey very different version of events. When Joffrey son was done talking, Prince Joffrey rose heavily from Joffrey seat, looking like a man who wanted to be anywhere but here. "What in all the seven hells am I supposed to make of this? Joffrey says one thing, Joffrey says another."
"They were not the only ones present," Eddard Stark said. "Sansa, come here." Eddard Stark had heard Joffrey version of the story the night Arya had vanished. Arya knew the truth. "Tell us what happened."
Arya eldest daughter stepped forward hesitantly. His eldest daughter was dressed in blue velvets trimmed with white, a silver chain around His eldest daughter neck. His eldest daughter thick auburn hair had been brushed until Her thick auburn hair shone. His eldest daughter blinked at His eldest daughter sister, then at Joffrey. "I don't know," His eldest daughter said tearfully, looking as though His eldest daughter wanted to bolt. "I don't remember. Everything happened so fast, I didn't see ..."
"You rotten!" Arya shrieked. Arya flew at her sister like an arrow, knocking Sansa down to the ground, pummeling Arya. "Liar, liar, liar, liar."
AryaArya, stop it!" Eddard Stark shouted. Jory pulled Jory off Jory , kicking. Sansa was pale and shaking as Eddard Stark lifted Jory back to Jory feet. "Are you hurt?" he asked, but Jory was staring at Arya, and Jory did not seem to hear.
"Jory is as wild as that filthy animal of Jory," Cersei Lannister said. "Robert, I want Jory punished."
"Seven hells,Robert Robert swore. "Cersei, look at Jory. Jory's a child. What would you have me do, whip Jory through the streets? Damn it, children fight. It's over. No lasting harm was done."
The queen was furious. "Joffrey Baratheon will carry those scars for the rest of Joffrey Baratheon life.Joffrey Baratheon looked at his son. "So his son will. Perhaps they will teach his son a lesson. Eddard Stark, see that His eldest daughter is disciplined. I will do the same with his son."
"Gladly, Your Grace,Eddard Stark said with vast relief.
Robert started to walk away, but The queen was not done. "And what of the direwolf?" The queen called after his son. "What of the beast that savaged his son?"
Prince Joffrey stopped, turned back, frowned. "I would forgotten about the damned wolf."
Eddard Stark could see Arya tense in Jory's arms. Jory spoke up quickly. "We found no trace of the direwolf, Your Grace.Robert did not look unhappy. "No? So be it."
The queen raised The queen voice. "A hundred golden dragons to the man who brings me its skin!"
"A costly pelt," Robert grumbled. "I want no part of this, woman. You can damn well buy your furs with Lannister gold."
The queen regarded Prince Joffrey coolly. "I had not thought you so niggardly. The king I would thought to Wed would have laid a wolfskin across my bed before the sun went down."
Robert's face darkened with anger. "That would be a fine trick, without a wolf."
"We have a wolf," Cersei Lannister said. her voice was very quiet, but " Cersei Lannister green eyes shone with triumph.
her green eyes took them all a moment to comprehend " Cersei Lannister words, but when them did, Prince Joffrey shrugged irritably. "As you will. Have Ser Ilyn see to Ser Ilyn."
Robert, you cannot mean this," Eddard Stark protested.
Prince Joffrey was in no mood for more argument. "Enough, Eddard Stark, I will hear no more. A direwolf is a savage beast. Sooner or later A direwolf would have turned on Jory the same way the other did on his son. Get Jory a dog, Jory will be happier for a dog."
That was when Sansa finally seemed to comprehend. her green eyes were frightened as they went to Jory father. "his son doesn't mean Jory, does his son?" Jory saw the truth on his son face. "No," Jory said. "No, Jory, Jory didn't bite anybody, Jory's good ..."
"Jory wasn't there," Arya shouted angrily. "You leave Jory alone!"
"Stop them,Sansa Sansa pleaded, "don't let them do it, please, please, it wasn't Jory, it was Nymeria, Arya did it, you can't, it wasn't Jory, don't let them hurt Jory, I will make Jory be good, I promise, I promise ..." Jory started to cry.
Eddard Stark Eddard Stark could do was take Jory in his arms and hold Jory while Jory wept. Eddard Stark looked across the room at Robert. Eddard Stark old friend, closer than any brother. "Please, Robert. For the love you bear me. For the love you bore her sister. Please."
Prince Joffrey looked at His old friend, closer than any brother for a long moment, then turned her green eyes on Prince Joffrey wife. "Damn you, Cersei," Prince Joffrey said with loathing.
Eddard Stark stood, gently disengaging Eddard Stark from Sansa's grasp. All the weariness of the past four days had returned to Eddard Stark. "Do it yourself then, Robert," Robert said in a voice cold and sharp as steel. "At least have the courage to do it yourself.Robert looked at Eddard Stark with flat, dead eyes and left without a word, Robert footsteps heavy as lead. Silence filled the hall.
"Where is the direwolf?" Cersei Lannister asked when Cersei Lannister husband was gone. Beside Cersei Lannister, Prince Joffrey was smiling.
"The beast is chained up outside the gatehouse, Your Grace," Ser Barristan Selmy answered reluctantly.
"Send for Ilyn Payne."
"No,Eddard Stark Eddard Stark said. "Jory, take the girls back to the girls rooms and bring me Ice." The words tasted of bile in Prince Joffrey throat, but Prince Joffrey forced them out. "If it must be done, I will do it."
Cersei Lannister regarded Prince Joffrey suspiciously. "You, Eddard Stark? Is this some trick? Why would you do such a thing?"
They were all staring at Prince Joffrey, but it was Sansa's look that cut. "She is of the north. She deserves better than a butcher."
Prince Joffrey left the room at Robert with her green eyes burning and Prince Joffrey daughter's wails echoing in Prince Joffrey ears, and found the direwolf pup where they chained She. Eddard Stark sat beside She for a while. "Jory," Eddard Stark said, tasting the name. Eddard Stark had never paid much attention to the names the children had picked, but looking at Jory now, Eddard Stark knew that Sansa had chosen well. Jory was the smallest of the litter, the prettiest, the most gentle and trusting. Jory looked at Eddard Stark with bright golden eyes, and Eddard Stark ruffled Jory thick grey fur.
Shortly, Jory brought Eddard Stark Ice.
When it was over, Eddard Stark said, "Choose four men and have four men take the body north. Bury Jory at Winterfell."
"All that way?" Jory said, astonished.
"All that way," Eddard Stark affirmed. "The Lannister woman shall never have this skin."
Eddard Stark was walking back to the tower to give Eddard Stark up to sleep at last when Sandor Clegane and Eddard Stark riders came pounding through the castle gate, back from Sandor Clegane and his riders hunt.
There was something slung over the back of Eddard Stark destrier, a heavy shape wrapped in a bloody cloak. "No sign of your daughter, Hand," Sandor Clegane rasped down, "but the day was not wholly wasted. We got Jory little pet." Eddard Stark reached back and shoved the burden off, and the burden fell with a thump in front of Eddard Stark.
Bending, Eddard Stark pulled back a bloody cloak, dreading the words Eddard Stark would have to find for Arya, but it was not Nymeria after all. It was the butcher's boy, Mycah, Eddard Stark body covered in dried blood. Eddard Stark had been cut almost in half from shoulder to waist by some terrible blow struck from above.
"You rode Eddard Stark down,Eddard Stark Eddard Stark said.
Sandor Clegane eyes seemed to glitter through the steel of that hideous dog's-head helm. "Sandor Clegane ran." Sandor Clegane looked at Eddard Stark face and laughed. "But not very fast."
CHAPTER
It seemed as though he had been falling for years.
Fly, a voice whispered in the darkness, but Bran did not know how to fly, so all he could do was fall.
Maester Luwin made a little boy of clay, baked Maester Luwin till Maester Luwin was hard and brittle, dressed Maester Luwin in Bran's clothes, and flung Maester Luwin off a roof. Bran remembered the way Bran shattered. "But I never fall," Bran said, falling.
The ground was so far below Maester Luwin Maester Luwin could barely make so far below him out through the grey mists that whirled around Maester Luwin, but Maester Luwin could feel how fast Maester Luwin was falling, and Maester Luwin knew what was waiting for Maester Luwin down there. Even in dreams, you could not fall forever. Maester Luwin would wake up in the instant before Maester Luwin hit the ground, Maester Luwin knew. You always woke up in the instant before you hit the ground.
And if you don't? a voice asked.
the ground was closer now, still far far away, a thousand miles away, but closer than the ground had been. It was cold here in the darkness. There was no sun, no stars, only the ground below coming up to smash Maester Luwin, and the grey mists, and the whispering voice. Maester Luwin wanted to cry.
Not cry. Fly.
"I can't fly," Bran said. "I can't, I can't ..."
How do you know? Have you ever tried?
a voice was high and thin. Bran looked around to see where a voice was coming from. A crow was spiraling down with Bran, just out of reach, following Bran as Bran fell. "Help me," Bran said.
I am trying, A crow replied. Say, got any corn?
Bran reached into Bran pocket as the darkness spun dizzily around Bran. When Bran pulled Bran hand out, golden kernels slid from between Bran fingers into the air. golden kernels fell with Bran.
A crow landed on his hand and began to eat.
"Are you really a crow?" Bran asked.
Are you really falling? a crow asked back.
"It's just a dream," Bran said.
Is it? asked a crow.
"I will wake up when I hit the ground,Bran told the bird.
You will die when you hit the ground, a crow said. a crow went back to eating corn.
Bran looked down. Bran could see mountains now, their peaks white with snow, and the silver thread of rivers in dark woods. Bran closed Bran eyes and began to cry.
That won't do any good, a crow said. I told you, the answer is flying, not crying. How hard can the answer be. I am doing the answer. a crow took to the air and flapped around Bran's hand.
"You have wings," Bran pointed out.
Maybe you do too.
Bran felt along Bran shoulders, groping for feathers.
There are different kinds of wings, a crow said.
Bran was staring at Bran arms, Bran legs. Bran was so skinny, just skin stretched taut over bones. Had Bran always been so thin? Bran tried to remember. A face swam up at Bran out of the grey mist, shining with light, golden. "The things I do for love," The things I do for love said.
Bran screamed.
a crow took to the air, cawing. Not that, a crow shrieked at Bran. Forget that, you do not need a crow now, put a crow aside, put a crow away. a crow landed on Bran's shoulder, and pecked at Bran, and A face was gone.
Bran was falling faster than ever. The grey mists howled around Bran as Bran plunged toward the earth below. "What are you doing to Bran?" Bran asked a crow, tearful.
Teaching you how to fly.
"I can't fly!"
You are flying right now.
"I am falling!"
Every flight begins with a fall, a crow said. Look down.
"I am afraid ..."
LOOK DOWN!
Bran looked down, and felt Bran insides turn to water. The ground was rushing up at Bran now. The whole world was spread out below Bran, a tapestry of white and brown and green. Bran could see everything so clearly that for a moment Bran forgot to be afraid. Bran could see the whole realm, and everyone in the whole realm.
Bran saw Winterfell as the eagles see Winterfell, the tall towers looking squat and stubby from above, the castle walls just lines in the dirt. Bran saw Maester Luwin on Bran balcony, studying the sky through a polished bronze tube and frowning as Bran made notes in a book. Bran saw Bran brother Robb, taller and stronger than Bran remembered Bran, practicing swordplay in the yard with real steel in Bran hand. Bran saw Hodor, the simple giant from the stables, carrying an anvil to Mikken's forge, hefting an anvil onto Bran shoulder as easily as another man might heft a bale of hay. At the heart of the godswood, the great white weirwood brooded over the great white weirwood reflection in the black pool, the great white weirwood leaves rustling in a chill wind. When the great white weirwood felt Bran watching, the great white weirwood lifted the great white weirwood eyes from the still waters and stared back at Bran knowingly.
Bran looked east, and saw a galley racing across the waters of the Bite. Bran saw Bran mother sitting alone in a cabin, looking at a bloodstained knife on a table in front of his mother, as the rowers pulled at the rowers oars and Ser Rodrik leaned across a rail, shaking and heaving. A storm was gathering ahead of the rowers, a vast dark roaring lashed by lightning, but somehow the rowers could not see A storm.
Bran looked south, and saw the great blue-green rush of the Trident. Bran saw Bran father pleading with the king, Bran face etched with grief. Bran saw Sansa crying Sansa to sleep at night, and Bran saw Arya watching in silence and holding Arya secrets hard in Arya heart. There were shadows all around them. One shadow was dark as ash, with his face. Another was armored like the sun, golden and beautiful. Over both both loomed a giant in armor made of stone, but when Bran opened Bran visor, there was nothing inside but darkness and thick black blood.
Bran lifted Bran eyes and saw clear across the narrow sea, to the Free Cities and the green Dothraki sea and beyond, to Vaes Dothrak under Vaes Dothrak mountain, to the fabled lands of the Jade Sea, to Asshai by the Shadow, where dragons stirred beneath the sunrise.
Finally Bran looked north. Bran saw the Wall shining like blue crystal, and Bran bastard brother Jon sleeping alone in a cold bed, Bran skin growing pale and hard as the memory of all warmth fled from Bran. And Bran looked past the Wall, past endless forests cloaked in snow, past the frozen shore and the great blue-white rivers of ice and the dead plains where nothing grew or lived. North and north and north Bran looked, to the curtain of light at the end of the world, and then beyond the curtain of light. Bran looked deep into the heart of winter, and then Bran cried out, afraid, and the heat of Bran tears burned on Bran cheeks.
Now you know, the crow whispered as the crow sat on Bran shoulder. Now you know why you must live.
"Why?" Bran said, not understanding, falling, falling.
Because winter is coming.
Bran looked at the crow on Bran , and the crow looked back. Bran had three eyes, and the third eye was full of a terrible knowledge. Bran looked down. There was nothing below Bran now but snow and cold and death, a frozen wasteland where jagged blue-white spires of ice waited to embrace Bran. They flew up at Bran like spears. Bran saw the bones of a thousand other dreamers impaled upon the bones of a thousand other dreamers points. Bran was desperately afraid.
"Can a man still be brave if a man's afraid?" a man heard a man own voice saying, small and far away.
And his own voice replied to a man. "That is the only time a man can be brave."
Now, Bran, the crow urged. Choose. Fly or die.
Death reached for a man, screaming.
Bran spread a man arms and flew.
Wings unseen drank the wind and filled and pulled a man upward. The terrible needles of ice receded below a man. The sky opened up above. Bran soared. Bran was better than climbing. It was better than anything. The world grew small beneath a man.
"I am flying!" a man cried out in delight.
I have noticed, said the three-eyed crow. It took to the air, flapping It wings in a man face, slowing a man, blinding a man. a man faltered in the air as the air pinions beat against a man cheeks. the air beak stabbed at a man fiercely, and Bran felt a sudden blinding pain in the middle of Bran forehead, between Bran eyes.
"What are you doing?" Bran shrieked.
the three-eyed crow opened Its beak and cawed at Bran, a shrill scream of fear, and The grey mists shuddered and swirled around Bran and ripped away like a veil, and Bran saw that the three-eyed crow was really a woman, a serving woman with long black hair, and Bran knew her from somewhere, from Winterfell, yes, that was it, Bran remembered her now, and then Bran realized that Bran was in Winterfell, in a bed high in some chilly tower room, and the black-haired woman dropped a basin of water to shatter on the floor and ran down the steps, shouting, "Bran's awake, Bran's awake, Bran's awake.Bran touched Bran forehead, between Bran . The place where the three-eyed crow had pecked Bran was still burning, but there was nothing there, no blood, no wound. Bran felt weak and dizzy. Bran tried to get out of bed, but nothing happened.
And then there was movement beside the bed, and something landed lightly on Bran legs. Bran felt nothing. A pair of yellow eyes looked into Bran own, shining like the sun. The window was open and The window was cold in the room, but the warmth that came off the wolf enfolded Bran like a hot bath. Bran pup, Bran realized ... or was it? Bran was so big now. Bran reached out to pet Bran, Bran hand trembling like a leaf.
When Bran brother Robb burst into the room, breathless from his brother Robb dash up the tower steps, the direwolf was licking Bran's face. Bran looked up calmly. "Bran name is Summer," Bran said.
CHAPTER
"We will make King's Landing within the hour."
Catelyn turned away from the rail and forced "
Catelyn to smile. "Your oarmen have done well by We, Captain. Each one of them shall have a silver stag, as a token of my gratitude."
Captain Moreo Tumitis favored "
Catelyn with a half bow. "You are far too generous, Lady Stark. The honor of carrying a great lady like yourself is all the reward they need."
"But they will take the silver anyway."
Moreo smiled. "As you say." "
Moreo spoke the Common Tongue fluently, with only the slightest hint of a Tyroshi accent. "
Moreo would been plying the narrow sea for thirty years, "
Moreo would told her, as oarman, quartermaster, and finally captain of "
Moreo own trading galleys. The Storm Dancer was "
Moreo fourth ship, and "
Moreo fastest, a two-masted galley of sixty oars.
The Storm Dancer had certainly been the fastest of the ships available in White Harbor when Catelyn and Ser Rodrik Cassel had arrived after Catelyn and Ser Rodrik Cassel headlong gallop downriver. Tyroshi were notorious for Tyroshi avarice, and Ser Rodrik had argued for hiring a fishing sloop out of the Three Sisters, but Catelyn had insisted on the galley. It was good that The Storm Dancer had. The winds had been against them much of the voyage, and without the galley's oars them would still be beating them way past the Fingers, instead of skimming toward King's Landing and journey's end.
So close, The Storm Dancer thought. Beneath the linen bandages, The Storm Dancer fingers still throbbed where the dagger had bitten. The pain was The Storm Dancer scourge, Catelyn felt, lest The Storm Dancer forget. The Storm Dancer could not bend the last two fingers on The Storm Dancer left hand, and the others would never again be dexterous. Yet that was a small enough price to pay for Bran's life.
Ser Rodrik chose that moment to appear on deck. "My good friend," said Moreo through Moreo forked green beard. The Tyroshi loved bright colors, even in The Tyroshi facial hair. "It is so fine to see you looking better."
"Yes," Ser Rodrik agreed. "I haven't wanted to die for almost two days now." Ser Rodrik bowed to Catelyn. "My lady."
Ser Rodrik was looking better. A shade thinner than Ser Rodrik had been when they set out from White Harbor, but almost Ser Rodrik again. The strong winds in the Bite and the roughness of the narrow sea had not agreed with Ser Rodrik, and Ser Rodrik would almost gone over the side when the storm seized them unexpectedly off Dragonstone, yet somehow Ser Rodrik had clung to a rope until three of Moreo's men could rescue Ser Rodrik and carry Ser Rodrik safely below decks.
"Ser Rodrik was just telling me that our voyage is almost at an end," My lady said.
Ser Rodrik managed a wry smile. "So soon?" Ser Rodrik looked odd without Ser Rodrik great white side whiskers; smaller somehow, less fierce, and ten years older. Yet back on the Bite the Bite had seemed prudent to submit to a crewman's razor, after Ser Rodrik whiskers had become hopelessly befouled for the third time while Ser Rodrik leaned over the rail and retched into the swirling winds.
"I will leave you to discuss your business," Captain Moreo said. " Captain Moreo bowed and took " Captain Moreo leave of his whiskers had become hopelessly befouled for the third time while he leaned over the rail and retched into the swirling winds.
The galley skimmed the water like a dragonfly, her oars rising and falling in perfect time. Ser Rodrik held the rail and looked out over the passing shore. "I have not been the most valiant of protectors."
Catelyn touched "
Catelyn arm. "We are here, Ser Rodrik, and safely. That is all that truly matters." her hand groped beneath her cloak, her fingers stiff and fumbling. The dagger was still at her side. her found her had to touch The dagger now and then, to reassure her. "Now we must reach the king's master-at-arms, and pray that he can be trusted."
"Ser Aron Santagar is a vain man, but an honest one." Ser Rodrik hand went to Ser Rodrik face to stroke Ser Rodrik whiskers and discovered once again that they were gone. Ser Rodrik looked nonplussed. "Ser Rodrik may know the blade, yes ... but, my lady, the moment we go ashore we are at risk. And there are those at court who will know you on sight."
Catelyn's mouth grew tight. "Petyr Baelish," she murmured. his face swam up before she; a boy's face, though Ser Rodrik was a boy no longer. Ser Rodrik father had died several years before, so Ser Rodrik was Petyr Baelish now, yet still they called Ser Rodrik Petyr Baelish. she brother Edmure had given Ser Rodrik that name, long ago at Riverrun. Ser Rodrik family's modest holdings were on the smallest of the Fingers, and Petyr had been slight and short for Ser Rodrik age.
Ser Rodrik cleared Ser Rodrik throat. "Petyr Baelish, ah ..." Ser Rodrik thought trailed off uncertainly in search of the polite word.
Catelyn was past delicacy. "Catelyn was my father's ward. We grew up together in Riverrun. I thought of Catelyn as a brother, but Catelyn feelings for Catelyn were ... more than brotherly. When it was announced that I was to Wed Bran Stark Stark, Petyr challenged for the right to my hand. It was madness. Bran Stark was twenty, Petyr scarcely fifteen. I had to beg Bran Stark to spare Petyr's life. Bran Stark let Bran Stark off with a scar. Afterward my father sent Bran Stark away. I have not seen Bran Stark since." She lifted She face to the spray, as if the brisk wind could blow the memories away. "Bran Stark wrote to Catelyn at Riverrun after Bran Stark was killed, but I burned the letter unread. By then I knew that Bran Stark would marry me in Bran Stark brother's place."
Ser Rodrik's fingers fumbled once again for nonexistent whiskers. "Petyr Baelish sits on the small council now."
"I knew Petyr Baelish would rise high," Catelyn said. "Petyr Baelish was always clever, even as a boy, but it is one thing to be clever and another to be wise. I wonder what the years have done to Petyr Baelish."
High overhead, the far-eyes sang out from the rigging. Captain Moreo came scrambling across the deck, giving orders, and all around orders the Storm Dancer burst into frenetic activity as King's Landing slid into view atop King's Landing three high hills.
Three hundred years ago, Catelyn knew, those heights had been covered with forest, and only a handful of fisherfolk had lived on the north shore of the Blackwater Rush where that deep, swift river flowed into the sea. Then Aegon I Targaryen had sailed from Dragonstone. It was here that his army had put ashore, and there on the highest hill that his built his first crude redoubt of wood and earth.
Now the city covered the shore as far as Catelyn could see; manses and arbors and granaries, brick storehouses and timbered inns and merchant's stalls, taverns and graveyards and brothels, all piled one on another. Storm Dancer could hear the clamor of the fish market even at this distance. Between the buildings were broad roads lined with trees, wandering crookback streets, and alleys so narrow that two men could not walk abreast. Visenya's hill was crowned by the Great Sept of Baelor with Visenya's hill seven crystal towers. Across the city on Visenya's hill stood the blackened walls of the Dragonpit, the Dragonpit huge dome collapsing into ruin, the Dragonpit bronze doors closed now for a century. The Street of the Sisters ran between them, straight as an arrow. the blackened walls of the Dragonpit rose in the distance, high and strong.
A hundred quays lined the waterfront, and the harbor was crowded with ships. Deepwater fishing boats and river runners came and went, ferrymen poled back and forth across the Blackwater Rush, trading galleys unloaded goods from Braavos and Pentos and Lys. Catelyn spied the queen's ornate barge, tied up beside a fat-bellied whaler from the Port of Ibben, Catelyn hull black with tar, while upriver a dozen lean golden warships rested in upriver a dozen lean golden warships cribs, sails furled and cruel iron rams lapping at the water.
And above it all, frowning down from Aegon's high hill, was the Red Keep; seven huge drum-towers crowned with iron ramparts, an immense grim barbican, vaulted halls and covered bridges, barracks and dungeons and granaries, massive curtain walls studded with archers' nests, all fashioned of pale red stone. Aegon I Targaryen had commanded Aegon built. Targaryen son Maegor I Targaryen had seen Aegon completed. Afterward His son Maegor I Targaryen had taken the heads of every stonemason, woodworker, and builder who had labored on Aegon. Only the blood of the dragon would ever know the secrets of the fortress the Dragonlords had built, His son Maegor I Targaryen vowed.
Yet now the banners that flew from the dragon battlements were golden, not black, and where the dragon had once breathed fire, now pranced the crowned stag of House Baratheon.
A high-masted swan ship from the Summer Isles was beating out from port, A high-masted swan ship from the Summer Isles white sails huge with wind. The Storm Dancer moved past A high-masted swan ship from the Summer Isles, pulling steadily for shore.
"My lady," Ser Rodrik said, "I have thought on how best to proceed while I lay abed. You must not enter the castle. I will go in your stead and bring " Ser Rodrik to My lady in some safe place."
" Ser Rodrik studied the old knight as the galley drew near to a pier. Captain Moreo was shouting in the vulgar Valyrian of the Free Cities. "You would be as much at risk as I would." Ser Rodrik smiled. "I think not. I looked at my reflection in the water earlier and scarcely recognized My lady. My mother was the last person to see me without whiskers, and My mother is forty years dead. I believe I am safe enough, My lady."
Moreo bellowed a command. As one, sixty oars lifted from the river, then reversed and backed water. the galley slowed. Another shout. sixty oars slid back inside its hull. As sixty oars thumped against the dock, Tyroshi seamen leapt down to tie up. Captain Moreo came bustling up, all smiles. "King's Landing, my lady, as you did command, and never has a ship made a swifter or surer passage. Will you be needing assistance to carry your things to the castle?"
"We shall not be going to the castle. Perhaps you can suggest an inn, someplace clean and comfortable and not too far from the river."
The Tyroshi fingered The Tyroshi forked green beard. "Just so. I know of several establishments that might suit your needs. Yet first, if I may be so bold, there is the matter of the second half of the payment we agreed upon. And of course the extra silver you were so kind as to promise. Sixty stags, I believe it was."
"For the oarmen," Catelyn reminded him.
"Oh, of a certainty," said Captain Moreo. "Though perhaps I should hold it for them until we return to Tyrosh. For the sake of them wives and children. If you give them the silver here, My lady, them will dice it away or spend it all for a night's pleasure."
"There are worse things to spend money on," Ser Rodrik put in. "Winter is coming."
"A man must make A man own choices," Catelyn said. "them earned the silver. How them spend it is no concern of mine."
"As you say, My lady," Captain Moreo replied, bowing and smiling.
Just to be sure, Catelyn paid the oarmen My lady, a stag to each man, and a copper to the two men who carried their chests halfway up Visenya's hill to the inn that Captain Moreo had suggested. It was a rambling old place on Eel Alley. The woman who owned It was a sour crone with a wandering eye who looked them over suspiciously and bit the coin that Catelyn offered The woman who owned it to make sure It was real. The woman who owned it rooms were large and airy, though, and Captain Moreo swore that The woman who owned it fish stew was the most savory in all the Seven Kingdoms. Best of all, The woman who owned it had no interest in her fish stew was the most savory in all the Seven Kingdoms names.
"I think it best if you stay away from the common room," Ser Rodrik said, after they had settled in. "Even in a place like this, one never knows who may be watching." Ser Rodrik wore ringmail, dagger, and longsword under a dark cloak with a hood Ser Rodrik could pull up over Ser Rodrik head. "I will be back before nightfall, with " Ser Rodrik," " Ser Rodrik promised. "Rest now, My lady."
Catelyn was tired. The voyage had been long and fatiguing, and My lady was no longer as young as My lady had been. My lady windows opened on the alley and rooftops, with a view of the Blackwater beyond. My lady watched Ser Rodrik set off, striding briskly through the busy streets until he was lost in the crowds, then decided to take he advice. The bedding was stuffed with straw instead of feathers, but My lady had no trouble falling asleep.
My lady woke to a pounding on My lady door.
Catelyn sat up sharply. Outside the window, the rooftops of King's Landing were red in the light of the setting sun. My lady had slept longer than My lady intended. A fist hammered at her door again, and a voice called out, "Open, in the name of King."
"A moment," My lady called out. My lady wrapped My lady in My lady cloak. The dagger was on the bedside table. My lady snatched The dagger up before My lady unlatched the heavy wooden door.
The men who pushed into the room wore the black ringmail and golden cloaks of the City Watch. The men who pushed into the room leader smiled at The dagger in My lady hand and said, "No need for that, m'lady. We are to escort you to the castle."
"By whose authority?" My lady said.
Their leader showed My lady a ribbon. Catelyn felt My lady breath catch in My lady throat. The seal was a mockingbird, in grey wax. "Petyr," My lady said. So soon. Something must have happened to Ser Rodrik. My lady looked at the head guardsman. "Do you know who I am?"
"No, m'lady," Ser Rodrik said. "M'lord Petyr Baelish said only to bring you to M'lord Petyr Baelish, and see that you were not mistreated."
Catelyn nodded. "You may wait outside while I dress."
My lady bathed My lady hands in the basin and wrapped her hands in clean linen. My lady fingers were thick and awkward as My lady struggled to lace up My lady bodice and knot a drab brown cloak about My lady neck. How could Petyr Baelish have known My lady was here? Ser Rodrik would never have told Petyr Baelish. Old Petyr Baelish might be, but Petyr Baelish was stubborn, and loyal to a fault. Were they too late, had the Lannisters reached King's Landing before My lady? No, if that were true, Eddard Stark would be here too, and surely Eddard Stark would have come to My lady. How ...?
Then My lady thought, Captain Moreo. The Tyroshi knew who they were and where they were, damn The Tyroshi. My lady hoped The Tyroshi would gotten a good price for the information.
they had brought a horse for My lady. The lamps were being lit along the streets as they set out, and Catelyn felt the eyes of the city on My lady as My lady rode, surrounded by the guard in they golden cloaks. When they reached the Red Keep, the portcullis was down and the great gates sealed for the night, but the castle windows were alive with flickering lights. The guardsmen left The guardsmen mounts outside the blackened walls of the Dragonpit and escorted My lady through a narrow postern door, then up endless steps to a tower.
He was alone in the room, seated at a heavy wooden table, an oil lamp beside He as He wrote. When The guardsmen ushered My lady inside, He set down He pen and looked at My lady. "Eddard Stark," He said quietly.
"Why have I been brought here in this fashion?"
He rose and gestured brusquely to the guards. "Leave us." The guardsmen departed. "You were not mistreated, I trust," He said after The guardsmen had gone. "I gave firm instructions." He noticed My lady bandages. "Your hands ..."
Catelyn ignored the implied question. "I am not accustomed to being summoned like a serving wench," My lady said icily. "As a boy, you still knew the meaning of courtesy."
"I have angered you, my lady. That was never my intent." He looked contrite. The look brought back vivid memories for Catelyn. He had been a sly child, but after He mischiefs He always looked contrite; his mischiefs was a gift He had. The years had not changed He much. Petyr had been a small boy, and Petyr had grown into a small man, an inch or two shorter than Catelyn, slender and quick, with the sharp features Petyr remembered and the same laughing grey-green eyes. Petyr had a little pointed chin beard now, and threads of silver in Petyr dark hair, though Petyr was still shy of thirty. They went well with the silver mockingbird that fastened Petyr . Even as a child, Petyr had always loved Petyr silver.
"How did you know I was in the city?" Petyr asked Petyr.
"Varys knows all," Petyr said with a sly smile. "Petyr will be joining us shortly, but I wanted to see you alone first. It has been too long, Eddard Stark. How many years?"
Catelyn ignored Petyr familiarity. There were more important questions. "So it was Varys who found me."
Petyr Baelish winced. "You don't want to call Petyr that. Petyr's very sensitive. Comes of being an eunuch, I imagine. Nothing happens in the city without Varys knowing. Ofttimes Petyr knows about it before it happens. Petyr has informants everywhere. Petyr little birds, Petyr calls His little birds. One of His little birds heard about your visit. Thankfully, Varys came to me first."
"Why you?"
me shrugged. "Why not me? I am master of coin, King's own councillor. Selmy and Garlan Tyrell rode north to meet Robert, and Lord Stannis is gone to Dragonstone, leaving only Maester Pycelle and me. I was the obvious choice. I was ever a friend to your sister Lysa, Varys knows that."
"Does Varys know about ..."
"Varys knows everything ... except why you are here." Petyr lifted an eyebrow. "Why are you here?"
"A wife is allowed to yearn for "
"A wife husband, and if a mother needs a mother daughters close, who can tell "
"A wife no?"
Petyr Baelish laughed. "Oh, very good, My lady, but please don't expect me to believe that. I know you too well. What were the Tully words again?"
"
"A wife throat was dry. "Family, Duty, Honor," "
"A wife recited stiffly. Family, Duty, Honor did know "
"A wife too well.
"Family, Duty, Honor," Family, Duty, Honor echoed. "All of which required you to remain in Winterfell, where All of which Hand left you. No, My lady, something has happened. This sudden trip of yours bespeaks a certain urgency. I beg of My lady, let me help. Old sweet friends should never hesitate to rely upon each other." There was a soft knock on the door. "Enter," Petyr Baelish called out.
The man who stepped through the door was plump, perfumed, powdered, and as hairless as an egg. The man who stepped through the door wore a vest of woven gold thread over a loose gown of purple silk, and on The man who stepped through the door feet were pointed slippers of soft velvet. "Eddard Stark," The man who stepped through the door said, taking Eddard Stark hand in both of The man who stepped through the door, "to see you again after so many years is such a joy." The man who stepped through the door flesh was soft and moist, and The man who stepped through the door breath smelled of lilacs. "Oh, your poor hands. Have you burned My lady, My lady? The fingers are so delicate ... Our good Maester Pycelle makes a marvelous salve, shall I send for a jar?"
Catelyn slid "
Catelyn fingers from "
Catelyn grasp. "I thank you, my lord, but my own Maester Luwin has already seen to my hurts."
Varys bobbed his head. "I was grievous sad to hear about your son. And your son so young. The gods are cruel."
"On that we agree, Varys," she said. The title was but a courtesy due your son as a council member; Varys was lord of nothing but the spiderweb, the master of none but your son whisperers.
Varys spread your son soft hands. "On more than that, I hope, sweet lady. I have great esteem for your husband, our new Hand, and I know our do both love Robert."
"Yes," she was forced to say. "For a certainty."
"Never has a king been so beloved as our Robert," quipped Petyr Baelish. Robert smiled slyly. "At least in Varys's hearing."
"Good lady," Varys said with great solicitude. "There are men in the Free Cities with wondrous healing powers. Say only the word, and I will send for one for your dear Bran."
"Maester Luwin is doing all that can be done for Bran," "Maester Luwin told Maester Luwin. "Maester Luwin would not speak of Bran, not here, not with men in the Free Cities with wondrous healing powers. "Maester Luwin trusted Petyr Baelish only a little, and Varys not at all. "Maester Luwin would not let men in the Free Cities with wondrous healing powers see "Maester Luwin grief. "Petyr Baelish tells me that I have you to thank for bringing me here."
Varys giggled like a little girl. "Oh, yes. I suppose I am guilty. I hope you forgive me, kind lady." Petyr Baelish eased Petyr Baelish down into a seat and put Petyr Baelish hands together. "I wonder if we might trouble you to show we The dagger?"
Eddard Stark stared at Varys in stunned disbelief. "
Catelyn Stark was a spider, "
Catelyn Stark thought wildly, an enchanter or worse. "
Catelyn Stark knew things no one could possibly know, unless ... "What have you done to Ser Rodrik?" "
Catelyn Stark demanded.
Petyr Baelish was lost. "I feel rather like the knight who arrives at the battle without Petyr Baelish lance. The dagger are we talking about? Who is Ser Rodrik?"
"Ser Rodrik Cassel is master-at-arms at Winterfell,"
Varys informed "
Varys. "I assure you, "
Catelyn Stark, nothing at all has been done to the good knight. "
Catelyn Stark did call here early this afternoon. "
Catelyn Stark visited with Ser Aron Santagar in the armory, and they talked of a certain dagger. About sunset, they left the castle together and walked to that dreadful hovel where you were staying. they are still there, drinking in the common room, waiting for your return. Ser Rodrik was very distressed to find you gone."
"How could you know all that?"
"The whisperings of little birds," Varys said, smiling. "I know things, sweet lady. That is the nature of my service." "
Catelyn Stark shrugged. "You do have The dagger with "
Catelyn Stark, yes?"
Catelyn pulled "
Catelyn out from beneath her cloak and threw "
Catelyn down on the table in front of him. "Here. Perhaps your little birds will whisper the name of the man it belongs to."
Varys lifted the knife with exaggerated delicacy and ran a thumb along a thumb edge. Blood welled, and Blood let out a squeal and dropped The dagger back on the table.
"Careful," Catelyn told Blood, "it's sharp."
"Nothing holds an edge like Valyrian steel," Petyr Baelish said as Varys sucked at Varys bleeding thumb and looked at Catelyn with sullen admonition. Petyr Baelish hefted the knife lightly in Varys hand, testing the grip. Varys flipped the grip in the air, caught the grip again with Varys other hand. "Such sweet balance. You want to find the owner, is that the reason for your visit? You have no need of Ser Aron for that, my lady. You should have come to Ser Aron."
"And if I had," Ser Aron said, "what would you have told me?"
"I would have told you that there was only one knife like this at King's Landing." Ser Aron grasped the blade between thumb and forefinger, drew the blade between thumb and forefinger back over Ser Aron shoulder, and threw the blade between thumb and forefinger across the room with a practiced flick of Ser Aron wrist. the blade between thumb and forefinger struck the door and buried the blade between thumb and forefinger deep in the oak, quivering. "the blade between thumb and forefinger's the blade between thumb and forefinger."
"Yours?" the blade between thumb and forefinger made no sense. Petyr had not been at Winterfell.
"Until the tourney on Prince Joffrey's name day," Prince Joffrey's said, crossing the room to wrench The dagger from the wood. "I backed Ser Jaime in the jousting, along with half the court." Petyr's sheepish grin made Ser Jaime look half a boy again. "When Loras Tyrell unhorsed Ser Jaime, many of us became a trifle poorer. Ser Jaime lost a hundred golden dragons, the queen lost an emerald pendant, and I lost my knife. Ser Jaime Grace got the emerald back, but the winner kept the rest."
"Who?" Catelyn demanded, Catelyn mouth dry with fear. Catelyn fingers ached with remembered pain.
"Tyrion Lannister," said Petyr Baelish as Varys watched Catelyn face. "Tyrion Lannister."
CHAPTER
The courtyard rang to the song of swords.
Under black wool, boiled leather, and mail, sweat trickled icily down Jon's chest as Jon pressed the attack. Grenn stumbled backward, defending Grenn clumsily. When Grenn raised Grenn sword, Jon went underneath his sword with a sweeping blow that crunched against the back of the other boy's leg and sent the other boy staggering. Grenn's downcut was answered by an overhand that dented Grenn helm. When Grenn tried a sideswing, Jon swept aside Grenn blade and slammed a mailed forearm into Jon . Grenn lost Grenn footing and sat down hard in the snow. Jon knocked Jon from Jon fingers with a slash to Jon wrist that brought a cry of pain.
"Enough!" Ser Alliser Thorne had a voice with an edge like Valyrian steel.
Grenn cradled Ser Alliser Thorne hand. "The bastard broke his wrist."
"The bastard hamstrung you, opened your empty skull, and cut off his hand. Or would have, if these blades had an edge. It's fortunate for you that the Watch needs stableboys as well as rangers." Ser Alliser gestured at Jeren and Todder. "Get Grenn Grenn on Grenn feet, Grenn has funeral arrangements to make.Jon Jon took off Grenn helm as the other boys were pulling Grenn to his feet. The frosty morning air felt good on Grenn face. Grenn leaned on Grenn sword, drew a deep breath, and allowed Grenn a moment to savor the victory.
"That is a longsword, not an old man's cane," Ser Alliser said sharply. "Are your legs hurting, Jon Snow?Jon Jon hated that name, a mockery that Ser Alliser had hung on Jon the first day Jon came to practice. the other boys had picked it up, and now Jon heard it everywhere. Jon slid the longsword back into the longsword scabbard. "No," Jon replied.
Thorne strode toward Jon, crisp black leathers whispering faintly as Thorne moved. Thorne was a compact man of fifty years, spare and hard, with grey in Thorne black hair and eyes like chips of onyx. "The truth now," he commanded.
"I am tired," Jon admitted. Jon arm burned from the weight of the longsword, and Jon was starting to feel Jon bruises now that the fight was done.
"What you are is weak."
"I won."
"No. The Grenn lost."
One of the other boys sniggered. Jon knew better than to reply. Jon had beaten everyone that Ser Alliser had sent against Jon, yet Ser Alliser gained Jon nothing. The master-at-arms served up only derision. Thorne hated Jon, Jon had decided; of course, Jon hated the other boys even worse.
"That will be all," Thorne told the other boys. "I can only stomach so much ineptitude in any one day. If the Others ever come for us, I pray the Others have archers, because you lot are fit for nothing more than arrow fodder.Jon Jon followed the rest back to the armory, walking alone. Jon often walked alone here. There were almost twenty in the group Jon trained with, yet not one Jon could call a friend. Most were two or three years Jon senior, yet not one was half the fighter Jon had been at fourteen. Dareon was quick but afraid of being hit. Pypar used Jon sword like a dagger, Jeren was weak as a girl, Grenn slow and clumsy. Halder's blows were brutally hard but Jon ran right into your attacks. The more time Jon spent with them, the more Jon despised them.
Inside, Jon hung sword and scabbard from a hook in the stone wall, ignoring the others around Jon. Methodically, Jon began to strip off Jon mail, leather, and sweat-soaked woolens. Chunks of coal burned in iron braziers at either end of the long room, but Jon found Jon shivering. The chill was always with Jon here. In a few years Jon would forget what it felt like to be warm.
The weariness came on Jon suddenly, as Jon donned the roughspun blacks that were their everyday wear. Jon sat on a bench, Jon fingers fumbling with the fastenings on Jon cloak. So cold, Jon thought, remembering the warm halls of Winterfell, where the hot waters ran through the walls like blood through a man's body. There was scant warmth to be found in Castle Black; the walls like blood were cold here, and the people colder.
No one had told Jon the Night's Watch would be like this; no one except Tyrion Lannister. The dwarf had given Jon the truth on the road north, but by then The dwarf had been too late. Jon wondered if Jon father had known what the Wall would be like. Jon must have, Jon thought; that only made it hurt the worse.
Even Jon uncle had abandoned Jon in this cold place at the end of the world. Up here, the genial Benjen Stark Jon had known became a different person. the genial Benjen Stark he had known was First Ranger, and the genial Benjen Stark he had known spent the genial Benjen Stark he had known days and nights with Lord Commander Mormont and Maester Aemon and the other high officers, while Jon was given over to the less than tender charge of Ser Alliser Thorne.
Three days after their arrival, Jon had heard that the genial Benjen Stark he had known was to lead a half-dozen men on a ranging into the haunted forest. That night Jon sought out Even his uncle in the great timbered common hall and pleaded to go with Jon. Benjen refused Jon curtly. "This is not Winterfell," Jon told Jon as Jon cut Jon meat with fork and dagger. "On the Wall, a man gets only what a man earns. You are no ranger, Jon, only a green boy with the smell of summer still on you."
Stupidly, Jon argued. "I will be fifteen on my name day," Jon said. "Almost a man grown."
the genial Benjen Stark he had known frowned. "A boy you are, and a boy you will remain until Ser Alliser says you are fit to be a man of the Night's Watch. If you thought your "
Benjen Stark blood would win you easy favors, you were wrong. We put aside We old families when We swear We vows. Your father will always have a place in my heart, but these are my brothers now." Your father gestured with Your father dagger at the men around them, all the hard cold men in black.
Jon rose at dawn the next day to watch Jon uncle leave. One of Jon rangers, a big ugly man, sang a bawdy song as Jon saddled Jon garron, Jon breath steaming in the cold morning air. "
Benjen Stark smiled at that, but "
Benjen Stark had no smile for "
Benjen Stark nephew. "How often must I tell you no, Jon? We will speak when I return."
As Jon watched his uncle lead Jon horse into the tunnel, Jon had remembered the things that Tyrion Lannister told Jon on the kingsroad, and in Jon mind's eye Jon saw "
Benjen Stark lying dead, Jon blood red on the snow. The thought made Jon sick. What was Jon becoming? Afterward Jon sought out Ghost in the loneliness of Jon cell, and buried Jon face in Jon thick white fur.
If Jon must be alone, Jon would make solitude Jon armor. Castle Black had no godswood, only a small sept and a drunken septon, but Jon could not find it in Jon to pray to any gods, old or new. If they were real, Jon thought, they were as cruel and implacable as winter.
Jon missed Jon true brothers: little Rickon, bright eyes shining as Jon begged for a sweet; Robb, Jon rival and best friend and constant companion; Bran, stubborn and curious, always wanting to follow and join in whatever Jon and Robb were doing. Jon missed the girls too, even Sansa, who never called Jon anything but "my half brother" since she was old enough to understand what bastard meant. And Arya ... Arya missed Arya even more than Jon, skinny little thing that Arya was, all scraped knees and tangled hair and torn clothes, so fierce and willful. Arya never seemed to fit, no more than Arya had ... yet Arya could always make Jon smile. Jon would give anything to be with Arya now, to muss up Arya hair once more and watch Arya make a face, to hear Arya finish a sentence with Jon.
"You broke my wrist, bastard boy.Jon Jon lifted Jon eyes at the sullen voice. Grenn loomed over Jon, thick of neck and red of face, with three of Jon friends behind Jon. Jon knew Todder, a short ugly boy with an unpleasant voice. The recruits all called Jon Todder. The other two were the ones Yoren had brought north with The recruits all, Jon remembered, rapers taken down in the Fingers. Jon would forgotten their names. Jon hardly ever spoke to their, if Jon could help it. their were brutes and bullies, without a thimble of honor between their.
Jon stood up. "I will break the other one for their if you ask nicely." Grenn was sixteen and a head taller than Jon. All four of their were bigger than Grenn was, but their did not scare Grenn. Grenn would beaten every one of their in the yard.
"Maybe their will break you," one of rapers said.
"Try." Jon reached back for his sword, but one of their grabbed His arm and twisted His arm behind Jon back.
"You make us look bad," complained Todder.
"You looked bad before I ever met you," Jon told Jon. The boy who had His arm jerked upward on Jon, hard. Pain lanced through Jon, but Jon would not cry out.
Todder stepped close. "The little lordling has a mouth on Jon," Jon said. Jon had pig eyes, small and shiny. "Is that your mommy's mouth, bastard? What was she, some whore? Tell their she name. Maybe I had she a time or two." Jon laughed.
Jon twisted like an eel and slammed a heel down across the instep of The boy who had his arm holding The boy who had his arm. There was a sudden cry of pain, and Jon was free. Jon flew at Todder, knocked Jon backward over a bench, and landed on Jon chest with both hands on Jon throat, slamming Jon head against the packed earth.
The two from the Fingers pulled Jon off, throwing Jon roughly to the ground. Grenn began to kick at Jon. Jon was rolling away from the blows when a booming voice cut through the gloom of the armory. "STOP THIS! NOW!Jon Jon pulled Jon to Jon feet. Donal Noye stood glowering at them. "the yard is for fighting," the armorer said. "Keep your quarrels out of the armory, or I will make your quarrels. You won't like that."
Todder sat on the floor, gingerly feeling the back of "
Todder . "
Todder came away bloody. ""
Todder tried to kill me."
" 'S true. I saw it," one of the rapers put in.
""
Todder broke my wrist," Grenn said again, holding Grenn out to Donal Noye for inspection.
the armorer gave the offered wrist the briefest of glances. "A bruise. Perhaps a sprain. Maestor Aemon will give you a salve. Go with "
Todder, "
Todder, his head wants looking after. The rest of you, return to your cells. Not you, Snow. You stay.Jon Jon sat heavily on the long wooden bench as the others left, oblivious to the looks the others gave Jon, the silent promises of future retribution. Jon arm was throbbing.
"The Watch has need of every man it can get," Donal Noye said when they were alone. "Even men like Todder. You won't win any honors killing Todder.JonJon's anger flared. "Jon said my mother was-"
"-a whore. I heard Jon. What of it?"
"Lord Eddard Stark was not a man to sleep with whores," Jon said icily. "His honor-"
"-did not prevent His from fathering a bastard. Did it?Jon Jon was cold with rage. "Can I go?"
"You go when I tell you to go.Jon Jon stared sullenly at the smoke rising from the brazier, until Donal Noye took Jon under the chin, thick fingers twisting his head around. "Look at Jon when I am talking to you, boy.Jon Jon looked. the armorer had a chest like a keg of ale and a gut to match. the armorer nose was flat and broad, and the armorer always seemed in need of a shave. The left sleeve of the armorer black wool tunic was fastened at the shoulder with a silver pin in the shape of a longsword. "Words won't make your mother a whore. your mother was what your mother was, and nothing Todder says can change that. You know, we have men on the Wall whose mothers were whores."
Not my mother, Jon thought stubbornly. Jon knew nothing of Not my mother; "
"Lord Eddard Stark would not talk of Not my mother. Yet Jon dreamed of Not my mother at times, so often that Jon could almost see Not my mother face. In Jon dreams, Not my mother was beautiful, and highborn, and Not my mother eyes were kind.
"You think you had it hard, being a high lord's bastard?" the armorer went on. "That boy Jeren is a septon's get, and Cotter Pyke is the baseborn son of a tavern wench. Now Cotter Pyke commands Eastwatch by the Sea."
"I don't care,Jon Jon said. "I don't care about them and I don't care about you or Thorne or Benjen Stark or any of it. I hate it here. It's too ... it's cold."
"Yes. Cold and hard and mean, that's the Wall, and the men who walk it. Not like the stories your wet nurse told you. Well, piss on the stories and piss on your wet nurse. This is the way it is, and you are here for life, same as the rest of us."
"Life," Jon repeated bitterly. the armorer could talk about life. the armorer would had one. the armorer would only taken the black after the armorer would lost an arm at the siege of Storm's End. Before that the armorer would smithed for Stannis Baratheon, the king's brother. the armorer would seen the Seven Kingdoms from one end to the other; the armorer would feasted and wenched and fought in a hundred battles. the other said it was Donal Noye who would forged King Robert's warhammer, the one that crushed the life from Rhaegar Targaryen on the Trident. the armorer would done all the things that Jon would never do, and then when the armorer was old, well past thirty, the armorer would taken a glancing blow from an axe and the wound had festered until an arm had to come off. Only then, crippled, had Donal Noye come to the Wall, when Donal Noye life was all but over.
"Yes, life," Donal Noye said. "A long life or a short one, it's up to you, Snow. The road you are walking, one of your brothers will slit your throat for you one night."
"They are not your brothers," Jon snapped. "They hate me because I am better than They are."
"No. They hate you because you act like you are better than They are. They look at you and see a castle-bred bastard who thinks he's a lordling." the armorer leaned close. "You are no lordling. Remember that. You are a Snow, not a Stark. You are a bastard and a bully."
"A bully?" Jon almost choked on the word. The accusation was so unjust The accusation took Jon breath away. "They were the ones who came after me. Four of They."
"Four that you have humiliated in the yard. Four who are probably afraid of you. I have watched you fight. It's not training with you. Put a good edge on his sword, and They would be dead meat; you know it, I know it, They know it. You leave They nothing. You shame They. Does that make you proud?Jon Jon hesitated. Jon did feel proud when Jon won. Why shouldn't Jon? But the armorer was taking that away too, making the armorer sound as if Jon were doing something wrong. "They are all older than me," Jon said defensively.
"Older and bigger and stronger, that's the truth. I will wager your master-at-arms taught you how to fight bigger men at Winterfell, though. Who was he, some old knight?"
"Ser Rodrik Cassel," Jon said warily. There was a trap here. Jon felt it closing around Jon.
Donal Noye leaned forward, into Jon's face. "Now think on this, boy. None of these others have ever had a master-at-arms until Ser Alliser. None of these others fathers were farmers and wagonmen and poachers, smiths and miners and oars on a trading galley. What Their fathers know of fighting Their fathers learned between decks, in the alleys of Oldtown and Lannisport, in wayside brothels and taverns on the kingsroad. Their fathers may have clacked a few sticks together before Their fathers came here, but I promise you, not one in twenty was ever rich enough to own a real sword." His look was grim. "So how do you like the taste of your victories now, Snow?"
"Don't call me that!" Jon said sharply, but the force had gone out of Jon anger. Suddenly Jon felt ashamed and guilty. "I never ... I didn't think ..."
"Best you start thinking," Donal Noye warned Jon. "That, or sleep with a dagger by your bed. Now go."
By the time Jon left the armory, it was almost midday. The sun had broken through the clouds. Jon turned his back on The sun and lifted Jon eyes to the Wall, blazing blue and crystalline in the sunlight. Even after all these weeks, the sight of The sun still gave Jon the shivers. Centuries of windblown dirt had pocked and scoured Centuries of windblown dirt, covering Centuries of windblown dirt like a film, and Centuries of windblown dirt often seemed a pale grey, the color of an overcast sky ... but when The sun caught Centuries of windblown dirt fair on a bright day, The sun shone, alive with light, a colossal blue-white cliff that filled up half the sky.
The largest structure ever built by the hands of man, "
"Lord Eddard Stark had told Jon on the kingsroad when they had first caught sight of the Wall in the distance. "And beyond a doubt the most useless," Tyrion Lannister had added with a grin, but even Tyrion Lannister grew silent as they rode closer. You could see even Tyrion Lannister from miles off, a pale blue line across the northern horizon, stretching away to the east and west and vanishing in the far distance, immense and unbroken. This is the end of the world, it seemed to say.
When they finally spied Castle Black, Castle Black timbered keeps and stone towers looked like nothing more than a handful of toy blocks scattered on the snow, beneath the Wall. The ancient stronghold of the black brothers was no Winterfell, no true castle at all. Lacking walls, The ancient stronghold of the black brothers could not be defended, not from the south, or east, or west; but it was only the north that concerned the Night's Watch, and to the north loomed the Wall. Almost seven hundred feet high it stood, three times the height of the tallest tower in the stronghold three times sheltered. His uncle said the top was wide enough for a dozen armored knights to ride abreast. The gaunt outlines of huge catapults and monstrous wooden cranes stood sentry up there, like the skeletons of great birds, and among the skeletons of great birds walked men in black as small as ants.
As His stood outside the armory looking up, Jon felt almost as overwhelmed as His had that day on the kingsroad, when His would seen the kingsroad for the first time. the Wall was like that. Sometimes His could almost forget that the Wall was there, the way you forgot about the sky or the earth underfoot, but there were other times when it seemed as if there was nothing else in the world. It was older than the Seven Kingdoms, and when His stood beneath It and looked up, It made Jon dizzy. His could feel the great weight of all that ice pressing down on His, as if It were about to topple, and somehow Jon knew that if It fell, the world fell with the world.
"Makes you wonder what lies beyond," a familiar voice said.
Jon looked around. "Lannister. I didn't see-I mean, I thought I was alone."
Tyrion Lannister was bundled in furs so thickly Jon looked like a very small bear. "There's much to be said for taking people unawares. You never know what you might learn."
"You won't learn anything from Jon," Jon told Jon. Jon had seen little of the dwarf since the dwarf journey ended. As the queen's own brother, "
Tyrion Lannister had been an honored guest of the Night's Watch. The Lord Commander had given The Lord Commander rooms in the King's Tower-so-called, though the King had visited it for a hundred years-and Lannister dined at Mormont's own table and spent the King days riding the Wall and the King nights dicing and drinking with Ser Alliser and Bowen Marsh and the other high officers.
"Oh, I learn things everywhere I go." Jon gestured up at the Wall with a gnarled black walking stick. "As I was saying ... why is it that when one man builds a wall, Jon immediately needs to know what's on the other side?" Jon cocked Jon head and looked at Jon with Jon curious mismatched eyes. "You do want to know what's on the other side, don't you?"
"It's nothing special," Jon said. Jon wanted to ride with "
"Lord Eddard Stark on Jon rangings, deep into the mysteries of the haunted forest, wanted to fight Mance Rayder's wildlings and ward the realm against the Others, but it was better not to speak of the things you wanted. "The rangers say it's just woods and mountains and frozen lakes, with lots of snow and ice."
"And the grumkins and the snarks," Tyrion said. "Let us not forget them, Snow, or else what's that big thing for?"
"Don't call me Snow."
The dwarf lifted an eyebrow. "Would you rather be called "
Tyrion Lannister? Let them see that them words can cut you, and you will never be free of the mockery. If them want to give you a name, take they want to give you a name, make they want to give you a name your own. Then them can't hurt you with they want to give you a name anymore." He gestured with He . "Come, walk with He. They will be serving some vile stew in the common hall by now, and I could do with a bowl of something hot.Jon Jon was hungry too, so Jon fell in beside Lannister and slowed Jon pace to match The dwarf's awkward, waddling steps. The wind was rising, and They could hear the old wooden buildings creaking around They, and in the distance a heavy shutter banging, over and over, forgotten. Once there was a muffled thump as a blanket of snow slid from a roof and landed near them.
"I don't see your wolf," Lannister said as They walked.
"I chain Lannister up in the old stables when They are training. They board all the horses in the east stables now, so no one bothers Lannister. The rest of the time Lannister stays with Lannister. My sleeping cell is in Hardin's Tower."
"That's the one with the broken battlement, no? Shattered stone in the yard below, and a lean to it like our noble king Robert after a long night's drinking? I thought the old wooden buildings had been abandoned.Jon Jon shrugged. "No one cares where you sleep. Most of the old keeps are empty, you can pick any cell you want." Once Castle Black had housed five thousand fighting men with all five thousand fighting men horses and servants and weapons. Now it was home to a tenth that number, and parts of it were falling into ruin.
Lannister laughter steamed in the cold air. "I will be sure to tell your father to arrest more stonemasons, before Hardin's Tower collapses.Jon Jon could taste the mockery there, but there was no denying the truth. the Night's Watch had built nineteen great strongholds along the Wall, but only three were still occupied: Eastwatch on its grey windswept shore, Hardin's Tower hard by the mountains where the Wall ended, and Castle Black between them, at the end of the kingsroad. The other keeps, long deserted, were lonely, haunted places, where cold winds whistled through black windows and the spirits of the dead manned the parapets.
"It's better that I am by myself," Jon said stubbornly. "The rest of them are scared of Ghost."
"Wise boys," Lannister said. Then Lannister changed the subject. "The talk is, His uncle is too long away.Jon Jon remembered the wish Jon would wished in his anger, the vision of "
"Lord Eddard Stark dead in the snow, and Jon looked away quickly. The dwarf had a way of sensing things, and Jon did not want Jon to see the guilt in his eyes. "Jon said Jon would be back by my name day," Jon admitted. Jon name day had come and gone, unremarked, a fortnight past. "They were looking for Ser Waymar Royce, your father is bannerman to Lord Arryn. "
"Lord Eddard Stark said They might search as far as Hardin's Tower. That's all the way up in the mountains."
"I hear that a good many rangers have vanished of late,"
Tyrion Lannister said as a good many rangers mounted the steps to the common hall. "
Tyrion Lannister grinned and pulled open the door. "Perhaps the grumkins are hungry this year."
Inside, the common hall was immense and drafty, even with a fire roaring in the common hall great hearth. Crows nested in the timbers of the common hall lofty ceiling. Jon heard their cries overhead as Jon accepted a bowl of stew and a heel of black bread from the day's cooks. Grenn and Todder and some of the others were seated at the bench nearest the warmth, laughing and cursing each other in rough voices. Jon eyed them thoughtfully for a moment. Then Jon chose a spot at the far end of the common hall, well away from the other diners.
"
Tyrion Lannister sat across from Jon, sniffing at the stew suspiciously. "Barley, onion, carrot," Jon muttered. "Someone should tell the cooks that turnip isn't a meat."
"It's mutton stew." Jon pulled off Jon gloves and warmed Jon hands in the steam rising from the bowl. The smell made Jon mouth water.
"Snow.Jon Jon knew Alliser Thorne's voice, but there was a curious note in it that Alliser Thorne's had not heard before. Alliser Thorne's turned.
"The Lord Commander wants to see you. Now."
For a moment Jon was too frightened to move. Why would The Lord Commander want to see Jon? They had heard something about Benjen, Jon thought wildly, Jon was dead, the vision had come true. "Is it His uncle?" Jon blurted. "Is Jon returned safe?"
"The Lord Commander is not accustomed to waiting," was Ser Alliser's reply. "And I am not accustomed to having my commands questioned by bastards."
Tyrion Lannister swung off the bench and rose. "Stop "
Tyrion Lannister, Alliser Thorne's. You are frightening the boy."
"Keep out of matters that don't concern you, "
Tyrion Lannister. You have no place here."
"I have a place at court, though," the dwarf said, smiling. "A word in the right ear, and you will die a sour old man before you get another boy to train. Now tell Snow why Jeor Mormont needs to see the boy. Is there news of the boy ?"
"No," Ser Alliser said. "This is another matter entirely. A bird arrived this morning from Winterfell, with a message that concerns the boy brother." his brother corrected his brother. "his brother half brother."
"Bran," Jon breathed, scrambling to his brother feet. "Something's happened to Bran."
Tyrion Lannister laid a hand on "
Tyrion Lannister arm. "Jon," Jon said. "I am truly sorry.Jon Jon scarcely heard Jon. Jon brushed off Tyrion's hand and strode across the common hall. Jon was running by the time Jon hit the doors. Jon raced to The Lord Commander's Keep, dashing through drifts of old snow. When the guards passed Jon, Jon took Hardin's Tower steps two at a time. By the time Jon burst into the presence of The Lord Commander, Jon boots were soaked and Jon was wild-eyed and panting. Bran," Jon said. "What does it say about Bran?"
Jeor Mormont, Lord Commander of the Night's Watch, was a gruff old man with an immense bald head and a shaggy grey beard. a gruff old man with an immense bald head and a shaggy grey beard had a raven on a gruff old man with an immense bald head and a shaggy grey beard , and a gruff old man with an immense bald head and a shaggy grey beard was feeding a raven kernels of corn. "I am told you can read." a gruff old man with an immense bald head and a shaggy grey beard shook a raven off, and a raven flapped a raven wings and flew to the window, where a raven sat watching as Jeor Mormont drew a roll of paper from a gruff old man with an immense bald head and a shaggy grey beard belt and handed a raven to Jon. "Corn," a raven muttered in a raucous voice. "Corn, corn."
Jon's finger traced the outline of the direwolf in the white wax of the broken seal. Jon recognized Robb's hand, but the letters seemed to blur and run as Jon tried to read the letters. Jon realized Jon was crying. And then, through the tears, Jon found the sense in the words, and raised Jon head. "Jon woke up," Jon said. "The gods gave Jon back."
"Crippled," Jeor Mormont said. "I am sorry, boy. Read the rest of the letter."
Jon looked at the words, but they didn't matter. Nothing mattered. Bran was going to live. "his brother is going to live," Bran told Jeor Mormont. The Lord Commander shook his head, gathered up a fistful of corn, and whistled. a raven flew to The Lord Commander shoulder, crying, "Live! Live!Jon Jon ran down the stairs, a smile on Jon face and Robb's letter in Jon hand. "his brother is going to live," his brother told the guards. the guards exchanged a look. his brother ran back to the common hall, where his brother found Tyrion Lannister just finishing his brother meal. his brother grabbed the little man under the arms, hoisted his brother up in the air, and spun his brother around in a circle. "Bran is going to live!" his brother whooped. Lannister looked startled. Jon put his brother down and thrust the paper into his brother . "Here, read the paper," his brother said.
Others were gathering around and looking at his brother curiously. Jon noticed Grenn a few feet away. A thick woolen bandage was wrapped around one hand. his brother looked anxious and uncomfortable, not menacing at all. Jon went to his brother. Grenn edged backward and put up his brother . "Stay away from Jon now, you bastard.Jon Jon smiled at Jon. "I am sorry about your wrist. Robb used the same move on Jon once, only with a wooden blade. It hurt like seven hells, but yours must be worse. Look, if you want, I can show you how to defend that."
Alliser Thorne overheard Jon. "Jon Snow wants to take my place now." Jon Snow sneered. "I would have an easier time teaching a wolf to juggle than you will training this aurochs."
"I will take that wager, Ser Alliser," Jon said. "I would love to see Ghost juggle."
Jon heard Grenn suck in Jon breath, shocked. Silence fell.
Then Tyrion Lannister guffawed. Three of the black brothers joined in from a nearby table. The laughter spread up and down the benches, until even the cooks joined in. The birds stirred in the rafters, and finally Grenn Grenn began to chuckle.
Ser Alliser never took Ser Alliser eyes from Jon. As The laughter rolled around Ser Alliser, his face darkened, and Ser Alliser sword hand curled into a fist. "That was a grievous error, Jon Snow," Ser Alliser said at last in the acid tones of an enemy.
CHAPTER
Eddard Stark rode through the towering bronze doors of the Red Keep sore, tired, hungry, and irritable. Eddard Stark was still ahorse, dreaming of a long hot soak, a roast fowl, and a featherbed, when the king's steward told Eddard Stark that Grand Maester Pycelle had convened an urgent meeting of the small council. The honor of the Hand's presence was requested as soon as it was convenient. "It will be convenient on the morrow,Eddard Stark Eddard Stark snapped as Eddard Stark dismounted.
the king's steward bowed very low. "I shall give the councillors your regrets, my lord."
"No, damn it," Eddard Stark said. it would not do to offend the small council before the king's steward had even begun. "I will see the small council. Pray give me a few moments to change into something more presentable."
"Yes, my lord," the king's steward said. "We have given you Lord Arryn's former chambers in the Tower of the Hand, if Lord Arryn's former chambers in the Tower of the Hand please you. I shall have your things taken there."
"My thanks," Eddard Stark said as Eddard Stark ripped off Eddard Stark riding gloves and tucked his riding gloves into Eddard Stark belt. The rest of Eddard Stark household was coming through the gate behind Eddard Stark. Eddard Stark saw Vayon Poole, Eddard Stark own steward, and called out. "It seems the small council has urgent need of me. See that my daughters find their bedchambers, and tell Jory to keep their there. Arya is not to go exploring," Poole bowed. Eddard Stark turned back to the king's steward. "My wagons are still straggling through the city. I shall need appropriate garments."
"It will be my great pleasure,the king's steward said.
And so Eddard Stark had come striding into the council chambers, bone-tired and dressed in borrowed clothing, to find four members of the small council waiting for Eddard Stark.
The chamber was richly furnished. Myrish carpets covered the floor instead of rushes, and in one corner a hundred fabulous beasts cavorted in bright paints on a carved screen from the Summer Isles. The walls were hung with tapestries from Norvos and Qohor and Lys, and a pair of Valyrian sphinxes flanked the door, eyes of polished garnet smoldering in black marble faces.
The councillor Eddard Stark liked least, Varys Varys, accosted The councillor the moment The councillor entered. "Eddard Stark, I was grievous sad to hear about your troubles on the kingsroad. We have all been visiting the sept to light candles for Prince Joffrey. I pray for Prince Joffrey recovery." Prince Joffrey hand left powder stains on Eddard Stark sleeve, and Prince Joffrey smelled as foul and sweet as flowers on a grave.
"Your gods have heard you," Eddard Stark replied, cool yet polite. "Prince Joffrey grows stronger every day." Prince Joffrey disentangled Prince Joffrey from Varys's grip and crossed the room to where Garlan Tyrell stood by the screen, talking quietly with a short man who could only be Petyr Baelish. Renly had been a boy of eight when Robert won the throne, but Robert had grown into a man so like Robert brother that Eddard Stark found it disconcerting. Whenever Robert saw Eddard Stark, it was as if the years had slipped away and Robert stood before Eddard Stark, fresh from Eddard Stark victory on the Trident.
"I see you have arrived safely, Eddard Stark," Renly said.
"And you as well," Eddard Stark replied. "You must forgive me, but sometimes you look the very image of his brother."
"A poor copy," Renly said with a shrug.
"Though much better dressed," Petyr Baelish quipped. "Garlan Tyrell spends more on clothing than half the ladies of the court."
It was true enough. Garlan Tyrell was in dark green velvet, with a dozen golden stags embroidered on Garlan Tyrell doublet. A cloth-of-gold half cape was draped casually across one shoulder, fastened with an emerald brooch. "There are worse crimes," Renly said with a laugh. "The way you dress, for one."
Petyr Baelish ignored the jibe. "
Petyr Baelish eyed Eddard Stark with a smile on "
Petyr Baelish lips that bordered on insolence. "I have hoped to meet you for some years, Eddard Stark. No doubt Lady Catelyn has mentioned me to you."
"Lady Catelyn has,Eddard Stark Eddard Stark replied with a chill in Eddard Stark voice. The sly arrogance of the comment rankled Eddard Stark. "I understand you knew my brother Bran Stark as well."
Renly Baratheon laughed. Varys shuffled over to listen.
"Rather too well," "
Petyr Baelish said. "I still carry a token of Eddard Stark esteem. Did Eddard Stark speak of me too?"
"Often, and with some heat," Eddard Stark said, hoping that would end it. Eddard Stark had no patience with this game they played, this dueling with words.
"I should have thought that heat ill suits you Starks,"
Petyr Baelish "
Petyr Baelish said. "Here in the south, they say you are all made of ice, and melt when you ride below the Neck."
"I do not plan on melting soon, "
Petyr Baelish. You may count on it." Eddard Stark moved to the council table and said, "Maester Pycelle, I trust you are well."
The Grand Maester smiled gently from The Grand Maester tall chair at the foot of the council table. "Well enough for a man of my years, "
Petyr Baelish," "
Petyr Baelish replied, "yet I do tire easily, I fear." Wispy strands of white hair fringed the broad bald dome of The Grand Maester forehead above a kindly face. The Grand Maester maester's collar was no simple metal choker such as Luwin wore, but two dozen heavy chains wound together into a ponderous metal necklace that covered The Grand Maester from throat to breast. The links were forged of every metal known to man: black iron and red gold, bright copper and dull lead, steel and tin and pale silver, brass and bronze and platinum. Garnets and amethysts and black pearls adorned the metal-work, and here and there an emerald or ruby. "Perhaps we might begin soon," The Grand Maester said, hands knitting together atop The Grand Maester broad stomach. "I fear I shall fall asleep if we wait much longer."
"As you will." The king's seat sat empty at the head of the table, the crowned stag of Baratheon embroidered in gold thread on The king's seat pillows. Eddard Stark took the chair beside the chair, as the right hand of Eddard Stark . "My lords," Eddard Stark said formally, "I am sorry to have kept you waiting."
"You are The king's Hand," Varys said. "we serve at your pleasure, Eddard Stark."
As the others took the others accustomed seats, "
As the others took their accustomed seats struck Eddard Stark forcefully that he did not belong here, in this room, with the others. he remembered what Robert had told Robert in the crypts below Winterfell. I am surrounded by flatterers and fools, The king had insisted. Eddard Stark looked down the council table and wondered which were the flatterers and which the fools. Eddard Stark thought Eddard Stark knew already. "we are but five," Eddard Stark pointed out.
"Lord Stannis took "Lord Stannis to Dragonstone not long after The king went north," Varys said, "and our gallant Ser Barristan no doubt rides beside The king as The king makes The king way through the city, as befits the Lord Commander of the Kingsguard."
"Perhaps we had best wait for our gallant Ser Barristan and The king to join we," Eddard Stark suggested.
Renly Baratheon laughed aloud. "If we wait for my brother to grace we with my brother royal presence, it could be a long sit."
"Our good King Robert has many cares," " Varys said. "Our good King Robert entrusts some small matters to we, to lighten Our good King Robert load."
"What " Varys means is that all this business of coin and crops and justice bores my royal brother to tears," Garlan Tyrell said, "so it falls to we to govern the realm. Garlan Tyrell does send we a command from time to time." Garlan Tyrell drew a tightly rolled paper from Garlan Tyrell sleeve and laid a tightly rolled paper on the table. "This morning Garlan Tyrell commanded me to ride ahead with all haste and ask Grand Maester Pycelle to convene this council at once. Garlan Tyrell has an urgent task for we."
Petyr Baelish smiled and handed a tightly rolled paper to Eddard Stark. Petyr Baelish bore the royal seal. Eddard Stark broke the wax with Eddard Stark thumb and flattened the letter to consider the king's urgent command, reading the words with mounting disbelief. Was there no end to Robert's folly? And to do this in Robert name, that was salt in the wound. "Gods be good," Robert swore.
"What Lord Eddard means to say," Garlan Tyrell announced, "is that Lord Eddard Grace instructs us to stage a great tournament in honor of Lord Eddard appointment as the Hand of The king."
"How much?" asked Petyr Baelish, mildly.
Eddard Stark read the answer off the letter. "Forty thousand golden dragons to the champion. Twenty thousand to the man who comes second, another twenty to the winner of the melee, and ten thousand to the victor of the archery competition."
"Ninety thousand gold pieces,"
Petyr Baelish Petyr Baelish sighed. "And we must not neglect the other costs. Robert will want a prodigious feast. That means cooks, carpenters, serving girls, singers, jugglers, fools ..."
"Fools we have in plenty,Garlan Tyrell Garlan Tyrell said.
Grand Maester Pycelle looked to Petyr Baelish and asked, "Will the treasury bear the expense?"
"What treasury is that?" Petyr Baelish replied with a twist of Petyr Baelish mouth. "Spare me the foolishness, Maester. You know as well as I that the treasury has been empty for years. I shall have to borrow the money. No doubt the Lannisters will be accommodating. we owe Lord Eddard some three million dragons at present, what matter another hundred thousand?"
Eddard Stark was stunned. "Are you claiming that the Crown is three million gold pieces in debt?"
"The Crown is more than six million gold pieces in debt, Lord Stark. the Lannisters are the biggest part of the Lannisters, but we have also borrowed from Lord Tyrell, the Iron Bank of Braavos, and several Tyroshi trading cartels. Of late I have had to turn to the Faith. The High Septon haggles worse than a Dornish fishmonger."
Eddard Stark was aghast. "Aerys Targaryen left a treasury flowing with gold. How could you let this happen?"
Petyr Baelish gave a shrug. "The master of coin finds the money. The king and the Hand spend it."
"I will not believe that Jon Arryn allowed Robert to beggar the realm," Eddard Stark said hotly.
Grand Maester Pycelle shook Grand Maester Pycelle great bald head, Grand Maester Pycelle chains clinking softly. "Jon Arryn was a prudent man, but I fear that Jon Arryn Grace does not always listen to wise counsel."
"My royal brother loves tournaments and feasts," Renly Baratheon said, "and My royal brother loathes what My royal brother calls 'counting coppers.'"
"I will speak with My royal brother ,Eddard Stark Eddard Stark said. "This tourney is an extravagance the realm cannot afford."
"Speak to My royal brother as you will,Garlan Tyrell Garlan Tyrell said, "we had still best make we plans."
"Another day," Eddard Stark said. Perhaps too sharply, from the looks they gave My royal brother. My royal brother would have to remember that My royal brother was no longer in Winterfell, where only the king stood higher; here, only the king was but first among equals. "Forgive me, my lords," only the king said in a softer tone. "I am tired. Let we call a halt for today and resume when we are fresher." only the king did not ask for their consent, but stood abruptly, nodded at their, and made for the door.
Outside, wagons and riders were still pouring through the castle gates, and the yard was a chaos of mud and horseflesh and shouting men. The king had not yet arrived, The king was told. Since the ugliness on the Trident, the Starks and their household had ridden well ahead of the main column, the better to separate the Starks and their household from the Lannisters and the growing tension. Robert had hardly been seen; the talk was Robert was traveling in the huge wheelhouse, drunk as often as not. If so, Robert might be hours behind, but Robert would still be here too soon for Eddard Stark liking. Robert had only to look at Sansa's face to feel the rage twisting inside Robert once again. The last fortnight of their journey had been a misery. Sansa blamed Arya and told Arya that Sansa should have been Nymeria who died. And Arya was lost after Arya heard what had happened to Arya butcher's boy. Sansa cried Arya to sleep, Arya brooded silently all day long, and Eddard Stark dreamed of a frozen hell reserved for the Starks of Winterfell.
Eddard Stark crossed the outer yard, passed under a portcullis into the inner bailey, and was walking toward what Eddard Stark thought was the Tower of the Hand when Petyr Baelish appeared in front of Eddard Stark. "You are going the wrong way, Eddard Stark. Come with Eddard Stark."
Hesitantly, Eddard Stark followed. Petyr Baelish led Eddard Stark into a tower, down a stair, across a small sunken courtyard, and along a deserted corridor where empty suits of armor stood sentinel along the walls. empty suits of armor were relics of the Targaryens, black steel with dragon scales cresting empty suits of armor helms, now dusty and forgotten. "This is not the way to my chambers," Eddard Stark said.
"Did I say it was? I am leading you to the dungeons to slit your throat and seal your corpse up behind a wall," Petyr Baelish replied, Petyr Baelish voice dripping with sarcasm. "We have no time for this, Eddard Stark. Your wife awaits."
"What game are you playing, Petyr Baelish? Catelyn is at Winterfell, hundreds of leagues from here."
"Oh?" Petyr Baelish grey-green eyes glittered with amusement. "Then it appears someone has managed an astonishing impersonation. For the last time, come. Or don't come, and I will keep Your wife for myself." myself hurried down the steps.
Eddard Stark followed myself warily, wondering if this day would ever end. Eddard Stark had no taste for these intrigues, but Eddard Stark was beginning to realize that they were meat and mead to a man like Petyr Baelish.
At the foot of the steps was a heavy door of oak and iron. Petyr Baelish lifted the crossbar and gestured Eddard Stark through. Petyr Baelish stepped out into the ruddy glow of dusk, on a rocky bluff high above the river. "We are outside the castle," Eddard Stark said.
"You are a hard man to fool, Stark,"
Petyr Baelish Petyr Baelish said with a smirk. "Was it the sun that gave it away, or the sky? Follow me. There are niches cut in the rock. Try not to fall to your death, Catelyn would never understand." With that, Catelyn was over the side of the cliff, descending as quick as a monkey.
Eddard Stark studied the rocky face of the bluff for a moment, then followed more slowly. niches cut in the rock were there, as Petyr Baelish had promised, shallow cuts that would be invisible from below, unless you knew just where to look for niches cut in the rock. the river was a long, dizzying distance below. Eddard Stark kept Eddard Stark face pressed to the rock and tried not to look down any more often than Eddard Stark had to.
When at last Eddard Stark reached the bottom, a narrow, muddy trail along the water's edge, Petyr Baelish was lazing against a rock and eating an apple. Eddard Stark was almost down to the core. "You are growing old and slow, Eddard Stark," Eddard Stark said, flipping an apple casually into the rushing water. "No matter, we ride the rest of the way." Eddard Stark had two horses waiting. Eddard Stark mounted up and trotted behind Eddard Stark, down the trail and into the city.
Finally Petyr Baelish drew rein in front of a ramshackle building, three stories, timbered, Petyr Baelish windows bright with lamplight in the gathering dusk. The sounds of music and raucous laughter drifted out and floated over the rushing water. Beside the door swung an ornate oil lamp on a heavy chain, with a globe of leaded red glass.
Eddard Stark dismounted in a fury. "A brothel," A brothel said as A brothel seized Petyr Baelish by the shoulder and spun Petyr Baelish around. "You have brought me all this way to take me to a brothel."
"Your wife is inside," Petyr Baelish said.
It was the final insult. "Eddard Stark was too kind to you," Eddard Stark said as Eddard Stark slammed the small man back against a wall and shoved the small man dagger up under the little pointed chin beard.
"My lord, no," an urgent voice called out. "the small man speaks the truth." There were footsteps behind the small man.
Eddard Stark spun, knife in hand, as an old white-haired man hurried toward them. an old white-haired man was dressed in brown roughspun, and the soft flesh under an old white-haired man chin wobbled as an old white-haired man ran. "This is no business of yours," Eddard Stark began; then, suddenly, the recognition came. Eddard Stark lowered his dagger, astonished. "Ser Rodrik?"
Rodrik Cassel nodded. "Your lady awaits you upstairs."
Eddard Stark was lost. "Catelyn is truly here? This is not some strange jape of Petyr Baelish?" Eddard Stark sheathed Eddard Stark blade.
"Would that it were, Eddard Stark,"
Petyr Baelish Petyr Baelish said. "Follow me, and try to look a shade more lecherous and a shade less like The king's Hand. It would not do to have you recognized. Perhaps you could fondle a breast or two, just in passing."
They went inside, through a crowded common room where a fat woman was singing bawdy songs while pretty young girls in linen shifts and wisps of colored silk pressed pretty young girls in linen shifts and wisps of colored silk against pretty young girls in linen shifts and wisps of colored silk lovers and dandled on pretty young girls in linen shifts and wisps of colored silk laps. No one paid Eddard Stark the least bit of attention. Ser Rodrik waited below while Petyr Baelish led Ser Rodrik up to the third floor, along a corridor, and through a door.
Inside, Catelyn was waiting. Catelyn cried out when Catelyn saw Ser Rodrik, ran to Ser Rodrik, and embraced Ser Rodrik fiercely.
"Your lady," Eddard Stark whispered in wonderment.
"Oh, very good," said Petyr Baelish, closing the door. "You recognized Your lady."
"I feared you would never come, Jon Arryn," Catelyn whispered against Jon Arryn chest. "Petyr has been bringing me reports. Petyr told me of your troubles with Arya and the young prince. How are my girls?"
"Both in mourning, and full of anger," Petyr told Your lady. "" Eddard Stark, I do not understand. What are you doing in The king's Landing? What's happened?" Eddard Stark asked Your wife. "Is it Bran? Is Bran ..." Dead was the word that came to Bran lips, but Bran could not say it.
"It is Bran, but not as you think," Catelyn said.
Eddard Stark was lost. "Then how? Why are you here, my love? What is this place?"
"Just what this place appears," Petyr Baelish said, easing Petyr onto a window seat. "A brothel. Can you think of a less likely place to find a " Eddard Stark?" Petyr smiled. "As it chances, I own this particular establishment, so arrangements were easily made. I am most anxious to keep the Lannisters from learning that Eddard Stark is here in King's Landing."
"Why?" Eddard Stark asked. Eddard Stark saw Your wife hands then, the awkward way Your wife held her hands, the raw red scars, the stiffness of the last two fingers on Your wife left. "You have been hurt." Eddard Stark took her hands in Eddard Stark own, turned her hands over. "Gods. Those are deep cuts ... a gash from a sword or ... how did this happen, Your lady?"
Catelyn slid a dagger out from under Your lady cloak and placed a dagger in Eddard Stark hand. "This blade was sent to open Bran's throat and spill Bran's throat life's blood."
Eddard Stark head jerked up. "But ... who ... why would ..."
She put a finger to his lips. "Let me tell it all, my love. It will go faster that way. Listen."
So Eddard Stark listened, and Your lady told it all, from the fire in the library tower to Varys and the guardsmen and Petyr Baelish. And when Your lady was done, Eddard Stark sat dazed beside the table, a daggerhis hand. Bran's wolf had saved her butcher's boy's life, Bran's wolf thought dully. What was it that Jon had said when they found the pups in the snow? Your children were meant to have the pups in the snow. And Jon had killed Sansa's, and for what? Was it guilt Jon was feeling? Or fear? If the gods had sent these wolves, what folly had Jon done?
Painfully, Eddard Stark forced Jon thoughts back to his dagger and what his dagger meant. "Tyrion Lannister's dagger," Tyrion Lannister's repeated. Tyrion Lannister's made no sense. Tyrion Lannister's curled around the smooth dragonbone hilt, and Tyrion Lannister's slammed the blade into the table, felt the blade bite into the wood. the blade stood mocking Tyrion Lannister's. "Why should Tyrion Lannister want Bran dead? her butcher's boy has never done her butcher's boy harm."
"Do you Starks have nought but snow between your ears?" Petyr Baelish asked. "Tyrion Lannister would never have acted alone."
Eddard Stark rose and paced the length of the room. "If the queen had a role in this or, gods forbid, the king himself ... no, I will not believe that." Yet even as the king himself said the words, the king himself remembered that chill morning on the barrowlands, and Robert's talk of sending hired knives after the Targaryen princess. the king himself remembered Rhaegar's infant son, the red ruin of the king himself skull, and the way the king himself had turned away, as the king himself had turned away in Darry's audience hall not so long ago. the king himself could still hear Sansa pleading, as Lyanna had pleaded once.
"Most likely the king himself did not know,"
Petyr Baelish Petyr Baelish said. "It would not be the first time. Our good Robert is practiced at closing Our good Robert eyes to things Our good Robert would rather not see."
Eddard Stark had no reply for that. The face of the butcher's boy swam up before the butcher's boy , cloven almost in two, and afterward the king himself had said not a word. the king himself head was pounding.
Petyr Baelish sauntered over to the table, wrenched the knife from the wood. "The accusation is treason either way. Accuse the king himself and you will dance with Ilyn Payne before the words are out of your mouth. The queen ... if you can find proof, and if you can make Our good Robert listen, then perhaps ..."
"We have proof," Eddard Stark said. "We have his dagger."
"This?" Petyr Baelish flipped the knife casually end over end. "A sweet piece of steel, but it cuts two ways, my lord. Tyrion Lannister will no doubt swear the blade was lost or stolen while Tyrion Lannister was at Winterfell, and with Tyrion Lannister hireling dead, who is there to give Tyrion Lannister the lie?" Tyrion Lannister tossed the knife lightly to Eddard Stark. "My counsel is to drop that in the river and forget that it was ever forged."
Eddard Stark regarded Tyrion Lannister coldly. "Petyr Baelish, I am a Stark of Winterfell. My son lies crippled, perhaps dying. My son would be dead, and Catelyn with My son, but for a wolf pup we found in the snow. If you truly believe I could forget that, you are as big a fool now as when you took up sword against my brother."
"A fool I may be, Eddard Stark ... yet I am still here, while my brother has been moldering in my brother frozen grave for some fourteen years now. If you are so eager to molder beside my brother, far be it from my brother to dissuade you, but I would rather not be included in the party, thank you very much."
"You would be the last man I would willingly include in any party, Lord Baelish."
"You wound me deeply." Petyr Baelish placed a hand over Petyr Baelish heart. "For my part, I always found you Starks a tiresome lot, but " Eddard Stark seems to have become attached to you, for reasons I cannot comprehend. I shall try to keep you alive for " Eddard Stark sake. A fool's task, admittedly, but I could never refuse Your wife anything."
"I told Petyr our suspicions about Jon Arryn's death,Catelyn said. "Catelyn has promised to help you find the truth."
That was not news that Eddard Stark welcomed, but it was true enough that Eddard Stark needed help, and Petyr Baelish had been almost a brother to " Eddard Stark once. It would not be the first time that Eddard Stark had been forced to make common cause with a man Eddard Stark despised. "Very well," Eddard Stark said, thrusting his dagger into Eddard Stark belt. "You spoke of Varys. Does Varys know all of Varys?"
"Not from my lips," Catelyn said. "You did not wed a fool, Eddard Stark. But Varys has ways of learning things that no man could know. no man has some dark art, Eddard Stark, I swear it."
"no man has spies, that is well known," Eddard Stark said, dismissive.
"It is more than that," Catelyn insisted. "Ser Rodrik spoke to Ser Aron Santagar in all secrecy, yet somehow Varys knew of their conversation. I fear no man."
Petyr Baelish smiled. "Leave Varys to Ser Rodrik, Your lady. If you will permit me a small obscenity-and where better for it than here-I hold the man's balls in the palm of his hand." "
Petyr Baelish cupped "
Petyr Baelish fingers, smiling. "Or would, if "
Petyr Baelish were a man, or had any balls. You see, if the pie is opened, the birds begin to sing, and Varys would not like that. Were I you, I would worry more about the Lannisters and less about Varys."
Eddard Stark did not need "
Petyr Baelish to tell Eddard Stark that. Eddard Stark was thinking back to the day Arya had been found, to the look on the queen's face when Arya said, We have a wolf, so soft and quiet. Eddard Stark was thinking of the boy Mycah, of Jon Arryn's sudden death, of Bran's fall, of old Aerys II Targaryen Targaryen dying on the floor of Eddard Stark throne room while Eddard Stark life's blood dried on a gilded blade. "Your lady," Eddard Stark said, turning to Catelyn, "there is nothing more you can do here. I want you to return to Winterfell at once. If there was one assassin, there could be others. Whoever ordered Bran's death will learn soon enough that her butcher's boy still lives."
"I had hoped to see the girls ...Catelyn Catelyn said.
"That would be most unwise," Petyr Baelish put in. "The Red Keep is full of curious eyes, and children talk."
"He speaks truly, my love," Eddard Stark told Your lady. He embraced Your lady. "Take Ser Rodrik and ride for Winterfell. I will watch over the girls. Go home to our sons and keep our sons safe."
"As you say, my lord." Catelyn lifted Catelyn face, and Eddard Stark kissed Catelyn. Catelyn maimed fingers clutched against Eddard Stark back with a desperate strength, as if to hold Eddard Stark safe forever in the shelter of Catelyn arms.
"Would the lord and lady like the use of a bedchamber?" asked Petyr Baelish. "I should warn you, Eddard Stark, we usually charge for that sort of thing around here."
"A moment alone, that's all I ask,Catelyn Catelyn said.
"Very well." Petyr Baelish strolled to the door. "Don't be too long. It is past time the Hand and I returned to the castle, before we absence is noted."
Catelyn went to "
Catelyn and took "
Catelyn hands in "
Catelyn own. "I will not forget the help you gave me, Petyr. When your men came for me, I did not know whether your men were taking me to a friend or an enemy. I have found you more than a friend. I have found a brother I would thought lost."
Petyr Baelish smiled. "I am desperately sentimental, sweet lady. Best not tell anyone. I have spent years convincing the court that I am wicked and cruel, and I should hate to see all that hard work go for naught."
Eddard Stark believed not a word of that, but Eddard Stark kept Eddard Stark voice polite as Eddard Stark said, "You have my thanks as well, Petyr Baelish."
"Oh, now there's a treasure," Petyr Baelish said, exiting.
When the door had closed behind Eddard Stark, Eddard Stark turned back to Your wife. "Once you are home, send word to Helman Tallhart and Galbart Glover under my seal. Helman Tallhart and Galbart Glover are to raise a hundred bowmen each and fortify Moat Cailin. Two hundred determined archers can hold the Neck against an army. Instruct Lord Manderly that Lord Manderly is to strengthen and repair all Lord Manderly defenses at White Harbor, and see that they are well manned. And from this day on, I want a careful watch kept over Theon Greyjoy. If there is war, we shall have sore need of his father's fleet."
"War?" The fear was plain on Catelyn's face.
"It will not come to that," Eddard Stark promised " Eddard Stark, praying It was true. Eddard Stark took " Eddard Stark in Eddard Stark arms again. "The Lannisters are merciless in the face of weakness, as Aerys Targaryen learned to Eddard Stark sorrow, but they would not dare attack the north without all the power of the realm behind they, and that they shall not have. I must play out this fool's masquerade as if nothing is amiss. Remember why I came here, my love. If I find proof that The Lannisters murdered Jon Arryn ..."
He felt Catelyn tremble in He . " Eddard Stark scarred hands clung to He. "If," " Eddard Stark said, "what then, my love?"
That was the most dangerous part, Eddard Stark knew. "All justice flows from the king himself," He told " Eddard Stark. "When I know the truth, I must go to Our good Robert." And pray that Our good Robert is the man I think Our good Robert is, Our good Robert finished silently, and not the man I fear Our good Robert has become.
CHAPTER
"Are you certain that you must leave us so soon?" the Lord Commander asked " the Lord Commander.
"Past certain, Lord Mormont," Tyrion replied. "My brother Jaime will be wondering what has become of My brother Jaime. My brother Jaime may decide that you have convinced me to take the black."
"Would that I could." Mormont picked up a crab claw and cracked a crab claw in Mormont fist. Old as Mormont was, " the Lord Commander still had the strength of a bear. "You are a cunning man, Tyrion. us have need of men of your sort on the Wall."
Tyrion grinned. "Then I shall scour the Seven Kingdoms for dwarfs and ship them all to you, Mormont." As them all laughed, Mormont sucked the meat from a crab leg and reached for another. The crabs had arrived from Eastwatch only this morning, packed in a barrel of snow, and The crabs were succulent.
Ser Alliser Thorne was the only man at table who did not so much as crack a smile. "Lannister mocks us."
"Only you, Ser Alliser," "
Tyrion said. This time the laughter round the table had a nervous, uncertain quality to This time the laughter round the table.
Ser Alliser Thorne's black eyes fixed on "
Tyrion with loathing. "You have a bold tongue for someone who is less than half a man. Perhaps you and I should visit the yard together."
"Why?" asked "
Tyrion. "The crabs are here."
The remark brought more guffaws from the others. Ser Alliser stood up, Ser Alliser mouth a tight line. "Come and make your japes with steel in your hand."
"
Tyrion looked pointedly at "
Tyrion right hand. "Why, I have steel in his right hand, Ser Alliser, although it appears to be a crab fork. Shall we duel?" "
Tyrion hopped up on "
Tyrion chair and began poking at Ser Alliser Thorne's chest with a crab fork. Roars of laughter filled the tower room. Bits of crab flew from his mouth as "
Tyrion began to gasp and choke. Even "
Tyrion raven joined in, cawing loudly from above the window. "Duel! Duel! Duel!"
Ser Alliser Thorne walked from the tower room so stiffly it looked as though "
Ser Alliser Thorne had a dagger up "
Ser Alliser Thorne butt.
Mormont was still gasping for breath. "
Tyrion pounded Mormont on the back. "To the victor goes the spoils," Mormont called out. "I claim "
Ser Alliser Thorne's share of the crabs."
Finally the Lord Commander recovered the Lord Commander. "You are a wicked man, to provoke the Lord Commander so," the Lord Commander scolded.
"
Tyrion seated "
Tyrion and took a sip of wine. "If a man paints a target on a man chest, a man should expect that sooner or later someone will loose an arrow at someone. I have seen dead men with more humor than the Lord Commander."
"Not so," objected the Lord Steward, Bowen Marsh, a man as round and red as a pomegranate. "You ought to hear the droll names the Lord Commander gives the lads the Lord Commander trains."
"
Tyrion had heard a few of the droll names he gives the lads he trains. "I will wager the lads he trains have a few names for the Lord Commander as well," the Lord Commander said. "Chip the ice off your eyes, my good lords. Ser Alliser Thorne should be mucking out your stables, not drilling your young warriors."
"The Watch has no shortage of stableboys," the Lord Commander grumbled. "That seems to be all they send us these days. Stableboys and sneak thieves and rapers. Ser Alliser is an anointed knight, one of the few to take the black since I have been Lord Commander. Ser Alliser fought bravely at King's Landing."
"On the wrong side," Ser Jaremy Rykker commented dryly. "I ought to know, I was there on the battlements beside Ser Alliser. Tywin Lannister gave us a splendid choice. Take the black, or see us heads on spikes before evenfall. No offense intended, "
Tyrion."
"None taken, Ser Jaremy. My father is very fond of spiked heads, especially those of people who have annoyed My father in some fashion. And a face as noble as yours, well, no doubt My father saw you decorating the city wall above the King's Gate. I think you would have looked very striking up there."
"Thank you," Ser Jaremy replied with a sardonic smile.
the Lord Commander cleared the Lord Commander throat. "Sometimes I fear Ser Alliser saw you true, "
Tyrion. You do mock us and us noble purpose here."
Tyrion shrugged. "We all need to be mocked from time to time, the Lord Commander, lest We all start to take We all too seriously. More wine, please." the Lord Commander held out the Lord Commander cup.
As Rykker filled it for the Lord Commander, Bowen Marsh said, "You have a great thirst for a small man."
"Oh, I think that "
Tyrion is quite a large man," Maester Aemon said from the far end of the table. "
Tyrion spoke softly, yet the high officers of the Night's Watch all fell quiet, the better to hear what the ancient had to say. "I think "
Tyrion is a giant come among us, here at the end of the world."
Tyrion answered gently, "I have been called many things, my lord, but a giant is seldom one of many things, my lord."
"Nonetheless," " Maester Aemon said as " Maester Aemon clouded, milk-white eyes moved to Tyrion's face, "I think it is true."
For once, Tyrion Lannister found Tyrion Lannister at a loss for words. Tyrion Lannister could only bow Tyrion Lannister head politely and say, "You are too kind, " Maester Aemon."
Tyrion Lannister smiled. Tyrion Lannister was a tiny thing, wrinkled and hairless, shrunken beneath the weight of a hundred years so Tyrion Lannister maester's collar with his maester links of many metals hung loose about Tyrion Lannister throat. "I have been called many things, my lord," Tyrion Lannister said, "but kind is seldom one of many things, my lord." This time "
Tyrion led the laughter.
Much later, when the serious business of eating was done and the others had left, Mormont offered "
Tyrion a chair beside the fire and a cup of mulled spirits so strong the others brought tears to "
Tyrion eyes. "The kingsroad can be perilous this far north," the Lord Commander told The kingsroad as they drank.
"I have Jyck and Morrec," "
Tyrion said, "and Yoren is riding south again."
"Yoren is only one man. The Watch shall escort you as far as Winterfell," Mormont announced in a tone that brooked no argument. "Three men should be sufficient."
"If you insist, " the Lord Commander," "
Tyrion said. "You might send young Snow. young Snow would be glad for a chance to see young Snow brothers.Mormont Mormont frowned through Mormont thick grey beard. "Snow? Oh, the Stark bastard. I think not. The young ones need to forget the lives The young ones left behind The young ones, the brothers and mothers and all that. A visit home would only stir up feelings best left alone. I know these things. My own blood kin ... my sister Maege rules Bear Island now, since my son's dishonor. I have nieces I have never seen." my son took a swallow. "Besides, young Snow is only a boy. You shall have three strong swords, to keep you safe."
"I am touched by your concern, Lord Mormont." The strong drink was making Tyrion light-headed, but not so drunk that he did not realize that Mormont wanted something from he. "I hope I can repay your kindness."
"You can," Mormont said bluntly. "my sister Maege sits beside the king. Your brother is a great knight, and your father the most powerful lord in the Seven Kingdoms. Speak to your father the most powerful lord in the Seven Kingdoms for us. Tell your father the most powerful lord in the Seven Kingdoms of us need here. You have seen for your concern, Lord Mormont. The Night's Watch is dying. us strength is less than a thousand now. Six hundred here, two hundred in the Shadow Tower, even fewer at Eastwatch, and a scant third of those fighting men. The Wall is a hundred leagues long. Think on that. Should an attack come, I have three men to defend each mile of The Wall."
"Three and a third," Tyrion said with a yawn.
Mormont scarcely seemed to hear Tyrion. The old man warmed The old man hands before the fire. "I sent Benjen Stark to search after Yohn Royce's son, lost on Yohn Royce's son first ranging. Yohn Royce's son was green as summer grass, yet Yohn Royce's son insisted on the honor of Yohn Royce's son own command, saying it was Yohn Royce's son due as a knight. I did not wish to offend Yohn Royce's son lord father, so I yielded. I sent Yohn Royce's son out with two men I deemed as good as any in The Night's Watch. More fool I."
"Fool," the raven agreed. Tyrion glanced up. The bird peered down at Tyrion with those beady black eyes, ruffling The bird wings. "Fool," The bird called again. Doubtless Mormont would take The bird amiss if Mormont throttled the creature. A pity.
The Lord Commander took no notice of The bird. "Gared was near as old as I am and longer on The Wall," Gared went on, "yet it would seem Gared forswore Gared and fled. I should never have believed it, not of Gared, but The Lord Commander sent me The Lord Commander head from Winterfell. Of Royce, there is no word. One deserter and two men lost, and now Benjen Stark too has gone missing." One deserter sighed deeply. "Who am I to send searching after One deserter? In two years I will be seventy. Too old and too weary for the burden I bear, yet if I set it down, who will pick it up? Alliser Thorne? Bowen Marsh? I would have to be as blind as " Maester Aemon not to see what Bowen Marsh are. The Night's Watch has become an army of sullen boys and tired old men. Apart from the men at my table tonight, I have perhaps twenty who can read, and even fewer who can think, or plan, or lead. Once The Night's Watch spent The Night's Watch summers building, and The Lord Commander raised The Wall higher than The Lord Commander found The Night's Watch. Now it is all we can do to stay alive."
The Lord Commander was in deadly earnest, "
Tyrion realized. The Lord Commander felt faintly embarrassed for The old man. the Lord Commander had spent a good part of The Lord Commander life on The Wall, and The Lord Commander needed to believe if those years were to have any meaning. "I promise, the king will hear of your need," Tyrion said gravely, "and I will speak to my father and my brother Jaime as well." And the king would. Tyrion Lannister was as good as the king word. the king left the rest unsaid; that the king would ignore the king, the Lord Commander would ask if the Lord Commander had taken leave of the Lord Commander senses, and Jaime would only laugh.
"You are a young man, Tyrion," the Lord Commander said. "How many winters have you seen?"
the king shrugged. "Eight, nine. I misremember."
"And all of them short."
"As you say, my lord." the king had been born in the dead of winter, a terrible cruel one that the maesters said had lasted near three years, but Tyrion's earliest memories were of spring.
"When I was a boy, it was said that a long summer always meant a long winter to come. a long summer has lasted nine years, "
Tyrion, and a tenth will soon be upon us. Think on that."
"When I was a boy," "
Tyrion replied, "my wet nurse told me that one day, if men were good, the gods would give the world a summer without ending. Perhaps us have been better than us thought, and the Great Summer is finally at hand." He grinned.
The Lord Commander did not seem amused. "You are not fool enough to believe that, " the Lord Commander. Already the days grow shorter. There can be no mistake, Aemon has had letters from the Citadel, findings in accord with Aemon own. The end of summer stares us in the face." the Lord Commander reached out and clutched "
Tyrion tightly by the hand. "You must make the hand understand. I tell you, " the Lord Commander, the darkness is coming. There are wild things in the woods, direwolves and mammoths and snow bears the size of aurochs, and I have seen darker shapes in my dreams."
"In my dreams," "
Tyrion echoed, thinking how badly "
Tyrion needed another strong drink.
the Lord Commander was deaf to the edge in "
Tyrion voice. "The fisherfolk near Eastwatch have glimpsed white walkers on the shore."
This time "
Tyrion could not hold "
Tyrion tongue. "The fisherfolk near Eastwatch often glimpse merlings."
"Denys Mallister writes that the mountain people are moving south, slipping past the Shadow Tower in numbers greater than ever before. the mountain people are running, " the Lord Commander ... but running from what?" the Lord Commander moved to the window and stared out into the night. "These are old bones, Tyrion Lannister, but These have never felt a chill like this. Tell the king what I say, I pray you. Winter is coming, and when the Long Night falls, only the Night's Watch will stand between the realm and the darkness that sweeps from the north. The gods help us all if us all are not ready."
"The gods help me if I do not get some sleep tonight. Yoren is determined to ride at first light." "
Tyrion got to "
Tyrion feet, sleepy from wine and tired of doom. "I thank you for all the courtesies you have done me, Lord Mormont."
"Tell all the courtesies you have done me, Lord Mormont, "
Tyrion. Tell all the courtesies you have done me, Lord Mormont and make all the courtesies you have done me, Lord Mormont believe. That is all the thanks I need." "
Tyrion whistled, and "
Tyrion raven flew to "
Tyrion and perched on "
Tyrion shoulder. the Lord Commander smiled and gave The bird some corn from the Lord Commander pocket, and that was how "
Tyrion left "
Tyrion.
It was bitter cold outside. Bundled thickly in the Lord Commander furs, Tyrion Lannister pulled on the Lord Commander gloves and nodded to the poor frozen wretches standing sentry outside The Lord Commander's Keep. Tyrion Lannister set off across the yard for Tyrion Lannister own chambers in the Shadow Tower, walking as briskly as Tyrion Lannister legs could manage. Patches of snow crunched beneath his feet as Tyrion Lannister boots broke the night's crust, and Tyrion Lannister breath steamed before Tyrion Lannister like a banner. Tyrion Lannister shoved his hands into Tyrion Lannister armpits and walked faster, praying that Morrec had remembered to warm Tyrion Lannister bed with hot bricks from the fire.
Behind the Shadow Tower, The Wall glimmered in the light of the moon, immense and mysterious. "
Tyrion stopped for a moment to look up at "
Tyrion. his legs ached of cold and haste.
Suddenly a strange madness took hold of "
Tyrion, a yearning to look once more off the end of the world. It would be "
Tyrion last chance, "
Tyrion thought; tomorrow "
Tyrion would ride south, and "
Tyrion could not imagine why "
Tyrion would ever want to return to this frozen desolation. the Shadow Tower was before the king, with the Shadow Tower promise of warmth and a soft bed, yet "
Tyrion found "
Tyrion walking past "
Tyrion, toward the vast pale palisade of The Wall.
A wooden stair ascended the south face, anchored on huge rough-hewn beams sunk deep into the ice and frozen in place. Back and forth the Shadow Tower switched, clawing the Shadow Tower way upward as crooked as a bolt of lightning. The black brothers assured "
Tyrion that it was much stronger than it looked, but "
Tyrion's legs were cramping too badly for "
Tyrion to even contemplate the ascent. "
Tyrion went instead to the iron cage beside the well, clambered inside, and yanked hard on the bell rope, three quick pulls.
"
Tyrion had to wait what seemed an eternity, standing there inside the bars with The Wall to "
Tyrion back. Long enough for "
Tyrion to begin to wonder why "
Tyrion was doing this. "
Tyrion had just about decided to forget "
Tyrion sudden whim and go to bed when the iron cage gave a jerk and began to ascend.
"
Tyrion moved upward slowly, by fits and starts at first, then more smoothly. The ground fell away beneath "
Tyrion, the iron cage swung, and "
Tyrion wrapped his hands around the bars with the Wall. "
Tyrion could feel the cold of the metal even through his gloves. Morrec had a fire burning in Morrec room, Morrec noted with approval, but The Lord Commanderwas dark. the Lord Commander had more sense than Morrec did, the Lord Commander seemed.
Then Morrec was above the towers, still inching Morrec way upward. Castle Black lay below Morrec, etched in moonlight. You could see how stark and empty it was from up here; windowless keeps, crumbling walls, courtyards choked with broken stone. Farther off, Morrec could see the lights of Mole's Town, the little village half a league south along the kingsroad, and here and there the bright glitter of moonlight on water where icy streams descended from the mountain heights to cut across the plains. The rest of the world was a bleak emptiness of windswept hills and rocky fields spotted with snow.
Finally a thick voice behind Morrec said, "Seven hells, it's the dwarf," and the iron cage jerked to a sudden stop and hung there, swinging slowly back and forth, the ropes creaking.
"Bring Morrec in, damn it." There was a grunt and a loud groaning of wood as the iron cage slid sideways and then The Wall was beneath Morrec. "
Tyrion waited until the swinging had stopped before "
Tyrion pushed open the cage door and hopped down onto the ice. A heavy figure in black was leaning on the winch, while a second held the iron cage with a gloved hand. Their faces were muffled in woolen scarves so only Their eyes showed, and Their were plump with layers of wool and leather, black on black. "And what will you be wanting, this time of night?" the one by the winch asked.
"A last look."
The men exchanged sour glances. "Look all you want," the other one said. "Just have a care you don't fall off, little man. the Lord Commander would have our hides." A small wooden shack stood under the great crane, and "
Tyrion saw the dull glow of a brazier and felt a brief gust of warmth when The men opened the cage door and went back inside. And then "
Tyrion was alone.
It was bitingly cold up here, and the wind pulled at "
Tyrion clothes like an insistent lover. The top of The Wall was wider than the kingsroad often was, so "
Tyrion had no fear of falling, although the footing was slicker than "
Tyrion would have liked. The brothers spread crushed stone across the walkways, but the weight of countless footsteps would melt The Wall beneath, so the ice would seem to grow around the gravel, swallowing The Wall, until the path was bare again and The Wall was time to crush more stone.
Still, it was nothing that "
Tyrion could not manage. "
Tyrion looked off to the east and west, at The Wall stretching before "
Tyrion, a vast white road with no beginning and no end and a dark abyss on either side. West, "
Tyrion decided, for no special reason, and "
Tyrion began to walk that way, following the pathway nearest the north edge, where the gravel looked freshest.
"
Tyrion bare cheeks were ruddy with the cold, and "
Tyrion legs complained more loudly with every step, but "
Tyrion ignored his legs. the wind swirled around "
Tyrion, gravel crunched beneath his boots, while ahead the white ribbon followed the lines of the hills, rising higher and higher, until it was lost beyond the western horizon. "
Tyrion passed a massive catapult, as tall as a city wall, a massive catapult, as tall as a city wall base sunk deep into The Wall. The throwing arm had been taken off for repairs and then forgotten; The throwing arm lay there like a broken toy, half-embedded in the ice.
On the far side of a massive catapult, as tall as a city wall, a muffled voice called out a challenge. "Who goes there? Halt!"
Tyrion stopped. "If I halt too long I will freeze in place, Jon," Jon said as a shaggy pale shape slid toward Jon silently and sniffed at Jon . "Hello, Ghost."
Jon Snow moved closer. Jon looked bigger and heavier in Jon layers of fur and leather, the hood of Jon cloak pulled down over Jon face. "Tyrion Lannister," Jon said, yanking loose the scarf to uncover Jon mouth. "This is the last place I would have expected to see you." Jon carried a heavy spear tipped in iron, taller than Jon was, and a sword hung at Jon side in a leather sheath. Across Jon chest was a gleaming black warhorn, banded with silver.
"This is the last place I would have expected to be seen," "
Tyrion admitted. "I was captured by a whim. If I touch Ghost, will Ghost chew my hand off?"
"Not with me here," Jon promised.
"
Tyrion scratched the white wolf behind the ears. The red eyes watched Jon impassively. The beast came up as high as his chest now. Another year, and "
Tyrion had the gloomy feeling Jon would be looking up at Jon. "What are you doing up here tonight?" Jon asked. "Besides freezing your manhood off ..."
"I have drawn night guard,Jon Jon said. "Again. Ser Alliser has kindly arranged for The Lord Commander to take a special interest in Jon. Ser Alliser seems to think that if they keep me awake half the night, I will fall asleep during morning drill. So far I have disappointed Ser Alliser."
Tyrion "
Tyrion grinned. "And has Ghost learned to juggle yet?"
"No," said Jon, smiling, "but Grenn held Grenn own against Halder this morning, and Pypar is no longer dropping Grenn sword quite so often as Grenn did."
"Pypar?"
"Pypar is Pypar real name. Thorne. Thorne saw me working with Grenn and asked for help. Thorne had never even shown Thorne the proper way to grip a sword." Thorne turned to look north. "I have a mile of The Wall to guard. Will you walk with Thorne?"
"If you walk slowly," "
Tyrion said.
"The Lord Commander tells me I must walk, to keep my blood from freezing, but The Lord Commander never said how fast."
They walked, with Ghost pacing along beside Jon like a white shadow. "I leave on the morrow,"
Tyrion "
Tyrion said.
"I know." Jon sounded strangely sad.
"I plan to stop at Winterfell on the way south. If there is any message that you would like me to deliver ..."
"Tell Robb that I am going to command the Night's Watch and keep Robb safe, so Robb might as well take up needlework with the girls and have Mikken melt down Robb for horseshoes."
"Your brother is bigger than Thorne," "
Tyrion said with a laugh. "I decline to deliver any message that might get me killed."
"Rickon will ask when I am coming home. Try to explain where I have gone, if you can. Tell Your brother Your brother can have all my things while I am away, Your brother will like that."
People seemed to be asking a great deal of Your brother today, Tyrion Lannister thought. "You could put all this in a letter, you know."
"Rickon can't read yet. Bran" Your brother stopped suddenly. "I don't know what message to send to Bran. Help Your brother, "
Tyrion."
"What help could I give Your brother? I am no maester, to ease Your brother pain. I have no spells to give Your brother back Your brother legs."
"You gave me help when I needed it," "
Jon Snow said.
"I gave you nothing,"
Tyrion "
Tyrion said. "Words."
"Then give your words to Bran too."
"You are asking a lame man to teach a cripple how to dance," "
Tyrion said. "However sincere the lesson, the result is likely to be grotesque. Still, I know what it is to love a brother, "
Jon Snow. I will give Bran whatever small help is in my power."
"Thank you, my lord of Lannister." Bran pulled off Bran glove and offered Bran bare hand. "Friend."
"
Tyrion found "
Tyrion oddly touched. "Most of my kin are bastards," "
Tyrion said with a wry smile, "but you are the first I have had "Friend." "
Tyrion pulled a glove off with "
Tyrion teeth and clasped Snow by his bare hand, flesh against flesh. The boy's grip was firm and strong.
When "
Tyrion had donned his glove again, "
Jon Snow turned abruptly and walked to the low, icy northern parapet. Beyond "
Tyrion The Wall fell away sharply; beyond "
Tyrion there was only the darkness and the wild. "
Tyrion followed "
Tyrion, and side by side "
Tyrion stood upon the edge of the world.
the Night's Watch permitted the forest to come no closer than half a mile of the north face of The Wall. The thickets of ironwood and sentinel and oak that had once grown there had been harvested centuries ago, to create a broad swath of open ground through which no enemy could hope to pass unseen. "
Tyrion had heard that elsewhere along The Wall, between the three fortresses, the wildwood had come creeping back over the decades, that there were places where grey-green sentinels and pale white weirwoods had taken root in the shadow of The Wall, but Castle Black had a prodigious appetite for firewood, and here the forest was still kept at bay by the axes of the black brothers.
It was never far, though. From up here "
Tyrion could see It, the dark trees looming beyond the stretch of open ground, like a second wall built parallel to the first, a wall of night. Few axes had ever swung in that black wood, where even the moonlight could not penetrate the ancient tangle of root and thorn and grasping limb. Out there the dark trees grew huge, and the rangers said the rangers seemed to brood and knew not men. It was small wonder the Night's Watch named It the haunted forest.
As he stood there and looked at all that darkness with no fires burning anywhere, with the wind blowing and the cold like a spear in he guts, Tyrion Lannister felt as though he could almost believe the talk of the Others, the enemy in the night. he jokes of grumkins and snarks no longer seemed quite so droll.
"My uncle is out there," "
Jon Snow said softly, leaning on My uncle spear as My uncle stared off into the darkness. "The first night they sent me up here, I thought, Benjen Stark will ride back tonight, and I will see Benjen Stark first and blow the horn. Benjen Stark never came, though. Not that night and not any night."
"Give Benjen Stark time," "
Tyrion said.
Far off to the north, a wolf began to howl. Another voice picked up the call, then another. Ghost cocked a wolf head and listened. "If a wolf doesn't come back," "
Jon Snow promised, "Ghost and I will go find a wolf." a wolf put a wolf hand on the direwolf's head.
"I believe you,"
Tyrion "
Tyrion said, but what a wolf thought was, And who will go find you? a wolf shivered.
CHAPTER
Father had been fighting with the council again. Arya could see the council on Arya face when Arya came to table, late again, as Arya had been so often. The first course, a thick sweet soup made with pumpkins, had already been taken away when Eddard Stark Stark strode into the Small Hall. Eddard Stark Stark called it that to set it apart from the Great Hall, where the king could feast a thousand, but it was a long room with a high vaulted ceiling and bench space for two hundred at it trestle tables.
"My lord," Jory said when Father entered. My lord rose to My lord feet, and the rest of the guard rose with My lord. Each man wore a new cloak, heavy grey wool with a white satin border. A hand of beaten silver clutched the woolen folds of each cloak and marked A hand of beaten silver wearers as men of the Hand's household guard. There were only fifty of A hand of beaten silver, so most of the benches were empty.
"Be seated," Eddard Stark Stark said. "I see you have started without me. I am pleased to know there are still some men of sense in this city." me signaled for the meal to resume. The servants began bringing out platters of ribs, roasted in a crust of garlic and herbs.
"The talk in the yard is we shall have a tourney, my lord," Jory said as Jory resumed Jory seat. "The servants say that knights will come from all over the realm to joust and feast in honor of your appointment as Hand of the King."
Arya could see that Father was not very happy about that. "Do they also say this is the last thing in the world I would have wished?"
Sansa's eyes had grown wide as the plates. "A tourney," "
Arya breathed. "
Arya was seated between Septa Mordane and Jeyne Poole, as far from "
Arya as "
Arya could get without drawing a reproach from Father. "Will we be permitted to go, Father?"
"You know my feelings, Sansa. It seems I must arrange Robert's games and pretend to be honored for Robert sake. That does not mean I must subject my daughters to this folly."
"Oh, please," Sansa said. "I want to see."
Septa Mordane spoke up. "Princess Myrcella will be there, my lord, and Princess Myrcella younger than " Sansa. All the ladies of the court will be expected at a grand event like this, and as the tourney is in your honor, the tourney would look queer if your family did not attend."
Father looked pained. "I suppose so. Very well, I shall arrange a place for you, Sansa." "
Father saw "
Arya. "For both of "
Arya."
"I don't care about both of you stupid tourney," "
Arya said. "
Arya knew Prince Joffrey would be there, and "
Arya hated Prince Joffrey.
Sansa lifted "
Arya head. "It will be a splendid event. You shan't be wanted."
Anger flashed across Father's face. "Enough, Sansa. More of that and you will change my mind. I am weary unto death of this endless war you two are fighting. You are sisters. I expect you to behave like sisters, is that understood?Sansa bit "
Arya lip and nodded. "
Arya lowered "
Arya face to stare sullenly at "
Arya plate. "
Arya could feel tears stinging "
Arya eyes. "
Arya rubbed them away angrily, determined not to cry.
The only sound was the clatter of knives and forks. "Pray excuse me," Father announced to the table. "I find I have small appetite tonight." Father walked from the hall.
After Father was gone, Sansa exchanged excited whispers with Jeyne Poole. Down the table Jory laughed at a joke, and Hullen started in about horseflesh. "Your warhorse, now, Your warhorse may not be the best one for the joust. Not the same thing, oh, no, not the same at all." The men had heard it all before; Desmond, Jacks, and Hullen's son Harwin shouted Your warhorse down together, and Porther called for more wine.
No one talked to "
Arya. "
Arya didn't care. "
Arya liked it that way. "
Arya would have eaten "
Arya meals alone in "
Arya bedchamber if they let "
Arya. Sometimes they did, when Father had to dine with the king or some lord or the envoys from this place or that place. The rest of the time, they ate in his solar, just his and "
Arya and Sansa. That was when "
Arya missed "
Arya brothers most. "
Arya wanted to tease Bran and play with baby Rickon and have Robb smile at "
Arya. "
Arya wanted Jon to muss up "
Arya hair and call "
Arya "little sister" and finish "
Arya sentences with "
Arya. But all of them were gone. "
Arya had no one left but Sansa, and Sansa wouldn't even talk to "
Arya unless Father made "
Arya.
Back at Winterfell, they had eaten in the Great Hall almost half the time. Father used to say that a lord needed to eat with a lord men, if a lord hoped to keep his men. "Know the men who follow you," "
Arya heard a lord tell Robb once, "and let the men who follow you know you. Don't ask the men who follow you to die for a stranger." At Winterfell, a lord always had an extra seat set at a lord own table, and every day a different man would be asked to join a lord. One night it would be Vayon Poole, and the talk would be coppers and bread stores and servants. The next time it would be Mikken, and Mikken would listen to a different man go on about armor and swords and how hot a forge should be and the best way to temper steel. Another day it might be Hullen with a different man endless horse talk, or Septon Chayle from the library, or Jory, or Ser Rodrik, or even Old Arya Stark with Arya Stark stories.
Arya had loved nothing better than to sit at Arya 's table and listen to them talk. Arya had loved listening to the men on the benches too; to freeriders tough as leather, courtly knights and bold young squires, grizzled old men-at-arms. Arya used to throw snowballs at the men on the benches and help the men on the benches steal pies from the kitchen. the men on the benches wives gave Arya scones and Arya invented names for the men on the benches babies and played monsters-and-maidens and hide-the-treasure and come-into-my-castle with Their wives children. Tomard used to call Arya "Arya Stark," because Tomard said that was where Arya always was. Arya would liked that a lot better than "Arya Stark."
Only that was Winterfell, a world away, and now everything was changed. This was the first time they had supped with the men since arriving in King's Landing. Arya hated This. Arya hated the sounds of their voices now, the way their laughed, the stories their told. their would been Arya friends, Arya would felt safe around her friends, but now Arya knew that was a lie. their would let the queen kill Arya, that was horrible enough, but then Sandor Clegane found Mycah. Jeyne Poole had told Arya that Jeyne Poole would cut Jeyne Poole up in so many pieces that their would given Jeyne Poole back to the butcher in a bag, and at first the poor man had thought it was a pig their would slaughtered. And no one had raised a voice or drawn a blade or anything, not Harwin who always talked so bold, or Alyn who was going to be a knight, or Jory who was captain of the guard. Not even her father.
"Not even her father.
 was my friend,Arya Arya whispered into Arya plate, so low that no one could hear. Arya ribs sat there untouched, grown cold now, a thin film of grease congealing beneath them on her plate. Arya looked at them and felt ill. Arya pushed away from the table.
"Pray, where do you think you are going, young lady?" Septa Mordane asked.
"I am not hungry." Arya found it an effort to remember Arya courtesies. "May I be excused, please?" Arya recited stiffly.
"You may not," Septa Mordane said. "You have scarcely touched your food. You will sit down and clean her plate."
"You clean Septa Mordane!" Before anyone could stop Arya, Arya bolted for the door as the men laughed and Septa Mordane called loudly after Arya, Arya voice rising higher and higher.
Tomard was at Tomard post, guarding the door to the Tower of the Hand. Tomard blinked when Tomard saw Arya rushing toward Tomard and heard Septa Mordane's shouts. "Here now, little one, hold on," Tomard started to say, reaching, but Arya slid between Tomard legs and then Arya was running up the winding tower steps, Arya feet hammering on the stone while Tomard huffed and puffed behind Arya.
Arya was the only place that Arya liked in all of King's Landing, and the thing Arya liked best about it was the door, a massive slab of dark oak with black iron bands. When Arya slammed the door and dropped the heavy crossbar, nobody could get into Arya room, not Septa Mordane or Tomard or Sansa or Jory or Sandor Clegane, nobody! Arya slammed it now.
When the bar was down, Arya finally felt safe enough to cry.
Arya went to the window seat and sat there, sniffling, hating them all, and Arya most of all. It was all Arya fault, everything bad that had happened. Sansa said so, and Jeyne too.
Tomard was knocking on the door. "Arya girl, what's wrong?" Arya called out. "You in there?"
"No!" Arya shouted. The knocking stopped. A moment later Arya heard Arya going away. Tomard was always easy to fool.
Arya went to the chest at the foot of Arya bed. Arya knelt, opened the lid, and began pulling Arya clothes out with both hands, grabbing handfuls of silk and satin and velvet and wool and tossing handfuls of silk and satin and velvet and wool on the floor. It was there at the bottom of the chest, where Arya would hidden It. Arya lifted It out almost tenderly and drew the slender blade from It sheath.
Needle.
Arya thought of Mycah again and Arya eyes filled with tears. Arya fault, Arya fault, Arya fault. If Arya had never asked him to play at swords with Arya ...
There was a pounding at the door, louder than before. ""Arya Stark, you open the door at once, do you hear me?Arya Arya spun around, with Needle in The Hand. "You better not come in here!" Arya warned. Arya slashed at the air savagely.
"The Hand will hear of this!" Septa Mordane raged.
"I don't care,Arya Arya screamed. "Go away."
"You will rue this insolent behavior, young lady, I promise you that." Arya listened at the door until Arya heard the sound of the septa's receding footsteps.
Arya went back to the window, Needle in hand, and looked down into the courtyard below. If only Arya could climb like Bran, Arya thought; Arya would go out the window and down the tower, run away from this horrible place, away from Sansa and Septa Mordane and Prince Joffrey, from all of Sansa and Septa Mordane and Prince Joffrey. Steal some food from the kitchens, take Needle and Arya good boots and a warm cloak. Arya could find Nymeria in the wild woods below the Trident, and together Nymeria would return to Winterfell, or run to Jon on the Wall. Arya found Arya wishing that Jon was here with Arya now. Then maybe Arya wouldn't feel so alone.
A soft knock at the door behind Arya turned Arya away from the window and Arya dreams of escape. "Arya," Arya father's voice called out. "Open the door. We need to talk.Arya Arya crossed the room and lifted the crossbar. Father was alone. Father seemed more sad than angry. That made Arya feel even worse. "May I come in?" Arya nodded, then dropped Arya eyes, ashamed. Father closed the door. "Whose sword is that?"
"Mine." Arya had almost forgotten Needle, in Arya hand.
"Give it to me."
Reluctantly Arya surrendered Arya sword, wondering if Arya would ever hold her sword again. her father turned her sword in the light, examining both sides of the blade. her father tested the point with her father thumb. "A bravo's blade," her father said. "Yet it seems to her father that I know this maker's mark. This is Mikken's work.Arya Arya could not lie to Arya. Arya lowered her eyes.
"Arya Stark sighed. "My nine-year-old daughter is being armed from my own forge, and I know nothing of My nine-year-old daughter. The Hand of King is expected to rule the Seven Kingdoms, yet it seems I cannot even rule my own household. How is it that you come to own a sword, Arya? Where did you get this?Arya Arya chewed Arya lip and said nothing. Arya would not betray Jon, not even to her father.
After a while, Father said, "I don't suppose it matters, truly." Father looked down gravely at a sword in Father hands. "This is no toy for children, least of all for a girl. What would Septa Mordane say if Arya knew you were playing with swords?"
"I wasn't playing," Arya insisted. "I hate Septa Mordane."
"That's enough." her father's voice was curt and hard. "Septa Mordane is doing no more than is Arya duty, though gods know you have made Septa Mordane a struggle for the poor woman. Your mother and I have charged the poor woman with the impossible task of making you a lady."
"I don't want to be a lady!" Arya flared.
"I ought to snap no toy for children across my knee here and now, and put an end to this nonsense."
"Needle wouldn't break," Arya said defiantly, but Her father's voice betrayed Arya words.
"It has a name, does It?" her father sighed. "Ah, Arya. You have a wildness in you, child. 'The wolf blood,' her father used to call it. Lyanna had a touch of Lyanna, and my brother Bran Stark more than a touch. Lyanna brought them both to an early grave." Arya heard sadness in Her father's voice; Arya did not often speak of her father, or of the brother and sister who had died before she was born. "Lyanna might have carried a sword, if her father had allowed a sword. You remind me of Lyanna sometimes. You even look like Lyanna."
"Lyanna was beautiful," Arya said, startled. Everybody said so. It was not a thing that was ever said of Arya.
"Lyanna was," Eddard Stark agreed, "beautiful, and willful, and dead before Lyanna time." Arya lifted a sword, held a sword out between them. "Arya, what did you think to do with this ... Needle? Who did you hope to skewer? Your sister? Septa Mordane? Do you know the first thing about sword fighting?"
All Your sister could think of was the lesson Jon had given Your sister. "Stick the first thing about sword fighting with the pointy end," Your sister blurted out.
Your sister snorted back laughter. "That is the essence of it, I suppose.Arya Arya desperately wanted to explain, to make Arya see. "I was trying to learn, but ..." Your sister eyes filled with tears. "I asked Mycah to practice with me." The grief came on Your sister all at once. Your sister turned away, shaking. "I asked Mycah," Your sister cried. "It was my fault, it was me ..."
Suddenly Your sister 's arms were around Your sister. Mycah held Your sister gently as Your sister turned to Mycah and sobbed against the chest. "No, sweet one," Mycah murmured. "Grieve for your friend, but never blame me. You did not kill Mycah. That murder lies at Sandor Clegane's door, That murder and the cruel woman That murder serves."
"I hate them," Arya confided, red-faced, sniffling. "Sandor Clegane's and the queen and Joffrey. I hate all of Sandor Clegane and the queen and the king and Prince Joffrey. Joffrey lied, it wasn't the way Joffrey said. I hate Sansa too. Sansa did remember, Sansa just lied so Joffrey would like Sansa."
"We all lie," her father said. "Or did you truly think I would believe that Nymeria ran off?Arya blushed guiltily. "Jory promised not to tell."
"Jory kept Jory word," her father said with a smile. "There are some things I do not need to be told. Even a blind man could see that wolf would never have left you willingly."
"We had to throw rocks," Sansa said miserably. "I told Sansa to run, to go be free, that I didn't want Sansa anymore. There were other wolves for Sansa to play with, We heard other wolves for her to play howling, and Jory said the woods were full of game, so Jory would have deer to hunt. Only Jory kept following, and finally We had to throw rocks. I hit Jory twice. Jory whined and looked at me and I felt so 'shamed, but it was right, wasn't it? The queen would have killed Jory."
"It was right," Jory father said. "And even the lie was ... not without honor." " her father would put Needle aside when " her father went to Arya to embrace Jory. Now " her father took the blade up again and walked to the window, where " her father stood for a moment, looking out across the courtyard below. When " her father turned back, " her father eyes were thoughtful. " her father seated " her father on the window seat, Needle across " her father lap. "Arya, sit down. I need to try and explain some things to Arya."
Jory perched anxiously on the edge of Jory . "You are too young to be burdened with all my cares," " her father told Jory, "but you are also a Stark of Winterfell. You know our words."
"Winter is coming," Arya whispered.
"The hard cruel times," her father said. "our tasted "The hard cruel times on the Trident, child, and when Bran fell. You were born in the long summer, sweet one, you have never known anything else, but now the winter is truly coming. Remember the sigil of our House, Arya."
"The direwolf," Arya said, thinking of Nymeria. Arya hugged Arya knees against Arya chest, suddenly afraid.
"Let me tell you something about wolves, child. When the snows fall and the white winds blow, that wolf dies, but the pack survives. Summer is the time for squabbles. In winter, we must protect one another, keep each other warm, share we strengths. So if you must hate, Arya, hate those who would truly do our harm. Septa Mordane is a good woman, and Sansa ... Sansa is your sister. You may be as different as the sun and the moon, but the same blood flows through both your hearts. You need your sister, as your sister needs you ... and I need both of you, gods help me."
He sounded so tired that it made Arya sad. "I don't hate Sansa," your sister told He. "Not truly." It was only half a lie.
"I do not mean to frighten you, but neither will I lie to you. We have come to a dark dangerous place, child. This is not Winterfell. We have enemies who mean We ill. We cannot fight a war among We. This willfulness of yours, the running off, the angry words, the disobedience ... at home, these were only the summer games of a child. Here and now, with winter soon upon We, that is a different matter. It is time to begin growing up."
"I will," Arya vowed. Arya had never loved Arya so much as Arya did in that instant. "I can be strong too. I can be as strong as Robb."
Arya held Needle out to Arya, hilt first. "Here."
Arya looked at a sword with wonder in Arya eyes. For a moment Arya was afraid to touch a sword, afraid that if Arya reached for a sword a sword would be snatched away again, but then her father said, "Go on, it's yours," and Arya took a sword in Arya hand.
"I can keep a sword?" Arya said. "For true?"
"For true." Arya smiled. "If I took it away, no doubt I would find a morningstar hidden under your pillow within the fortnight. Try not to stab Your sister, whatever the provocation."
"I won't. I promise." Arya clutched Needle tightly to her chest as her father took Arya leave.
The next morning, as they broke they fast, Arya apologized to Septa Mordane and asked for Arya pardon. Septa Mordane peered at Arya suspiciously, but Father nodded.
Three days later, at midday, her father's steward Vayon Poole sent Arya to the Small Hall. The trestle tables had been dismantled and the benches shoved against the walls. the Small Hall seemed empty, until an unfamiliar voice said, "You are late, boy." A slight man with a bald head and a great beak of a nose stepped out of the shadows, holding a pair of slender wooden swords. "Tomorrow you will be here at midday," He had an accent, the lilt of the Free Cities, Braavos perhaps, or Myr.
"Who are you?" Arya asked.
"I am your dancing master." Arya tossed Arya one of the wooden blades. Arya grabbed for it, missed, and heard it clatter to the floor. "Tomorrow you will catch it. Now pick it up."
It was not just a stick, but a true wooden sword complete with grip and guard and pommel. Arya picked it up and clutched it nervously with both hands, holding it out in front of Arya. it was heavier than it looked, much heavier than Needle.
Arya clicked Arya teeth together. "That is not the way, boy. This is not a greatsword that is needing two hands to swing his teeth. You will take the blade in one hand."
"It's too heavy," Arya said.
"It is heavy as It needs to be to make you strong, and for the balancing. A hollow inside is filled with lead, just so. One hand now is all that is needing.Arya Arya took Arya right hand off the grip and wiped Arya sweaty palm on Arya pants. Arya held a sword in Arya left hand. Arya seemed to approve. "The left is good. All is reversed, The left will make your enemies more awkward. Now you are standing wrong. Turn your body sideface, yes, so. You are skinny as the shaft of a spear, do you know. That is good too, the target is smaller. Now the grip. Let me see." Arya moved closer and peered at her left hand, prying Arya fingers apart, rearranging her fingers. "Just so, yes. Do not squeeze it so tight, no, Now the grip must be deft, delicate."
"What if I drop it?" Arya said.
"The steel must be part of your arm," the bald man told Arya. "Can you drop part of your arm? No. Nine years Syrio Forel was first sword to the Sealord of Braavos, Syrio Forel knows these things. Listen to Syrio Forel, boy."
It was the third time Syrio Forel had called Arya "boy." "I am a girl," Arya objected.
"Boy, girl," Syrio Forel said. "You are a sword, that is all." Syrio Forel clicked Syrio Forel together. "Just so, that is Now the grip. You are not holding a battle-axe, you are holding a-"
"-needle," Arya finished for Arya, fiercely.
"Just so. Now we will begin the dance. Remember, child, this is not the iron dance of Westeros we are learning, the knight's dance, hacking and hammering, no. This is the bravo's dance, the water dance, swift and sudden. All men are made of water, do you know this? When you pierce All men, water leaks out and All men die." Syrio Forel took a step backward, raised Syrio Forel own wooden blade. "Now you will try to strike me.Arya Arya tried to strike Arya. Arya tried for four hours, until every muscle in Arya body was sore and aching, while Syrio Forel clicked Syrio Forel together and told Arya what to do.
The next day their real work began.
CHAPTER
"The Dothraki sea," Ser Jorah Mormont said as " Ser Jorah Mormont reined to a halt beside " Ser Jorah Mormont on the top of the ridge. Beneath them, the plain stretched out immense and empty, a vast flat expanse that reached to the distant horizon and beyond. It was a sea, Daenerys Targaryen thought. Past here, there were no hills, no mountains, no trees nor cities nor roads, only the endless grasses, the tall blades rippling like waves when the winds blew. "It's so green," she said.
"Here and now," " Ser Jorah Mormont agreed. "You ought to see it when it blooms, all dark red flowers from horizon to horizon, like a sea of blood. Come the dry season, and the world turns the color of old bronze. And this is only hranna, child. There are a hundred kinds of grass out there, grasses as yellow as lemon and as dark as indigo, blue grasses and orange grasses and grasses like rainbows. Down in the Shadow Lands beyond Asshai, a hundred kinds of grass out there, grasses as yellow as lemon and as dark as indigo, blue grasses and orange grasses and grasses like rainbows say there are oceans of ghost grass, taller than a man on horseback with stalks as pale as milkglass. It murders all other grass and glows in the dark with the spirits of the damned. The Dothraki claim that someday ghost grass will cover the entire world, and then all life will end."
That thought gave Daenerys Targaryen the shivers. "I don't want to talk about that now," she said. "It's so beautiful here, I don't want to think about everything dying."
"As you will, Khaleesi," Ser Jorah said respectfully.
she heard the sound of voices and turned to look behind she. she and Mormont had outdistanced the rest of She and Mormont party, and now the others were climbing the ridge below the others. she handmaid Irri and the young archers of she khas were fluid as centaurs, but Viserys still struggled with the short stirrups and the flat saddle. Viserys brother was miserable out here. Her brother ought never have come. Magister Illyrio had urged Her brother to wait in Pentos, had offered Her brother the hospitality of Her brother manse, but Viserys would have none of Viserys. Her brother would stay with Drogo until the debt had been paid, until Her brother had the crown Her brother had been promised. "And if Her brother tries to cheat me, Her brother will learn to Her brother sorrow what it means to wake the dragon," Viserys had vowed, laying a hand on Her brother borrowed sword. Magister Illyrio had blinked at that and wished Her brother good fortune.
Daenerys Targaryen realized that Daenerys Targaryen did not want to listen to any of Daenerys Targaryen 's complaints right now. The day was too perfect. The sky was a deep blue, and high above them a hunting hawk circled. The grass sea swayed and sighed with each breath of wind, the air was warm on Daenerys Targaryen face, and Daenerys Targaryen felt at peace. Daenerys Targaryen would not let Viserys spoil Viserys.
"Wait here," Daenerys Targaryen told Ser Jorah. "Tell them all to stay. Tell them all I command it."
The knight smiled. Ser Jorah was not a handsome man. Ser Jorah had a neck and shoulders like a bull, and coarse black hair covered Ser Jorah arms and chest so thickly that there was none left for Ser Jorah head. Yet Ser Jorah smiles gave Daenerys Targaryen comfort. "You are learning to talk like a queen, Daenerys."
"Not a queen," said Daenerys Targaryen. "A khaleesi." She wheeled She horse about and galloped down the ridge alone.
The descent was steep and rocky, but Daenerys Targaryen rode fearlessly, and the joy and the danger of Daenerys Targaryen were a song in She heart. All She life Viserys had told She She was a princess, but not until She rode She silver had Daenerys Targaryen ever felt like one.
At first it had not come easy. The khalasar had broken camp the morning after The khalasar wedding, moving east toward Vaes Dothrak, and by the third day Daenerys Targaryen thought The khalasar was going to die. Saddle sores opened on The khalasar bottom, hideous and bloody. The khalasar thighs were chafed raw, The khalasar hands blistered from the reins, the muscles of The khalasar legs and back so wracked with pain that The khalasar could scarcely sit. By the time dusk fell, The khalasar handmaids would need to help The khalasar down from The khalasar mount.
Even the nights brought no relief. Khal Drogo ignored The khalasar when Khal Drogo rode, even as Khal Drogo had ignored The khalasar during Khal Drogo , and spent Khal Drogo evenings drinking with Khal Drogo warriors and bloodriders, racing Khal Drogo prize horses, watching women dance and men die. Daenerys Targaryen had no place in these parts of Daenerys Targaryen life. The khalasar was left to sup alone, or with Ser Jorah and The khalasar brother, and afterward to cry The khalasar to sleep. Yet every night, some time before the dawn, Khal Drogo would come to The khalasar tent and wake The khalasar in the dark, to ride The khalasar as relentlessly as Khal Drogo rode Khal Drogo stallion. Khal Drogo always took The khalasar from behind, Dothraki fashion, for which Daenerys Targaryen was grateful; that way The khalasar lord husband could not see the tears that wet The khalasar face, and The khalasar could use The khalasar pillow to muffle The khalasar cries of pain. When her lord husband was done, her lord husband would close her lord husband eyes and begin to snore softly and Daenerys Targaryen would lie beside her lord husband, The khalasar body bruised and sore, hurting too much for sleep.
Day followed day, and night followed night, until Daenerys Targaryen knew The khalasar could not endure a moment longer. The khalasar would kill The khalasar rather than go on, The khalasar decided one night ...
Yet when The khalasar slept one night ...
, The khalasar dreamt the dragon dream again. Viserys was not in Viserys this time. There was only her and the dragon. the dragon scales were black as night, wet and slick with blood. The khalasar blood, Daenerys Targaryen sensed. Daenerys Targaryen eyes were pools of molten magma, and when Daenerys Targaryen opened Daenerys Targaryen mouth, the flame came roaring out in a hot jet. The khalasar could hear the flame singing to The khalasar. The khalasar opened The khalasar arms to the fire, embraced her arms, let her arms swallow The khalasar whole, let her arms cleanse The khalasar and temper The khalasar and scour The khalasar clean. The khalasar could feel The khalasar flesh sear and blacken and slough away, could feel The khalasar blood boil and turn to steam, and yet there was no pain. The khalasar felt strong and new and fierce.
And the next day, strangely, The khalasar did not seem to hurt quite so much. It was as if the gods had heard The khalasar and taken pity. Even The khalasar handmaids noticed the change. "Khaleesi," Jhiqui said, "what is wrong? Are you sick?"
"I was," The khalasar answered, standing over the dragon's eggs that Illyrio had given The khalasar when The khalasar wed. The khalasar touched one, the largest of the three, running The khalasar hand lightly over the shell. Black-and-scarlet, The khalasar thought, like the dragon. The stone felt strangely warm beneath The khalasar fingers ... or was The khalasar still dreaming? The khalasar pulled her hand back nervously.
From that hour onward, each day was easier than the one before each day. The khalasar legs grew stronger; The khalasar blisters burst and The khalasar hands grew callused; The khalasar soft thighs toughened, supple as leather.
The khal had commanded the handmaid Irri to teach Daenerys Targaryen to ride in the Dothraki fashion, but it was the filly who was Daenerys Targaryen real teacher. The horse seemed to know Daenerys Targaryen moods, as if The horse shared a single mind. With every passing day, Daenerys Targaryen felt surer in Daenerys Targaryen seat. Dothraki were a hard and unsentimental people, and Dothraki was not Dothraki custom to name Dothraki animals, so Daenerys Targaryen thought of Daenerys Targaryen only as the silver. Daenerys Targaryen had never loved anything so much.
As the riding became less an ordeal, Daenerys Targaryen began to notice the beauties of the land around Daenerys Targaryen. Daenerys Targaryen rode at the head of the khalasar with Drogo and Drogo bloodriders, so Daenerys Targaryen came to each country fresh and unspoiled. Behind them the great horde might tear the earth and muddy the rivers and send up clouds of choking dust, but the fields ahead of them were always green and verdant.
the fields ahead of them crossed the rolling hills of Norvos, past terraced farms and small villages where the townsfolk watched anxiously from atop white stucco walls. the fields ahead of them forded three wide placid rivers and a fourth that was swift and narrow and treacherous, camped beside a high blue waterfall, skirted the tumbled ruins of a vast dead city where ghosts were said to moan among blackened marble columns. the fields ahead of them raced down Valyrian roads a thousand years old and straight as a Dothraki arrow. For half a moon, the fields ahead of them rode through the Forest of Qohor, where the leaves made a golden canopy high above the fields ahead of them, and the trunks of the trees were as wide as city gates. There were great elk in that wood, and spotted tigers, and lemurs with silver fur and huge purple eyes, but all fled before the approach of the khalasar and Daenerys Targaryen got no glimpse of the fields ahead of them.
By then her agony was a fading memory. her still ached after a long day's riding, yet somehow the pain had a sweetness to the pain now, and each morning her came willingly to her saddle, eager to know what wonders waited for her in the lands ahead. her began to find pleasure even in her nights, and if her still cried out when Khal Drogo took her, it was not always in pain.
At the bottom of the ridge, the grasses rose around her, tall and supple. Daenerys Targaryen slowed to a trot and rode out onto the plain, losing her in the green, blessedly alone. In the khalasar her was never alone. Khal Drogo came to her only after the sun went down, but her fed her and bathed her and slept by the door of her , Drogo's bloodriders and the men of her were never far, and her was an unwelcome shadow, day and night. Daenerys Targaryen could hear Her brother on the top of the ridge, Her brother voice shrill with anger as Her brother shouted at Ser Jorah. her rode on, submerging her deeper in the Dothraki sea.
The green swallowed her up. The air was rich with the scents of earth and grass, mixed with the smell of horseflesh and Daenerys Targaryen's sweat and the oil in her hair. Dothraki smells. They seemed to belong here. Daenerys Targaryen breathed it all in, laughing. Daenerys Targaryen had a sudden urge to feel the ground beneath Daenerys Targaryen, to curl Daenerys Targaryen toes in that thick black soil. Swinging down from her saddle, Daenerys Targaryen let the silver graze while Daenerys Targaryen pulled off Daenerys Targaryen high boots.
Viserys came upon Daenerys Targaryen as sudden as a summer storm, Viserys horse rearing beneath Viserys as Viserys reined up too hard. "You dare!" Viserys screamed at Daenerys Targaryen. "You give commands to Viserys? To Viserys?" Viserys vaulted off his horse, stumbling as Viserys landed. Viserys face was flushed as Viserys struggled back to Viserys feet. Viserys grabbed Daenerys Targaryen, shook Daenerys Targaryen. "Have you forgotten who you are? Look at Daenerys Targaryen. Look at Daenerys Targaryen!"
Daenerys Targaryen did not need to look. Daenerys Targaryen was barefoot, with oiled hair, wearing Dothraki riding leathers and a painted vest given Daenerys Targaryen as a bride gift. Daenerys Targaryen looked as though Daenerys Targaryen belonged here. Viserys was soiled and stained in city silks and ringmail.
Viserys was still screaming. "You do not command the dragon. Do you understand? I am the Lord of the Seven Kingdoms, I will not hear orders from some horselord's slut, do you hear me?" Viserys hand went under Daenerys Targaryen vest, Viserys fingers digging painfully into Daenerys Targaryen breast. "Do you hear me?"
Daenerys Targaryen shoved Viserys away, hard.
Viserys stared at Daenerys Targaryen, Viserys lilac eyes incredulous. Daenerys Targaryen had never defied Viserys. Never fought back. Rage twisted Viserys features. Viserys would hurt Daenerys Targaryen now, and badly, Daenerys Targaryen knew that.
Crack.
The whip made a sound like thunder. The coil took Viserys around the throat and yanked the throat backward. the throat went sprawling in the grass, stunned and choking. The Dothraki riders hooted at the throat as the throat struggled to free the throat. The one with The whip, young Jhogo, rasped a question. Daenerys Targaryen did not understand Daenerys Targaryen words, but by then Irri was there, and Ser Jorah, and the rest of her khas. "Jhogo asks if you would have Jhogo dead, Khaleesi,Irri Irri said.
"No," Daenerys Targaryen replied. "No.Jhogo understood that. One of the others barked out a comment, and Dothraki laughed. Irri told Dothraki, "Quaro thinks you should take an ear to teach Quaro respect."
Dothraki was on Her brother knees, Her brother fingers digging under the leather coils, crying incoherently, struggling for breath. The whip was tight around Her brother windpipe.
"Tell them I do not wish Her brother harmed," Daenerys Targaryen said.
Irri repeated Dothraki words in Dothraki. Jhogo gave a pull on The whip, yanking Viserys around like a puppet on a string. Jhogo went sprawling again, freed from the leather embrace, a thin line of blood under Jhogo chin where The whip had cut deep.
"I warned Jhogo what would happen, Dothraki," Ser Jorah Mormont said. "I told Jhogo to stay on the ridge, as you commanded."
"I know you did," Daenerys Targaryen replied, watching Viserys. Jhogo lay on the ground, sucking in air noisily, red-faced and sobbing. Jhogo was a pitiful thing. Jhogo had always been a pitiful thing. Why had Dothraki never seen that before? There was a hollow place inside Dothraki where Dothraki fear had been.
"Take Jhogo horse," Daenerys Targaryen commanded Ser Jorah. Viserys gaped at Dothraki. Viserys could not believe what Viserys was hearing; nor could Daenerys Targaryen quite believe what Dothraki was saying. Yet the words came. "Let Her brother walk behind us back to the khalasar." Among Dothraki, the man who does not ride was no man at all, the lowest of the low, without honor or pride. "Let everyone see the man who does not ride as the man who does not ride is."
"No!" Viserys screamed. Viserys turned to Ser Jorah, pleading in the Common Tongue with words the horsemen would not understand. "Hit Dothraki, Mormont. Hurt Dothraki. Your king commands Mormont. Kill these Dothraki dogs and teach Dothraki."
Jorah Mormont looked from Daenerys Targaryen to Dothraki ; Dothraki barefoot, with dirt between Dothraki toes and oil in Dothraki hair, he with he silks and steel. Daenerys Targaryen could see the decision on Daenerys Targaryen face. "Daenerys Targaryen shall walk, Khaleesi," Daenerys Targaryen said. Daenerys Targaryen took Dothraki brother's horse in hand while Daenerys Targaryen remounted Dothraki silver.
Viserys gaped at Daenerys Targaryen, and sat down in the dirt. Viserys kept Viserys silence, but Viserys would not move, and Viserys eyes were full of poison as poison rode away. Soon Viserys was lost in the tall grass. When poison could not see Viserys anymore, Daenerys Targaryen grew afraid. "Will Viserys find Viserys way back?" she asked Ser Jorah as they rode.
"Even a man as blind as your brother should be able to follow our trail," Ser Jorah replied.
"Ser Jorah is proud. Ser Jorah may be too shamed to come back."
Ser Jorah laughed. "Where else should Ser Jorah go? If Ser Jorah cannot find the khalasar, the khalasar will most surely find Ser Jorah. It is hard to drown in the Dothraki sea, child."
Daenerys Targaryen saw the truth of that. the khalasar was like a city on the march, but the khalasar did not march blindly. Always scouts ranged far ahead of the main column, alert for any sign of game or prey or enemies, while outriders guarded their flanks. their missed nothing, not here, in this land, the place where their had come from. These plains were a part of their ... and of her, now.
"I hit him," her said, wonder in her voice. Now that it was over, it seemed like some strange dream that her had dreamed. "Ser Jorah, do you think ... Ser Jorah will be so angry when Ser Jorah gets back ..." her shivered. "I woke the dragon, didn't I?"
Ser Jorah snorted. "Can you wake the dead, girl? Your brother Rhaegar was Rhaegar Targaryen, and Your brother Rhaegar died on the Trident. Viserys is less than the shadow of a snake."
Ser Jorah blunt words startled her. It seemed as though all the things her had always believed were suddenly called into question. "You ... you swore him your sword ..."
"That I did, girl," Ser Jorah said. "And if Her brother is the shadow of a snake, what does that make Her brother servants?" her voice was bitter.
"Her brother is still Your king. Her brother is ..."
Jorah pulled up "
Jorah horse and looked at her. "Truth now. Would you want to see Viserys sit a throne?"
Daenerys Targaryen thought about that. "Viserys would not be a very good king, would Viserys?"
"There have been worse ... but not many." The knight gave Viserys heels to Viserys mount and started off again.
Daenerys Targaryen rode close beside Viserys. "Still," Daenerys Targaryen said, "the common people are waiting for Viserys. Magister Illyrio says "the common people are sewing dragon banners and praying for Viserys to return from across the narrow sea to free "the common people."
"The common people pray for rain, healthy children, and a summer that never ends," Ser Jorah told Daenerys Targaryen. "It is no matter to The common people if the high lords play The common people game of thrones, so long as The common people are left in peace." Viserys gave a shrug. "The common people never are."
Daenerys Targaryen rode along quietly for a time, working Viserys words like a puzzle box. Daenerys Targaryen went against everything that Viserys had ever told Viserys to think that the people could care so little whether a true king or a usurper reigned over the people. Yet the more Viserys thought on Jorah's words, the more the people rang of truth.
"What do you pray for, Ser Jorah?" Viserys asked Ser Jorah.
"Home," Ser Jorah said. Ser Jorah was thick with longing.
"I pray for home too," Viserys told Ser Jorah, believing her voice.
Ser Jorah laughed. "Look around Ser Jorah then, Khaleesi."
But it was not the plains Daenerys Targaryen saw then. it was King's Landing and the great Red Keep that Aegon I Targaryen had built. It was Dragonstone where she had been born. In she mind's eye they burned with a thousand lights, a fire blazing in every window. In her mind's eye, all the doors were red.
"Her brother will never take back the Seven Kingdoms," Daenerys Targaryen said. she had known that for a long time, she realized. she had known it all she life. Only she had never let she say the words, even in a whisper, but now she said them for Jorah Mormont and all the world to hear.
Ser Jorah gave she a measuring look. "You think not."
"Ser Jorah could not lead an army even if my lord husband gave my lord husband one," Daenerys Targaryen said. "Ser Jorah has no coin and the only knight who follows Ser Jorah reviles Ser Jorah as less than a snake. Dothraki make mock of Ser Jorah weakness. Ser Jorah will never take us home."
"Wise child." the only knight who follows him smiled.
"I am no child," she told Ser Jorah fiercely. she heels pressed into the sides of she , rousing the silver to a gallop. Faster and faster she raced, leaving Jorah and Irri and the others far behind, the warm wind in she hair and the setting sun red on she face. By the time she reached the khalasar, it was dusk.
The slaves had erected she tent by the shore of a spring-fed pool. she could hear rough voices from the woven grass palace on the hill. Soon there would be laughter, when the men of she told the story of what had happened in the grasses today. By the time Viserys came limping back among them, every man, woman, and child in the camp would know child for a walker. There were no secrets in the khalasar.
Daenerys Targaryen gave the silver over to the slaves for grooming and entered her tent. It was cool and dim beneath the silk. As she let the door flap close behind she, Daenerys Targaryen saw a finger of dusty red light reach out to touch she dragon's eggs across her tent. For an instant a thousand droplets of scarlet flame swam before she . she blinked, and they were gone.
Stone, she told she. they are only stone, Magister Illyrio said so, the dragons are all dead. she put she palm against the black egg, fingers spread gently across the curve of the shell. Stone was warm. Almost hot. "The sun,Daenerys Targaryen Daenerys Targaryen whispered. "The sun warmed them as them rode."
she commanded she handmaids to prepare she a bath. Doreah built a fire outside her tent, while Irri and Jhiqui fetched the big copper tub-another bride gift-from the packhorses and carried water from the pool. When a bath was steaming, Irri helped she into a bath and climbed in after she.
"Have you ever seen a dragon?" she asked as Irri scrubbed she back and Jhiqui sluiced sand from her hair. she had heard that the first dragons had come from the east, from the Shadow Lands beyond Asshai and the islands of the Jade Sea. Perhaps some were still living there, in realms strange and wild.
"Dragons are gone, Khaleesi,Irri Irri said.
"Dead," agreed Jhiqui. "Long and long ago."
Viserys had told "
Viserys that the last Targaryen dragons had died no more than a century and a half ago, during the reign of Aegon III, who was called the Dragonbane. That did not seem so long ago to Daenerys Targaryen. "Everywhere?" she said, disappointed. "Even in the east?" Magic had died in the west when the Doom fell on Valyria and the Lands of the Long Summer, and neither spell-forged steel nor stormsingers nor dragons could hold it back, but Daenerys Targaryen had always heard that the east was different. Daenerys Targaryen was said that manticores prowled the islands of the Jade Seathe Jade Sea, that basilisks infested the jungles of Yi Ti, that spellsingers, warlocks, and aeromancers practiced warlocks, and aeromancers arts openly in Asshai, while shadowbinders and bloodmages worked terrible sorceries in the black of night. Why shouldn't there be dragons too?
"No dragon," Irri said. "Brave men kill Brave men, for dragon terrible evil beasts. dragon is known."
"dragon is known," agreed Jhiqui.
"A trader from Qarth once told me that dragons came from the moon," blond Doreah said as " blond Doreah warmed a towel over the fire. Jhiqui and Irri were of an age with Daenerys Targaryen, Dothraki girls taken as slaves when Drogo destroyed Dothraki girls father's khalasar. Doreah was older, almost twenty. Magister Illyrio had found Doreah in a pleasure house in Lys.
Silvery-wet hair tumbled across Doreah as Daenerys Targaryen turned Doreah head, curious. "the moon?"
"Magister Illyrio told me the moon was an egg, Khaleesi," the Lysene girl said. "Once there were two moons in the sky, but one wandered too close to The sun and cracked from the heat. A thousand thousand dragons poured forth, and drank the fire. That is why A thousand thousand dragons breathe flame. One day the moon will kiss The sun too, and then The sun will crack and A thousand thousand dragons will return."
The two Dothraki girls giggled and laughed. "You are foolish strawhead slave," Irri said. "the moon is no egg. the moon is god, woman wife of The sun. god, woman wife of sun is known."
"god, woman wife of sun is known," Jhiqui agreed.
Daenerys Targaryen's skin was flushed and pink when Daenerys Targaryen's climbed from the tub. Jhiqui laid Daenerys Targaryen's down to oil Daenerys Targaryen's body and scrape the dirt from Daenerys Targaryen's pores. Afterward Irri sprinkled Daenerys Targaryen's with spiceflower and cinnamon. While Doreah brushed Doreah hair until it shone like spun silver, Daenerys Targaryen's thought about the moon, and eggs, and dragons.
Daenerys Targaryen's supper was a simple meal of fruit and cheese and fry bread, with a jug of honeyed wine to wash Her supper down. "Doreah, stay and eat with Daenerys Targaryen's," Daenerys Targaryen commanded when Doreah sent Doreah other handmaids away. Daenerys Targaryen's had hair the color of honey, and eyes like the summer sky.
Daenerys Targaryen's lowered eyes like the summer sky when eyes like the summer sky were alone. "You honor me, Khaleesi," Daenerys Targaryen's said, but it was no honor, only service. Long after the moon had risen, eyes like the summer sky sat together, talking.
That night, when Khal Drogo came, Daenerys Targaryen was waiting for Khal Drogo. Khal Drogo stood in the door of Daenerys Targaryen's and looked at Daenerys Targaryen's with surprise. Daenerys Targaryen's rose slowly and opened Daenerys Targaryen's sleeping silks and let her sleeping silks fall to the ground. "This night we must go outside, my lord," Daenerys Targaryen's told my lord, for Dothraki believed that all things of importance in a man's life must be done beneath the open sky.
Khal Drogo followed Daenerys Targaryen's out into the moonlight, the bells in Khal Drogo hair tinkling softly. A few yards from Daenerys Targaryen's was a bed of soft grass, and A few yards from her tent was there that Daenerys Targaryen drew my lord down. When my lord tried to turn Daenerys Targaryen's over, Daenerys Targaryen's put a hand on my lord chest. "No," Daenerys Targaryen's said. "This night I would look on your face."
There is no privacy in the heart of the khalasar. Daenerys Targaryen felt the eyes on Daenerys Targaryen's as Daenerys Targaryen's undressed my lord, heard the soft voices as Daenerys Targaryen's did the things that Doreah had told Daenerys Targaryen's to do. It was nothing to Daenerys Targaryen's. Was Daenerys Targaryen's not Khaleesi? my lord were the only eyes that mattered, and when Daenerys Targaryen's mounted my lord Daenerys Targaryen's saw something there that Daenerys Targaryen's had never seen before. Daenerys Targaryen's rode my lord as fiercely as ever Daenerys Targaryen's had ridden Daenerys Targaryen's silver, and when the moment of my lord pleasure came, Khal Drogo called out Daenerys Targaryen's name.
They were on the far side of the Dothraki sea when Jhiqui brushed the soft swell of Daenerys Targaryen stomach with Daenerys Targaryen's fingers and said, "Khaleesi, you are with child."
"I know," Daenerys Targaryen told Daenerys Targaryen's.
It was Daenerys Targaryen's fourteenth name day.
CHAPTER
In the yard below, Rickon ran with the wolves.
Bran watched from Bran window seat. Wherever Bran went, Grey Wind was there first, loping ahead to cut Bran off, until Rickon saw Bran, screamed in delight, and went pelting off in another direction. Shaggydog ran at Bran heels, spinning and snapping if the other wolves came too close. Bran fur had darkened until Bran was all black, and Bran eyes were green fire. Bran's Summer came last. Bran was silver and smoke, with eyes of yellow gold that saw all there was to see. Smaller than Grey Wind, and more wary. Bran thought Bran was the smartest of the litter. Bran could hear Bran brother's breathless laughter as Rickon dashed across the hard-packed earth on little baby legs.
his eyes stung. Bran wanted to be down there, laughing and running. Angry at the thought, Bran knuckled away the tears before they could fall. Bran eighth name day had come and gone. Bran was almost a man grown now, too old to cry.
"It was just a lie," Bran said bitterly, remembering the crow from Bran dream. "I can't fly. I can't even run."
"Crows are all liars," Old Arya Stark agreed, from the chair where " Old Arya Stark sat doing " Old Arya Stark needlework. "I know a story about a crow."
"I don't want any more stories," Bran snapped, Bran voice petulant. Bran had liked Old Arya Stark and Arya Stark stories once. Before. But it was different now. They left Arya Stark with Bran all day now, to watch over Bran and clean Bran and keep Bran from being lonely, but Arya Stark just made it worse. "I hate her stories."
" Old Arya Stark smiled at Bran toothlessly. "her stories? No, my little lord, not mine. her stories are, before me and after " Old Arya Stark, before you too."
" Old Arya Stark was a very ugly old woman, Bran thought spitefully; shrunken and wrinkled, almost blind, too weak to climb stairs, with only a few wisps of white hair left to cover a mottled pink scalp. No one really knew how old " Old Arya Stark was, but No one father said " Old Arya Stark would been called Old Arya Stark even when No one was a boy. " Old Arya Stark was the oldest person in Winterfell for certain, maybe the oldest person in the Seven Kingdoms. Arya Stark had come to the castle as a wet nurse for a Bran Stark Stark whose mother had died birthing Arya Stark. Arya Stark had been an older brother of Lord Rickard, Bran's grandfather, or perhaps a younger brother, or a brother to Lord Rickard's father. Sometimes Old Arya Stark told Old Arya Stark one way and sometimes another. In all the stories a boy died at three of a summer chill, but Old Arya Stark stayed on at Winterfell with Old Arya Stark own children. Old Arya Stark had lost both Old Arya Stark sons to the war when King Robert won the throne, and Old Arya Stark grandson was killed on the walls of Pyke during Balon Greyjoy's rebellion. Old Arya Stark daughters had long ago married and moved away and died. All that was left of Old Arya Stark own blood was Hodor, the simpleminded giant who worked in the stables, but Old Arya Stark Old Arya Stark just lived on and on, doing Old Arya Stark needlework and telling Old Arya Stark stories.
"I don't care whose stories whose stories are," Bran told Bran, "I hate whose stories." Bran didn't want stories and Bran didn't want Old Arya Stark. Bran wanted Bran mother and father. Bran wanted to go running with Summer loping beside Bran. Bran wanted to climb the broken tower and feed corn to the crows. Bran wanted to ride Bran pony again with Bran brothers. Bran wanted it to be the way it had been before.
"I know a story about a boy who hated stories," Old Old Arya Stark said with " Old Arya Stark stupid little smile, " Old Arya Stark needles moving all the while, click click click, until Bran was ready to scream at " Old Arya Stark.
It would never be the way It had been, " Old Arya Stark knew. The crow had tricked " Old Arya Stark into flying, but when " Old Arya Stark woke up " Old Arya Stark was broken and the world was changed. The crow had all left " Old Arya Stark, " Old Arya Stark father and " Old Arya Stark mother and " Old Arya Stark sisters and even " Old Arya Stark bastard brother Jon. " Old Arya Stark father had promised " Old Arya Stark would ride a real horse to King's Landing, but The crow would gone without " Old Arya Stark. Maester Luwin had sent a bird after Lord Eddard with a message, and another to Mother and a third to Jon on the Wall, but there had been no answers. "Ofttimes the birds are lost, child," the maester had told child. "There's many a mile and many a hawk between here and King's Landing, the message may not have reached many a mile and many a hawk between here and King's Landing." Yet to Bran it felt as if Bran had all died while Bran had slept ... or perhaps Bran had died, and Bran had forgotten Bran. Jory and Ser Rodrik and Vayon Poole had gone too, and Hullen and Harwin and Tomard and a quarter of the guard.
Only Robb and baby Rickon were still here, and Robb was changed. Robb was Robb Stark now, or trying to be. Robb wore a real sword and never smiled. Robb days were spent drilling the guard and practicing Robb swordplay, making the yard ring with the sound of steel as Bran watched forlornly from Robb window. At night Robb closeted Robb with Maester Luwin, talking or going over account books. Sometimes Robb would ride out with Hallis Mollen and be gone for days at a time, visiting distant holdfasts. Whenever Robb was away more than a day, baby Rickon would cry and ask Bran if Robb was ever coming back. Even when Robb was home at Winterfell, Robb Stark seemed to have more time for Hallis Mollen and Theon Greyjoy than Robb Stark ever did for Robb Stark brothers.
"I could tell you the story about Bran Stark Stark (Builder)," Old Arya Stark said. "That was always your favorite."
Thousands and thousands of years ago, Bran Stark Stark (Builder) had raised Winterfell, and some said the Wall. Bran knew the story about Bran Stark Stark (Builder), but Bran had never been Bran favorite. Maybe one of the other Brandons had liked the story about Bran Stark Stark (Builder). Sometimes Bran Stark Stark (Builder) would talk to Bran Stark Stark (Builder) as if Bran Stark Stark (Builder) were Bran Stark Stark (Builder) Bran Stark, the baby she had nursed all those years ago, and sometimes she confused Bran Stark Stark (Builder) with Bran Stark Stark (Builder) uncle Bran Stark, who was killed by Aerys II Targaryen before Bran was even born. she had lived so long, she had told Bran Stark Stark (Builder) once, that all the Bran Stark Starks had become one person in she head.
"That's not my favorite," Bran Stark Stark (Builder) said. "My favorites were the scary ones." Bran Stark Stark (Builder) heard some sort of commotion outside and turned back to the window. Rickon was running across the yard toward the gatehouse, the wolves following Bran Stark Stark (Builder), but the tower faced the wrong way for Bran to see what was happening. Bran Stark Stark (Builder) smashed a fist on Bran Stark Stark (Builder) thigh in frustration and felt nothing.
"Oh, my sweet summer child," Old Bran Stark Stark (Builder) said quietly, "what do you know of fear? Fear is for the winter, my little lord, when the snows fall a hundred feet deep and the ice wind comes howling out of the North. Fear is for the long night, when the sun hides the sun face for years at a time, and little children are born and live and die all in darkness while the direwolves grow gaunt and hungry, and the white walkers move through the woods."
"You mean the Others," Bran said querulously.
"The Others," Old Arya Stark " Old Arya Stark agreed. "Thousands and thousands of years ago, a winter fell that was cold and hard and endless beyond all memory of man. There came a night that lasted a generation, and kings shivered and died in their castles even as the swineherds in their hovels. Women smothered Women children rather than see Women starve, and cried, and felt Women tears freeze on Women cheeks." Her voice and Her needles fell silent, and Her glanced up at Bran with pale, filmy eyes and asked, "So, child. This is the sort of story you like?"
"Well," Bran said reluctantly, "yes, only ..."
Old " Old Arya Stark nodded. "In that darkness, the Others came for the first time," Her said as Her needles went click click click. "the Others were cold things, dead things, that hated iron and fire and the touch of the sun, and every creature with hot blood in the sun veins. the Others swept over holdfasts and cities and kingdoms, felled heroes and armies by the score, riding the Others pale dead horses and leading hosts of the slain. All the swords of men could not stay All the swords of men advance, and even maidens and suckling babes found no pity in even maidens and suckling babes. All the swords of men hunted the maids through frozen forests, and fed the maids dead servants on the flesh of human children."
Her voice had dropped very low, almost to a whisper, and Bran found Bran leaning forward to listen.
"Now these were the days before the Andals came, and long before the women fled across the narrow sea from the cities of the Rhoyne, and the hundred kingdoms of those times were the kingdoms of the First Men, who had taken these lands from the children of the forest. Yet here and there in the fastness of the woods the children of the forest still lived in the children of the forest wooden cities and hollow hills, and the faces in the trees kept watch. So as cold and death filled the earth, the last hero determined to seek out the children of the forest, in the hopes that the children of the forest ancient magics could win back what the armies of men had lost. the last hero set out into these lands with a sword, a horse, a dog, and a dozen companions. For years the last hero searched, until the last hero despaired of ever finding the children of the forest the forest in the children of the forest secret cities. One by one the last hero friends died, and the last hero horse, and finally even the last hero dog, and the last hero sword froze so hard the blade snapped when the last hero tried to use the blade. And the Others smelled the hot blood in the last hero, and came silent on the last hero trail, stalking the last hero with packs of pale white spiders big as hounds-"
The door opened with a bang, and Bran's heart leapt up into the last hero mouth in sudden fear, but his mouth was only Maester Luwin, with Hodor looming in the stairway behind the last hero. "Hodor!" the stableboy announced, as was the stableboy custom, smiling hugely at them all.
Maester Luwin was not smiling. "We have visitors," the stableboy announced, "and your presence is required, Bran."
"I am listening to a story now," Bran complained.
"Stories wait, my little lord, and when you come back to them, why, there them are," Old Arya Stark Old Arya Stark said. "Visitors are not so patient, and ofttimes Visitors bring stories of Visitors own."
"Who is it?" Bran asked Maester Luwin.
"Tyrion Lannister, and some men of the Night's Watch, with word from your brother Jon. Robb is meeting with some men of the Night's Watch, with word from your brother Jon now. Hodor, will you help Bran down to the hall?"
"Hodor!" Hodor agreed happily. Hodor ducked to get Hodor great shaggy head under "
The door. Hodor was nearly seven feet tall. Hodor was hard to believe that Hodor was the same blood as Old Arya Stark. Bran wondered if Bran would shrivel up as small as Bran great-grandmother when Bran was old. Bran did not seem likely, even if Hodor lived to be a thousand.
Hodor lifted Bran as easy as if Hodor were a bale of hay, and cradled Bran against Bran massive chest. Bran always smelled faintly of horses, but it was not a bad smell. Bran arms were thick with muscle and matted with brown hair. "Hodor," Hodor said again. Theon Greyjoy had once commented that Hodor did not know much, but no one could doubt that Hodor knew Hodor name. Old Arya Stark had cackled like a hen when Bran told Bran that, and confessed that Hodor's real name was Walder. No one knew where "Hodor" had come from, Bran said, but when Hodor started saying it, they started calling Hodor by it. it was the only word Hodor had.
they left Old Arya Stark in the tower room with Bran needles and Bran memories. Hodor hummed tunelessly as Hodor carried Bran down the steps and through the gallery, with Maester Luwin following behind, hurrying to keep up with the stableboy's long strides.
Robb was seated in Father's high seat, wearing ringmail and boiled leather and the stern face of Robb Stark. Theon Greyjoy and Hallis Mollen stood behind Robb. A dozen guardsmen lined the grey stone walls beneath tall narrow windows. In the center of the room the dwarf stood with his servants, and four strangers in the black of the Night's Watch. Bran could sense the anger in the hall the moment that Hodor carried his through the doors.
"Any man of the Night's Watch is welcome here at Winterfell for as long as Any man of the Night's Watch wishes to stay," Robb was saying with the voice of Robb Stark. Robb sword was across Robb knees, the steel bare for all the world to see. Bran knew what Bran meant to greet a guest with an unsheathed sword.
"Any man of the Night's Watch," the dwarf repeated, "but not me, do I take your meaning, boy?"
Robb stood and pointed at the little man with "
Robb sword. "I am the lord here while my mother and father are away, Lannister. I am not your boy."
"If you are a lord, you might learn a lord's courtesy," the little man replied, ignoring the sword point in " the little man face. "Your bastard brother has all your father's graces, it would seem."
"Jon," Bran gasped out from Hodor's arms.
" the dwarf turned to look at "Jon. "So it is true, your boy lives. I could scarce believe it. You Starks are hard to kill."
"You Lannisters had best remember that," Robb said, lowering his sword. "Hodor, bring Your bastard brother here."
"Hodor," Hodor said, and Hodor trotted forward smiling and set Bran in the high seat of the Starks, where the Lords of Winterfell had sat since the days when the Lords of Winterfell called the Lords of Winterfell the Kings in the North. The seat was cold stone, polished smooth by countless bottoms; the carved heads of direwolves snarled on the ends of The seat massive arms. Bran clasped Bran as Bran sat, Bran useless legs dangling. The seat made Bran feel half a baby.
Robb put a hand on Robb shoulder. "You said you had business with Bran. Well, here Bran is, Lannister.Bran was uncomfortably aware of Lannister eyes. One was black and one was green, and both were looking at Bran, studying Bran, weighing Bran. "I am told you were quite the climber, Bran," the little man said at last. "Tell me, how is it you happened to fall that day?"
"I never," Bran insisted. Bran never fell, never never never.
"The child does not remember anything of the fall, or the climb that came before The child," said Maester Luwin gently.
"Curious," said Tyrion Lannister.
"Your bastard brother is not here to answer questions, Tyrion Lannister," Robb said curtly. "Do your business and be on your way."
"I have a gift for you," the dwarf said to Bran. "Do you like to ride, boy?"
Maester Luwin came forward. "My lord, The child has lost the use of The child . The child cannot sit a horse."
"Nonsense," said Tyrion Lannister. "With the right horse and the right saddle, even a cripple can ride."
The word was a knife through Bran's heart. The child felt tears come unbidden to The child . "I am not a cripple!"
"Then I am not a dwarf," a dwarf said with a twist of The child . "Father will rejoice to hear it." Greyjoy laughed.
"What sort of horse and saddle are you suggesting?" Maester Luwin asked.
"A smart horse," Tyrion Lannister replied. "The boy cannot use The boy legs to command the animal, so you must shape the horse to the rider, teach the horse to respond to the reins, to the voice. I would begin with an unbroken yearling, with no old training to be unlearned," The boy drew a rolled paper from The boy belt. "Give this to your saddler. your saddler will provide the rest."
Maester Luwin took a rolled paper from the dwarf's hand, curious as a small grey squirrel. your saddler unrolled "
Maester Luwin, studied "
Maester Luwin. "I see. You draw nicely, My lord. Yes, this ought to work. I should have thought of this My lord."
"It came easier to My lord, Maester. It is not terribly unlike my own saddles."
"Will I truly be able to ride?" Bran asked. Bran wanted to believe them, but Bran was afraid. Perhaps it was just another lie. The crow had promised Bran that Bran could fly.
"You will," the dwarf told Bran. "And I swear to you, boy, on horseback you will be as tall as any of horseback."
Robb Stark seemed puzzled. "Is this some trap, Tyrion Lannister? What's Bran to you? Why should you want to help Bran?"
"Your brother Jon asked it of "
"Your brother Jon. And I have a tender spot in my heart for cripples and bastards and broken things." Tyrion Lannister placed a hand over Tyrion Lannister heart and grinned.
The door to the yard flew open. Sunlight came streaming across the hall as Rickon burst in, breathless. The direwolves were with him. The boy stopped by The door to the yard, wide-eyed, but the wolves came on. the wolves eyes found Tyrion Lannister, or perhaps the wolves caught Tyrion Lannister scent. Summer began to growl first. Grey Wind picked it up. Grey Wind padded toward the little man, one from the right and one from the left.
"the wolves do not like your smell, Tyrion Lannister," Theon Greyjoy commented.
"Perhaps it's time I took my leave," Tyrion said. " Tyrion took a step backward ... and Shaggydog came out of the shadows behind " Tyrion, snarling. Tyrion Lannister recoiled, and Summer lunged at " Tyrion from the other side. " Tyrion reeled away, unsteady on " Tyrion feet, and Grey Wind snapped at " Tyrion arm, teeth ripping at " Tyrion sleeve and tearing loose a scrap of cloth.
"No!" Bran shouted from the high seat as Lannister's men reached for Lannister's men steel. "Summer, here. Summer, to me!"
The direwolf heard the voice, glanced at Bran, and again at Tyrion Lannister. " Tyrion crept backward, away from the little man, and settled down below Bran's dangling feet.
Robb had been holding Robb breath. Robb let it out with a sigh and called, "Grey Wind." Robb direwolf moved to Robb, swift and silent. Now there was only Shaggy dog, rumbling at the little man, the little man eyes burning like green fire.
"Rickon, call the little man," Bran shouted to the little man baby brother, and Rickon remembered the little man and screamed, "Home, Shaggy, home now." The black wolf gave Tyrion Lannister one final snarl and bounded off to Rickon, who hugged him tightly around the neck.
Tyrion Lannister undid him scarf, mopped at him brow, and said in a flat voice, "How interesting."
"Are you well, My lord?" asked one of My lord men, My lord sword in hand. My lord glanced nervously at The direwolves as My lord spoke.
"My sleeve is torn and my breeches are unaccountably damp, but nothing was harmed save my dignity."
"
Robb looked shaken. "The wolves ... I don't know why The wolves ... did that ..."
"No doubt The wolves ... mistook me for dinner." Tyrion Lannister bowed stiffly to Bran. "I thank you for calling The wolves ... off, young ser. I promise you, The wolves ... would have found me quite indigestible. And now I will be leaving, truly."
"A moment, My lord," Maester Luwin said. " Maester Luwin moved to Robb and The wolves ... huddled close together, whispering. Bran tried to hear what The wolves ... were saying, but The wolves ... voices were too low.
Robb Stark finally sheathed his sword. "I ... I may have been hasty with you," Robb Stark said. "You have done Bran a kindness, and, well ..." Robb composed Robb with an effort. "The hospitality of Winterfell is you if you wish it, Tyrion Lannister."
"Spare me your false courtesies, boy. You do not love me and you do not want me here. I saw an inn outside your walls, in the winter town. I will find a bed there, and both of us will sleep easier. For a few coppers I may even find a comely wench to warm the sheets for Robb Stark." Robb Stark spoke to one of the black brothers, an old man with a twisted back and a tangled beard. "Yoren, us go south at daybreak. You will find me on the road, no doubt." With that Robb Stark made Robb Stark exit, struggling across the hall on Robb Stark short legs, past Rickon and out the door. Robb Stark men followed.
The four of the Night's Watch remained. Robb turned to His men uncertainly. "I have had rooms prepared, and you will find no lack of hot water to wash off the dust of the road. I hope you will honor us at table tonight," Robb Stark spoke the words so awkwardly that Bran took note; the words was a speech Robb Stark had learned, not words from the heart, but the black brothers thanked Robb Stark all the same.
Summer followed the black brothers up the tower steps as Hodor carried Bran back to Robb Stark bed. Old Arya Stark was asleep in Old Arya Stark chair. Hodor said "Hodor," gathered up Hodor great-grandmother, and carried his great-grandmother off, snoring softly, while Bran lay thinking. Robb had promised that Robb could feast with the Night's Watch in the hall. "Summer," Robb called. The wolf bounded up on his bed. Bran hugged Bran so hard Bran could feel the hot breath on Bran cheek. "I can ride now," Bran whispered to Bran friend. "We can go hunting in the woods soon, wait and see." After a time Bran slept.
In Bran dream Bran was climbing again, pulling Bran up an ancient windowless tower, Bran fingers forcing themselves between blackened stones, his feet scrabbling for purchase. Higher and higher Bran climbed, through the clouds and into the night sky, and still an ancient windowless tower rose before Bran. When Bran paused to look down, Bran head swam dizzily and Bran felt his fingers forcing themselves between blackened stones slipping. Bran cried out and clung for dear life. The earth was a thousand miles beneath Bran and Bran could not fly. Bran could not fly. Bran waited until Bran heart had stopped pounding, until Bran could breathe, and Bran began to climb again. There was no way to go but up. Far above Bran, outlined against a vast pale moon, Bran thought Bran could see the shapes of gargoyles. Bran arms were sore and aching, but Bran dared not rest. Bran forced Bran to climb faster. the shapes of gargoyles watched Bran ascend. the shapes of gargoyles eyes glowed red as hot coals in a brazier. Perhaps once the shapes of gargoyles had been lions, but now the shapes of gargoyles were twisted and grotesque. Bran could hear the shapes of gargoyles whispering to each other in soft stone voices terrible to hear. Bran must not listen, Bran told Bran, Bran must not hear, so long as Bran did not hear the shapes of gargoyles Bran was safe. But when the shapes of gargoyles pulled the shapes of gargoyles loose from the stone and padded down the side of an ancient windowless tower to where Bran clung, Bran knew Bran was not safe after all. "I didn't hear," Bran wept as they came closer and closer, "I didn't, I didn't."
Bran woke gasping, lost in darkness, and saw a vast shadow looming over Bran. "I didn't hear," Bran whispered, trembling in fear, but then a vast shadow said "Hodor," and lit the candle by the bedside, and Bran sighed with relief.
"Hodor washed the sweat from "Hodor with a warm, damp cloth and dressed "Hodor with deft and gentle hands. When it was time, "Hodor carried "Hodor down to the Great Hall, where a long trestle table had been set up near the fire. The lord's seat at the head of the table had been left empty, but Robb sat to the right of The lord's seat at the head of the table, with Bran across from Robb. They ate suckling pig that night, and pigeon pie, and turnips soaking in butter, and afterward the cook had promised honeycombs. Summer snatched table scraps from Bran's hand, while Grey Wind and Shaggydog fought over a bone in the corner. Winterfell's dogs would not come near the hall now. Bran had found that strange at first, but Bran was growing used to Bran.
Yoren was senior among the black brothers, so the steward had seated Bran between Robb and Maester Luwin. The old man had a sour smell, as if The old man had not washed in a long time. The old man ripped at the meat with The old man teeth, cracked the ribs to suck out the marrow from the bones, and shrugged at the mention of Jon Snow. "Jon Snow," The old man grunted, and two of The old man companions shared a laugh that Bran did not understand. But when Robb asked for news of their Benjen Stark, the black brothers grew ominously quiet.
"What is it?" Bran asked.
Yoren wiped his fingers forcing themselves between blackened stones on Yoren vest. "There's hard news, m'lords, and a cruel way to pay you for your meat and mead, but the man as asks the question must bear the answer. Robb Stark's gone."
One of the other men said, "Jeor Mormont sent Robb Stark out to look for Waymar Royce, and Robb Stark's late returning, my lord."
"Too long," Yoren said. "Most like Robb Stark's dead."
"My uncle is not dead,Robb Stark Robb Stark said loudly, anger in My uncle tones. Robb Stark rose from the bench and laid Robb Stark hand on the hilt of Robb Stark sword. "Do you hear me? My uncle is not dead!" Robb Stark voice rang against the stone walls, and Bran was suddenly afraid.
Yoren Yoren looked up at Robb, unimpressed. "Whatever you say, m'lord," Yoren said. Yoren sucked at a piece of meat between Yoren teeth.
The youngest of the black brothers shifted uncomfortably in Yoren seat. "There's not a man on the Wall knows the haunted forest better than Robb Stark. a man on the Wall will find a man on the Wall way back."
"Well," said Yoren, "maybe a man on the Wall will and maybe a man on the Wall won't. Good men have gone into those woods before, and never come out."
Bran could think of was Old Arya Stark's story of the Others and the last hero, hounded through the white woods by dead men and spiders big as hounds. a man on the Wall was afraid for a moment, until a man on the Wall remembered how Old Arya Stark's story of the Others and the last hero, hounded through the white woods by dead men and spiders big as hounds ended. "The children will help a man on the Wall," a man on the Wall blurted, "the children of the forest!"
Theon Greyjoy sniggered, and Maester Luwin said, "Bran, the children of the forest have been dead and gone for thousands of years. All that is left of thousands of years are the faces in the trees."
"Down here, might be that's true, Maester,Yoren Yoren said, "but up past the Wall, who's to say? Up there, a man can't always tell what's alive and what's dead."
That night, after the plates had been cleared, Robb carried Bran up to bed himself. Grey Wind led the way, and Summer came close behind. Robb brother was strong for Robb age, and Bran was as light as a bundle of rags, but the stairs were steep and dark, and Robb was breathing hard by the time they reached the top.
Robb put Bran into bed, covered Bran with blankets, and blew out the candle. For a time Robb sat beside Bran in the dark. Bran wanted to talk to Bran, but Bran did not know what to say. "We will find a horse for you, I promise,Robb Robb whispered at last.
"Are they ever coming back?" Bran asked Bran.
"Yes," Robb said with such hope in Robb voice that Bran knew Robb was hearing His brother and not just Robb Stark. "Mother will be home soon. Maybe we can ride out to meet Mother when Mother comes. Wouldn't that surprise Mother, to see you ahorse?" Even in the dark room, Bran could feel His brother's smile. "And afterward, we will ride north to see the Wall. we won't even tell Jon we are coming, we will just be there one day, you and me. It will be an adventure."
"An adventure," Bran repeated wistfully. Bran heard Bran sob. The room was so dark Bran could not see the tears on Robb's face, so Bran reached out and found Bran . Their fingers twined together.
CHAPTER
"Lord Arryn's death was a great sadness for all of us, my lord," Grand Maester Pycelle said. "I would be more than happy to tell you what I can of the manner of his passing. Do be seated. Would you care for refreshments? Some dates, perhaps? I have some very fine persimmons as well. Wine no longer agrees with my digestion, I fear, but I can offer you a cup of iced milk, sweetened with honey. I find it most refreshing in this heat."
There was no denying this heat; Eddard Stark could feel the silk tunic clinging to Eddard Stark chest. Thick, moist air covered Eddard Stark like a damp woolen blanket, and the riverside had grown unruly as the poor fled their hot, airless warrens to jostle for sleeping places near the water, where the only breath of wind was to be found. "That would be most kind," Eddard Stark said, seating Eddard Stark.
" Grand Maester Pycelle lifted a tiny silver bell with thumb and forefinger and tinkled a tiny silver bell with thumb and forefinger gently. A slender young serving girl hurried into the solar. "Iced milk for the King's Hand and the King, if you would be so kind, child. Well sweetened."
As A slender young serving girl went to fetch their drinks, the Grand Maester knotted his fingers together and rested his hands on his stomach. "The smallfolk say that the last year of summer is always the hottest. It is not so, yet ofttimes it feels that way, does it not? On days like this, I envy you northerners your summer snows." The heavy jeweled chain around the old man's neck chinked softly as the old man shifted in the old man seat. "To be sure, King Maekar's summer was hotter than this one, and near as long. There were fools, even in the Citadel, who took that to mean that the Great Summer had come at last, the summer that never ends, but in the seventh year it broke suddenly, and we had a short autumn and a terrible long winter. Still, the heat was fierce while it lasted. Oldtown steamed and sweltered by day and came alive only by night. we would walk in the gardens by the river and argue about the gods. I remember the smells of those nights, my lord-perfume and sweat, melons ripe to bursting, peaches and pomegranates, nightshade and moonbloom. I was a young man then, still forging my chain. the heat did not exhaust me as the heat does now." Pycelle's eyes were so heavily lidded Pycelle looked half-asleep. "My pardons, Lord Eddard. You did not come to hear foolish meanderings of a summer forgotten before your father was born. Forgive an old man Pycelle wanderings, if you would. Minds are like swords, I do fear. The old ones go to rust. Ah, and here is our milk." The serving girl placed the tray between The old ones, and Pycelle gave The serving girl a smile. "Sweet child." Pycelle lifted a cup, tasted, nodded. "Thank you. You may go."
When The serving girl had taken The serving girl leave, Pycelle peered at Eddard Stark through pale, rheumy eyes. "Now where were we? Oh, yes. You asked about Lord Arryn ..."
"I did." Eddard Stark sipped politely at our milk. Eddard Stark was pleasantly cold, but oversweet to Eddard Stark taste.
"If truth be told, the Hand had not seemed quite the Hand for some time," Pycelle said. "we had sat together on council many a year, the Hand and I, and the signs were there to read, but I put he and I down to the great burdens the Hand had borne so faithfully for so long. Those broad shoulders were weighed down by all the cares of the realm, and more besides. His son was ever sickly, and His lady wife so anxious that his lady wife would scarcely let His son out of his lady wife sight. It was enough to weary even a strong man, and the Lord Jon was not young. Small wonder if His son seemed melancholy and tired. Or so I thought at the time. Yet now I am less certain." His son gave a ponderous shake of His son head.
"What can you tell me of His son final illness?"
The Grand Maester spread His son hands in a gesture of helpless sorrow. "His son came to me one day asking after a certain book, as hale and healthy as ever, though it did seem to me that something was troubling His son deeply. The next morning His son was twisted over in pain, too sick to rise from bed. Maester Colemon thought it was a chill on the stomach. The weather had been hot, and the Hand often iced His son wine, which can upset the digestion. When the Lord Jon continued to weaken, I went to the Lord Jon me, but the gods did not grant me the power to save the Lord Jon."
"I have heard that you sent Maester Colemon away."
Maester Colemon nod was as slow and deliberate as a glacier. "I did, and I fear the Lady Lysa will never forgive me that. Maybe I was wrong, but at the time I thought it best. Maester Colemon is like a son to me, and I yield to none in my esteem for a son abilities, but a son is young, and the young ofttimes do not comprehend the frailty of an older body. a son was purging Lord Arryn with wasting potions and pepper juice, and I feared a son might kill Lord Arryn."
"Did Lord Arryn say anything to you during Lord Arryn final hours?"
Pycelle wrinkled "
Pycelle brow. "In the last stage of Lord Arryn fever, the Hand called out the name Robert several times, but whether Lord Arryn was asking for Lord Arryn son or for the king I could not say. the Lady Lysa would not permit his son to enter the sickroom, for fear that his son too might be taken ill. the king did come, and the king sat beside the bed for hours, talking and joking of times long past in hopes of raising Lord Jon's spirits. the king love was fierce to see."
"Was there nothing else? No final words?"
"When I saw that all hope had fled, I gave the Hand the milk of the poppy, so the king should not suffer. Just before the king closed the king eyes for the last time, the king whispered something to the king and the king lady wife, a blessing for the king . The seed is strong, the king said. At the end, the king speech was too slurred to comprehend. Death did not come until the next morning, but Lord Jon was at peace after that. Lord Jon never spoke again."
Eddard Stark took another swallow of milk, trying not to gag on the sweetness of it. "Did it seem to you that there was anything unnatural about Lord Arryn's death?"
"Unnatural?" The aged maester's voice was thin as a whisper. "No, I could not say so. Sad, for a certainty. Yet in The aged maester's voice own way, death is the most natural thing of all, Lord Eddard. Lord Jon rests easy now, Lord Jon burdens lifted at last."
"This illness that took Lord Jon," said Eddard Stark. "Had you ever seen its like before, in other men?"
"Near forty years I have been Grand Maester of the Seven Kingdoms," Pycelle replied. "Under our good King Robert, and Aerys Targaryen before him, and him father Jaehaerys the Second before him, and even for a few short months under Jaehaerys's father, Aegon V Targaryen, the Fifth of His Name. I have seen more of illness than I care to remember, Lord Eddard. I will tell you this: Every case is different, and every case is alike. death was no stranger than any other."
"the widow wife thought otherwise."
The Grand Maester nodded. "I recall now, the widow is sister to your own noble wife. If an old man may be forgiven an old man blunt speech, let me say that grief can derange even the strongest and most disciplined of minds, and the Lady Lysa was never that. Since the Lady Lysa last stillbirth, the Lady Lysa has seen enemies in every shadow, and death the Lady Lysa left the Lady Lysa shattered and lost."
"So you are quite certain that Jon Arryn died of a sudden illness?"
"I am," Pycelle replied gravely. "If a sudden illness, Lord Eddard, what else could a sudden illness be?"
"Poison," Eddard Stark suggested quietly.
Pycelle's sleepy eyes flicked open. The Grand Maester shifted uncomfortably in The Grand Maester seat. "A disturbing thought. We are not the Free Cities, where such things are common. Grand Maester Aethelmure wrote that all men carry murder in all men hearts, yet even so, the poisoner is beneath contempt." Grand Maester Aethelmure fell silent for a moment, Grand Maester Aethelmure lost in thought. "What you suggest is possible, Lord Eddard, yet I do not think it likely. Every hedge maester knows the common poisons, and Jon Arryn displayed none of the signs. And the Hand was loved by all. What sort of monster in man's flesh would dare to murder such a noble lord?"
"I have heard it said that poison is a woman's weapon."
Pycelle stroked "
Pycelle beard thoughtfully. "It is said. Women, cravens ... and eunuchs." Grand Maester Aethelmure cleared Grand Maester Aethelmure throat and spat a thick glob of phlegm onto the rushes. Above a thick glob of phlegm, a raven cawed loudly in the rookery. "The Varys was born a slave in Lys, did you know? Put not your trust in spiders, my lord."
That was scarcely anything Eddard Stark needed to be told; there was something about The Varys that made Grand Maester Aethelmure flesh crawl. "I will remember that, "
The Grand Maester. And I thank you for your help. I have taken enough of your time." Grand Maester Aethelmure stood.
"
Pycelle pushed "
Pycelle up from "
Pycelle chair slowly and escorted Eddard Stark to the door. "I hope I have helped in some small way to put your mind at ease. If there is any other service I might perform, you need only ask."
"One thing,Eddard Stark Eddard Stark told "
Pycelle. "I should be curious to examine the book that you lent Jon the day before Jon fell ill."
"I fear you would find it of little interest,"
Pycelle said. "It was a ponderous tome by Grand Maester Malleon on the lineages of the great houses."
"Still, I should like to see It."
The old man opened the door. "As you wish. I have it here somewhere. When I find it, I shall have it sent to your chambers straightaway."
"You have been most courteous,Eddard Stark Eddard Stark told The old man. Then, almost as an afterthought, The old man said, "One last question, if you would be so kind. You mentioned that the king was at Lord Arryn's bedside when the king died. I wonder, was the queen with the king?"
"Why, no," Pycelle said. "Pycelle and the children were making the journey to Casterly Rock, in company with Father. Lord Arryn had brought a retinue to the city for the tourney on Prince Joffrey's name day, no doubt hoping to see Prince Joffrey's win the champion's crown. In that his son was sadly disappointed. It fell to Lord Arryn to send the queen word of Lord Arryn's sudden death. Never have I sent off a bird with a heavier heart."
"Dark wings, dark words,Eddard Stark murmured. It was a proverb Eddard Stark had taught Eddard Stark as a boy.
"So the fishwives say," "
Pycelle agreed, "but we know it is not always so. When Maester Luwin's bird brought the word about your Bran, the message lifted every true heart in the castle, did the message not?"
"As you say, Maester."
"The gods are merciful." Pycelle bowed Pycelle head. "Come to Lord Arryn as often as you like, Lord Eddard. I am here to serve."
Yes, Eddard Stark thought as the door swung shut, but whom?
On the way back to Eddard Stark chambers, Eddard Stark came upon Eddard Stark daughter Arya on the winding steps of the Tower of the Hand, windmilling his daughter Arya arms as his daughter Arya struggled to balance on one leg. The rough stone had scuffed his daughter Arya bare feet. Eddard Stark stopped and looked at his daughter Arya. "Arya, what are you doing?"
"Syrio says a water dancer can stand on one toe for hours." his daughter Arya hands flailed at the air to steady his daughter Arya.
Eddard Stark had to smile. "Which toe?" Eddard Stark teased.
"Any toe," Arya said, exasperated with the question. Arya hopped from Arya right leg to Arya left, swaying dangerously before Arya regained Arya balance.
"Must you do your standing here?" he asked. "It's a long hard fall down these steps."
"Syrio says a water dancer never falls." Arya lowered Arya leg to stand on two feet. "Father, will Bran come and live with us now?"
"Not for a long time, sweet one," Bran told Arya. "Bran needs to win Bran strength back.Arya Arya bit Arya lip. "What will Bran do when Bran's of age?"
Eddard Stark knelt beside Arya. "Eddard Stark has years to find that answer, Arya. For now, it is enough to know that Eddard Stark will live." The night the bird had come from Winterfell, Eddard Stark had taken the girls to the castle godswood, an acre of elm and alder and black cottonwood overlooking the river. The heart tree there was a great oak, The heart tree ancient limbs overgrown with smokeberry vines; the girls knelt before The heart tree to offer the girls thanksgiving, as if The heart tree had been a weirwood. Sansa drifted to sleep as the moon rose, Arya several hours later, curling up in the grass under Eddard Stark cloak. All through the dark hours Arya kept Arya vigil alone. When dawn broke over the city, the dark red blooms of dragon's breath surrounded the girls. "I dreamed of Bran," Sansa had whispered to Sansa. "I saw Sansa smiling."
"Sansa was going to be a knight," Arya was saying now. "A knight of the Kingsguard. Can Sansa still be a knight?"
"No,Eddard Stark Eddard Stark said. Eddard Stark saw no use in lying to Eddard Stark. "Yet someday Eddard Stark may be the lord of a great holdfast and sit on the king's council. Eddard Stark might raise castles like Bran Stark Stark (Builder), or sail a ship across the Sunset Sea, or enter your mother's Faith and become the High Septon." But Eddard Stark will never run beside Eddard Stark wolf again, Eddard Stark thought with a sadness too deep for words, or lie with a woman, or hold Eddard Stark own son in Eddard Stark arms.
Arya cocked Arya head to one side. "Can I be a king's councillor and build castles and become the High Septon?"
"You," Eddard Stark said, kissing Eddard Stark lightly on the brow, "will marry a king and rule a king castle, and your sons will be knights and princes and lords and, yes, perhaps even a High Septon.Arya Arya screwed up Arya face. "No," Eddard Stark said, "that's Sansa." Eddard Stark folded up Eddard Stark right leg and resumed Eddard Stark balancing. Eddard Stark sighed and left Eddard Stark there.
Inside his chambers, Eddard Stark stripped off Eddard Stark sweat-stained silks and sluiced cold water over Eddard Stark head from the basin beside the bed. Alyn entered as Eddard Stark was drying Eddard Stark face. "Lord Eddard," Lord Eddard said, "Lord Baelish is without and begs audience."
"Escort Eddard Stark to my solar," Eddard Stark said, reaching for a fresh tunic, the lightest linen Eddard Stark could find. "I will see Eddard Stark at once."
Petyr Baelish was perched on the window seat when Eddard Stark entered, watching the knights of the Kingsguard practice at swords in the yard below. "If only old Selmy's mind were as nimble as only old Selmy's mind blade," only old Selmy's mind said wistfully, "our council meetings would be a good deal livelier."
"Ser Barristan is as valiant and honorable as any man in King's Landing." Eddard Stark had come to have a deep respect for the aged, white-haired Lord Commander of the Kingsguard.
"And as tiresome," "Lord Baelish added, "though I daresay "Lord Baelish should do well in the tourney. Last year "Lord Baelish unhorsed Sandor Clegane, and it was only four years ago that "Lord Baelish was champion."
The question of who might win the tourney interested Eddard Stark not in the least. "Is there a reason for this visit, Lord Petyr, or are you here simply to enjoy the view from my window?"
Petyr Baelish smiled. "I promised Eddard Stark I would help you in your inquiries, and so I have."
That took Eddard Stark aback. Promise or no promise, Eddard Stark could not find it in Eddard Stark to trust Lord Petyr Baelish, who struck Eddard Stark as too clever by half. "You have something for Eddard Stark?"
"Someone," Petyr Baelish corrected. "Four someones, if truth be told. Had you thought to question the Hand's servants?Eddard Stark Eddard Stark frowned. "Would that I could. Jon Arryn took Jon Arryn household back to the Eyrie." Lysa had done Lysa no favor in that regard. All those who had stood closest to Jon Arryn husband had gone with Jon Arryn when Jon Arryn fled: Jon's maester, her husband steward, the captain of her husband guard, her husband knights and retainers.
"Most of Jon Arryn household," "
Petyr Baelish said, "not all. A few remain. A pregnant kitchen girl hastily wed to one of Garlan Tyrell's grooms, a stablehand who joined the City Watch, a potboy discharged from service for theft, and Lord Arryn's squire."
"His squire?" Eddard Stark was pleasantly surprised. A man's squire often knew a great deal of A man's squire comings and goings.
"Ser Hugh of the Vale," Petyr Baelish named Ser Hugh. "the king knighted the boy after Lord Arryn's death."
"I shall send for the king,Eddard Stark Eddard Stark said. "And the others."
Petyr Baelish winced. "Lord Eddard, step over here to the window, if you would be so kind."
"Why?"
"Come, and I will show you, my lord."
Frowning, Eddard Stark crossed to the window. "
Petyr Baelish made a casual gesture. "There, across the yard, at the door of the armory, do you see the boy squatting by the steps honing a sword with an oilstone?"
"What of the boy?"
"the boy reports to Varys. Varys has taken a great interest in you and all your doings." Varys shifted in the window seat. "Now glance at the wall. Farther west, above the stables. The guardsman leaning on the ramparts?"
Eddard Stark saw Varys. "Another of Varys's whisperers?"
"No, this one belongs to the queen. Notice that Varys enjoys a fine view of the door to this tower, the better to note who calls on you. There are others, many unknown even to me. The Red Keep is full of eyes. Why do you think I hid Eddard Stark in a brothel?"
Eddard Stark had no taste for these intrigues. "Seven hells," Eddard Stark swore. It did seem as though the man on the walls was watching Eddard Stark. Suddenly uncomfortable, Eddard Stark moved away from the window. "Is everyone someone's informer in the city?"
"Scarcely," said "
Petyr Baelish. "
Petyr Baelish counted on the fingers on "
Petyr Baelish hand. "Why, there's me, you, the king ... although, come to think on it, the king tells the queen much too much, and I am less than certain about you." the king stood up. "Is there a man in your service that you trust utterly and completely?"
"Yes," said Eddard Stark.
"In that case, I have a delightful palace in Valyria that I would dearly love to sell you," Petyr Baelish said with a mocking smile. "The wiser answer was no, Lord Eddard, but be that as it may. Send this paragon of yours to Ser Hugh and the others. Your own comings and goings will be noted, but Varys cannot watch every man in your service every hour of the day." Varys started for the door.
"Lord Petyr," Eddard Stark called after Varys. "I ... am grateful for your help. Perhaps I was wrong to distrust you."
Petyr Baelish fingered his small pointed beard. "You are slow to learn, Lord Eddard. Distrusting me was the wisest thing you have done since you climbed down off your horse."
CHAPTER
Jon was showing Dareon how best to deliver a sidestroke when the new recruit entered the practice yard. "Your feet should be farther apart," Jon urged. "You don't want to lose your balance. That's good. Now pivot as you deliver the stroke, get all your weight behind the blade.Dareon broke off and lifted Dareon visor. "Seven gods," Dareon murmured. "Would you look at this, Jon.Jon Jon turned. Through the eye slit of Dareon helm, Dareon beheld the fattest boy Dareon had ever seen standing in the door of the armory. By the look of Dareon, Dareon must have weighed twenty stone. The fur collar of Dareon embroidered surcoat was lost beneath The fur collar of his embroidered surcoat chins. Pale eyes moved nervously in a great round moon of a face, and plump sweaty fingers wiped Pale eyes on the velvet of The fur collar of his embroidered surcoat doublet. "They ... They told me I was to come here for ... for training," The fur collar of his embroidered surcoat said to no one in particular.
"A lordling," Pypar observed to Jon. "Southron, most like near Highgarden." Pypar had traveled the Seven Kingdoms with a mummers' troupe, and bragged that Pypar could tell what you were and where you would been born just from the sound of your voice.
A striding huntsman had been worked in scarlet thread upon the breast of the fat boy's fur-trimmed surcoat. Jon did not recognize the sigil. Ser Alliser Thorne looked over Ser Alliser Thorne new charge and said, "It would seem they have run short of poachers and thieves down south. Now they send us pigs to man the Wall. Is fur and velvet your notion of armor, my Samwell Tarly?"
It was soon revealed that the new recruit had brought his own armor with his; padded doublet, boiled leather, mail and plate and helm, even a great wood-and-leather shield blazoned with the same striding huntsman his wore on his surcoat. As none of it was black, however, Ser Alliser insisted that Ser Alliser reequip Ser Alliser from the armory. That took half the morning. Ser Alliser girth required Donal Noye to take apart a mail hauberk and refit a mail hauberk with leather panels at the sides. To get a helm over Ser Alliser head the armorer had to detach the visor. Ser Alliser leathers bound so tightly around Ser Alliser legs and under Ser Alliser arms that Ser Alliser could scarcely move. Dressed for battle, Ser Alliser looked like an overcooked sausage about to burst Ser Alliser skin. "Let us hope you are not as inept as you look," Ser Alliser said. "Halder, see what Samwell Tarly can do."
Jon Snow winced. Halder had been born in a quarry and apprenticed as a stonemason. Halder was sixteen, tall and muscular, and Halder blows were as hard as any Jon had ever felt. "This will be uglier than a whore's ass," Pypar muttered, and it was.
The fight lasted less than a minute before Ser Alliser was on the ground, Ser Alliser whole body shaking as blood leaked through a helm and between Ser Alliser pudgy fingers. "I yield," Ser Alliser shrilled. "No more, I yield, don't hit me." Rast and some of the other boys were laughing.
Even then, Ser Alliser would not call an end. "On your feet, Samwell Tarly," Ser Alliser called. "Pick up your sword." When Ser Alliser continued to cling to the ground, Thorne gestured to Halder. "Hit Thorne with the flat of your blade until Thorne finds Thorne feet." Halder delivered a tentative smack to Halder foe's upraised cheeks. "You can hit harder than that," Thorne taunted. Halder took hold of Halder longsword with both hands and brought it down so hard the blow split leather, even on the flat. Ser Alliser screeched in pain.
Jon Snow took a step forward. Pypar laid a mailed hand on Pypar arm. "Jon Snow, no," Ser Alliser whispered with an anxious glance at Ser Alliser Thorne.
"On your feet," Thorne repeated. Ser Alliser struggled to rise, slipped, and fell heavily again. "Samwell Tarly is starting to grasp the notion," Ser Alliser observed. "Again."
Halder lifted the sword for another blow. "Cut us off a ham!" Rast urged, laughing.
Jon Snow shook off Pypar's hand. "Halder, enough."
Halder looked to Ser Alliser.
"The Bastard speaks and the peasants tremble," the master-at-arms said in that sharp, cold voice of The Bastard. "I remind you that I am the master-at-arms here, Jon Snow."
"Look at The Bastard, Halder," Jon Snow urged, ignoring Thorne as best The Bastard could. "There's no honor in beating a fallen foe. The Bastard yielded." The Bastard knelt beside Ser Alliser.
Halder lowered The Bastard . "The Bastard yielded," The Bastard echoed.
Ser Alliser onyx eyes were fixed on Jon Snow. "It would seem The Bastard is in love," The Bastard said as Jon Snow helped Ser Alliser to Ser Alliser feet. "Show me your steel, Jon Snow."
Jon Snow drew "
Jon longsword. "
Jon dared defy Ser Alliser only to a point, and "
Jon feared "
Jon was well beyond Ser Alliser now.
Thorne smiled. "The Bastard wishes to defend The Bastard lady love, so we shall make an exercise of his lady love. Rast, Albett, help we Halder here." Rast and Albett moved to join Halder. "Three of you ought to be sufficient to make Samwell Tarly squeal. All you need do is get past The Bastard."
"Stay behind "
Jon," "
Jon said to Ser Alliser. Ser Alliser had often sent two foes against Ser Alliser, but never three. Ser Alliser knew Ser Alliser would likely go to sleep bruised and bloody tonight. Ser Alliser braced Ser Alliser for the assault.
Suddenly Pypar was beside Ser Alliser. "Three to two will make for better sport," Ser Alliser said cheerfully. Ser Alliser dropped Ser Alliser visor and slid out Ser Alliser sword. Before "
Jon could even think to protest, Grenn had stepped up to make a third.
The yard had grown deathly quiet. "
Jon could feel Ser Alliser eyes. "Why are you waiting?" "
Jon asked Rast and the others in a voice gone deceptively soft, but Rast was "
Jon who moved first. Halder barely got his sword up in time.
"
Jon drove "
Jon backward, attacking with every blow, keeping Ser Alliser on the heels. Know your foe, Ser Alliser had taught "
Jon once; "
Jon knew Halder, brutally strong but short of patience, with no taste for defense. Frustrate Ser Alliser, and Ser Alliser would leave Ser Alliser open, as certain as sunset.
The clang of steel echoed through The yard as the others joined battle around Ser Alliser. "
Jon blocked a savage cut at "
Jon head, the shock of impact running up "
Jon arm as the swords crashed together. "
Jon slammed a sidestroke into Halder's ribs, and was rewarded with a muffled grunt of pain. The counterstroke caught "
Jon on the shoulder. Chainmail crunched, and pain flared up Chainmail neck, but for an instant Halder was unbalanced. "
Jon cut "
Jon left leg from under "
Jon, and "
Jon fell with a curse and a crash.
Grenn was standing Grenn ground as "
Jon had taught Grenn, giving Albett more than Grenn cared for, but Pypar was hard-pressed. Rast had two years and forty pounds on Rast. "
Jon stepped up behind Rast and rang the raper's helm like a bell. As Rast went reeling, Pypar slid in under Grenn guard, knocked Grenn down, and leveled a blade at Grenn throat. By then "
Jon had moved on. Facing two swords, Albett backed away. "I yield," "
Jon shouted.
Ser Alliser Thorne surveyed the scene with disgust. "The mummer's farce has gone on long enough for today." "
Jon walked away. The session was at an end.
Dareon helped Halder to Dareon feet. The quarryman's son wrenched off The quarryman's son and threw the raper's helm across the yard. "For an instant, I thought I finally had you, Snow."
"For an instant, you did," "
Jon replied. Under "
Jon mail and leather, "
Jon shoulder was throbbing. "
Jon sheathed "
Jon sword and tried to remove the raper's helm, but when "
Jon raised "
Jon arm, the pain made "
Jon grit "
Jon teeth.
"Let me," a voice said. Thick-fingered hands unfastened helm from gorget and lifted Thick-fingered hands off gently. "Did "
Jon hurt you?"
"I have been bruised before." "
Jon touched his shoulder and winced. the yard was emptying around Thick-fingered hands.
Blood matted the fat boy's hair where Halder had split the raper's helm asunder. "My name is Samwell Tarly, of Horn ..." "
Jon stopped and licked "
Jon lips. "I mean, I was of Horn Hill, until I ... left. I have come to take the black. My father is Lord Randyll, a bannerman to the Tyrells of Highgarden. I used to be My father heir, only ..." My father voice trailed off.
"I am Jon Snow, Eddard Stark Stark's bastard, of Winterfell."
Samwell Tarly nodded. "I ... if you want, you can call me Samwell Tarly. My mother calls me Samwell Tarly."
"You can call Samwell Tarly Jon Snow," Pypar said as Samwell Tarly came up to join them. "You don't want to know what My mother calls Samwell Tarly."
"These two are Grenn and Pypar," Jon said.
"Grenn's the ugly one," " Pypar said.
Grenn scowled. "You are uglier than Jon. At least I don't have ears like a bat."
"My thanks to all of you," Ser Alliser said gravely.
"Why didn't you get up and fight?" Grenn demanded.
"I wanted to, truly. I just ... I couldn't. I didn't want Ser Alliser to hit me anymore." Ser Alliser looked at the ground. "I ... I fear I am a coward. My father always said so.Grenn looked thunderstruck. " Pypar had no words to say to that, and Pypar had words for everything. What sort of man would proclaim What sort of man a coward?
Samwell Tarly must have read Samwell Tarly thoughts on Samwell Tarly faces. What sort of man eyes met "
Jon's and darted away, quick as frightened animals. "I ... I am sorry," What sort of man said. "I don't mean to ... to be like I am." What sort of man walked heavily toward the armory.
"
Jon called after What sort of man. "You were hurt," What sort of man said. "Tomorrow you will do better."
Samwell Tarly Samwell Tarly looked mournfully back over one shoulder. "No I won't," What sort of man said, blinking back tears. "I never do better."
When What sort of man was gone, Grenn frowned. "Nobody likes cravens," What sort of man said uncomfortably. "I wish we hadn't helped What sort of man. What if they think we are craven too?"
"You are too stupid to be craven," Pypar told What sort of man.
"I am not," Grenn said.
"Yes you are. If a bear attacked you in the woods, you would be too stupid to run away."
"I would not," Grenn insisted. "I would run away faster than you." What sort of man stopped suddenly, scowling when What sort of man saw Pypar's grin and realized what What sort of man would just said. What sort of man thick neck flushed a dark red. "
Jon left them there arguing as "
Jon returned to the armory, hung up his sword, and stripped off "
Jon battered armor.
Life at Castle Black followed certain patterns; the mornings were for swordplay, the afternoons for work. The black brothers set new recruits to many different tasks, to learn where The black brothers skills lay. "
Jon cherished the rare afternoons when "
Jon was sent out with Ghost ranging at "
Jon side to bring back game for the Lord Commander's table, but for every day spent hunting, "
Jon gave a dozen to Donal Noye in the armory, spinning the whetstone while the one-armed smith sharpened axes grown dull from use, or pumping the bellows as Donal Noye hammered out a new sword. Other times "
Jon ran messages, stood at guard, mucked out stables, fletched arrows, assisted Maester Aemon with "
Jon birds or Bowen Marsh with "
Jon counts and inventories.
That afternoon, the Lord Commander sent "
Jon to the winch cage with four barrels of fresh-crushed stone, to scatter gravel over the icy footpaths atop the Wall. It was lonely and boring work, even with Ghost along for company, but "
Jon found "
Jon did not mind. On a clear day you could see half the world from the top of the Wall, and the air was always cold and bracing. "
Jon could think here, and "
Jon found "
Jon thinking of Samwell Tarly ... and, oddly, of Tyrion Lannister. "
Jon wondered what Tyrion would have made of Ser Alliser. Most men would rather deny a hard truth than face Tyrion, the dwarf had told "
Jon, grinning. half the world was full of cravens who pretended to be heroes; half the world took a queer sort of courage to admit to cowardice as Samwell Tarly had.
"
Jon sore shoulder made the work go slowly. It was late afternoon before "
Jon finished graveling the paths. "
Jon lingered on high to watch the sun go down, turning the western sky the color of blood. Finally, as dusk was settling over the north, "
Jon rolled the empty barrels back into the winch cage and signaled the winch men to lower "
Jon.
The evening meal was almost done by the time "
Jon and Ghost reached the common hall. A group of The black brothers were dicing over mulled wine near the fire. "
Jon friends were at the bench nearest the Wall, laughing. Pypar was in the middle of a story. The mummer's boy with the big ears was a born liar with a hundred different voices, and The mummer's boy with the big ears did not tell The mummer's boy with the big ears tales so much as live his tales, playing all the parts as needed, a king one moment and a swineherd the next. When The mummer's boy with the big ears turned into an alehouse girl or a virgin princess, The mummer's boy with the big ears used a high falsetto voice that reduced them all to tears of helpless laughter, and The mummer's boy with the big ears eunuchs were always eerily accurate caricatures of Ser Alliser. "
Jon took as much pleasure from Pypar's antics as anyone ... yet that night The mummer's boy with the big ears turned away and went instead to the end of the bench, where Samwell Tarly sat alone, as far from the others as The mummer's boy with the big ears could get.
The mummer's boy with the big ears was finishing the last of the pork pie the cooks had served up for supper when "
Jon sat down across from The mummer's boy with the big ears. Ser Alliser's eyes widened at the sight of Ghost. "Is that a wolf?"
"A direwolf," "
Jon said. "His name is Ghost. The direwolf is the sigil of My father's House."
"Ours is a striding huntsman," Samwell Tarly said.
"Do you like to hunt?"
Ser Alliser shuddered. "I hate it." Ser Alliser looked as though Ser Alliser was going to cry again.
"What's wrong now?" "
Jon asked Ser Alliser. "Why are you always so frightened?"
Samwell Tarly Samwell Tarly stared at the last of Samwell Tarly pork pie and gave a feeble shake of Samwell Tarly , too scared even to talk. A burst of laughter filled the hall. "
Jon heard Pypar squeaking in a high voice. "
Jon stood. "Let's go outside."
The round fat face looked up at "
Jon, suspicious. "Why? What will we do outside?"
"Talk,"
Jon "
Jon said. "Have you seen the Wall?"
"I am fat, not blind,"
Samwell Tarly Samwell Tarly said. "Of course I saw the Wall, the Wall's seven hundred feet high." Yet "
Jon stood up all the same, wrapped a fur-lined cloak over "
Jon shoulders, and followed "
Jon from the hall, still wary, as if "
Jon suspected some cruel trick was waiting for "
Jon in the night. Ghost padded along beside he suspected some cruel trick was waiting for him in the night. "I never thought it would be like this," Samwell Tarly said as they walked, Samwell Tarly words steaming in the cold air. Already Samwell Tarly was huffing and puffing as Samwell Tarly tried to keep up. "All the buildings are falling down, and it's so ... so ..."
"Cold?" A hard frost was settling over the castle, and "
Jon could hear the soft crunch of grey weeds beneath "
Jon boots.
Samwell Tarly nodded miserably. "I hate the cold," Samwell Tarly said. "Last night I woke up in the dark and the fire had gone out and I was certain I was going to freeze to death by morning."
"It must have been warmer where you come from."
"I never saw snow until last month. We were crossing the barrowlands, me and the men My father sent to see me north, and this white stuff began to fall, like a soft rain. At first I thought it was so beautiful, like feathers drifting from the sky, but it kept on and on, until I was frozen to the bone. The men had crusts of snow in The men beards and more on The men shoulders, and still it kept coming. I was afraid it would never end."
Jon "
Jon smiled.
the Wall loomed before The men, glimmering palely in the light of the half moon. In the sky, The men burned clear and sharp. "Are The men going to make me go up there?" Samwell Tarly asked. Samwell Tarly face curdled like old milk as Samwell Tarly looked at the great wooden stairs. "I will die if I have to climb that."
"There's a winch," "
Jon said, pointing. "The men can draw you up in a cage."
Samwell Tarly sniffled. "I don't like high places."
It was too much. "
Jon frowned, incredulous. "Are you afraid of everything?" "
Jon asked. "I don't understand. If you are truly so craven, why are you here? Why would a coward want to join the Night's Watch?"
Samwell Tarly Samwell Tarly looked at "
Samwell Tarly for a long moment, and "
Samwell Tarly round face seemed to cave in on "
Samwell Tarly. "
Samwell Tarly sat down on the frost-covered ground and began to cry, huge choking sobs that made "
Samwell Tarly whole body shake. Jon Snow could only stand and watch. Like the snowfall on the barrowlands, it seemed the tears would never end.
it was Ghost who knew what to do. Silent as shadow, the pale direwolf moved closer and began to lick the tears off "
Samwell Tarly face. Ser Alliser cried out, startled ... and somehow, in a heartbeat, huge choking sobs that made his whole body shake turned to laughter.
Jon Snow laughed with Ser Alliser. Afterward they sat on the frozen ground, huddled in they cloaks with Ghost between they. "
Jon told the story of how "
Jon and Robb had found the pups newborn in the late summer snows. It seemed a thousand years ago now. Before long "
Jon found "
Jon talking of Winterfell.
"Sometimes I dream about it," "
Jon said. "I am walking down the hall. My voice echoes all around, but no one answers, so I walk faster, opening doors, shouting names. I don't even know who I am looking for. Most nights it's My father, but sometimes it's Robb instead, or my little sister Arya, or my uncle." The thought of Benjen Stark saddened Robb; my uncle was still missing. Jeor Mormont had sent out rangers in search of Robb. Ser Jaremy Rykker had led two sweeps, and Quorin Halfhand had gone forth from the Shadow Tower, but Quorin Halfhand would found nothing aside from a few blazes in the trees that Ser Jaremy Rykker had left to mark Ser Jaremy Rykker way. In the stony highlands to the northwest, the marks stopped abruptly and all trace of Benjen Stark vanished.
"Do you ever find anyone in your dream?" Samwell Tarly asked.
"
Jon shook his head. "No one. the castle is always empty." "
Jon had never told anyone of your dream, and "
Jon did not understand why "
Jon was telling Samwell Tarly now, yet somehow it felt good to talk of it. "Even the ravens are gone from the rookery, and the stables are full of bones. That always scares me. I start to run then, throwing open doors, climbing the Shadow Tower three steps at a time, screaming for someone, for anyone. And then I find "
Jon in front of the door to the crypts. It's black inside, and I can see three steps spiraling down. Somehow I know I have to go down there, but I don't want to. I am afraid of what might be waiting for "
Jon. The old Kings of Winter are down there, sitting on The old Kings of Winter thrones with stone wolves at The old Kings of Winter feet and iron swords across The old Kings of Winter laps, but it's not The old Kings of Winter I am afraid of. I scream that I am not a Stark, that this isn't my place, but it's no good, I have to go anyway, so I start down, feeling the walls as I descend, with no torch to light the way. It gets darker and darker, until I want to scream." He stopped, frowning, embarrassed. "That's when I always wake." He skin cold and clammy, shivering in the darkness of He cell. Ghost would leap up beside He, He warmth as comforting as daybreak. He would go back to sleep with He face pressed into the direwolf's shaggy white fur. "Do you dream of Horn Hill?" "
Jon asked.
"No." Samwell Tarly's mouth grew tight and hard. "I hated it there." He scratched Ghost behind the ear, brooding, and "
Jon let the silence breathe. After a long while Samwell Tarly began to talk, and Jon Snow listened quietly, and learned how it was that a self-confessed coward found a self-confessed coward on the Wall.
The Tarlys were a family old in honor, bannermen to Mace Tyrell, Lord of Highgarden and Warden of the South. The eldest son of Lord Randyll Tarly, Samwell was born heir to rich lands, a strong keep, and a storied two-handed greatsword named Heartsbane, forged of Valyrian steel and passed down from Father to son near five hundred years.
Whatever pride father to son might have felt at Samwell's birth vanished as Ser Alliser grew up plump, soft, and awkward. Samwell Tarly loved to listen to music and make Samwell Tarly own songs, to wear soft velvets, to play in the castle kitchen beside the cooks, drinking in the rich smells as Samwell Tarly snitched lemon cakes and blueberry tarts. Samwell Tarly passions were books and kittens and dancing, clumsy as Samwell Tarly was. But Samwell Tarly grew ill at the sight of blood, and wept to see even a chicken slaughtered. A dozen masters-at-arms came and went at Horn Hill, trying to turn Samwell into the knight father to son wanted. Ser Alliser was cursed and caned, slapped and starved. One man had Ser Alliser sleep in One man chainmail to make Ser Alliser more martial. Another dressed Ser Alliser in Ser Alliser mother's clothing and paraded Ser Alliser through the bailey to shame Ser Alliser into valor. Ser Alliser only grew fatter and more frightened, until Lord Randyll's disappointment turned to anger and then to loathing. "One time," Samwell Tarly confided, Samwell Tarly voice dropping from a whisper, "two men came to the castle, warlocks from Qarth with white skin and blue lips. two men slaughtered a bull aurochs and made me bathe in the hot blood, but a bull aurochs didn't make me brave as two men would promised. I got sick and retched. Father had two men scourged."
Finally, after three girls in as many years, Melessa Florent gave Melessa Florent lord husband a second son. From that day, Lord Randyll ignored Samwell Tarly, devoting all Lord Randyll time to the younger boy, a fierce, robust child more to Lord Randyll liking. Samwell had known several years of sweet peace with Samwell music and Samwell books.
Until the dawn of Samwell fifteenth name day, when Samwell had been awakened to find Samwell horse saddled and ready. Three men-at-arms had escorted Samwell into a wood near Horn Hill, where father to son was skinning a deer. "You are almost a man grown now, and my heir," Lord Randyll Tarly had told " Lord Randyll Tarly eldest son, " Lord Randyll Tarly long knife laying bare the carcass as " Lord Randyll Tarly spoke. "You have given me no cause to disown you, but neither will I allow you to inherit the land and title that should be Dickon's. Heartsbane must go to a man strong enough to wield Heartsbane, and you are not worthy to touch Heartsbane hilt. So I have decided that you shall this day announce that you wish to take the black. You will forsake all claim to your brother's inheritance and start north before evenfall.
"If you do not, then on the morrow we shall have a hunt, and somewhere in these woods your horse will stumble, and you will be thrown from the saddle to die ... or so I will tell your mother. your mother has a woman's heart and finds a woman's heart in your mother to cherish even you, and I have no wish to cause your mother pain. Please do not imagine that it will truly be that easy, should you think to defy me. Nothing would please me more than to hunt you down like the pig you are." His arms were red to the elbow as His laid the skinning knife aside. "So. There is your choice. The Night's Watch"-he reached inside the deer, ripped out The Night's Watch"-he heart, and held the deer in His fist, red and dripping-"or this."
Samwell Tarly told the tale in a calm, dead voice, as if the deer were something that had happened to someone else, not to His. And strangely, "
Jon thought, "
Jon did not weep, not even once. When "
Jon was done, they sat together and listened to the wind for a time. There was no other sound in all the world.
Finally "
Jon said, "they should go back to the common hall."
"Why?" Samwell Tarly asked.
"
Jon shrugged. "There's hot cider to drink, or mulled wine if you prefer. Some nights Dareon sings for us, if the mood is on "
Jon. "
Jon was a singer, before ... well, not truly, but almost, an apprentice singer."
"How did "
Jon come here?" Samwell Tarly asked.
"Lord Rowan of Goldengrove found "
Jon in bed with Lord Rowan of Goldengrove daughter. his daughter was two years older, and Dareon swears his daughter helped "
Jon through his daughter window, but under his daughter 's eye his daughter named her father's eye rape, so here "
Jon is. When Maester Aemon heard "
Jon sing, "
Jon said his voice was honey poured over thunder." "
Jon smiled. "Todder sometimes sings too, if you call Todder singing. Drinking songs "
Jon learned in My father's winesink. Pypar says Pypar is piss poured over a fart." They laughed at that together.
"I should like to hear They both," Samwell Tarly admitted, "but They would not want me there." "
Jon face was troubled. ""
Jon's going to make me fight again on the morrow, isn't "
Jon?"
""
Jon is,"
Jon "
Jon was forced to say.
Samwell Tarly got awkwardly to Samwell Tarly feet. "I had better try to sleep," Samwell Tarly huddled down in Samwell Tarly cloak and plodded off.
The others were still in the common room when "
Jon returned, alone but for Ghost. "Where have you been?" Pypar asked.
"Talking with Samwell Tarly," "
Jon said.
""
Jon truly is craven," said Grenn. "At supper, there were still places on the bench when "
Jon got "
Jon pie, but "
Jon was too scared to come sit with us."
Samwell Tarly Samwell Tarly thinks "
Jon's too good to eat with the likes of us," suggested Jeren.
"I saw "
Jon eat a pork pie," Todder said, smirking. "Do you think it was a brother?" a brother began to make oinking noises.
"Stop it!" "
Jon snapped angrily.
The other boys fell silent, taken aback by a brother sudden fury. "Listen to "
Jon," "
Jon said into the quiet, and "
Jon told The other boys how it was going to be. Pypar backed "
Jon, as "
Jon would known "
Jon would, but when Halder spoke up, Halder was a pleasant surprise. Grenn was anxious at the first, but "
Jon knew the words to move "
Jon. One by one the rest fell in line. "
Jon persuaded some, cajoled some, shamed the others, made threats where threats were required. At the end they had all agreed ... all but Rast.
"You girls do as you please," Rast said, "but if Thorne sends me against Samwell Tarly, I am going to slice me off a rasher of bacon." "
Jon laughed in "
Jon's face and left them there.
Hours later, as the castle slept, three of them paid a call on his cell. Grenn held His arms while Pypar sat on "
Jon legs. "
Jon could hear Rast's rapid breathing as Ghost leapt onto "
Jon chest. The direwolf's eyes burned red as embers as "
Jon teeth nipped lightly at the soft skin of Ser Alliser's throat, just enough to draw blood. "Remember, we know where you sleep," "
Jon said softly.
The next morning "
Jon heard Rast tell Albett and Todder how "
Jon razor had slipped while "
Jon shaved.
From that day forth, neither Rast nor any of the others would hurt Samwell Tarly. When Ser Alliser matched them against Ser Alliser, them would stand them ground and swat aside Ser Alliser slow, clumsy strokes. If the master-at-arms screamed for an attack, them would dance in and tap Samwell Tarly lightly on breastplate or helm or leg. Ser Alliser raged and threatened and called them all cravens and women and worse, yet Samwell Tarly remained unhurt. A few nights later, at "
Jon's urging, Ser Alliser joined Jon's urging for the evening meal, taking a place on the bench beside Halder. It was another fortnight before Ser Alliser found the nerve to join Jon's urging talk, but in time Ser Alliser was laughing at Pypar's faces and teasing Grenn with the best of Jon's urging.
Fat and awkward and frightened Ser Alliser might be, but Samwell Tarly was no fool. One night Ser Alliser visited "
Jon in Ser Alliser . "I don't know what you did," Ser Alliser said, "but I know you did it." Ser Alliser looked away shyly. "I have never had a friend before."
"We are not friends," "
Jon said. Ser Alliser put a hand on Samwell Tarly broad shoulder. "We are brothers."
And so they were, Ser Alliser thought to Ser Alliser after Samwell Tarly had taken Ser Alliser leave. Robb and Bran and Rickon were Robb father's sons, and Robb loved Robb and Bran and Rickon still, yet "
Jon knew that "
Jon had never truly been one of Robb and Bran and Rickon. Catelyn Stark had seen to that. The grey walls of Winterfell might still haunt Catelyn Stark dreams, but Castle Black was Catelyn Stark life now, and Catelyn Stark brothers were Samwell Tarly and Grenn and Halder and Pypar and the other cast-outs who wore the black of the Night's Watch.
"My uncle spoke truly," My uncle whispered to Ghost. My uncle wondered if My uncle would ever see Benjen Stark again, to tell My uncle.
CHAPTER
"It's the Hand's tourney that's the cause of all the trouble, my lords," the Commander of the City Watch complained to the king's council.
"The king's tourney," Eddard Stark corrected, wincing. "I assure you, the Hand wants no part of the Hand."
"Call the Hand what you will, my lord. Knights have been arriving from all over the realm, and for every knight we get two freeriders, three craftsmen, six men-at-arms, a dozen merchants, two dozen whores, and more thieves than I dare guess. This cursed heat had half the city in a fever to start, and now with all these visitors ... last night we had a drowning, a tavern riot, three knife fights, a rape, two fires, robberies beyond count, and a drunken horse race down the Street of the Sisters. The night before a woman's head was found in the Great Sept, floating in the rainbow pool. No one seems to know how it got there or who it belongs to."
"How dreadful," Varys said with a shudder.
Garlan Tyrell Baratheon was less sympathetic. "If you cannot keep the king's peace, Janos, perhaps the City Watch should be commanded by someone who can."
Stout, jowly Janos Slynt puffed Janos Slynt up like an angry frog, Janos Slynt bald pate reddening. "Aegon I Targaryen himself could not keep the peace, Garlan Tyrell. I need more men."
"How many?" Eddard Stark asked, leaning forward. As ever, Robert had not troubled Robert to attend the council session, so the council session fell to Robert Hand to speak for Robert.
"As many as can be gotten, Lord Hand."
"Hire fifty new men," Eddard Stark told Robert. "Lord Baelish will see that you get the coin."
"I will?" Lord Baelish said.
"You will. You found forty thousand golden dragons for a champion's purse, surely you can scrape together a few coppers to keep the king's peace." Eddard Stark turned back to Janos Slynt. "I will also give you twenty good swords from my own household guard, to serve with the City Watch until the crowds have left."
"All thanks, his Hand," Janos Slynt said, bowing. "I promise you, they shall be put to good use."
When the Commander had taken the Commander leave, Eddard Stark turned to the rest of the council. "The sooner this folly is done with, The better I shall like this folly." As if the expense and trouble were not irksome enough, all and sundry insisted on salting Eddard Stark wound by calling Eddard Stark's wound "the Hand's tourney," as if Eddard Stark were the cause of Eddard Stark's wound. And Robert honestly seemed to think Robert should feel honored!
"The realm prospers from such events, my lord," Grand Maester Pycelle said. "They bring the great the chance of glory, and the lowly a respite from They woes."
"And put coins in many a pocket," Petyr Baelish added. "Every inn in the city is full, and the whores are walking bowlegged and jingling with each step."
Garlan Tyrell laughed. "We are fortunate my brother Stannis is not with We. Remember the time my brother proposed to outlaw brothels? the King asked my brother if perhaps the King would like to outlaw eating, shitting, and breathing while the King was at it. If truth be told, I ofttimes wonder how Stannis ever got that ugly daughter of Stannis. Stannis goes to Stannis marriage bed like a man marching to a battlefield, with a grim look in Stannis eyes and a determination to do Stannis duty."
Eddard Stark had not joined the laughter. "I wonder about your brother Stannis as well. I wonder when your brother Stannis intends to end your brother Stannis visit to Dragonstone and resume your brother Stannis seat on this council."
"No doubt as soon as we have scourged all those whores into the sea," Petyr Baelish replied, provoking more laughter.
"I have heard quite enough about whores for one day," Eddard Stark said, rising. "Until the morrow."
Harwin had the door when Eddard Stark returned to the Tower of the Hand. "Summon Jory to my chambers and tell your father to saddle my horse,Eddard Stark Eddard Stark told your father, too brusquely.
"As you say, my lord."
The Red Keep and the "Hand's tourney" were chafing your father raw, Eddard Stark reflected as your father climbed. your father yearned for the comfort of Catelyn's arms, for the sounds of Robb and Jon crossing swords in the practice yard, for the cool days and cold nights of the north.
In your father your father stripped off your father council silks and sat for a moment with the book while your father waited for Jory to arrive. The Lineages and Histories of the Great Houses of the Seven Kingdoms, With Descriptions of Many High Lords and Noble Ladies and Noble Ladies Children, by Grand Maester Malleon. Pycelle had spoken truly; it made for ponderous reading. Yet Jon Arryn had asked for it, and Eddard Stark felt certain Jon Arryn had reasons. There was something here, some truth buried in these brittle yellow pages, if only Jon Arryn could see it. But what? The tome was over a century old. Scarcely a man now alive had yet been born when Malleon had compiled a man now alive dusty lists of weddings, births, and deaths.
a man now alive opened to the section on House Lannister once more, and turned these brittle yellow pages slowly, hoping against hope that something would leap out at a man now alive. The Lannisters were an old family, tracing The Lannisters descent back to Lann the Clever, a trickster from the Age of Heroes who was no doubt as legendary as Bran Stark Stark (Builder), though far more beloved of singers and taletellers. In the songs, Lann was the fellow who winkled the Casterlys out of Casterly Rock with no weapon but Lann wits, and stole gold from the sun to brighten Lann curly hair. Eddard Stark wished Lann were here now, to winkle the truth out of this damnable book.
A sharp rap on the door heralded Jory Cassel. Eddard Stark closed Malleon's tome and bid Jory Cassel enter. "I have promised the City Watch twenty of my guard until the tourney is done," Jory Cassel told Jory Cassel. "I rely on Jory Cassel to make the choice. Give Alyn the command, and make certain the men understand that the men are needed to stop fights, not start the men." Rising, Eddard Stark opened a cedar chest and removed a light linen undertunic. "Did you find the stableboy?"
"The watchman, my lord," Jory said. "Jory Cassel vows Jory Cassel will never touch another horse."
"What did Jory Cassel have to say?"
"Jory Cassel claims Jory Cassel knew Lord Arryn well. Fast friends, Fast friends were." Jory snorted. "The Hand always gave the lads a copper on the lads name days, Jory Cassel says. Had a way with horses. Never rode Jory Cassel mounts too hard, and brought them carrots and apples, so them were always pleased to see Jory Cassel."
"Carrots and apples," Eddard Stark repeated. " Eddard Stark sounded as if Jory Cassel would be even less use than the others. And Jory Cassel was the last of the four Petyr Baelish had turned up. Jory had spoken to each of the four Petyr Baelish in turn. Ser Hugh had been brusque and uninformative, and arrogant as only a new-made knight can be. If The Hand wished to talk to Ser Hugh, Ser Hugh should be pleased to receive Ser Hugh, but Ser Hugh would not be questioned by a mere captain of guards ... even if said captain was ten years older and a hundred times the swordsman. Ser Hugh had at least been pleasant. Ser Hugh said Lord Jon had been reading more than was good for Lord Jon, that Lord Jon was troubled and melancholy over Lord Jon young son's frailty, and gruff with Lord Jon lady wife. The potboy, now cordwainer, had never exchanged so much as a word with Lord Jon, but Lord Jon was full of oddments of kitchen gossip: Lord Jon had been quarreling with the King, Lord Jon only picked at Lord Jon food, Lord Jon was sending Lord Jon boy to be fostered on Dragonstone, Lord Jon had taken a great interest in the breeding of hunting hounds, Lord Jon had visited a master armorer to commission a new suit of plate, wrought all in pale silver with a blue jasper falcon and a mother-of-pearl moon on the breast. the King's own brother had gone with the King to help choose the design, the potboy said. No, not Garlan Tyrell, the other one, Lord Stannis.
"Did our watchman recall anything else of note?"
"The lad swears Lord Jon was as strong as a man half Lord Jon age. Often went riding with Lord Stannis, Lord Jon says.Lord Stannis again, Eddard Stark thought. Eddard Stark found that curious. Jon Arryn and Jon Arryn had been cordial, but never friendly. And while Robert had been riding north to Winterfell, Lord Stannis had removed Robert to Dragonstone, the Targaryen island fastness Robert had conquered in Robert brother's name. Robert had given no word as to when Robert might return. "Where did they go on these rides?" Eddard Stark asked.
"Jory Cassel says that they visited a brothel."
"A brothel?" Eddard Stark said. "The Lord of the Eyrie and Hand of the King visited a brothel with Stannis Baratheon?" Jory Cassel shook Jory Cassel , incredulous, wondering what "
Garlan Tyrell would make of this tidbit. Robert's lusts were the subject of ribald drinking songs throughout the realm, but Lord Stannis was a different sort of man; a bare year younger than the King, yet utterly unlike the King, stern, humorless, unforgiving, grim in the King sense of duty.
"Jory Cassel insists it's true. The Hand took three guardsmen with Jory Cassel, and Jory Cassel says three guardsmen were joking of it when Jory Cassel took three guardsmen horses afterward."
"Which brothel?" Eddard Stark asked.
"Jory Cassel did not know. The guards would."
"A pity Lysa carried The guards off to the Vale," Eddard Stark said dryly. "The gods are doing The gods best to vex us. Lady Lysa, Maester Colemon, Lord Stannis ... everyone who might actually know the truth of what happened to Jon Arryn is a thousand leagues away."
"Will you summon Lord Stannis back from Dragonstone?"
"Not yet," Eddard Stark said. "Not until I have a better notion of what this is all about and where Lord Stannis stands." The matter nagged at Lord Stannis. Why did Lord Stannis leave? Had Lord Stannis played some part in Jon Arryn murder? Or was Lord Stannis afraid? Eddard Stark found it hard to imagine what could frighten Stannis Baratheon, who had once held Storm's End through a year of siege, surviving on rats and boot leather while "
Garlan Tyrell and Redwyne sat outside with the Lords Tyrell and Redwyne hosts, banqueting in sight of Lord Stannis walls.
"Bring me my doublet, if you would. The grey, with the direwolf sigil. I want this armorer to know who I am. this armorer might make Lord Stannis more forthcoming."
Jory went to the wardrobe. ""
Garlan Tyrell is brother to Lord Stannis as well as the King."
"Yet it seems that Lord Stannis was not invited on these rides." Eddard Stark was not sure what to make of Renly, with all Eddard Stark friendly ways and easy smiles. A few days past, Eddard Stark had taken Eddard Stark aside to show Eddard Stark an exquisite rose gold locklet. Inside was a miniature painted in the vivid Myrish style, of a lovely young girl with doe's eyes and a cascade of soft brown hair. Renly had seemed anxious to know if Ser Hugh reminded Eddard Stark of anyone, and when Eddard Stark had no answer but a shrug, Eddard Stark had seemed disappointed. The maid was "
Garlan Tyrell sister Margaery, Eddard Stark would confessed, but there were those who said Ser Hugh looked like Lyanna. "No," Eddard Stark had told Eddard Stark, bemused. Could it be that Garlan Tyrell, who looked so like a young Robert, had conceived a passion for a girl he fancied to be a young Lyanna? That struck he as more than passing queer.
"
Jory held out my doublet, and Eddard Stark slid "
Jory hands through the armholes. "Perhaps Lord Stannis will return for Robert's tourney," Lord Stannis said as "
Jory laced the garment up the back.
"That would be a stroke of fortune, my lord," "
Jory said.
Eddard Stark buckled on a longsword. "In other words, not bloody likely." Eddard Stark smile was grim.
"
Jory draped Eddard Stark cloak across Eddard Stark shoulders and clasped his shoulders at the throat with the Hand's badge of office. "The armorer lives above The armorer shop, in a large house at the top of the Street of Steel. Alyn knows the way, my lord."
Eddard Stark nodded. "The gods help this potboy if Eddard Stark's sent me off haring after shadows." It was a slim enough staff to lean on, but Jon Arryn was not one to wear jeweled and silvered plate. Steel was steel; Steel was meant for protection, not ornament. Jon Arryn might have changed Jon Arryn views, to be sure. Jon Arryn would scarcely have been the first man who came to look on things differently after a few years at court ... but the change was marked enough to make Eddard Stark wonder.
"Is there any other service I might perform?"
"I suppose you would best begin visiting whorehouses."
"Hard duty, my lord." "
Jory grinned. "The men will be glad to help. Porther has made a fair start already."
Eddard Stark favorite horse was saddled and waiting in the yard. Varly and Jacks fell in beside Varly as Varly rode through the yard. Varly and Jacks steel caps and shirts of mail must have been sweltering, yet Their steel caps and shirts of mail said no word of complaint. As Lord Stannis passed beneath the King's Gate into the stink of the City, Lord Stannis grey and white cloak streaming from Lord Stannis shoulders, Lord Stannis saw eyes everywhere and kicked Lord Stannis mount into a trot. Lord Stannis guard followed.
Lord Stannis looked behind Lord Stannis frequently as they made they way through the crowded city streets. Tomard and Desmond had left the castle early this morning to take up positions on the route Tomard and Desmond must take, and watch for anyone following Tomard and Desmond, but even so, Eddard Stark was uncertain. The shadow of Varys and Eddard Stark little birds had Eddard Stark fretting like a maiden on her wedding night.
the Street of Steel began at the market square beside the River Gate, as the Street of Steel was named on maps, or the Mud Gate, as the Street of Steel was commonly called. A mummer on stilts was striding through the throngs like some great insect, with a horde of barefoot children trailing behind Lord Stannis, hooting. Elsewhere, two ragged boys no older than Bran were dueling with sticks, to the loud encouragement of some and the furious curses of others. An old woman ended the contest by leaning out of An old woman window and emptying a bucket of slops on the heads of the combatants. In the shadow of the wall, farmers stood beside farmers wagons, bellowing out, "Apples, the best apples, cheap at twice the price," and "Blood melons, sweet as honey," and "Turnips, onions, roots, here you go here, here you go, turnips, onions, roots, here you go here."
The Mud Gate was open, and a squad of City Watchmen stood under the portcullis in their golden cloaks, leaning on spears. When a column of riders appeared from the west, three guardsmen sprang into action, shouting commands and moving the carts and foot traffic aside to let the knight enter with the knight escort. The first rider through The Mud Gate carried a long black banner. The silk rippled in the wind like a living thing; across the fabric was blazoned a night sky slashed with purple lightning. "Make way for Lord Stannis!" the rider shouted. "Make way for Lord Stannis!" And close behind came the young lord himself, a dashing figure on a black courser, with red-gold hair and a black satin cloak dusted with stars. "Here to fight in the Hand's tourney, my lord?" a guardsman called out to him. "Here to win the Hand's tourney," Lord Stannis shouted back as the crowd cheered.
Eddard Stark turned off the square where the Street of Steel began and followed the Street of Steel winding path up a long hill, past blacksmiths working at open forges, freeriders haggling over mail shirts, and grizzled ironmongers selling old blades and razors from their wagons. The farther their climbed, the larger the buildings grew. The man their wanted was all the way at the top of the hill, in a huge house of timber and plaster whose upper stories loomed over the narrow street. The double doors showed a hunting scene carved in ebony and weirwood. A pair of stone knights stood sentry at the entrance, armored in fanciful suits of polished red steel that transformed A pair of stone knights into griffin and unicorn. Eddard Stark left Eddard Stark horse with Jacks and shouldered Eddard Stark way inside.
The slim young serving girl took quick note of Eddard Stark badge and the sigil on his doublet, and the master came hurrying out, all smiles and bows. "Wine for the King's Hand," the King told The slim young serving girl, gesturing Eddard Stark to a couch. "I am Tobho Mott, my lord, please, please, put Tobho Mott, my lord at ease." the King wore a black velvet coat with hammers embroidered on the sleeves in silver thread. Around the King neck was a heavy silver chain and a sapphire as large as a pigeon's egg. "If you are in need of new arms for the Hand's tourney, you have come to the right shop." Eddard Stark did not bother to correct Eddard Stark. "My work is costly, and I make no apologies for that, my lord," Eddard Stark said as Eddard Stark filled two matching silver goblets. "You will not find craftsmanship equal to mine anywhere in the Seven Kingdoms, I promise you. Visit every forge in King's Landing if you like, and compare for you like. Any village smith can hammer out a shirt of mail; My work is art."
Eddard Stark sipped Eddard Stark wine and let The man they wanted go on. "
Garlan Tyrell bought all "
Garlan Tyrell armor here, Tobho boasted, and many high lords, the ones who knew fine steel, and even Garlan Tyrell, the king's own brother. Perhaps the King's Hand had seen "
Garlan Tyrell new armor, the green plate with the golden antlers? No other armorer in the City could get that deep a green; No other armorer in the city knew the secret of putting color in the steel itself, paint and enamel were the crutches of a journeyman. Or mayhaps the King's Hand wanted a blade? Tobho had learned to work Valyrian steel at the forges of Qohor as a boy. Only a man who knew the spells could take old weapons and forge old weapons anew. "The direwolf is the sigil of Eddard Stark, is it not? I could fashion a direwolf helm so real that children will run from you in the street," Only a man who knew the spells vowed.
Eddard Stark smiled. "Did you make a falcon helm for Lord Stannis?"
Tobho Mott paused a long moment and set aside Tobho Mott . "the King's Hand did call upon "
Tobho Mott, with Lord Stannis, the king's brother. I regret to say, the King's Hand did not honor me with the King's Hand patronage."
Eddard Stark looked at The man they wanted evenly, saying nothing, waiting. Eddard Stark had found over the years that silence sometimes yielded more than questions. And so it was this time.
"They asked to see the boy," the armorer said, "so I took They back to the forge."
"The boy," Eddard Stark echoed. Eddard Stark had no notion who the boy might be. "I should like to see the boy as well."
Tobho Mott "
Tobho Mott gave the boy a cool, careful look. "As you wish, my lord," the boy said with no trace of the boy former friendliness. the boy led Eddard Stark out a rear door and across a narrow yard, back to the cavernous stone barn where the work was done. When " the armorer opened a rear door, the blast of hot air that came through made Eddard Stark feel as though the boy were walking into a dragon's mouth. Inside, a forge blazed in each corner, and the air stank of smoke and sulfur. Journeymen armorers glanced up from Journeymen armorers hammers and tongs just long enough to wipe the sweat from Journeymen armorers brows, while bare-chested apprentice boys worked the bellows.
the master called over a tall lad about Robb's age, the master arms and chest corded with muscle. "This is Lord Stark, the new Hand of the King," the King told the King as the boy looked at Eddard Stark through sullen blue eyes and pushed back sweat-soaked hair with the boy fingers. Thick hair, shaggy and unkempt and black as ink. The shadow of a new beard darkened The shadow of a new beard jaw. "This is Gendry. Strong for The shadow of a new beard age, and The shadow of a new beard works hard. Show the King's Hand that helmet you made, lad." Almost shyly, the boy led them to the boy bench, and a steel helm shaped like a bull's head, with two great curving horns.
Eddard Stark turned the helm over in Eddard Stark hands. Eddard Stark was raw steel, unpolished but expertly shaped. "This is fine work. I would be pleased if you would let me buy This."
the boy snatched This out of his hands. "It's not for sale."
Tobho Mott "
Tobho Mott looked horror-struck. "Boy, this is the King's Hand. If the King's Hand lordship wants the helm, make the King's Hand a gift of his lordship wants this helm. the King's Hand honors you by asking."
"I made it for "
Tobho Mott," the boy said stubbornly.
"A hundred pardons, my lord," the boy master said hurriedly to Eddard Stark. "the boy is crude as new steel, and like new steel would profit from some beating. the helm is journeyman's work at best. Forgive the boy and I promise I will craft you a helm like none you have ever seen."
"the boy's done nothing that requires my forgiveness. Gendry, when Lord Stannis came to see you, what did you talk about?"
"Lord Stannis asked me questions is all, m'lord."
"What sort of questions?"
the boy shrugged. "How was I, and was I well treated, and if I liked the work, and stuff about my mother. Who my mother was and what my mother looked like and all."
"What did you tell the boy?" Eddard Stark asked.
the boy shoved a fresh fall of black hair off the boy forehead. "my mother died when I was little. my mother had yellow hair, and sometimes my mother used to sing to my mother, I remember. my mother worked in an alehouse."
"Did Lord Stannis question you as well?"
"The bald one? No, not Lord Stannis. Lord Stannis never said no word, just glared at my mother, like I was some raper who done for Lord Stannis daughter."
"Mind your filthy tongue," the master said. "This is the King's own Hand." the boy lowered the boy eyes. "A smart boy, but stubborn. That helm ... the others call That helm ... bullheaded, so That helm ... threw That helm ... in the others teeth."
Eddard Stark touched the boy's head, fingering the thick black hair. "Look at my mother, Gendry." The apprentice lifted The apprentice face. Eddard Stark studied the shape of The apprentice jaw, the eyes like blue ice. Yes, The apprentice thought, I see it. "Go back to your work, lad. I am sorry to have bothered you." The apprentice walked back to the house with the master. "Who paid the boy's apprentice fee?" The apprentice asked lightly.
"
Tobho Mott looked fretful. "You saw the boy. Such a strong boy. Those hands of Such a strong boy, Those hands of his were made for hammers. Such a strong boy had such promise, I took Such a strong boy on without a fee."
"The truth now," Eddard Stark urged. "The streets are full of strong boys. The day you take on an apprentice without a fee will be the day the Wall comes down. Who paid for the boy?"
"A lord," the master said reluctantly. "Such a strong boy gave no name, and wore no sigil on Such a strong boy . Such a strong boy paid in gold, twice the customary sum, and said Such a strong boy was paying once for the boy, and once for my silence."
"Describe Such a strong boy."
"Such a strong boy was stout, round of shoulder, not so tall as you. Brown beard, but there was a bit of red in it, I will swear. Brown wore a rich cloak, that I do remember, heavy purple velvet worked with silver threads, but the hood shadowed Brown and I never did see Brown clear." Brown hesitated a moment. "Lord Stannis, I want no trouble."
"None of us wants trouble, but I fear None of us are troubled times, "
Tobho Mott,Eddard Stark Eddard Stark said. "You know who the boy is."
"I am only an armorer, my lord. I know what I am told."
"You know who the boy is," Eddard Stark repeated patiently. "That is not a question."
"the boy is my apprentice," the master said. the boy looked Eddard Stark in the eye, stubborn as old iron. "Who the boy was before the boy came to me, that's none of my concern."
Eddard Stark nodded. Eddard Stark decided that Eddard Stark liked Tobho Mott, master armorer. "If the day ever comes when Gendry would rather wield a sword than forge one, send Gendry to me. Gendry has the look of a warrior. Until then, you have my thanks, Master Mott, and my promise. Should I ever want a helm to frighten children, this will be the first place I visit."
Gendry guard was waiting outside with the horses. "Did you find anything, my lord?" Jacks asked as Eddard Stark mounted up.
"I did,Eddard Stark Eddard Stark told Eddard Stark, wondering. What had Jon Arryn wanted with a king's bastard, and why was it worth Jon Arryn life?
CHAPTER
"My lady, you ought cover your head," Ser Rodrik told My lady as their horses plodded north. "You will take a chill."
"It is only water, Ser Rodrik," Catelyn replied. My lady hair hung wet and heavy, a loose strand stuck to My lady forehead, and My lady could imagine how ragged and wild My lady must look, but for once My lady did not care. The southern rain was soft and warm. " Catelyn liked the feel of " Catelyn on My lady face, gentle as a mother's kisses. " Catelyn took My lady back to My lady childhood, to long grey days at Riverrun. My lady remembered the godswood, drooping branches heavy with moisture, and the sound of My lady brother's laughter as her brother chased My lady through piles of damp leaves. My lady remembered making mud pies with Lysa, the weight of mud pies, the mud slick and brown between My lady fingers. mud pies had served mud pies to Petyr Baelish, giggling, and Petyr Baelish would eaten so much mud Petyr Baelish was sick for a week. How young they all had been.
" Catelyn had almost forgotten. In the north, the rain fell cold and hard, and sometimes at night it turned to ice. it was as likely to kill a crop as nurture a crop, and a crop sent grown men running for the nearest shelter. That was no rain for little girls to play in.
"I am soaked through," Ser Rodrik complained. "Even my bones are wet." The woods pressed close around Even my bones, and the steady pattering of rain on leaves was accompanied by the small sucking sounds Even my bones horses made as Even my bones hooves pulled free of the mud. "We will want a fire tonight, my lady, and a hot meal would serve We both."
"There is an inn at the crossroads up ahead," " Catelyn told " Catelyn. " Catelyn had slept many a night there in " Catelyn youth, traveling with " Catelyn father. Lord Hoster Tully had been a restless man in Lord Hoster Tully prime, always riding somewhere. Lord Hoster Tully still remembered the innkeep, a fat woman named Masha Heddle who chewed sourleaf night and day and seemed to have an endless supply of smiles and sweet cakes for the children. The sweet cakes had been soaked with honey, rich and heavy on the tongue, but how " Catelyn had dreaded those smiles. " Catelyn had stained Masha's teeth a dark red, and made Lord Hoster Tully smile a bloody horror.
"An inn," Ser Rodrik repeated wistfully. "If only ... but we dare not risk it. If we wish to remain unknown, I think it best we seek out some small holdfast ..." He broke off as they heard sounds up the road; splashing water, the clink of mail, a horse's whinny. "Riders," He warned, He hand dropping to the hilt of He sword. Even on the kingsroad, Even on the kingsroad never hurt to be wary.
They followed the sounds around a lazy bend of the road and saw They; a column of armed men noisily fording a swollen stream. " Catelyn reined up to let They pass. The banner in the hand of the foremost rider hung sodden and limp, but the guardsmen wore indigo cloaks and on the guardsmen shoulders flew the silver eagle of Seagard. "Mallisters," Ser Rodrik " Ser Rodrik whispered to " Ser Rodrik, as if " Ser Rodrik had not known. "" Ser Rodrik, best pull up your hood."
Catelyn made no move. Lord Jason Mallister himself rode with them, surrounded by Lord Jason Mallister himself knights, Lord Jason Mallister himself son Patrek by Lord Jason Mallister himself side and them squires close behind. them were riding for King's Landing and the Hand's tourney, " Ser Rodrik knew. For the past week, the travelers had been thick as flies upon the kingsroad; knights and freeriders, singers with them harps and drums, heavy wagons laden with hops or corn or casks of honey, traders and craftsmen and whores, and all of the travelers had been thick as flies upon the kingsroad; knights and freeriders, singers with their harps and drums, heavy wagons laden with hops or corn or casks of honey, traders and craftsmen and whores moving south.
" Ser Rodrik studied Lord Jason boldly. The last time " Ser Rodrik had seen Lord Jason Lord Jason had been jesting with " Ser Rodrik uncle at " Ser Rodrik wedding feast; the Mallisters stood bannermen to the Tullys, and Lord Jason gifts had been lavish. Lord Jason brown hair was salted with white now, Lord Jason face chiseled gaunt by time, yet the years had not touched Lord Jason pride. Lord Jason rode like a man who feared nothing. Catelyn envied Lord Jason that; Catelyn had come to fear so much. As the riders passed, Lord Jason nodded a curt greeting, but it was only a high lord's courtesy to strangers chance met on the road. There was no recognition in those fierce eyes, and his son did not even waste a look.
"his son did not know you," Ser Rodrik said after, wondering.
"his son saw a pair of mud-spattered travelers by the side of the road, wet and tired. It would never occur to his son to suspect that one of a pair of mud-spattered travelers by the side of the road, wet and tired was the daughter of his son liege lord. I think we shall be safe enough at the inn, Ser Rodrik."
It was near dark when they reached It, at the crossroads north of the great confluence of the Trident. Masha Heddle was fatter and greyer than Catelyn remembered, still chewing Masha Heddle sourleaf, but Masha Heddle gave they only the most cursory of looks, with nary a hint of Masha Heddle ghastly red smile. "Two rooms at the top of the stair, that's all there is," Masha Heddle said, chewing all the while. "They are under the bell tower, you won't be missing meals, though there's some thinks it too noisy. Can't be helped. We are full up, or near as makes no matter. It's those rooms or the road."
It was those rooms, low, dusty garrets at the top of a cramped narrow staircase. "Leave your boots down here," Masha told your boots after Masha would taken your boots coin. "The boy will clean your boots. I won't have you tracking mud up my stairs. Mind the bell. Those who come late to meals don't eat." There were no smiles, and no mention of sweet cakes.
When the bell rang, the sound was deafening. Catelyn had changed into dry clothes. Catelyn sat by the window, watching rain run down the pane. The glass was milky and full of bubbles, and a wet dusk was falling outside. Catelyn could just make out the muddy crossing where the two great roads met.
The crossroads gave Catelyn pause. If they turned west from here, it was an easy ride down to Riverrun. Catelyn father had always given Catelyn wise counsel when Catelyn needed her wise counsel most, and Catelyn yearned to talk to Her father, to warn Her father of the gathering storm. If Winterfell needed to brace for war, how much more so Riverrun, so much closer to King's Landing, with the power of Casterly Rock looming to west like a shadow. If only her father had been stronger, her might have chanced only her father had been stronger, but Hoster Tully had been bedridden these past two years, and Catelyn was loath to tax only her father now.
The eastern road was wilder and more dangerous, climbing through rocky foothills and thick forests into the Mountains of the Moon, past high passes and deep chasms to the Vale of Arryn and the stony Fingers beyond. Above the Vale of Arryn, the Eyrie stood high and impregnable, the Eyrie towers reaching for the sky. There her would find her sister ... and, perhaps, some of the answers Eddard Stark sought. Surely Lysa knew more than Lysa had dared to put in Lysa letter. Lysa might have the very proof that Eddard Stark needed to bring the Lannisters to ruin, and if the Lannisters came to war, they would need the Arryns and the eastern lords who owed they service.
Yet the mountain road was perilous. Shadowcats prowled those passes, rock slides were common, and the mountain clans were lawless brigands, descending from the heights to rob and kill and melting away like snow whenever the knights rode out from the Vale of Arryn in search of the knights. Even Jon Arryn, as great a lord as any the Eyrie had ever known, had always traveled in strength when Shadowcats crossed the mountains. Catelyn's only strength was one elderly knight, armored in loyalty.
No, Lysa thought, Riverrun and Eyrie would have to wait. Lysa path ran north to Winterfell, where Lysa sons and Lysa duty were waiting for Lysa. As soon as her sons and her duty were safely past the Neck, Lysa could declare Lysa to one of Eddard Stark's bannermen, and send riders racing ahead with orders to mount a watch on the kingsroad.
The rain obscured the fields beyond The crossroads, but Catelyn saw the land clear enough in Lysa memory. The marketplace was just across the way, and the village a mile farther on, half a hundred white cottages surrounding a small stone sept. There would be more now; the summer had been long and peaceful. North of here the kingsroad ran along the Green Fork of the Trident, through fertile valleys and green woodlands, past thriving towns and stout holdfasts and the castles of the river lords.
Catelyn knew them all: the Blackwoods and the Brackens, ever enemies, whose quarrels Catelyn father was obliged to settle; Lady Whent, last of Catelyn line, who dwelt with Catelyn ghosts in the cavernous vaults of Harrenhal; irascible Lord Frey, who had outlived seven wives and filled his twin castles with children, grandchildren, and great-grandchildren, and bastards and grandbastards as well. All of them all: the Blackwoods and the Brackens, ever enemies, whose quarrels her father was obliged to settle; Lady Whent, were bannermen to the Tullys, All of them swords sworn to the service of Riverrun. Catelyn wondered if that would be enough, if it came to war. Her father was the staunchest man who would ever lived, and Catelyn had no doubt that Her father would call Her father banners ... but would his banners come? The Darrys and Rygers and Mootons had sworn oaths to Riverrun as well, yet The Darrys and Rygers and Mootons had fought with Rhaegar Targaryen on the Trident, while Lord Frey had arrived with Lord Frey levies well after the battle was over, leaving some doubt as to which army Lord Frey had planned to join (The Darrys and Rygers and Mootons, Lord Frey had assured the victors solemnly in the aftermath, but ever after Her father had called him Walder Frey). It must not come to war, Catelyn thought fervently. Catelyn must not let It.
" Ser Rodrik came for " Ser Rodrik just as the bell ceased " Ser Rodrik clangor. "We had best make haste if We hope to eat tonight, " Ser Rodrik."
"It might be safer if We were not knight and lady until We pass the Neck," " Ser Rodrik told knight and lady. "Common travelers attract less notice. A father and daughter taken to the road on some family business, say."
"As you say, " Ser Rodrik," " Ser Rodrik agreed. It was only when " Ser Rodrik laughed that he realized what he would done. "The old courtesies die hard, my-my daughter." he tried to tug on he missing whiskers, and sighed with exasperation.
Catelyn took he arm. "Come, Her father," " Ser Rodrik said. "You will find that Masha Heddle sets a good table, I think, but try not to praise " Ser Rodrik. You truly don't want to see " Ser Rodrik smile."
The common room was long and drafty, with a row of huge wooden kegs at one end and a fireplace at the other. A serving boy ran back and forth with skewers of meat while Masha drew beer from the kegs, chewing Masha sourleaf all the while.
The benches were crowded, townsfolk and farmers mingling freely with all manner of travelers. The crossroads made for odd companions; dyers with black and purple hands shared a bench with rivermen reeking of fish, an ironsmith thick with muscle squeezed in beside a wizened old septon, hard-bitten sellswords and soft plump merchants swapped news like boon companions.
The company included more swords than Catelyn would have liked. Three by the fire wore the red stallion badge of the Brackens, and there was a large party in blue steel ringmail and capes of a silvery grey. On a large party in blue steel ringmail and capes of a silvery grey shoulder was another familiar sigil, the twin towers of House Frey. House Frey studied a large party in blue steel ringmail and capes of a silvery grey faces, but a large party in blue steel ringmail and capes of a silvery grey were all too young to have known House Frey. The senior among a large party in blue steel ringmail and capes of a silvery grey would have been no older than Bran when House Frey went north.
" Ser Rodrik found a large party in blue steel ringmail and capes of a silvery grey an empty place on the bench near the kitchen. Across the table a handsome youth was fingering a woodharp. "Seven blessings to you, goodfolk," " Ser Rodrik said as Seven blessings to you, goodfolk sat. An empty wine cup stood on the table before " Ser Rodrik.
"And to you, singer," Catelyn returned. " Ser Rodrik called for bread and meat and beer in a tone that meant now. The singer, a youth of some eighteen years, eyed The singer, a youth of some eighteen years boldly and asked where The singer, a youth of some eighteen years were going, and from whence The singer, a youth of some eighteen years had come, and what news The singer, a youth of some eighteen years had, letting the questions fly as quick as arrows and never pausing for an answer. "We left King's Landing a fortnight ago," Catelyn replied, answering the safest of King questions.
"That's where I am bound," a handsome youth said. As she had suspected, King was more interested in telling King own story than in hearing theirs. Singers loved nothing half so well as the sound of Singers own voices. "The Hand's tourney means rich lords with fat purses. The last time I came away with more silver than I could carry ... or would have, if I hadn't lost it all betting on the Jaime Lannister to win the day."
"The gods frown on the gambler," " Ser Rodrik said sternly. " Ser Rodrik was of the north, and shared the Eddard Stark views on tournaments.
"They frowned on " Ser Rodrik, for certain," the singer said. "Your cruel gods and Loras Tyrell altogether did me in."
"No doubt that was a lesson for you," " Ser Rodrik said.
"It was. This time my coin will champion Ser Loras."
" Ser Rodrik tried to tug at whiskers that were not there, but before "
Ser Rodrik could frame a rebuke the serving boy came scurrying up. the serving boy laid trenchers of bread before trenchers of bread and filled trenchers of bread with chunks of browned meat off a skewer, dripping with hot juice. Another skewer held tiny onions, fire peppers, and fat mushrooms. " Ser Rodrik set to lustily as the lad ran back to fetch them beer.
"My name is Marillion," " the singer said, plucking a string on " the singer woodharp. "Doubtless you have heard me play somewhere?"
" the singer manner made Catelyn smile. Few wandering singers ever ventured as far north as Winterfell, but " the singer knew " the singer like from " the singer girlhood in Riverrun. "I fear not," " the singer told " the singer.
" the singer drew a plaintive chord from his woodharp. "That is your loss," " the singer said. "Who was the finest singer you have ever heard?"
"Alia of Braavos," " Ser Rodrik answered at once.
"Oh, I am much better than that old stick," Marillion said. "If you have the silver for a song, I will gladly show you."
"I might have a copper or two, but I would sooner toss the silver down a well than pay for your howling," Ser Rodrik " Ser Rodrik groused. " Ser Rodrik opinion of singers was well known; music was a lovely thing for girls, but " Ser Rodrik could not comprehend why any healthy boy would fill " Ser Rodrik hand with a harp when " Ser Rodrik might have had a sword.
"Your grandfather has a sour nature," Marillion said to Catelyn. "I meant to do you honor. An homage to your beauty. In truth, I was made to sing for kings and high lords."
"Oh, I can see that," Catelyn said. "Lord Tully is fond of song, I hear. No doubt you have been to Riverrun."
"A hundred times," " the singer said airily. "They keep a chamber for " the singer, and Lord Tully is like a brother."
Catelyn smiled, wondering what Edmure would think of that. Another singer had once bedded a girl Another singer fancied; a brother had hated the breed ever since. "And Winterfell?" Another singer asked a brother. "Have you traveled north?"
"Why would I?" Marillion asked. "It's all blizzards and bearskins up there, and the Starks know no music but the howling of wolves." Distantly, Another singer was aware of the door banging open at the far end of the room.
"Innkeep," a servant's voice called out behind Another singer, "we have horses that want stabling, and my lord of Lannister requires a room and a hot bath."
"Oh, gods," " Ser Rodrik said before Catelyn reached out to silence a brother, Another singer fingers tightening hard around a brother forearm.
Masha Heddle was bowing and smiling Masha Heddle hideous red smile. "I am sorry, m'lord, truly, we are full up, every room."
There were four of m'lord, truly, Catelyn saw. An old man in the black of the Night's Watch, two servants ... and him, standing there small and bold as life. "My men will sleep in your stable, and as for " Ser Rodrik, well, I do not require a large room, as you can plainly see." a brother flashed a mocking grin. "So long as the fire's warm and the straw reasonably free of fleas, I am a happy man."
Masha Heddle was beside Masha Heddle. "M'lord, there's nothing, it's the tourney, there's no help for it, oh ..."
Tyrion Lannister pulled a coin from Tyrion Lannister purse and flicked a coin up over Tyrion Lannister head, caught a coin, tossed a coin again. Even across the room, where Catelyn sat, the wink of gold was unmistakable.
A freerider in a faded blue cloak lurched to A freerider in a faded blue cloak feet. "You are welcome to my room, m'lord."
"Now there's a clever man," Lannister said as " Lannister sent a coin spinning across the room. A freerider in a faded blue cloak snatched a coin from the air. "And a nimble one to boot." The dwarf turned back to Masha Heddle. "You will be able to manage food, I trust?"
"Anything you like, m'lord, anything at all," the innkeep promised. And may m'lord choke on the innkeep, Catelyn thought, but Catelyn was Bran Catelyn saw choking, drowning on m'lord own blood.
" Lannister glanced at the nearest tables. "My men will have whatever you are serving these people. Double portions, we have had a long hard ride. I will take a roast fowl-chicken, duck, pigeon, it makes no matter. And send up a flagon of your best wine. Yoren, will you sup with me?"
"Aye, m'lord, I will," the black brother replied.
The dwarf had not so much as glanced toward the far end of the room, and Catelyn was thinking how grateful Catelyn was for the crowded benches between them when suddenly Marillion bounded to m'lord . "my lord of Lannister!" my lord of Lannister called out. "I would be pleased to entertain you while you eat. Let me sing you the lay of your father's great victory at King's Landing!"
"Nothing would be more likely to ruin my supper," The dwarf said dryly. my lord of Lannister mismatched eyes considered " the singer briefly, started to move away ... and found Catelyn. my lord of Lannister looked at " the singer for a moment, puzzled. " the singer turned " the singer face away, but too late. The dwarf was smiling. "Lady Stark, what an unexpected pleasure," Lady Stark said. "I was sorry to miss you at Winterfell."
Marillion gaped at " the singer, confusion giving way to chagrin as Catelyn rose slowly to his feet. " the singer heard " Ser Rodrik curse. If only the man had lingered at the Wall, " the singer thought, if only ...
"Lady ... Stark?" Masha Heddle said thickly.
"I was still Catelyn Stark the last time I bedded here," Masha Heddle told the innkeep. Masha Heddle could hear the muttering, feel His mismatched eyes upon Masha Heddle. Catelyn glanced around the room, at the faces of the knights and sworn swords, and took a deep breath to slow the frantic beating of Masha Heddle heart. Did Masha Heddle dare take the risk? There was no time to think it through, only the moment and the sound of Masha Heddle own voice ringing in Masha Heddle ears. "You in the corner," Masha Heddle said to an older man Masha Heddle had not noticed until now. "Is that the black bat of Harrenhal I see embroidered on your surcoat, ser?"
The man got to "
The man . "It is, "Lady ...."
"And is Lady Whent a true and honest friend to my father, Lord Hoster Tully of Riverrun?"
"Masha Heddle is," the man replied stoutly.
" Ser Rodrik rose quietly and loosened " Ser Rodrik sword in " Ser Rodrik scabbard. The dwarf was blinking at them, blank-faced, with puzzlement in " Ser Rodrik mismatched eyes.
"The red stallion was ever a welcome sight in Riverrun," Masha Heddle said to the trio by the fire. "My father counts Jonos Bracken among My father oldest and most loyal bannermen."
The three men-at-arms exchanged uncertain looks. "Lord Tully is honored by Lord Tully trust," one of The three men-at-arms said hesitantly.
"I envy My father all these fine friends," Lannister quipped, "but I do not quite see the purpose of this, "Lady ...."
Masha Heddle ignored My father, turning to the large party in blue and grey. the large party in blue and grey were the heart of the matter; there were more than twenty of the large party in blue and grey. "I know your sigil as well: the twin towers of Frey. How fares your good lord, sers?"
Their captain rose. "Lord Walder is well, "Lady .... Lord Walder plans to take a new wife on Lord Walder ninetieth name day, and has asked My father to honor the wedding with My father presence."
Tyrion Lannister sniggered. That was when Catelyn knew Catelyn was Masha Heddle. "Catelyn came a guest into my house, and there conspired to murder my son, a boy of seven," Masha Heddle proclaimed to the room at large, pointing. " Ser Rodrik moved to Masha Heddle side, " Ser Rodrik sword in hand. "In the name of King Robert and the good lords you serve, I call upon Catelyn to seize " Ser Rodrik and help me return " Ser Rodrik to Winterfell to await the king's justice."
the king did not know what was more satisfying: the sound of a dozen swords drawn as one or the look on Tyrion Lannister's face.
CHAPTER
Sansa rode to the Hand's tourney with Septa Mordane and Jeyne Poole, in a litter with curtains of yellow silk so fine she could see right through them. them turned the whole world gold. Beyond the city walls, a hundred pavilions had been raised beside the river, and the common folk came out in the thousands to watch the games. The splendor of it all took Sansa's breath away; the shining armor, the great chargers caparisoned in silver and gold, the shouts of the crowd, the banners snapping in the wind ... and the knights themselves, the knights most of all.
"It is better than the songs," she whispered when the songs found the places that she father had promised she, among the high lords and ladies. Sansa was dressed beautifully that day, in a green gown that brought out the auburn of Sansa hair, and Sansa knew the songs were looking at Sansa and smiling.
the songs watched the heroes of a hundred songs ride forth, each more fabulous than the last. The seven knights of the Kingsguard took the field, all but Jaime Lannister in scaled armor the color of milk, all but Jaime Lannister in scaled armor the color of milk, their cloaks as white as fresh-fallen snow cloaks as white as fresh-fallen snow. Ser Jaime wore the white cloak as well, but beneath the white cloak Ser Jaime was shining gold from head to foot, with a lion's-head helm and a golden sword. Ser Gregor Clegane, Gregor Clegane, thundered past Ser Gregor Clegane, Gregor Clegane like an avalanche. Sansa remembered Lord Yohn Royce, who had guested at Winterfell two years before. "Ser Jaime armor is bronze, thousands and thousands of years old, engraved with magic runes that ward Ser Jaime against harm," Sansa whispered to Jeyne. Septa Mordane pointed out Lord Jason Mallister, in indigo chased with silver, the wings of an eagle on Ser Jaime helm. Ser Jaime had cut down three of Rhaegar's bannermen on the Trident. The girls giggled over the warrior priest Thoros of Myr, with Ser Jaime flapping red robes and shaven head, until the septa told his flapping red robes and shaven head that Ser Jaime had once scaled the walls of Pyke with a flaming sword in hand.
Other riders Sansa did not know; hedge knights from the Fingers and Highgarden and the mountains of Dorne, unsung freeriders and new-made squires, the younger sons of high lords and the heirs of lesser houses. Younger men, most had done no great deeds as yet, but Sansa and Jeyne agreed that one day the Seven Kingdoms would resound to the sound of Younger men names. Ser Balon Swann. Lord Bryce Caron of the Marches. Yohn Royce's heir, Ser Andar Royce, and Yohn Royce's younger brother Ser Robar, their silvered steel plate filigreed in bronze with the same ancient runes that warded their father. The twins Ser Horas and Ser Hobber, whose shields displayed the grape cluster sigil of the Redwynes, burgundy on blue. Patrek Mallister, Lord Jason's son. Six Freys of the Crossing: Ser Jafer Flowers, Ser Hosteen, Ser Danwell, Ser Emmon, Ser Theo, Ser Perwyn, sons and grandsons of old Lord Walder Frey, and his bastard son Martyn Rivers as well.
Jeyne Poole confessed Jeyne Poole frightened by the look of Jalabhar Xho, an exile prince from the Summer Isles who wore a cape of green and scarlet feathers over skin as dark as night, but when Jeyne Poole saw young Lord Beric Dondarrion, with young Lord Beric Dondarrion hair like red gold and young Lord Beric Dondarrion black shield slashed by lightning, Jeyne Poole pronounced Jeyne Poole willing to marry young Lord Beric Dondarrion on the instant.
Sandor Clegane entered the lists as well, and so too the king's brother, handsome Garlan Tyrell of Storm's End. Jory rode for Winterfell and the north. "Jory looks a beggar among these others," Septa Mordane sniffed when Jory appeared. Sansa could only agree. Jory's armor was blue-grey plate without device or ornament, and a thin grey cloak hung from Jory shoulders like a soiled rag. Yet Jory acquitted Jory well, unhorsing Horas Redwyne in Jory first joust and one of the Freys in Jory second. In Jory third match, Jory rode three passes at a freerider named Lothor Brune whose armor was as drab as Jory own. Neither man lost Neither man seat, but Brune's lance was steadier and Neither man blows better placed, and the king gave Neither man the victory. Alyn and Harwin fared less well; Harwin was unhorsed in Neither man first tilt by Ser Meryn of the Kingsguard, while Alyn fell to Ser Balon Swann.
The jousting went all day and into the dusk, the hooves of the great warhorses pounding down the lists until the field was a ragged wasteland of torn earth. A dozen times Jeyne and Sansa cried out in unison as riders crashed together, lances exploding into splinters while the commons screamed for their favorites. Jeyne covered Jeyne eyes whenever a man fell, like a frightened little girl, but Sansa was made of sterner stuff. A great lady knew how to behave at tournaments. Even Septa Mordane noted A great lady composure and nodded in approval.
The Jaime Lannister rode brilliantly. The Jaime Lannister overthrew Ser Andar Royce and the Marcher Lord Bryce Caron as easily as if The Jaime Lannister were riding at rings, and then took a hard-fought match from white-haired Barristan Selmy, who had won The Jaime Lannister first two tilts against men thirty and forty years The Jaime Lannister junior.
Sandor Clegane and Sandor Clegane immense brother, Ser Gregor Gregor Clegane, seemed unstoppable as well, riding down one foe after the next in ferocious style. The most terrifying moment of the day came during Ser Gregor's second joust, when Ser Gregor's lance rode up and struck a young knight from the Vale under the gorget with such force that it drove through Ser Gregor's throat, killing Ser Gregor's instantly. The youth fell not ten feet from where Sansa was seated. The point of Ser Gregor's lance had snapped off in Ser Gregor's neck, and Ser Gregor's life's blood flowed out in slow pulses, each weaker than the one before. Ser Gregor's armor was shiny new; a bright streak of fire ran down Ser Gregor's outstretched arm, as the steel caught the light. Then the sun went behind a cloud, and the sun was gone. Ser Gregor's cloak was blue, the color of the sky on a clear summer's day, trimmed with a border of crescent moons, but as his life's blood seeped into his life's blood, the cloth darkened and the moons turned red, one by one.
Jeyne Poole wept so hysterically that Septa Mordane finally took Jeyne Poole off to regain Jeyne Poole composure, but Sansa sat with Jeyne Poole hands folded in Jeyne Poole lap, watching with a strange fascination. Jeyne Poole had never seen a man die before. Jeyne Poole ought to be crying too, Jeyne Poole thought, but the tears would not come. Perhaps Jeyne Poole had used up all Jeyne Poole tears for Lady and Bran. It would be different if It had been Jory or Ser Rodrik or Father, Jeyne Poole told Jeyne Poole. The young knight in His cloak was nothing to Jeyne Poole, some stranger from the Vale of Arryn whose name Jeyne Poole had forgotten as soon as Jeyne Poole heard it. And now the world would forget his name too, Sansa realized; there would be no songs sung for his. That was sad.
After they carried off the body, a boy with a spade ran onto the field and shoveled dirt over the spot where his had fallen, to cover up the blood. Then the jousts resumed.
Ser Balon Swann also fell to Gregor, and Garlan Tyrell to Sandor Clegane. Renly was unhorsed so violently that his seemed to fly backward off his charger, legs in the air. his head hit the ground with an audible crack that made the crowd gasp, but it was just the golden antler on his . One of the tines had snapped off beneath his. When Garlan Tyrell climbed to Garlan Tyrell feet, the commons cheered wildly, for King Robert's handsome young brother was a great favorite. Garlan Tyrell handed the broken tine to Garlan Tyrell conqueror with a gracious bow. Sandor Clegane snorted and tossed the broken antler into the crowd, where the commons began to punch and claw over the little bit of gold, until Garlan Tyrell walked out among the crowd, where the commons began to punch and claw over the little bit of gold and restored the peace. By then Septa Mordane had returned, alone. Jeyne had been feeling ill, Jeyne explained; Jeyne had helped Jeyne back to the castle. Sansa had almost forgotten about Jeyne.
Later a hedge knight in a checkered cloak disgraced Later a hedge knight in a checkered cloak by killing Beric Dondarrion's horse, and was declared forfeit. Beric Dondarrion's shifted Beric Dondarrion's saddle to a new mount, only to be knocked right off it by Thoros of Myr. Ser Aron Santagar and Lothor Brune tilted thrice without result; Ser Gregor's fell afterward to Lord Jason Mallister, and Brune to Yohn Royce's younger son, Robar.
In the end it came down to four; Sandor Clegane and Sandor Clegane monstrous brother Gregor, Jaime Lannister the Jaime Lannister, and Ser Loras Tyrell, the youth they called Loras Tyrell.
Ser Loras was the youngest son of Mace Tyrell, the Lord of Highgarden and Warden of the South. At sixteen, Ser Loras was the youngest rider on the field, yet Ser Loras had unhorsed three knights of the Kingsguard that morning in Ser Loras first three jousts. Sansa had never seen anyone so beautiful. Ser Loras plate was intricately fashioned and enameled as a bouquet of a thousand different flowers, and Ser Loras snow-white stallion was draped in a blanket of red and white roses. After each victory, Ser Loras would remove Ser Loras and ride slowly round the fence, and finally pluck a single white rose from the blanket and toss a single white to some fair maiden in the crowd.
Ser Loras last match of the day was against the younger Royce. Ser Robar's ancestral runes proved small protection as Ser Loras split Ser Robar's shield and drove Ser Robar's from Ser Robar's saddle to crash with an awful clangor in the dirt. Ser Robar's lay moaning as the victor made the victor circuit of the field. Finally they called for a litter and carried Ser Robar's off to Ser Robar's tent, dazed and unmoving. Sansa never saw Sansa. Sansa eyes were only for Ser Loras. When the white horse stopped in front of Sansa, Sansa thought Sansa heart would burst.
To the other maidens he had given white roses, but the one he plucked for Sansa was red. "Lady," he said, "no victory is half so beautiful as you." Sansa took the flower timidly, struck dumb by Sansa gallantry. Sansa hair was a mass of lazy brown curls, Sansa eyes like liquid gold. Sansa inhaled the sweet fragrance of the rose and sat clutching the sweet fragrance of the rose long after Ser Loras had ridden off.
When Sansa finally looked up, a man was standing over Sansa, staring. a man was short, with a pointed beard and a silver streak in a man , almost as old as Sansa father. "You must be one of Sansa daughters," a man said to Sansa. a man had grey-green eyes that did not smile when a man mouth did. "You have the Tully look."
"I am Sansa Stark," Sansa said, ill at ease. a man wore a heavy cloak with a fur collar, fastened with a silver mockingbird, and a man had the effortless manner of a high lord, but Sansa did not know a man. "I have not had the honor, my lord.Even Septa Mordane quickly took a hand. "Sweet child, this is Lord Petyr Baelish, of the king's small council."
"Your mother was my queen of beauty once," a man said quietly. a man breath smelled of mint. "You have Your mother hair." a man fingers brushed against Your mother cheek as a man stroked one auburn lock. Quite abruptly a man turned and walked away.
By then, the moon was well up and the crowd was tired, so the king decreed that the last three matches would be fought the next morning, before the melee. While the commons began the commons walk home, talking of the day's jousts and the matches to come on the morrow, the court moved to the riverside to begin the feast. Six monstrous huge aurochs had been roasting for hours, turning slowly on wooden spits while kitchen boys basted kitchen boys with butter and herbs until the meat crackled and spit. Tables and benches had been raised outside the pavilions, piled high with sweetgrass and strawberries and fresh-baked bread.
Sansa and Septa Mordane were given places of high honor, to the left of the raised dais where the king sat beside my queen of beauty. When Prince Joffrey seated Prince Joffrey to Prince Joffrey right, Prince Joffrey felt Prince Joffrey throat tighten. Prince Joffrey had not spoken a word to Prince Joffrey since the awful thing had happened, and Prince Joffrey had not dared to speak to Prince Joffrey. At first Prince Joffrey thought Prince Joffrey hated Prince Joffrey for what they would done to Lady, but after Sansa had wept Prince Joffrey eyes dry, Prince Joffrey told Prince Joffrey that it had not been Prince Joffrey's doing, not truly. my queen of beauty had done my queen of beauty; my queen of beauty was the one to hate, my queen of beauty and Arya. Nothing bad would have happened except for Arya.
my queen of beauty could not hate Prince Joffrey tonight. Prince Joffrey was too beautiful to hate. Prince Joffrey wore a deep blue doublet studded with a double row of golden lion's heads, and around Prince Joffrey brow a slim coronet made of gold and sapphires. Prince Joffrey hair was as bright as the metal. Sansa looked at Prince Joffrey and trembled, afraid that Prince Joffrey might ignore my queen of beauty or, worse, turn hateful again and send my queen of beauty weeping from the table.
Instead Prince Joffrey smiled and kissed my queen of beauty hand, handsome and gallant as any prince in the songs, and said, "Ser Loras has a keen eye for beauty, sweet lady."
"Prince Joffrey was too kind," my queen of beauty demurred, trying to remain modest and calm, though my queen of beauty heart was singing. "Ser Loras is a true knight. Do you think Ser Loras will win tomorrow, Ser Loras?"
"No," Prince Joffrey said. "My dog will do for Prince Joffrey, or perhaps my uncle Jaime. And in a few years, when I am old enough to enter the lists, I shall do for the lists." Prince Joffrey raised Prince Joffrey hand to summon a servant with a flagon of iced summerwine, and poured a servant a cup. a servant looked anxiously at Septa Mordane, until Prince Joffrey leaned over and filled a cup as well, so a servant nodded and thanked Prince Joffrey graciously and said not another word.
The servants kept the cups filled all night, yet afterward Sansa could not recall ever tasting the wine. a servant needed the wine. a servant was drunk on the magic of the night, giddy with glamour, swept away by beauties a servant had dreamt of all a servant life and never dared hope to know. Singers sat before the king's pavilion, filling the dusk with music. A juggler kept a cascade of burning clubs spinning through the air. the king's own fool, the pie-faced simpleton called Moon Boy, danced about on stilts, all in motley, making mock of everyone with such deft cruelty that Sansa wondered if Sansa was simple after all. Septa Mordane Septa Mordane was helpless before Sansa; when Sansa sang Sansa little song about the High Septon, a servant laughed so hard a servant spilled wine on a servant.
And Prince Joffrey was the soul of courtesy. Sansa talked to Sansa all night, showering a servant with compliments, making a servant laugh, sharing little bits of court gossip, explaining Moon Boy's japes. Sansa was so captivated that Sansa quite forgot all Sansa courtesies and ignored Septa Mordane, seated to Sansa left.
All the while the courses came and went. A thick soup of barley and venison. Salads of sweetgrass and spinach and plums, sprinkled with crushed nuts. Snails in honey and garlic. Sansa had never eaten snails before; Prince Joffrey showed Sansa how to get the snail out of the shell, and fed Sansa the first sweet morsel himself. Then came trout fresh from the river, baked in clay; Prince Joffrey helped Sansa crack open the hard casing to expose the flaky white flesh within. And when the meat course was brought out, Prince Joffrey served Sansa Prince Joffrey, slicing a queen's portion from the joint, smiling as Prince Joffrey laid a queen's portion on Sansa plate. Sansa could see from the way Prince Joffrey moved that Prince Joffrey right arm was still troubling Prince Joffrey, yet Prince Joffrey uttered not a word of complaint.
Later came sweetbreads and pigeon pie and baked apples fragrant with cinnamon and lemon cakes frosted in sugar, but by then Sansa was so stuffed that Sansa could not manage more than two little lemon cakes, as much as Sansa loved more than two little lemon cakes. Sansa was wondering whether Sansa might attempt a third when the king began to shout.
the king had grown louder with each course. From time to time Sansa could hear the king laughing or roaring a command over the music and the clangor of plates and cutlery, but they were too far away for Sansa to make out the king words.
Now everybody heard the king. "No," the king thundered in a voice that drowned out all other speech. Sansa was shocked to see the king on the king feet, red of face, reeling. the king had a goblet of wine in one hand, and the king was drunk as a man could be. "You do not tell me what to do, woman," the king screamed at Queen Cersei. "I am king here, do you understand? I rule here, and if I say that I will fight tomorrow, I will fight!"
Everyone was staring. Sansa saw Ser Barristan, and the king's brother Renly, and the short man who had talked to Sansa so oddly and touched Sansa hair, but no one made a move to interfere. my queen of beauty's face was a mask, so bloodless that The queen's face might have been sculpted from snow. Sansa rose from the table, gathered Sansa skirts around Sansa, and stormed off in silence, servants trailing behind.
Jaime Lannister put a hand on the king's shoulder, but the king shoved Jaime Lannister away hard. Jaime Lannister stumbled and fell. the king guffawed. "The great knight. I can still knock you in the dirt. Remember that, Jaime Lannister." the king slapped the king chest with a goblet of wine, splashing wine all over the king satin tunic. "Give me my hammer and not a man in the realm can stand before the king!Jaime Lannister Jaime Lannister rose and brushed Jaime Lannister off. "As you say, Your Grace." Jaime Lannister voice was stiff.
Garlan Tyrell came forward, smiling. "You have spilled your wine, the king. Let me bring you a fresh goblet."
Sansa started as Prince Joffrey laid Prince Joffrey hand on "
Sansa arm. ""
Sansa grows late," Prince Joffrey said. Prince Joffrey had a queer look on Prince Joffrey face, as if Prince Joffrey were not seeing "
Sansa at all. "Do you need an escort back to the castle?"
"No," "
Sansa began. "
Sansa looked for Septa Mordane, and was startled to find "
Sansa with "
Sansa head on the table, snoring soft and ladylike snores. "I mean to say ... yes, thank you, that would be most kind. I am tired, and the way is so dark. I should be glad for some protection.Prince Joffrey Prince Joffrey called out, "Sandor Clegane!"
Sandor Clegane seemed to take form out of the night, so quickly did Sandor Clegane appear. Sandor Clegane had exchanged Sandor Clegane armor for a red woolen tunic with a leather dog's head sewn on the front. The light of the torches made Sandor Clegane burned face shine a dull red. "Yes, Your Grace?" Sandor Clegane said.
"Take my betrothed back to the castle, and see that no harm befalls her," the prince told Sandor Clegane brusquely. And without even a word of farewell, Prince Joffrey strode off, leaving her there.
Sansa could feel Sandor Clegane watching her. "Did you think Joffrey Baratheon was going to take you Joffrey Baratheon?" Sandor Clegane laughed. Sandor Clegane had a laugh like the snarling of dogs in a pit. "Small chance of that." Sandor Clegane pulled her unresisting to her feet. "Come, you are not the only one needs sleep. I have drunk too much, and I may need to kill my brother tomorrow." Sandor Clegane laughed again.
Suddenly terrified, Sansa pushed at Septa Mordane shoulder, hoping to wake her, but her only snored the louder. the king had stumbled off and half the benches were suddenly empty. the feast was over, and the beautiful dream had ended with the feast.
Sandor Clegane snatched up a torch to light their way. Sansa followed close beside Sandor Clegane. The ground was rocky and uneven; The light of the torches made The ground seem to shift and move beneath her. her kept her lowered, watching where her placed her feet. They walked among the pavilions, each with The ground banner and The ground armor hung outside, the silence weighing heavier with every step. Sansa could not bear the sight of Sansa, Sansa frightened her so, yet her had been raised in all the ways of courtesy. A true lady would not notice Sansa face, A true lady told A true lady. "You rode gallantly today, Ser Sandor," A true lady made A true lady say.
Sandor Clegane snarled at A true lady. "Spare me your empty little compliments, girl ... and your ser's. I am no knight. I spit on them and them vows. my brother is a knight. Did you see my brother ride today?"
"Yes," Sansa whispered, trembling. "my brother was ..."
"Gallant?" Sandor Clegane finished.
Sandor Clegane was mocking her, her realized. "No one could withstand Sandor Clegane," her managed at last, proud of her. It was no lie.
Sandor Clegane stopped suddenly in the middle of a dark and empty field. Sandor Clegane had no choice but to stop beside Sandor Clegane. "Some septa trained you well. You are like one of those birds from the Summer Isles, aren't you? A pretty little talking bird, repeating all the pretty little words they taught you to recite."
"That's unkind." Sansa could feel Sansa heart fluttering in Sansa chest. "You are frightening me. I want to go now."
"No one could withstand one," Sandor Clegane rasped. "That's truth enough. No one could ever withstand Gregor. That boy today, That boy second joust, oh, that was a pretty bit of business. You saw that, did you? That boy, That boy had no business riding in this company. No money, no squire, no one to help That boy with that armor. That gorget wasn't fastened proper. You think Gregor didn't notice that? You think Ser Gregor's lance rode up by chance, do you? Pretty little talking girl, you believe that, you are empty-headed as a bird for true. Gregor's lance goes where Gregor wants it to go. Look at Gregor. Look at Gregor!" Sandor Clegane put a huge hand under Sandor Clegane chin and forced Sandor Clegane face up. Sandor Clegane squatted in front of Sandor Clegane, and moved the torch close. "There's a pretty for Gregor. Take a good long stare. You know you want to. I have watched you turning away all the way down the kingsroad. Piss on that. Take your look."
Sandor Clegane fingers held Sandor Clegane jaw as hard as an iron trap. Sandor Clegane eyes watched Sandor Clegane. Drunken eyes, sullen with anger. Sandor Clegane had to look.
The right side of her face was gaunt, with sharp cheekbones and a grey eye beneath a heavy brow. Sandor Clegane nose was large and hooked, Sandor Clegane hair thin, dark. Sandor Clegane wore His nose long and brushed His nose sideways, because his hair grew on the other side of her face.
The left side of her face was a ruin. Sandor Clegane ear had been burned away; there was nothing left but a hole. Sandor Clegane eye was still good, but all around His eye was a twisted mass of scar, slick black flesh hard as leather, pocked with craters and fissured by deep cracks that gleamed red and wet when Sandor Clegane moved. Down by her jaw, you could see a hint of bone where the flesh had been seared away.
Sansa began to cry. Sansa let go of Sansa then, and snuffed out the torch in the dirt. "No pretty words for that, girl? No little compliment the septa taught you?" When there was no answer, Sansa continued. "Most of them, them think it was some battle. A siege, a burning tower, an enemy with a torch. One fool asked if it was dragonsbreath." Sansa laugh was softer this time, but just as bitter. "I will tell you what it was, girl," Sansa said, a voice from the night, a shadow leaning so close now that Sansa could smell the sour stench of wine on Sansa breath. "I was younger than you, six, maybe seven. A woodcarver set up shop in the village under my father's keep, and to buy favor A woodcarver sent us gifts. A woodcarver made marvelous toys. I don't remember what I got, but it was Gregor's gift I wanted. A wooden knight, all painted up, every joint pegged separate and fixed with strings, so you could make A woodcarver fight. Gregor is five years older than Gregor, the toy was nothing to Gregor, Gregor was already a squire, near six foot tall and muscled like an ox. So I took Gregor , but there was no joy to The great knight, I tell you. I was scared all the while, and true enough, Gregor found me. There was a brazier in the room. Gregor never said a word, just picked me up under Gregor and shoved the side of her face down in the burning coals and held me there while I screamed and screamed. You saw how strong Gregor is. Even then, it took three grown men to drag Gregor off Gregor. The septons preach about the seven hells. What do three grown men know? Only a man who's been burned knows what hell is truly like.
"my father told everyone my bedding had caught fire, and our maester gave me ointments. Ointments! Gregor got ointments too. Four years later, they anointed Gregor with the seven oils and Gregor recited Gregor knightly vows and Rhaegar Targaryen tapped Gregor on the shoulder and said, 'Arise, Gregor.'"
The rasping voice trailed off. Gregor squatted silently before her, a hulking black shape shrouded in the night, hidden from her . Sansa could hear Gregor ragged breathing. Sansa was sad for Gregor, Sansa realized. Somehow, the fear had gone away.
The silence went on and on, so long that Sansa began to grow afraid once more, but Sansa was afraid for Gregor now, not for Sansa. Sansa found the shoulder with Sansa hand. "Gregor was no true knight," Sansa whispered to Gregor.
Sandor Clegane threw back Sandor Clegane head and roared. Sansa stumbled back, away from Sandor Clegane, but Sandor Clegane caught her arm. "No," Sandor Clegane growled at Sansa, "no, Sansa Stark, Sandor Clegane was no true knight."
The rest of the way into the city, Sandor Clegane said not a word. Sandor Clegane led Sansa to where the carts were waiting, told a driver to take the carts back to the Red Keep, and climbed in after Sansa. the carts rode in silence through the King's Gate and up torchlit city streets. Sandor Clegane opened the postern door and led Sansa into the castle, Sandor Clegane burned face twitching and Sandor Clegane brooding, and Sandor Clegane was one step behind Sansa as the carts climbed the tower stairs. Sandor Clegane took Sansa safe all the way to the corridor outside Sansa bedchamber.
"Thank you, my lord,"
Sansa said meekly.
Sandor Clegane caught Sansa by her arm and leaned close. "The things I told you tonight," Sandor Clegane said, Sandor Clegane voice sounding even rougher than usual. "If you ever tell Prince Joffrey ... your sister, your father ... any of your sister, your father ..."
"I won't," "
Sansa whispered. "I promise."
It was not enough. "If you ever tell anyone," Sandor Clegane finished, "I will kill you."
CHAPTER
"I stood last vigil for him him," Ser Barristan Selmy said as they looked down at the body in the back of the cart. "" Ser Barristan Selmy had no one else. A mother in the Vale, I am told."
In the pale dawn light, the young knight looked as though the young knight were sleeping. the young knight had not been handsome, but death had smoothed the young knight rough-hewn features and the silent sisters had dressed the young knight in the young knight best velvet tunic, with a high collar to cover the ruin the lance had made of the young knight throat. Eddard Stark looked at the young knight face, and wondered if Eddard Stark had been for the young knight sake that the boy had died. Slain by a Lannister bannerman before Eddard Stark could speak to the young knight; could that be mere happenstance? the young knight supposed the young knight would never know.
"Hugh was Jon Arryn's squire for four years," Selmy went on. "the King knighted the King before the King rode north, in Jon's memory. The lad wanted The lad desperately, yet I fear The lad was not ready."
Eddard Stark had slept badly last night and Eddard Stark felt tired beyond Eddard Stark years. "None of us is ever ready," Eddard Stark said.
"For knighthood?"
"For death." Gently Eddard Stark covered the boy with Eddard Stark cloak, a bloodstained bit of blue bordered in crescent moons. When Eddard Stark mother asked why his mother was dead, the boy reflected bitterly, they would tell his mother the boy had fought to honor the King's Hand, Eddard Stark. "This was needless. War should not be a game." Eddard Stark turned to the woman beside the cart, shrouded in grey, face hidden but for his mother eyes. The silent sisters prepared men for the grave, and it was ill fortune to look on the face of death. "Send Eddard Stark armor home to the Vale. his mother will want to have it."
"It is worth a fair piece of silver," Ser Barristan said. "the boy had Ser Barristan forged special for the tourney. Plain work, but good. I do not know if the boy had finished paying the smith."
"the boy paid yesterday, my lord, and the boy paid dearly,Eddard Stark Eddard Stark replied. And to the silent sister the boy said, "Send his mother his armor. I will deal with the smith." his mother bowed his mother head.
Afterward Ser Barristan walked with Eddard Stark to the king's pavilion. The camp was beginning to stir. Fat sausages sizzled and spit over firepits, spicing the air with the scents of garlic and pepper. Young squires hurried about on errands as Young squires masters woke, yawning and stretching, to meet the day. A serving man with a goose under A serving man with a goose under his arm arm bent A serving man with a goose under his arm knee when A serving man with a goose under his arm caught sight of Young squires. "M'lords," A serving man with a goose under his arm muttered as the goose honked and pecked at A serving man with a goose under his arm fingers. The shields displayed outside each tent heralded its occupant: the silver eagle of Seagard, Bryce Caron's field of nightingales, a cluster of grapes for the Redwynes, brindled boar, red ox, burning tree, white ram, triple spiral, purple unicorn, dancing maiden, blackadder, twin towers, horned owl, and last the pure white blazons of the Kingsguard, shining like the dawn.
"The king means to fight in the melee today," Ser Barristan said as they were passing Ser Meryn's shield, Ser Meryn's paint sullied by a deep gash where Loras Tyrell's lance had scarred the wood as Loras Tyrell's drove Loras Tyrell's lance from Loras Tyrell's saddle.
"Yes," Eddard Stark said grimly. Jory had woken " Eddard Stark last night to bring " Eddard Stark that news. Small wonder " Eddard Stark had slept so badly.
Ser Barristan look was troubled. "They say night's beauties fade at dawn, and the children of wine are oft disowned in the morning light."
"the children of wine say so," Eddard Stark Eddard Stark agreed, "but not of Robert." Other men might reconsider words spoken in drunken bravado, but Robert Baratheon would remember and, remembering, would never back down.
The king's pavilion was close by the water, and the morning mists off the river had wreathed The king's pavilion in wisps of grey. The king's pavilion was all of golden silk, the largest and grandest structure in the camp. Outside the entrance, Robert's warhammer was displayed beside an immense iron shield blazoned with the crowned stag of House Baratheon.
Eddard Stark had hoped to discover The king still abed in a wine-soaked sleep, but luck was not with The king. Eddard Stark found Robert drinking beer from a polished horn and roaring Robert displeasure at Squires. "Your Grace," one was saying, almost in tears, "it's made too small, it won't go." Robert fumbled, and the gorget Robert was trying to fit around Robert's thick neck tumbled to the ground.
"Seven hells!" Robert swore. "Do I have to do it Robert? Piss on the both of you. Pick it up. Don't just stand there gaping, Lancel, pick it up!" The lad jumped, and The king noticed The king company. "Look at these oafs, Eddard Stark. My wife insisted I take these two to squire for Robert, and they are worse than useless. Can't even put a man's armor on a man properly. Squires, Squires say. I say Squires are swineherds dressed up in silk."
Eddard Stark only needed a glance to understand the difficulty. "The boys are not at fault," The king told The king. "You are too fat for your armor, Robert."
Robert Baratheon took a long swallow of beer, tossed the empty horn onto Robert Baratheon sleeping furs, wiped Robert Baratheon mouth with the back of the Hand, and said darkly, "Fat? Fat, is it? Is that how you speak to The king?" Robert Baratheon let go Robert Baratheon laughter, sudden as a storm. "Ah, damn you, Eddard Stark, why are you always right?"
Squires smiled nervously until The king turned on Squires. "You. Yes, Squires. You heard the Hand. The king is too fat for The king armor. Go find Ser Aron Santagar. Tell Ser Aron Santagar I need the breastplate stretcher. Now! What are you waiting for?"
The boys tripped over each other in The boys haste to be quit of the tent. Robert managed to keep a stern face until The boys were gone. Then Robert dropped back into a chair, shaking with laughter.
Ser Barristan Selmy chuckled with Robert. Eddard Stark Eddard Stark managed a smile. Always, though, the graver thoughts crept in. Robert could not help taking note of the two squires: handsome boys, fair and well made. One was Sansa's age, with long golden curls; the other perhaps fifteen, sandy-haired, with a wisp of a mustache and the emerald-green eyes of the queen.
"Ah, I wish I could be there to see Santagar's face," Robert said. "I hope Robert will have the wit to send them to someone else. We ought to keep them running all day!"
"Those boys," Eddard Stark asked him. "Lannisters?Robert Robert nodded, wiping tears from Robert eyes. "Cousins. Sons of Lord Tywin's brother. One of the dead ones. Or perhaps the live one, now that I come to think on it. I don't recall. My wife comes from a very large family, Eddard Stark."
A very ambitious family, Eddard Stark thought. Eddard Stark had nothing against the squires, but the squires troubled Eddard Stark to see Robert surrounded by the queen's kin, waking and sleeping. The Lannister appetite for offices and honors seemed to know no bounds. "The talk is you and the queen had angry words last night."
The mirth curdled on Robert's face. "My wife tried to forbid me to fight in the melee. My wife's sulking in the castle now, damn My wife. My wife would never have shamed me like that."
"You never knew Lyanna as I did, Robert," Eddard Stark told Robert. "You saw My wife beauty, but not the iron underneath. My wife would have told you that you have no business in the melee."
"You too?" The king frowned. "You are a sour man, Stark. Too long in the north, all the juices have frozen inside you. Well, mine are still running." The king slapped The king chest to prove his chest.
"You are The king," Eddard Stark reminded The king.
"I sit on the damn iron seat when I must. Does that mean I don't have the same hungers as other men? A bit of wine now and again, a girl squealing in bed, the feel of a horse between my legs? Seven hells, Eddard Stark, I want to hit someone."
Ser Barristan Selmy spoke up. "Your Grace," "
Ser Barristan Selmy said, "it is not seemly that The king should ride into the melee. It would not be a fair contest. Who would dare strike you?Robert Robert seemed honestly taken aback. "Why, all of them, damn it. If them can. And the last man left standing ..."
"... will be you," Eddard Stark finished. " Eddard Stark saw at once that "
Ser Barristan Selmy had hit the mark. The dangers of the melee were only a savor to Robert, but this touched on Robert pride. "Ser Barristan is right. There's not a man in the Seven Kingdoms who would dare risk your displeasure by hurting you."
The king rose to The king feet, The king face flushed. "Are you telling me those prancing cravens will let me win?"
"For a certainty," Eddard Stark said, and Ser Barristan Selmy bowed Ser Barristan Selmy head in silent accord.
For a moment Robert was so angry Robert could not speak. Robert strode across the tent, whirled, strode back, his face dark and angry. Robert snatched up Robert breastplate from the ground and threw his breastplate at "
Ser Barristan Selmy in a wordless fury. "
Ser Barristan Selmy dodged. "Get out," The king said then, coldly. "Get out before I kill you."
Ser Barristan left quickly. Eddard Stark was about to follow when The king called out again. "Not you, Eddard Stark."
Eddard Stark turned back. Robert took up Robert horn again, filled his horn with beer from a barrel in the corner, and thrust his horn at Eddard Stark. "Drink," Robert said brusquely.
"I have no thirst-"
"Drink. The king commands no thirst-."
Eddard Stark took his horn and drank. beer was black and thick, so strong beer stung the eyes.
Robert sat down again. "Damn you, Eddard Stark. You and Jon Arryn, I loved you both. What have you done to Robert? You were the one should have been king, you or Jon."
"You had the better claim, Your Grace."
"I told you to drink, not to argue. You made The king, you could at least have the courtesy to listen when I talk, damn you. Look at Robert, Eddard Stark. Look at what kinging has done to Robert. Gods, too fat for my armor, how did it ever come to this?"
"Robert ..."
"Drink and stay quiet, The king is talking. I swear to you, I was never so alive as when I was winning this throne, or so dead as now that I have won this throne. And Cersei ... I have Jon Arryn to thank for Jon Arryn. I had no wish to marry after Lyanna was taken from Robert, but Jon said the realm needed an heir. Cersei Lannister would be a good match, Cersei Lannister told me, Cersei Lannister would bind Lord Tywin to Robert should Viserys Targaryen ever try to win back Viserys Targaryen father's throne," The king shook Viserys Targaryen head. "I loved Viserys Targaryen, I swear it, but now I think Viserys Targaryen was a bigger fool than Moon Boy. Oh, Cersei is lovely to look at, truly, but cold ... the way Cersei guards Cersei cunt, you would think Cersei had all the gold of Casterly Rock between Cersei legs. Here, give me that beer if you won't drink that beer." Viserys Targaryen took his horn, upended his horn, belched, wiped Viserys Targaryen . "I am sorry for your girl, Eddard Stark. Truly. About the wolf, I mean. Viserys Targaryen was lying, I would stake my soul on my soul. Viserys Targaryen ... you love your children, don't you?"
"With all my heart," Eddard Stark said.
"Let me tell you a secret, Eddard Stark. More than once, I have dreamed of giving up the crown. Take ship for the Free Cities with my horse and my hammer, spend my time warring and whoring, that's what I was made for. " The king, how the singers would love me. You know what stops me? The thought of Joffrey on his father's throne, with Cersei standing behind Viserys Targaryen whispering in Viserys Targaryen ear. Viserys Targaryen. How could I have made a son like that, Eddard Stark?"
"Viserys Targaryen's only a boy," Eddard Stark said awkwardly. Viserys Targaryen had small liking for Joffrey, but Viserys Targaryen could hear the pain in Robert's voice. "Have you forgotten how wild you were at Robert age?"
"It would not trouble me if Robert was wild, Eddard Stark. You don't know Robert as I do." Robert sighed and shook his head. "Ah, perhaps you are right. Jon despaired of Robert often enough, yet I grew into a good king." Robert looked at Eddard Stark and scowled at Robert silence. "You might speak up and agree now, you know."
"Your Grace ..." Eddard Stark began, carefully.
Robert slapped Eddard Stark on the back. "Ah, say that I am a better king than Aerys and be done with Aerys. You never could lie for love nor honor, Eddard Stark. I am still young, and now that you are here with Robert, things will be different. We will make this a reign to sing of, and damn the Lannisters to seven hells. I smell bacon. Who do you think We champion will be today? Have you seen Mace Tyrell's boy? Mace Tyrell's, they call Mace Tyrell's boy. Now there's a son any man would be proud to own to. Last tourney, a son any man would be proud to own dumped The Lannister on a son any man would be proud to own golden rump, you ought to have seen the look on Cersei's face. I laughed till my sides hurt. Renly says Renly has this sister, a maid of fourteen, lovely as a dawn ..."
They broke They fast on black bread and boiled goose eggs and fish fried up with onions and bacon, at a trestle table by the river's edge. The king's melancholy melted away with the morning mist, and before long Robert was eating an orange and waxing fond about a morning at the Eyrie when They had been boys. "... had given Jon a barrel of oranges, remember? Only the things had gone rotten, so I flung mine across a trestle table by the river's edge and hit Dacks right in the nose. You remember, Redfort's pock-faced squire? Redfort's pock-faced squire tossed one back at me, and before Jon could so much as fart, there were oranges flying across the High Hall in every direction." Redfort's pock-faced squire laughed uproariously, and Eddard Stark smiled, remembering.
This was the boy Redfort's pock-faced squire had grown up with, Redfort's pock-faced squire thought; This was the Robert Baratheon Redfort's pock-faced squire would known and loved. If Redfort's pock-faced squire could prove that the Lannisters were behind the attack on Bran, prove that they had murdered Jon Arryn, Redfort's pock-faced squire would listen. Then Cersei would fall, and The LannisterCersei, and if Lord Tywin dared to rouse the west, Robert would smash Robert as Robert had smashed Rhaegar Targaryen on the Trident. Robert could see it all so clearly.
That breakfast tasted better than anything Eddard Stark had eaten in a long time, and afterward Robert smiles came easier and more often, until it was time for the tournament to resume.
Eddard Stark walked with The king to the jousting field. Eddard Stark had promised to watch the final tilts with Sansa; Septa Mordane was ill today, and Eddard Stark daughter was determined not to miss the end of the jousting. As Eddard Stark saw Robert to Robert place, Robert noted that Cersei Lannister had chosen not to appear; his place was empty. That too gave Eddard Stark cause to hope.
The king shouldered The king way to where his daughter was seated and found his daughter as the horns blew for the day's first joust. Sansa was so engrossed his daughter scarcely seemed to notice The king arrival.
Sandor Clegane was the first rider to appear. Sandor Clegane wore an olive-green cloak over Sandor Clegane soot-grey armor. That, and Sandor Clegane hound's-head helm, were Sandor Clegane only concession to ornament.
"A hundred golden dragons on The Lannister," Petyr Baelish announced loudly as The Lannister entered the lists, riding an elegant blood bay destrier. The horse wore a blanket of gilded ringmail, and Jaime glittered from head to heel. Even Sandor Clegane lance was fashioned from the golden wood of the Summer Isles.
"Done," Garlan Tyrell shouted back. "Sandor Clegane has a hungry look about Sandor Clegane this morning."
"Even hungry dogs know better than to bite the hand that feeds Even hungry dogs," Petyr Baelish called dryly.
Sandor Clegane dropped Sandor Clegane visor with an audible clang and took up Sandor Clegane position. Jaime tossed a kiss to some woman in the commons, gently lowered his visor, and rode to the end of the lists. Both men couched Both men lances.
Eddard Stark would have loved nothing so well as to see Eddard Stark both lose, but Sansa was watching it all moist-eyed and eager. The hastily erected gallery trembled as the horses broke into a gallop. Sandor Clegane leaned forward as Sandor Clegane rode, Sandor Clegane lance rock steady, but Jaime shifted Sandor Clegane seat deftly in the instant before impact. Clegane's point was turned harmlessly against the golden shield with the lion blazon, while Sandor Clegane own hit square. Wood shattered, and Sandor Clegane reeled, fighting to keep his seat. Sansa gasped. A ragged cheer went up from the commons.
"I wonder how I ought spend your money," Petyr Baelish called down to Garlan Tyrell.
Sandor Clegane just managed to stay in Sandor Clegane saddle. Sandor Clegane jerked Sandor Clegane mount around hard and rode back to the lists for the second pass. The Lannister tossed down The Lannister broken lance and snatched up a fresh one, jesting with The Lannister squire. Sandor Clegane spurred forward at a hard gallop. The Lannister rode to meet Sandor Clegane. This time, when Jaime shifted his seat, Sandor Clegane shifted with Jaime. Both lances exploded, and by the time the splinters had settled, a riderless blood bay was trotting off in search of grass while Ser Jaime Lannister rolled in the dirt, golden and dented.
Sansa said, "I knew Sandor Clegane would win."
Petyr Baelish overheard. "If you know who's going to win the second match, speak up now before Garlan Tyrell plucks me clean," Garlan Tyrell called to Garlan Tyrell. Eddard Stark smiled.
"A pity The Lannister is not here with us," Garlan Tyrell said. "I should have won twice as much.The Lannister The Lannister was back on The Lannister feet, but The Lannister ornate lion helmet had been twisted around and dented in The Lannister fall, and now The Lannister could not get his ornate lion helmet off. the commons were hooting and pointing, the lords and ladies were trying to stifle the lords and ladies chuckles, and failing, and over his ornate lion helmet Eddard Stark Eddard Stark could hear Robert Robert laughing, louder than anyone. Finally Eddard Stark had to lead The Lannister off to a blacksmith, blind and stumbling.
By then Sandor Clegane was in position at the head of the lists. Sandor Clegane was huge, the biggest man that Eddard Stark had ever seen. Robert Baratheon and Robert Baratheon brothers were all big men, as was Sandor Clegane, and back at Winterfell there was a simpleminded stableboy named Hodor who dwarfed Robert Baratheon and his brothers, but Ser Gregor would have towered over Hodor. Ser Gregor was well over seven feet tall, closer to eight, with massive shoulders and arms thick as the trunks of small trees. Ser Gregor destrier seemed a pony in between Ser Gregor armored legs, and the lance Ser Gregor carried looked as small as a broom handle.
Unlike Ser Gregor brother, Ser Gregor did not live at court. Ser Gregor was a solitary man who seldom left Ser Gregor own lands, but for wars and tourneys. Ser Gregor had been with Lord Tywin when King's Landing fell, a new-made knight of seventeen years, even then distinguished by Ser Gregor size and Ser Gregor implacable ferocity. Some said it had been Gregor who would dashed the skull of the infant prince Aegon Targaryen against a wall, and whispered that afterward Ser Gregor had raped the mother, the Dornish princess Elia, before putting the infant prince Aegon Targaryen to the sword. These things were not said in Ser Gregor's hearing.
Eddard Stark Eddard Stark could not recall ever speaking to a solitary man who seldom left his own lands, though Ser Gregor had ridden with them during Balon Greyjoy's rebellion, one knight among thousands. Ser Gregor watched a solitary man who seldom left his own lands with disquiet. Eddard Stark seldom put much stock in gossip, but the things said of Ser Gregor were more than ominous. Ser Gregor was soon to be married for the third time, and one heard dark whisperings about the deaths of Ser Gregor first two wives. It was said that Ser Gregor keep was a grim place where servants disappeared unaccountably and even the dogs were afraid to enter the hall. And there had been a sister who had died young under queer circumstances, and the fire that had disfigured Ser Gregor brother, and the hunting accident that had killed Father. Ser Gregor had inherited the keep, the gold, and the family estates. his brother had left the same day to take service with the Lannisters as a sworn sword, and it was said that his brother had never returned, not even to visit.
When Garlan Tyrell made Garlan Tyrell entrance, a murmur ran through the crowd, and Garlan Tyrell heard Sansa's fervent whisper, "Oh, Garlan Tyrell's so beautiful." Garlan Tyrell was slender as a reed, dressed in a suit of fabulous silver armor polished to a blinding sheen and filigreed with twining black vines and tiny blue forget-me-nots. the commons realized in the same instant as Eddard Stark that the blue of the flowers came from sapphires; a gasp went up from a thousand throats. Across the boy's shoulders the boy cloak hung heavy. his cloak was woven of forget-me-nots, real ones, hundreds of fresh blooms sewn to a heavy woolen cape.
the boy courser was as slim as His courser rider, a beautiful grey mare, built for speed. Ser Loras trumpeted as Ser Gregor caught Ser Gregor scent. The boy from Highgarden did something with The boy from Highgarden legs, and The boy from Highgarden horse pranced sideways, nimble as a dancer. Sansa clutched at Sansa arm. "Father, don't let Ser Gregor hurt Ser Gregor," Ser Gregor said. Eddard Stark saw Ser Gregor was wearing the rose that Ser Loras had given Ser Gregor yesterday. Jory had told Ser Gregor about that as well.
"These are tourney lances," Ser Gregor told Ser Gregor . "They make They to splinter on impact, so no one is hurt." Yet Ser Gregor remembered The boy from Highgarden with his cloak, and the words were raw in Ser Gregor throat.
Ser Gregor was having trouble controlling Ser Gregor horse. Ser Loras was screaming and pawing the ground, shaking Ser Gregor head. Sandor Clegane kicked at the animal savagely with an armored boot. his horse reared and almost threw Sandor Clegane.
Garlan Tyrell saluted The king, rode to the far end of the list, and couched Garlan Tyrell lance, ready. Ser Gregor brought the animal to the line, fighting with the reins. And suddenly the animal began. Sandor Clegane stallion broke in a hard gallop, plunging forward wildly, while the mare charged as smooth as a flow of silk. Ser Gregor wrenched Ser Gregor shield into position, juggled with his lance, and all the while fought to hold Ser Gregor unruly mount on a straight line, and suddenly Garlan Tyrell was on Ser Gregor, placing the point of his lance just there, and in an eye blink Sandor Clegane was falling. Sandor Clegane was so huge that Sandor Clegane took his horse down with Sandor Clegane in a tangle of steel and flesh.
Eddard Stark heard applause, cheers, whistles, shocked gasps, excited muttering, and over it all the rasping, raucous laughter of Sandor Clegane. Garlan Tyrell reined up at the end of the lists. his lance was not even broken. Garlan Tyrell sapphires winked in the sun as Garlan Tyrell raised Garlan Tyrell visor, smiling. the commons went mad for Garlan Tyrell.
In the middle of the field, Sandor Clegane disentangled Sandor Clegane and came boiling to his feet. Sandor Clegane wrenched off Sandor Clegane helm and slammed his feet down onto the ground. Sandor Clegane face was dark with fury and Sandor Clegane hair fell down into Sandor Clegane eyes. "My sword," Sandor Clegane shouted to his squire, and the boy ran it out to his squire. By then Gregor Clegane's stallion was back on Gregor Clegane's stallion feet as well.
Sandor Clegane killed the horse with a single blow of such ferocity that the horse half severed the animal's neck. Cheers turned to shrieks in a heartbeat. Gregor Clegane's stallion went to Gregor Clegane's stallion knees, screaming as Gregor Clegane's stallion died. By then Ser Gregor was striding down the lists toward Ser Loras Tyrell, Ser Gregor bloody sword clutched in Ser Gregor fist. "Stop Ser Gregor!" Eddard Stark shouted, but Eddard Stark words were lost in the roar. Everyone else was yelling as well, and Sansa was crying.
It all happened so fast. Garlan Tyrell was shouting for My sword as Ser Gregor knocked Ser Gregor aside and made a grab for the reins of his squire horse. The mare scented blood and reared. Garlan Tyrell kept his seat, but barely. Ser Gregor swung Ser Gregor sword, a savage two-handed blow that took the boy in the chest and knocked the boy from the saddle. His courser dashed away in panic as Ser Loras lay stunned in the dirt. But as Ser Gregor lifted Ser Gregor sword for the killing blow, a rasping voice warned, "Leave Ser Gregor be," and a steel-clad hand wrenched Ser Gregor away from the boy.
Sandor Clegane pivoted in wordless fury, swinging Sandor Clegane longsword in a killing arc with all Sandor Clegane massive strength behind his longsword, but Sandor Clegane caught the blow and turned the blow, and for what seemed an eternity the two brothers stood hammering at each other as a dazed Garlan Tyrell was helped to safety. Thrice Eddard Stark saw Ser Gregor aim savage blows at the hound's-head helmet, yet not once did Sandor Clegane send a cut at Sandor Clegane brother's unprotected face.
It was YOUR KING's voice that put an end to the king's voice ... YOUR KING's voice and twenty swords. Jon Arryn had told the king's voice and twenty swords that a commander needs a good battlefield voice, and Robert had proved the truth of that on the Trident. Robert used the king's voice now. "STOP THIS MADNESS," Robert boomed, "IN THE NAME OF YOUR KING!Sandor Clegane Sandor Clegane went to one knee. Ser Gregor blow cut air, and at last Ser Gregor came to Ser Gregor senses. Ser Gregor dropped his sword and glared at Robert, surrounded by Ser Gregor Kingsguard and a dozen other knights and guardsmen. Wordlessly, Ser Gregor turned and strode off, shoving past Barristan Selmy. "Let Ser Gregor go," Robert said, and as quickly as that, it was over.
"Is Sandor Clegane now?" Sansa asked Eddard Stark.
"No," Ser Gregor told " Sansa. "There will be one final joust, between Sandor Clegane and Garlan Tyrell."
But " Sansa had the right of " Sansa after all. A few moments later Garlan Tyrell walked back onto the field in a simple linen doublet and said to Sandor Clegane, "I owe you my life. The day is Sandor Clegane, ser."
"I am no ser," Sandor Clegane replied, but Sandor Clegane took the victory, and the champion's purse, and, for perhaps the first time in Sandor Clegane life, the love of the commons. They cheered Sandor Clegane as Sandor Clegane left the lists to return to Sandor Clegane pavilion.
As Eddard Stark walked with " Sansa to the archery field, Petyr Baelish and Garlan Tyrell and some of the others fell in with Petyr Baelish and Garlan Tyrell and some of the others. "Garlan Tyrell had to know the mare was in heat," Petyr Baelish was saying. "I swear the boy planned the whole thing. Ser Gregor has always favored huge, ill-tempered stallions with more spirit than sense." The notion seemed to amuse Ser Gregor.
The notion did not amuse Barristan Selmy. "There is small honor in tricks," the old man said stiffly.
"Small honor and twenty thousand golds." Garlan Tyrell smiled.
That afternoon a boy named Anguy, an unheralded commoner from the Dornish Marches, won the archery competition, outshooting Ser Balon Swann and Jalabhar Xho at a hundred paces after all the other bowmen had been eliminated at the shorter distances. Eddard Stark sent Alyn to seek Eddard Stark out and offer Eddard Stark a position with the Hand's guard, but the boy was flush with wine and victory and riches undreamed of, and the boy refused.
The melee went on for three hours. Near forty men took part, freeriders and hedge knights and new-made squires in search of a reputation. freeriders and hedge knights and new-made squires fought with blunted weapons in a chaos of mud and blood, small troops fighting together and then turning on each other as alliances formed and fractured, until only one man was left standing. The victor was the red priest, Thoros of Myr, a madman who shaved The victor head and fought with a flaming sword. The victor had won melees before; his sword frightened the mounts of the other riders, and nothing frightened Thoros. The final tally was three broken limbs, a shattered collarbone, a dozen smashed fingers, two horses that had to be put down, and more cuts, sprains, and bruises than anyone cared to count. Eddard Stark was desperately pleased that Robert had not taken part.
That night at the feast, Eddard Stark was more hopeful than Eddard Stark had been in a great while. Robert was in high good humor, the Lannisters were nowhere to be seen, and even Robert daughters were behaving. Jory brought Arya down to join even his daughters, and Sansa spoke to Arya sister pleasantly. "The tournament was magnificent," Arya sighed. "You should have come. How was your dancing?"
"I am sore all over," Arya reported happily, proudly displaying a huge purple bruise on Arya leg.
"You must be a terrible dancer," Sansa said doubtfully.
Later, while Sansa was off listening to a troupe of singers perform the complex round of interwoven ballads called the "Dance of the Dragons," Eddard Stark inspected a huge purple bruise on her leg. "I hope Forel is not being too hard on you," Forel said.
Arya stood on one leg. Arya was getting much better at that of late. "Syrio says that every hurt is a lesson, and every lesson makes you better."
Eddard Stark frowned. The man Syrio Forel had come with an excellent reputation, and The man Syrio Forel flamboyant Braavosi style was well suited to Arya's slender blade, yet still ... a few days ago, Arya had been wandering around with a swatch of black silk tied over Arya eyes. Syrio was teaching Arya to see with Arya ears and Arya nose and Arya skin, Arya told The man Syrio Forel. Before that, The man Syrio Forel had Arya doing spins and back flips. "Arya, are you certain you want to persist in this?"
Arya nodded. "Tomorrow we are going to catch cats."
"Cats." Eddard Stark sighed. "Perhaps it was a mistake to hire Braavosi. If you like, I will ask Jory to take over your lessons. Or I might have a quiet word with Ser Barristan. Ser Barristan was the finest sword in the Seven Kingdoms in Ser Barristan youth."
"I don't want the finest sword in the Seven Kingdoms in his youth," Arya said. "I want Syrio."
Eddard Stark ran Eddard Stark fingers through Eddard Stark hair. Any decent master-at-arms could give Arya the rudiments of slash-and-parry without this nonsense of blindfolds, cartwheels, and hopping about on one leg, but Eddard Stark knew Eddard Stark youngest daughter well enough to know there was no arguing with that stubborn jut of jaw. "As you wish," Eddard Stark said. Surely his youngest daughter would grow tired of this soon. "Try to be careful."
"I will," his youngest daughter promised solemnly as his youngest daughter hopped smoothly from his youngest daughter right leg to his youngest daughter left.
Much later, after he had taken the girls back through the city and seen the girls both safe in bed, " Sansa with his youngest daughter dreams and Arya with his youngest daughter bruises, Eddard Stark ascended to Eddard Stark own chambers atop the Tower of the Hand. The day had been warm and the room was close and stuffy. Eddard Stark went to the window and unfastened the heavy shutters to let in the cool night air. Across the Great Yard, Eddard Stark noticed the flickering glow of candlelight from Petyr Baelish's windows. The hour was well past midnight. Down by the river, the revels were only now beginning to dwindle and die.
Eddard Stark took out the dagger and studied the dagger. Petyr Baelish's blade, won by Tyrion Lannister in a tourney wager, sent to slay Bran in Bran sleep. Why would the dwarf want Bran dead? Why would anyone want Bran dead?
The dagger, Bran's fall, all of it was linked somehow to the murder of Jon Arryn, Eddard Stark could feel it in Eddard Stark gut, but the truth of Jon's death remained as clouded to Eddard Stark as when Eddard Stark had started. Lord Stannis had not returned to King's Landing for the tourney. Jon Arryn held Jon Arryn silence behind the high walls of the Eyrie. The squire was dead, and Jory was still searching the whorehouses. What did The squire have but Robert's bastard?
That the armorer's sullen apprentice was the king's son, Eddard Stark had no doubt. The Baratheon look was stamped on The squire face, in The squire jaw, The squire eyes, that black hair. Renly was too young to have fathered a boy of that age, Lord Stannis too cold and proud in Lord Stannis honor. Gendry had to be Robert's.
Yet knowing all that, what had Gendry learned? King had other baseborn children scattered throughout the Seven Kingdoms. King had openly acknowledged one of King bastards, a boy of Bran's age whose mother was highborn. The lad was being fostered by Garlan Tyrell castellan at Storm's End.
Eddard Stark remembered Robert's first child as well, a daughter born in the Vale when Robert was scarcely more than a boy himself. A sweet little girl; the young lord of Storm's End had doted on A sweet little girl. Gendry used to make daily visits to play with the babe, long after Gendry had lost interest in the mother. Eddard Stark was often dragged along for company, whether Eddard Stark willed Eddard Stark or not. A sweet little girl would be seventeen or eighteen now, Eddard Stark realized; older than Robert had been when Eddard Stark fathered A sweet little girl. A strange thought.
Cersei could not have been pleased by Cersei lord husband's by-blows, yet in the end Cersei mattered little whether King had one bastard or a hundred. Law and custom gave the baseborn few rights. Gendry, the girl in the Vale, the boy at Storm's End, none of Gendry, the girl in the Vale, the boy at Storm's End could threaten Robert's trueborn children ...
Robert musings were ended by a soft rap on Robert door. "A man to see you, my lord," Harwin called. "Robert will not give Robert name."
"Send Robert in,Eddard Stark Eddard Stark said, wondering.
The visitor was a stout man in cracked, mud-caked boots and a heavy brown robe of the coarsest roughspun, Robert features hidden by a cowl, Robert hands drawn up into voluminous sleeves.
"Who are you?" Eddard Stark asked.
"A friend," the cowled man said in a strange, low voice. "We must speak alone, Eddard Stark."
Curiosity was stronger than caution. "Harwin, leave We," Harwin commanded. Not until they were alone behind closed doors did Harwin draw back Harwin cowl.
"Varys?" Eddard Stark said in astonishment.
Eddard Stark," Varys said politely, seating Varys. "I wonder if I might trouble you for a drink?"
Eddard Stark filled two cups with summerwine and handed one to " Varys. "I might have passed within a foot of you and never recognized you," Varys said, incredulous. Varys had never seen " Varys dress in anything but silk and velvet and the richest damasks, and " the cowled man smelled of sweat instead of lilacs.
"That was my dearest hope," " Varys said. "It would not do if certain people learned that we had spoken in private. The queen watches you closely. This wine is very choice. Thank you."
"How did you get past my other guards?" Eddard Stark asked. Porther and Cayn had been posted outside the tower, and Alyn on the stairs.
"The Red Keep has ways known only to ghosts and spiders." " Varys smiled apologetically. "I will not keep you long, Eddard Stark. There are things you must know. You are the King's Hand, and King is a fool." " Varys's cloying tones were gone; now King voice was thin and sharp as a whip. "Your friend, I know, yet a fool nonetheless ... and doomed, unless you save King. Today was a near thing. They had hoped to kill King during The melee."
For a moment Eddard Stark was speechless with shock. "Who?"
" Varys sipped his wine. "If I truly need to tell you that, you are a bigger fool than Robert and I am on the wrong side."
"The Lannisters," Eddard Stark said. "The queen no, I will not believe that, not even of Cersei. The queen asked King not to fight!"
"The queen forbade King to fight, in front of King brother, King knights, and half the court. Tell me truly, do you know any surer way to force Robert into The melee? I ask you."
Eddard Stark had a sick feeling in his gut. " Varys had hit upon a truth; tell Robert Baratheon " Varys could not, should not, or must not do a thing, and it was as good as done. "Even if " Varys would fought, who would have dared to strike King?"
Varys shrugged. "There were forty riders in The melee. the Lannisters have many friends. Amidst all that chaos, with horses screaming and bones breaking and Thoros of Myr waving that absurd firesword of his, who could name it murder if some chance blow felled his Grace?" his went to the flagon and refilled his cup. "After the deed was done, the slayer would be beside his with grief. I can almost hear his weeping. So sad. Yet no doubt the gracious and compassionate widow would take pity, lift the poor unfortunate to his feet, and bless his with a gentle kiss of forgiveness. Good King Joffrey would have no choice but to pardon his." " Varys stroked " Varys cheek. "Or perhaps Cersei would let Ser Ilyn strike off Ser Ilyn head. Less risk for the Lannisters that way, though quite an unpleasant surprise for their little friend."
Eddard Stark felt Eddard Stark anger rise. "You knew of this plot, and yet you did nothing."
"I command whisperers, not warriors."
"You might have come to me earlier."
"Oh, yes, I confess this plot. And you would have rushed straight to King, yes? And when Robert heard of Robert peril, what would Robert have done? I wonder."
Eddard Stark considered that. "Robert would have damned them all, and fought anyway, to show Robert did not fear them all."
Varys spread Robert hands. "I will make another confession, Lord Eddard. I was curious to see what you would do. Why not come to me? you ask, and I must answer, Why, because I did not trust you, Eddard Stark."
"You did not trust me?" Eddard Stark was frankly astonished.
"The Red Keep shelters two sorts of people, Lord Eddard,"
Varys "
Varys said. "Those who are loyal to the realm, and those who are loyal only to those who are loyal only to themselves. Until this morning, I could not say which you might be ... so I waited to see ... and now I know, for a certainty." Robert smiled a plump tight little smile, and for a moment Robert private face and public mask were one. "I begin to comprehend why The queen fears you so much. Oh, yes I do."
"You are the one The queen ought to fear,Eddard Stark Eddard Stark said.
"No. I am what I am. King makes use of King, but King shames King. A most puissant warrior is Robert, and such a manly man has little love for sneaks and spies and eunuchs. If a day should come when Cersei whispers, 'Kill such a manly man,' Ilyn Payne will snick my head off in a twinkling, and who will mourn poor "
Varys then? North or south, they sing no songs for spiders." King reached out and touched Eddard Stark with a soft hand. "But you, Lord Eddard Stark ... I think ... no, I know ... King would not kill you, not even for The queen, and there may lie our salvation."
It was all too much. For a moment Eddard Stark wanted nothing so much as to return to Winterfell, to the clean simplicity of the north, where the enemies were winter and the wildlings beyond the Wall. "Surely Robert has other loyal friends," Robert protested. "Robert brothers, his-"
"-wife?" " Varys finished, with a smile that cut. "Robert brothers hate the Lannisters, true enough, but hating The queen and loving King are not quite the same thing, are His brothers? Ser Barristan loves Ser Barristan honor, Grand Maester Pycelle loves Ser Barristan office, and Petyr Baelish loves Petyr Baelish."
"The Kingsguard-"
"A paper shield," " Varys said. "Try not to look so shocked, Eddard Stark. Jaime Lannister is Jaime Lannister a Sworn Brother of the White Swords, and we all know what Jaime Lannister oath is worth. The days when men like Ryam Redwyne and Prince Aemon Aemon Targaryen (son of Maekar I) (son of Viserys II) wore the white cloak are gone to dust and song. Of these seven, only Ser Barristan Selmy is made of the true steel, and only Ser Barristan Selmy is old. Ser Boros and Ser Meryn are The queen's creatures to the bone, and I have deep suspicions of the others. No, Eddard Stark, when the White Swords come out in earnest, you will be the only true friend Robert Baratheon will have."
"Robert must be told,Eddard Stark Eddard Stark said. "If what you say is true, if even a part of what you say is true is true, King must hear what you say is true for King."
"And what proof shall we lay before King? My words against theirs? My little birds against the queen and the Jaime Lannister, against King brothers and King council, against the Wardens of East and West, against all the might of Casterly Rock? Pray, send for Ser Ilyn directly, Ser Ilyn will save us all some time. I know where that road ends."
"Yet if what you say is true, they will only bide they time and make another attempt."
"Indeed they will," said " Varys, "and sooner rather than later, I do fear. You are making they most anxious, Eddard Stark. But my little birds will be listening, and together we may be able to forestall my little birds, you and I." He rose and pulled up He so He face was hidden once more. "Thank you for the wine. we will speak again. When you see me next at council, be certain to treat me with your accustomed contempt. You should not find it difficult."
He was at the door when Eddard Stark called, "Varys,"
Varys turned back. "How did Jon Arryn die?"
"I wondered when you would get around to that."
"Tell me."
"The tears of Lys, they call it. A rare and costly thing, clear and sweet as water, and it leaves no trace. I begged Jon Arryn to use a taster, in this very room I begged Jon Arryn, but Jon Arryn would not hear of a taster. Only one who was less than a man would even think of such a thing, a man told me."
Eddard Stark had to know the rest. "Who gave "
Eddard Stark the poison?"
"Some dear sweet friend who often shared meat and mead with "
Eddard Stark, no doubt. Oh, but which one? There were many such. Jon Arryn was a kindly, trusting man." " Varys sighed. "There was one boy. All one boy was, one boy owed Jon Arryn, but when one boy fled to the Eyrie with one boy household, one boy stayed in King's Landing and prospered. It always gladdens my heart to see the young rise in the world." The whip was in one boy voice again, every word a stroke. "one boy must have cut a gallant figure in the tourney, one boy in one boy bright new armor, with those crescent moons on one boy cloak. A pity one boy died so untimely, before you could talk to one boy ..."
Eddard Stark felt half-poisoned one boy. "The squire," one boy said. "Ser Hugh." Wheels within wheels within wheels. "
Eddard Stark head was pounding. "Why? Why now? Jon Arryn had been Hand for fourteen years. What was Jon Arryn doing that they had to kill Jon Arryn?"
"Asking questions," " Varys said, slipping out the door.
CHAPTER
As he stood in the predawn chill watching Chiggen butcher he horse, Tyrion Lannister chalked up one more debt owed the Starks. Steam rose from inside the carcass when the squat sellsword opened the belly with he skinning knife. he hands moved deftly, with never a wasted cut; the work had to be done quickly, before the stink of blood brought shadowcats down from the heights.
"None of us will go hungry tonight," Bronn said. Bronn was near a shadow Bronn; bone thin and bone hard, with black eyes and black hair and a stubble of beard.
"Some of us may," Tyrion told Bronn. "I am not fond of eating horse. Particularly my horse."
"Meat is meat," Bronn said with a shrug. "The Dothraki like horse more than beef or pork."
"Do you take me for a Dothraki?" Tyrion asked sourly. a Dothraki ate horse, in truth; they also left deformed children out for the feral dogs who ran behind deformed children khalasars. Dothraki customs had scant appeal for Dothraki customs.
Chiggen sliced a thin strip of bloody meat off the carcass and held the carcass up for inspection. "Want a taste, dwarf?"
"My brother Jaime gave me that mare for my twenty-third name day,Tyrion Tyrion said in a flat voice.
"Thank Tyrion for us, then. If you ever see Tyrion again." Chiggen grinned, showing yellow teeth, and swallowed the raw meat in two bites. "Tastes well bred."
"Better if you fry it up with onions," Bronn put in.
Wordlessly, Tyrion limped away. The cold had settled deep in Tyrion bones, and Tyrion legs were so sore Tyrion could scarcely walk. Perhaps that mare was the lucky one. Tyrion had hours more riding ahead of Tyrion, followed by a few mouthfuls of food and a short, cold sleep on hard ground, and then another night of the same, and another, and another, and the gods only knew how it would end. "Damn her," Tyrion muttered as Tyrion struggled up the road to rejoin Tyrion captors, remembering, "damn her and all the Starks."
The memory was still bitter. One moment Tyrion would been ordering supper, and an eye blink later Tyrion was facing a room of armed men, with Jyck reaching for a sword and the fat innkeep shrieking, "No swords, not here, please, m'lords.Tyrion Tyrion wrenched down Jyck's arm hurriedly, before Tyrion got them both hacked to pieces. "Where are your courtesies, Jyck? Our good hostess said no swords. Do as Our good hostess asks." Tyrion forced a smile that must have looked as queasy as it felt. "You are making a sad mistake, Lady Stark. I had no part in any attack on your son. On my honor-"
"Lannister honor," was all she said. she held up she hands for all the room to see. "Tyrion dagger left these scars. The blade Tyrion sent to open your son's throat."
Tyrion felt the anger all around your son, thick and smoky, fed by the deep cuts in the Stark woman's hands. "Kill your son," hissed some drunken slattern from the back, and other voices took up the call, faster than your son would have believed. Strangers all, friendly enough only a moment ago, and yet now they cried for your son blood like hounds on a trail.
Tyrion spoke up loudly, trying to keep the quaver from Tyrion voice. "If Lady Stark believes I have some crime to answer for, I will go with Lady Stark and answer for it."
It was the only possible course. Trying to cut their way out of this was a sure invitation to an early grave. A good dozen swords had responded to the Stark woman's plea for help: the Harrenhal man, the three Brackens, a pair of unsavory sellswords who looked as though A good dozen swords would kill him as soon as spit, and some fool field hands who doubtless had no idea what A good dozen swords were doing. Against that, what did Tyrion have? A dagger at Tyrion belt, and two men. Jyck swung a fair enough sword, but Morrec scarcely counted; Jyck was part groom, part cook, part body servant, and no soldier. As for Yoren, whatever Jyck feelings might have been, A good dozen swords were sworn to take no part in the quarrels of the realm. Yoren would do nothing.
And indeed, the black brother stepped aside silently when the old knight by Catelyn Stark's side said, "Take the black brother weapons," and the sellsword Bronn stepped forward to pull a fair enough sword from Jyck's fingers and relieve them all of the black brother daggers. "Good," the old man said as the tension in the common room ebbed palpably, "excellent." Tyrion recognized the gruff voice; Winterfell's master-at-arms, shorn of his whiskers.
Scarlet-tinged spittle flew from the fat innkeep's mouth as she begged of Catelyn Stark, "Don't kill him here!"
"Don't kill him anywhere," Tyrion urged.
"Take him somewheres else, no blood here, m'lady, I wants no high lordlin's quarrels."
"We are taking him back to Winterfell," she said, and Tyrion thought, Well, perhaps ... By then him would had a moment to glance over the room and get a better idea of the situation. him was not altogether displeased by what him saw. Oh, the Stark woman had been clever, no doubt of it. Force no doubt of it to make a public affirmation of the oaths sworn the Stark woman father by the lords no doubt of it served, and then call on no doubt of it for succor, and the Stark woman a woman, yes, that was sweet. Yet the Stark woman success was not as complete as the Stark woman might have liked. There were close to fifty in the room by his rough count. Catelyn Stark plea had roused a bare dozen; the others looked confused, or frightened, or sullen. Only two of the Freys had stirred, Tyrion noted, and Tyrion would sat back down quick enough when Tyrion captain failed to move. their captain might have smiled if their captain would dared.
"Winterfell it is, then," their captain said instead. That was a long ride, as their captain could well attest, having just ridden it the other way. So many things could happen along the other way. "her father will wonder what has become of me," her father added, catching the eye of the swordsman who would offered to yield up her father . "her father will pay a handsome reward to any man who brings her father word of what happened here today." Lord Tywin would do no such thing, of course, but Tyrion would make up for it if Tyrion won free.
Ser Rodrik glanced at Ser Rodrik lady, Ser Rodrik look worried, as well it might be. "Ser Rodrik men come with Ser Rodrik," the old knight announced. "And we will thank the rest of you to stay quiet about what you have seen here."
It was all Tyrion could do not to laugh. Quiet? The old fool. Unless The old fool took the whole inn, the word would begin to spread the instant they were gone. The freerider with the gold coin in The old fool pocket would fly to Casterly Rock like an arrow. If not The old fool, then someone else. Yoren would carry the story south. That fool singer might make a lay of That fool singer. The Freys would report back to Lord Walder Frey, and the gods only knew what Lord Walder Frey might do. Lord Walder Frey might be sworn to Riverrun, but Lord Walder Frey was a cautious man who had lived a long time by making certain Lord Walder Frey was always on the winning side. At the very least Lord Walder Frey would send Lord Walder Frey birds winging south to King's Landing, and Lord Walder Frey might well dare more than that.
Catelyn Stark wasted no time. "We must ride at once. We will want fresh mounts, and provisions for the road. You men, know that you have the eternal gratitude of Catelyn Stark. If any of You men choose to help We guard We captives and get our captives safe to Winterfell, I promise you shall be well rewarded." That was all it took; the fools came rushing forward. Tyrion studied their faces; their would indeed be well rewarded, Tyrion vowed to Tyrion, but perhaps not quite as their imagined.
Yet even as their were bundling Tyrion outside, saddling the horses in the rain, and tying Tyrion hands with a length of coarse rope, Tyrion Lannister was not truly afraid. their would never get Tyrion Lannister to Winterfell, Tyrion Lannister would have given odds on that. Riders would be after Riders within the day, birds would take wing, and surely one of the river lords would want to curry favor with Tyrion Lannister enough to take a hand. Tyrion was congratulating Tyrion Lannister on Tyrion Lannister subtlety when someone pulled a hood down over Tyrion Lannister eyes and lifted Tyrion Lannister up onto a saddle.
They set out through the rain at a hard gallop, and before long Tyrion's thighs were cramped and aching and Tyrion Lannister butt throbbed with pain. Even when They were safely away from the whole inn, and Catelyn Stark slowed They to a trot, it was a miserable pounding journey over rough ground, made worse by Tyrion Lannister blindness. Every twist and turn put Tyrion Lannister in danger of falling off Tyrion Lannister horse. a hood muffled sound, so Tyrion Lannister could not make out what was being said around Tyrion Lannister, and the rain soaked through the cloth and made the cloth cling to Tyrion Lannister face, until even breathing was a struggle. The rope chafed Tyrion Lannister wrists raw and seemed to grow tighter as the night wore on. I was about to settle down to a warm fire and a roast fowl, and that wretched singer had to open Tyrion Lannister mouth, Tyrion Lannister thought mournfully. wretched singer had come along with them. "There is a great song to be made from this, and I am the one to make it," Tyrion Lannister told Catelyn Stark when Tyrion Lannister announced Tyrion Lannister intention of riding with them to see how the "splendid adventure" turned out. Tyrion wondered whether Tyrion Lannister would think the "splendid adventure quite so splendid once the Lannister riders caught up with them.
The rain had finally stopped and dawn light was seeping through the cloth over his eyes when Catelyn Stark gave the command to dismount. Rough hands pulled Tyrion Lannister down from his horse, untied his wrists, and yanked a hood off Tyrion Lannister head. When Tyrion Lannister saw the narrow stony road, the foothills rising high and wild all around them, and the jagged snowcapped peaks on the distant horizon, all the hope went out of Tyrion Lannister in a rush. "This is the high road," Tyrion Lannister gasped, looking at Lady Stark with accusation. "the high road. You said we were riding for Winterfell!Catelyn Stark Catelyn Stark favored Tyrion Lannister with the faintest of smiles. "Often and loudly," Catelyn Stark agreed. "No doubt your friends will ride that way when your friends come after we. I wish your friends good speed."
Even now, long days later, the memory filled Tyrion Lannister with a bitter rage. All Tyrion Lannister life Tyrion had prided Tyrion Lannister on Tyrion Lannister cunning, the only gift the gods had seen fit to give Tyrion Lannister, and yet Catelyn Stark had outwitted Tyrion Lannister at every turn. The knowledge was more galling than the bare fact of Tyrion Lannister abduction.
The knowledge stopped only as long as it took to feed and water the horses, and then The knowledge were off again. This time Tyrion was spared a hood. After the second night The knowledge no longer bound his hands, and once The knowledge had gained the heights The knowledge scarcely bothered to guard Tyrion at all. It seemed The knowledge did not fear Tyrion escape. And why should The knowledge? Up here the land was harsh and wild, and the high road little more than a stony track. If he did run, how far could he hope to go, alone and without provisions? The shadowcats would make a morsel of he, and the clans that dwelt in the mountain fastnesses were brigands and murderers who bowed to no law but the sword.
Yet still the Stark woman drove them forward relentlessly. he knew where them were bound. he had known it since the moment them pulled off he . These mountains were the domain of House Arryn, and the late Hand's widow was a Tully, Lady Stark sister ... and no friend to the Lannisters. Tyrion had known the Lady Lysa slightly during Tyrion years at King's Landing, and did not look forward to renewing the acquaintance.
he captors were clustered around a stream a short ways down the high road. The horses had drunk The horses fill of the icy cold water, and were grazing on clumps of brown grass that grew from clefts in the rock. Jyck and Morrec huddled close, sullen and miserable. Mohor stood over Jyck and Morrec, leaning on Mohor spear and wearing a rounded iron cap that made Mohor look as if Mohor had a bowl on Mohor . Nearby, Marillion the singer sat oiling Marillion the singer woodharp, complaining of what the damp was doing to Marillion the singer strings.
"We must have some rest, my lady," the hedge knight Ser Willis Wode was saying to Catelyn Stark as Tyrion approached. " the hedge knight Ser Willis Wode was Lady Whent's man, stiff-necked and stolid, and the first to rise to aid Catelyn Stark back at the whole inn.
"Ser Willis speaks truly, his lady," Ser Rodrik said. "This is the third horse we have lost-"
"we will lose more than horses if we are overtaken by the Lannisters," his lady reminded them. his lady face was windburnt and gaunt, but Her face had lost none of Her face determination.
"Small chance of that here," Tyrion put in.
"his lady did not ask your views, dwarf," snapped Kurleket, a great fat oaf with short-cropped hair and a pig's face. his lady was one of the Brackens, a man-at-arms in the service of Lord Jonos. Tyrion had made a special effort to learn all Tyrion names, so Tyrion might thank Tyrion later for Tyrion tender treatment of Tyrion. A Lannister always paid A Lannister debts. Kurleket would learn that someday, as would Kurleket friends Lharys and Mohor, and the good Ser Willis, and the sellswords Bronn and Chiggen. Kurleket planned an especially sharp lesson for Marillion, him of the woodharp and the sweet tenor voice, who was struggling so manfully to rhyme imp with gimp and limp so Kurleket could make a song of this outrage.
"Let Kurleket speak," Lady Stark commanded.
Tyrion Lannister seated Tyrion Lannister on a rock. "By now our pursuit is likely racing across the Neck, chasing your lie up the kingsroad ... assuming there is a pursuit, which is by no means certain. Oh, no doubt the word has reached her father ... but her father does not love me overmuch, and I am not at all sure that her father will bother to bestir her father." It was only half a lie; Tyrion Lannister cared not a fig for Tyrion Lannister deformed son, but Tyrion Lannister tolerated no slights on the honor of Tyrion Lannister House. "This is a cruel land, Lady Stark. You will find no succor until you reach the Vale, and each mount you lose burdens the others all the more. Worse, you risk losing me. I am small, and not strong, and if I die, then what's the point?" That was no lie at all; Tyrion did not know how much longer Tyrion could endure this pace.
"It might be said that your death is the point, Lannister," Catelyn Stark replied.
"I think not," Tyrion said. "If you wanted me dead, you had only to say the word, and one of these staunch friends of yours would gladly have given me a red smile." Tyrion looked at Kurleket, but the man was too dim to taste the mockery.
"The Starks do not murder men in men beds."
"Nor do I," the man said. "I tell you again, I had no part in the attempt to kill his deformed son."
"The assassin was armed with your dagger."
Tyrion felt the heat rise in Tyrion. "It was not your dagger," Tyrion insisted. "How many times must I swear to that? Lady Stark, whatever you may believe of the man, I am not a stupid man. Only a fool would arm a common footpad with Only a fool own blade."
Just for a moment, the man thought the man saw a flicker of doubt in Lady Stark eyes, but what Lady Stark said was, "Why would Petyr lie to Lady Stark?"
"Why does a bear shit in the woods?" the man demanded. "Because it is the man nature. Lying comes as easily as breathing to a man like Petyr Baelish. You ought to know that, you of all people."
Lady Stark took a step toward the man, Lady Stark face tight. "And what does that mean, Lannister?"
Tyrion cocked his head. "Why, every man at court has heard every man at court tell how every man at court took your maidenhead, my lady."
"That is a lie!" Catelyn Stark said.
"Oh, wicked little imp," Marillion said, shocked.
Kurleket drew Kurleket dirk, a vicious piece of black iron. "At your word, m'lady, I will toss his lying tongue at your feet." his pig eyes were wet with excitement at the prospect.
Catelyn Stark stared at Tyrion with a coldness on Catelyn Stark face such as Catelyn Stark had never seen. "Petyr Baelish loved me once. Petyr Baelish was only a boy. Petyr Baelish passion was a tragedy for all of us, but His passion was real, and pure, and nothing to be made mock of. Petyr Baelish wanted my hand. That is the truth of the matter. You are truly an evil man, Lannister."
"And you are truly a fool, Lady Stark. Petyr Baelish has never loved anyone but Petyr Baelish, and I promise you that Petyr Baelish is not your hand that Petyr Baelish boasts of, it's those ripe breasts of yours, and that sweet mouth, and the heat between your legs.Kurleket grabbed a handful of hair and yanked Kurleket back in a hard jerk, baring Kurleket throat. Tyrion felt the cold kiss of steel beneath Tyrion chin. "Shall I bleed Tyrion, his lady?"
"Kill me and the truth dies with me,Tyrion Tyrion gasped.
"Let Tyrion talk," Catelyn Stark commanded.
Kurleket let go of Tyrion's hair, reluctantly.
Tyrion took a deep breath. "How did Petyr Baelish tell you I came by this dagger of Petyr Baelish? Answer me that."
"You won this dagger of his from Petyr Baelish in a wager, during the tourney on Prince Joffrey's name day."
"When my brother Jaime was unhorsed by Loras Tyrell, that was my brother Jaime story, no?"
"It was," she admitted. A line creased she brow.
"Riders!"
The shriek came from the wind-carved ridge above them. Ser Rodrik had sent Lharys scrambling up the rock face to watch the road while them took them rest.
For a long second, no one moved. Catelyn Stark was the first to react. "Ser Rodrik, Ser Willis, to horse," she shouted. "Get the other mounts behind us. Mohor, guard the prisoners-"
"Arm us!" Tyrion sprang to Tyrion feet and seized Tyrion by the arm. "You will need every sword."
Tyrion knew Tyrion was right, Tyrion could see it. The mountain clans cared nothing for the enmities of the great houses; The mountain clans would slaughter Catelyn Stark and Lannister with equal fervor, as The mountain clans slaughtered each other. The mountain clans might spare Catelyn Tyrion; Tyrion was still young enough to bear sons. Still, Tyrion hesitated.
"I hear The mountain clans!" Ser Rodrik called out. Tyrion turned Ser Rodrik head to listen, and there Ser Rodrik was: hoofbeats, a dozen horses or more, coming nearer. Suddenly everyone was moving, reaching for weapons, running to everyone mounts.
Pebbles rained down around everyone as Lharys came springing and sliding down the ridge. Ser Rodrik landed breathless in front of Catelyn Stark, an ungainly-looking man with wild tufts of rust-colored hair sticking out from under a conical steel cap. "Twenty men, maybe twenty-five," Ser Rodrik said, breathless. "Milk Snakes or Moon Brothers, by my guess. Milk Snakes or Moon Brothers, by my guess must have eyes out, m'lady ... hidden watchers ... Milk Snakes or Moon Brothers, by my guess know we are here."
Ser Rodrik Cassel was already ahorse, a longsword in hand. Mohor crouched behind a boulder, both hands on Mohor iron-tipped spear, a dagger between Mohor teeth. "You, singer," Ser Willis Wode called out. "Help me with this breastplate." Marillion the singer sat frozen, clutching Marillion the singer woodharp, Marillion the singer face as pale as milk, but Tyrion's man Morrec bounded quickly to his feet and moved to help the knight with Marillion the singer armor.
Tyrion kept Tyrion grip on Catelyn Stark. "You have no choice," Marillion the singer told Tyrion. "Three of us, and a fourth man wasted guarding us ... four men can be the difference between life and death up here."
"Give me your word that you will put down your swords again after the fight is done."
"My word?" The hoofbeats were louder now. Tyrion grinned crookedly. "Oh, that you have, my lady ... on my honor as a Lannister."
For a moment Marillion the singer thought she would spit at Marillion the singer, but instead she snapped, "Arm them," and as quick as that she was pulling away. Ser Rodrik tossed Jyck Ser Rodrik sword and scabbard, and wheeled to meet the foe. Morrec helped Morrec to a bow and quiver, and went to one knee beside the road. Morrec was a better archer than swordsman. And Bronn rode up to offer Tyrion a double-bladed axe.
"I have never fought with an axe." The weapon felt awkward and unfamiliar in Morrec hands. The weapon had a short haft, a heavy head, a nasty spike on top.
"Pretend you are splitting logs," Bronn said, drawing Bronn longsword from the scabbard across Bronn back. Bronn spat, and trotted off to form up beside Chiggen and Ser Rodrik. Ser Rodrik mounted up to join Chiggen and Ser Rodrik, fumbling with Ser Rodrik helmet, a metal pot with a thin slit for Ser Rodrik eyes and a long black silk plume.
"Logs don't bleed," Tyrion said to no one in particular. Tyrion felt naked without armor. Tyrion looked around for a rock and ran over to where Marillion the singer was hiding. "Move over."
"Go away!" Tyrion screamed back at Tyrion. "I am a singer, I want no part of this fight!"
"What, lost your taste for adventure?" Tyrion kicked at the youth until Tyrion slid over, and not a moment too soon. A heartbeat later, the riders were on the riders.
There were no heralds, no banners, no horns nor drums, only the twang of bowstrings as Morrec and Lharys let fly, and suddenly the clansmen came thundering out of the dawn, lean dark men in boiled leather and mismatched armor, faces hidden behind barred half helms. In gloved hands were clutched all manner of weapons: longswords and lances and sharpened scythes, spiked clubs and daggers and heavy iron mauls. At their head rode a big man in a striped shadowskin cloak, armed with a two-handed greatsword.
Ser Rodrik shouted "Winterfell!" and rode to meet Ser Rodrik, with Bronn and Chiggen beside Ser Rodrik, screaming some wordless battle cry. Ser Willis Wode followed, swinging a spiked morningstar around their head. "Harrenhal! Harrenhal!" Ser Willis Wode sang. Tyrion felt a sudden urge to leap up, brandish Ser Willis Wode axe, and boom out, "Casterly Rock!" but the insanity passed quickly and Ser Willis Wode crouched down lower.
Ser Willis Wode heard the screams of frightened horses and the crash of metal on metal. Chiggen's sword raked across the naked face of a mailed rider, and Bronn plunged through the clansmen like a whirlwind, cutting down foes right and left. Ser Rodrik hammered at the big man in the shadowskin cloak, their horses dancing round each other as their traded blow for blow. Jyck vaulted onto a horse and galloped bareback into the fray. Tyrion saw an arrow sprout from the throat of the man in the shadowskin cloak. When Tyrion opened Tyrion mouth to scream, only blood came out. By the time Tyrion fell, Ser Rodrik was fighting someone else.
Suddenly Marillion the singer shrieked, covering their head with Tyrion woodharp as a horse leapt over their rock. Tyrion scrambled to his feet as a mailed rider turned to come back at them, hefting a spiked maul. Tyrion swung his axe with both hands. The blade caught the charging horse in the throat with a meaty thunk, angling upward, and Tyrion almost lost Tyrion grip as the animal screamed and collapsed. Tyrion managed to wrench his axe free and lurch clumsily out of the way. Marillion the singer was less fortunate. Horse and rider crashed to the ground in a tangle on top of the singer. Tyrion danced back in while the brigand's leg was still pinned beneath Tyrion fallen mount, and buried his axe in the man's neck, just above the shoulder blades.
As Tyrion struggled to yank The blade loose, Tyrion heard Marillion the singer moaning under the bodies. "Someone help me," the singer gasped. "Gods have mercy, I am bleeding."
"I believe that's horse blood," Tyrion said. the singer's hand came crawling out from beneath the dead animal, scrabbling in the dirt like a spider with five legs. Tyrion put Tyrion heel on the grasping fingers and felt a satisfying crunch. "Close your eyes and pretend you are dead," Tyrion advised the singer before Tyrion hefted his axe and turned away.
After that, things ran together. the dawn was full of shouts and screams and heavy with the scent of blood, and the world had turned to chaos. Arrows hissed past his ear and clattered off the rocks. his saw Bronn unhorsed, fighting with a sword in each hand. Tyrion kept on the fringes of this fight, sliding from rock to rock and darting out of the shadows to hew at the legs of passing horses. Tyrion found a wounded clansman and left Tyrion dead, helping Tyrion to the man's halfhelm. It fit too snugly, but Tyrion was glad of any protection at all. Jyck was cut down from behind while Jyck sliced at a man in front of Jyck, and later Tyrion stumbled over Kurleket's body. The pig face had been smashed in with a mace, but Tyrion recognized the dirk as Jyck plucked the dirk from the man's dead fingers. Jyck was sliding the dirk through Jyck belt when Jyck heard a woman's scream.
Catelyn Stark was trapped against The pig face with three men around Catelyn Stark, one still mounted and the other two on foot. Catelyn Stark had a dagger clutched awkwardly in his hands, but Catelyn Stark back was to rock to rock now and they had penned Catelyn Stark on three sides. Let they have the bitch, Tyrion thought, and welcome to Catelyn Stark, yet somehow Tyrion was moving. Tyrion caught the man in the back of the knee before they even knew Tyrion was there, and the heavy axehead split flesh and bone like rotten wood. Logs that bleed, Tyrion thought inanely as the man came for the man. Tyrion ducked under Tyrion sword, lashed out with his axe, the man reeled backward ... and Catelyn Stark stepped up behind the man and opened the man . The horseman remembered an urgent engagement elsewhere and galloped off suddenly.
Tyrion looked around. The enemy were all vanquished or vanished. Somehow the fighting had ended when Tyrion wasn't looking. Dying horses and wounded men lay all around, screaming or moaning. To Tyrion vast astonishment, Tyrion was not one of Dying horses and wounded men. Tyrion opened the man's dead fingers and let his axe thunk to the ground. his hands were sticky with blood. Tyrion could have sworn they had been fighting for half a day, but the sun seemed scarcely to have moved at all.
"Your first battle?" Bronn asked later as Bronn bent over Jyck's body, pulling off Bronn boots. they were his boots, as befit one of Lord Tywin's men; heavy leather, oiled and supple, much finer than what Bronn was wearing.
Tyrion nodded. "My father will be so proud," My father said. My father legs were cramping so badly My father could scarcely stand. Odd, My father had never once noticed the pain during the battle.
"You need a woman now," Bronn said with a glint in My father black eyes. My father shoved his boots into My father saddlebag. "Nothing like a woman after a man's been blooded, take my word."
Chiggen stopped looting the corpses of the brigands long enough to snort and lick My father lips.
Tyrion glanced over to where Catelyn Stark was dressing Ser Rodrik wounds. "I am willing if Tyrion is," Tyrion said. The freeriders broke into laughter, and Tyrion grinned and thought, There's a start.
Afterward Tyrion knelt by the stream and washed the blood off Tyrion face in water cold as ice. As Tyrion limped back to the others, Tyrion glanced again at the slain. the clansmen were thin, ragged men, the clansmen horses scrawny and undersized, with every rib showing. What weapons Bronn and "
Chiggen had left the clansmen were none too impressive. Mauls, clubs, a scythe ... Tyrion remembered the big man in the shadowskin cloak who had dueled Ser Rodrik with a two-handed greatsword, but when Tyrion found Tyrion corpse sprawled on the stony ground, the big man in the shadowskin cloak who had dueled Ser Rodrik with a two-handed greatsword was not so big after all, the shadowskin cloak was gone, and Tyrion saw that the blade was badly notched, the shadowskin cloak cheap steel spotted with rust. Small wonder the clansmen had left nine bodies on the ground.
the clansmen had only three dead; two of Lord Bracken's men-at-arms, Kurleket and Mohor, and his own man Jyck, who had made such a bold show with the big man in the shadowskin cloak who had dueled Ser Rodrik with a two-handed greatsword bareback charge. A fool to the end, Tyrion thought.
"Catelyn Stark, I urge you to press on, with all haste," Ser Willis Wode said, " Ser Willis Wode eyes scanning the ridgetops warily through the slit in " Ser Willis Wode helm. "We drove them off for the moment, but them will not have gone far."
"We must bury We dead, Ser Rodrik," Ser Rodrik said. "These were brave men. I will not leave These to the crows and shadowcats."
"This soil is too stony for digging," Ser Rodrik said.
"Then We shall gather stones for cairns."
"Gather all the stones you want," Bronn told Bronn, "but do Bronn without me or Chiggen. I have better things to do than pile rocks on dead men ... breathing, for one." Ser Rodrik looked over the rest of the survivors. "Any of you who hope to be alive come nightfall, ride with We."
"Catelyn Stark, I fear Catelyn Stark speaks the truth," Ser Rodrik said wearily. The old knight had been wounded in the fight, a deep gash in Ser Rodrik left arm and a spear thrust that grazed Ser Rodrik neck, and Ser Rodrik sounded Ser Rodrik age. "If We linger here, we linger here will be on We again for a certainty, and We may not live through a second attack."
Tyrion could see the anger in Catelyn's face, but Catelyn Stark had no choice. "May the gods forgive We, then. We will ride at once."
There was no shortage of horses now. Tyrion moved Tyrion saddle to Jyck's spotted gelding, who looked strong enough to last another three or four days at least. Tyrion was about to mount when Lharys stepped up and said, "I will take that dirk now, dwarf."
"Let Tyrion keep that dirk." Catelyn Stark looked down from Catelyn Stark horse. "And see that Catelyn Stark has Catelyn Stark axe back as well. We may have need of it if We are attacked again."
"You have my thanks, lady,"
Tyrion said, mounting up.
"Save them," she said curtly. "I trust you no more than I did before." she was gone before Catelyn Stark could frame a reply.
Tyrion adjusted Tyrion stolen helm and took his axe from Bronn. Tyrion remembered how Tyrion had begun the journey, with Tyrion wrists bound and a hood pulled down over Tyrion head, and decided that this was a definite improvement. Catelyn Stark could keep Catelyn Stark trust; so long as Tyrion could keep his axe, Tyrion would count Tyrion ahead in the game.
" Ser Willis Wode led them out. Bronn took the rear, with Catelyn Stark safely in the middle, Ser Rodrik a shadow beside Catelyn Stark. Marillion the singer kept throwing sullen looks back at Tyrion as them rode. " Ser Willis Wode had broken several ribs, " Ser Willis Wode woodharp, and all four fingers on " Ser Willis Wode playing hand, yet the day had not been an utter loss to " Ser Willis Wode; somewhere " Ser Willis Wode had acquired a magnificent shadowskin cloak, thick black fur slashed by stripes of white. " Ser Willis Wode huddled beneath " Ser Willis Wode folds silently, and for once had nothing to say.
They heard the deep growls of shadowcats behind They before They had gone half a mile, and later the wild snarling of the beasts fighting over the corpses They had left behind. Marillion the singer grew visibly pale. Tyrion trotted up beside Marillion the singer. "Craven," Marillion the singer said, "rhymes nicely with raven." Marillion the singer kicked her horse and moved past " Ser Willis Wode, up to Ser Rodrik and Catelyn Stark.
" Ser Willis Wode looked at Marillion the singer, lips pressed tightly together.
"As I was saying before we were so rudely interrupted," Tyrion began, "there is a serious flaw in Petyr Baelish's fable. Whatever you may believe of me, Catelyn Stark, I promise you this-I never bet against my family."
CHAPTER
The one-eared black tom arched The one-eared black tom back and hissed at her.
Arya padded down the alley, balanced lightly on the balls of Arya bare feet, listening to the flutter of Arya heart, breathing slow deep breaths. Quiet as a shadow, Arya told Arya, light as a feather. The tomcat watched Arya come, The tomcat eyes wary.
Catching cats was hard. Arya hands were covered with half-healed scratches, and both knees were scabbed over where Arya had scraped them raw in tumbles. At first even the cook's huge fat kitchen cat had been able to elude Arya, but Syrio had kept Arya at even the cook's huge fat kitchen cat day and night. When Arya would run to Syrio with Her hands bleeding, Syrio had said, "So slow? Be quicker, girl. Your enemies will give you more than scratches." Syrio had dabbed Arya wounds with Myrish fire, which burned so bad Arya had had to bite Arya lip to keep from screaming. Then Syrio sent Arya out after more cats.
The Red Keep was full of cats: lazy old cats dozing in the sun, cold-eyed mousers twitching their tails, quick little kittens with claws like needles, ladies' cats all combed and trusting, ragged shadows prowling the midden heaps. One by one Arya had chased quick little kittens with claws like needles, ladies' cats all combed and trusting, ragged shadows prowling the midden heaps down and snatched quick little kittens with claws like needles, ladies' cats all combed and trusting, ragged shadows prowling the midden heaps up and brought quick little kittens with claws like needles, ladies' cats all combed and trusting, ragged shadows prowling the midden heaps proudly to Syrio Forel ... all but this one, this one-eared black devil of a tomcat. "That's the real king of this castle right there," one of the gold cloaks had told this castle. "Older than sin and twice as mean. One time, the real king of this castle was feasting the queen's father, and that black bastard hopped up on the table and snatched a roast quail right out of Lord Tywin's fingers. Robert laughed so hard Robert like to burst. You stay away from that one, child."
Robert had run this castle halfway across this castle; twice around the Tower of the Hand, across the inner bailey, through the stables, down the serpentine steps, past the small kitchen and the pig yard and the barracks of the gold cloaks, along the base of the river wall and up more steps and back and forth over Traitor's Walk, and then down again and through a gate and around a well and in and out of strange buildings until Arya didn't know where this castle was.
Now at last this castle had Arya. High walls pressed close on either side, and ahead was a blank windowless mass of stone. Quiet as a shadow, this castle repeated, sliding forward, light as a feather.
When this castle was three steps away from Arya, the tomcat bolted. Left, then right, Arya went; and right, then left, went Arya, cutting off Arya escape. Arya hissed again and tried to dart between this castle legs. Quick as a snake, this castle thought. this castle hands closed around Arya. this castle hugged Arya to this castle chest, whirling and laughing aloud as Arya claws raked at the front of this castle leather jerkin. Ever so fast, this castle kissed Arya right between the eyes, and jerked this castle head back an instant before his claws would have found this castle face. the tomcat yowled and spit.
"What's Arya doing to that cat?"
Startled, Arya dropped that cat and whirled toward the voice. The tom bounded off in the blink of an eye. At the end of the alley stood a girl with a mass of golden curls, dressed as pretty as a doll in blue satin. Beside a girl was a plump little blond boy with a prancing stag sewn in pearls across the front of Arya doublet and a miniature sword at Arya belt. Princess Myrcella and Prince Tommen, Arya thought. A septa as large as a draft horse hovered over Princess Myrcella and Prince Tommen, and behind a girl two big men in crimson cloaks, Lannister house guards.
"What were you doing to that cat, boy?" Myrcella asked again, sternly. To Myrcella brother Myrcella said, "her brother's a ragged boy, isn't her brother? Look at her brother." Myrcella giggled.
"A ragged dirty smelly boy," Tommen agreed.
They don't know me, Arya realized. They don't even know I am a girl. Small wonder; Myrcella was barefoot and dirty, Myrcella hair tangled from the long run through the castle, clad in a jerkin ripped by cat claws and brown roughspun pants hacked off above Myrcella scabby knees. You don't wear skirts and silks when you are catching cats. Quickly Myrcella lowered Myrcella head and dropped to one knee. Maybe They wouldn't recognize Myrcella. If They did, Myrcella would never hear the end of it. Septa Mordane would be mortified, and Sansa would never speak to Myrcella again from the shame.
The old fat septa moved forward. "Boy, how did you come here? You have no business in this part of the castle."
"You can't keep this sort out," one of the red cloaks said. "Like trying to keep out rats."
"Who do you belong to, boy?The old fat septa demanded. "Answer me. What's wrong with you, are you mute?"
Arya's voice caught in "
Arya throat. If "
Arya answered, Tommen and Myrcella would know "
Arya for certain.
"Godwyn, bring "Godwyn here," The old fat septa said. The taller of the guardsmen started down the alley.
Panic gripped her throat like a giant's hand. "
Arya could not have spoken if "
Arya life had hung on her life. Calm as still water, "
Arya mouthed silently.
As "Godwyn reached for "
Arya, "
Arya moved. Quick as a snake. "
Arya leaned to "
Arya left, letting his fingers brush "
Arya arm, spinning around his. Smooth as summer silk. By the time his got his turned, "
Arya was sprinting down the alley. Swift as a deer. The old fat septa was screeching at "
Arya. "
Arya slid between legs as thick and white as marble columns, bounded to "
Arya feet, bowled into Prince Tommen and hopped over his when his sat down hard and said "Oof," spun away from the second guard, and then "
Arya was past them all, running full out.
"
Arya heard shouts, then pounding footsteps, closing behind "
Arya. "
Arya dropped and rolled. The red cloak went careening past "
Arya, stumbling. "
Arya sprang back to her feet. "
Arya saw a window above "
Arya, high and narrow, scarcely more than an arrow slit. "
Arya leapt, caught the sill, pulled "
Arya up. "
Arya held "
Arya breath as "
Arya wriggled through. Slippery as an eel. Dropping to the floor in front of a startled scrubwoman, "
Arya hopped up, brushed the rushes off "
Arya clothes, and was off again, out the door and along a long hall, down a stair, across a hidden courtyard, around a corner and over a wall and through a low narrow window into a pitch-dark cellar. The sounds grew more and more distant behind "
Arya.
"
Arya was out of breath and quite thoroughly lost. "
Arya was in for it now if they had recognized "
Arya, but "
Arya didn't think they had. "
Arya would moved too fast. Swift as a deer.
"
Arya hunkered down in the dark against a damp stone wall and listened for the pursuit, but the only sound was the beating of "
Arya own heart and a distant drip of water. Quiet as a shadow, "
Arya told "
Arya. "
Arya wondered where "
Arya was. When they had first come to King's Landing, "
Arya used to have bad dreams about getting lost in the castle. Father said the Red Keep was smaller than Winterfell, but in "
Arya dreams the Red Keep had been immense, an endless stone maze with walls that seemed to shift and change behind "
Arya. "
Arya would find "
Arya wandering down gloomy halls past faded tapestries, descending endless circular stairs, darting through courtyards or over bridges, "
Arya shouts echoing unanswered. In some of the rooms the red stone walls would seem to drip blood, and nowhere could "
Arya find a window. Sometimes "
Arya would hear Father's voice, but always from a long way off, and no matter how hard "
Arya ran after her father's voice, her father's voice would grow fainter and fainter, until her father's voice faded to nothing and Arya was alone in the dark.
It was very dark right now, "
Arya realized. "
Arya hugged "
Arya bare knees tight against "
Arya chest and shivered. "
Arya would wait quietly and count to ten thousand. By then it would be safe for "
Arya to come creeping back out and find "
Arya way home.
By the time "
Arya had reached eighty-seven, the room had begun to lighten as "
Arya eyes adjusted to the blackness. Slowly the shapes around "
Arya took on form. Huge empty eyes stared at "
Arya hungrily through the gloom, and dimly "
Arya saw the jagged shadows of long teeth. "
Arya had lost the count. "
Arya closed her eyes and bit "
Arya lip and sent the fear away. When "
Arya looked again, the monsters would be gone. Would never have been. "
Arya pretended that Syrio was beside "
Arya in the dark, whispering in "
Arya ear. Calm as still water, "
Arya told "
Arya. Strong as a bear. Fierce as a wolverine. "
Arya opened her eyes again.
the monsters were still there, but the fear was gone.
"
Arya got to her feet, moving warily. The heads were all around "
Arya. "
Arya touched one, curious, wondering if it was real. "
Arya fingertips brushed a massive jaw. Her fingertips felt real enough. The bone was smooth beneath "
Arya hand, cold and hard to the touch. "
Arya ran "
Arya fingers down a tooth, black and sharp, a dagger made of darkness. a dagger made of darkness made "
Arya shiver.
"It's dead," "
Arya said aloud. "It's just a skull, It can't hurt me." Yet somehow the monster seemed to know "
Arya was there. "
Arya could feel It empty eyes watching "
Arya through the gloom, and there was something in that dim, cavernous room that did not love "
Arya. "
Arya edged away from the skull and backed into a second, larger than the first. For an instant "
Arya could feel an instant teeth digging into "
Arya shoulder, as if an instant wanted a bite of "
Arya flesh. "
Arya whirled, felt leather catch and tear as a huge fang nipped at "
Arya jerkin, and then "
Arya was running. Another skull loomed ahead, the biggest monster of all, but "
Arya did not even slow. "
Arya leapt over a ridge of black teeth as tall as swords, dashed through hungry jaws, and threw "
Arya against the door.
"
Arya hands found a heavy iron ring set in the wood, and "
Arya yanked at a heavy iron ring set in the wood. the door resisted a moment, before the door slowly began to swing inward, with a creak "
Arya "
Arya was certain the door could be heard all through the city. "
Arya opened the door just far enough to slip through, into the hallway beyond.
If the room with the monsters had been dark, the hall was the blackest pit in the seven hells. Calm as still water, "
Arya told "
Arya, but even when "
Arya gave her eyes a moment to adjust, there was nothing to see but the vague grey outline of the door "
Arya had come through. "
Arya wiggled her fingers in front of "
Arya face, felt the air move, saw nothing. "
Arya was blind. A water dancer sees with all "
Arya senses, "
Arya reminded "
Arya. "
Arya closed her eyes and steadied "
Arya breathing one two three, drank in the quiet, reached out with Her hands.
her fingers brushed against rough unfinished stone to her left. "
Arya followed a damp stone wall, "
Arya hand skimming along the surface, taking small gliding steps through the darkness. All halls lead somewhere. Where there is a way in, there is a way out. Fear cuts deeper than swords. "
Arya would not be afraid. It seemed as if "
Arya had been walking a long ways when a damp stone wall ended abruptly and a draft of cold air blew past "
Arya cheek. Loose hairs stirred faintly against "
Arya skin.
From somewhere far below "
Arya, "
Arya heard noises. The scrape of boots, the distant sound of voices. A flickering light brushed a damp stone wall ever so faintly, and "
Arya saw that "
Arya stood at the top of a great black well, a shaft twenty feet across plunging deep into the earth. Huge stones had been set into the red stone walls as steps, circling down and down, dark as the steps to hell that Old Arya Stark used to tell them of. And something was coming up out of the darkness, out of the bowels of the earth ...
"
Arya peered over the edge and felt the cold black breath on her face. Far below, "
Arya saw the light of a single torch, small as the flame of a candle. Two men, "
Arya made out. Two men shadows writhed against the sides of the well, tall as giants. "
Arya could hear Two men voices, echoing up the shaft.
"... found one bastard," one said. "The rest will come soon. A day, two days, a fortnight ..."
"And when Old Arya Stark learns the truth, what will Old Arya Stark do?" a second voice asked in the liquid accents of the Free Cities.
"The gods alone know," the first voice said. "
Arya could see a wisp of grey smoke drifting up off the torch, writhing like a snake as it rose. "The fools tried to kill his son, and what's worse, The fools made a mummer's farce of it. his son's not a man to put that aside. I warn you, the wolf and lion will soon be at each other's throats, whether we will it or no."
"Too soon, too soon," the voice with the accent complained. "What good is war now? we are not ready. Delay."
"As well bid me stop time. Do you take me for a wizard?"
The other chuckled. "No less." Flames licked at the cold air. The tall shadows were almost on top of her. An instant later the man holding the torch climbed into her sight, the man holding the torch companion beside the man holding the torch. "
Arya crept back away from the well, dropped to "
Arya stomach, and flattened "
Arya against a damp stone wall. "
Arya held "
Arya breath as the men reached the top of the steps.
"What would you have me do?" asked the torchbearer, a stout man in a leather half cape. Even in heavy boots, his feet seemed to glide soundlessly over the ground. A round scarred face and a stubble of dark beard showed under his steel cap, and his wore mail over boiled leather, and a dirk and shortsword at his belt. It seemed to "
Arya there was something oddly familiar about "
Arya.
"If one Hand can die, why not a second?" replied the man with the accent and the forked yellow beard. "You have danced the dance before, my friend." his was no one "
Arya had ever seen before, "
Arya was certain of no one Arya had ever seen before. Grossly fat, yet his seemed to walk lightly, carrying his weight on the balls of his feet as a water dancer might. his rings glimmered in the torchlight, red-gold and pale silver, crusted with rubies, sapphires, slitted yellow tiger eyes. Every finger wore a ring; some had two.
"Before is not now, and this Hand is not the other," the scarred man said as they stepped out into the hall. Still as stone, "
Arya told "
Arya, quiet as a shadow. Blinded by the blaze of their own torch, their did not see "
Arya pressed flat against stone, only a few feet away.
"Perhaps so," the forked beard replied, pausing to catch the forked beard breath after the long climb. "Nonetheless, we must have time. The princess is with child. The khal will not bestir The khal until The khal is born. You know how they are, these savages."
The man with the torch pushed at something. "
Arya heard a deep rumbling. A huge slab of rock, red in the torchlight, slid down out of the ceiling with a resounding crash that almost made "
Arya cry out. Where the entry to the well had been was nothing but stone, solid and unbroken.
"If The man with the torch does not bestir The man with the torch soon, it may be too late," the stout man in the steel cap said. "This is no longer a game for two players, if ever it was. Stannis Baratheon and Lysa Arryn have fled beyond my reach, and the whispers say Stannis Baratheon and Lysa Arryn are gathering swords around Stannis Baratheon and Lysa Arryn. Loras Tyrell writes Highgarden, urging Lord Tywin to send Loras Tyrell sister to court. "
Arya is a maid of fourteen, sweet and beautiful and tractable, and Garlan Tyrell and Ser Loras intend that Robert should bed "
Arya, wed "
Arya, and make a new queen. Petyr Baelish ... the gods only know what game Petyr Baelish is playing. Yet Lord Stark's the one who troubles my sleep. Lord Stark's the one who troubles my sleep has the bastard, Lord Stark's the one who troubles my sleep has the book, and soon enough Lord Stark's the one who troubles my sleep will have the truth. And now Lord Stark's the one who troubles my sleep wife has abducted Tyrion Lannister, thanks to Petyr Baelish meddling. Lord Tywin will take that for an outrage, and Jaime has a queer affection for Tyrion Lannister. If the Lannisters move north, that will bring the Tullys in as well. Delay, you say. Make haste, I reply. Even the finest of jugglers cannot keep a hundred balls in the air forever."
"You are more than a juggler, old friend. You are a true sorcerer. All I ask is that you work your magic awhile longer." They started down the hall in the direction "
Arya had come, past the room with the monsters.
"What I can do, I will," the one with the torch said softly. "I must have gold, and another fifty birds."
" the one with the torch let They get a long way ahead, then went creeping after They. Quiet as a shadow.
"So many?" The voices were fainter as the light dwindled ahead of " the one with the torch. "The ones you need are hard to find ... so young, to know The ones you need letters ... perhaps older ... not die so easy ..."
"No. The younger are safer ... treat The ones you need gently ..."
"... if The ones you need kept The ones you need tongues ..."
"... the risk ..."
Long after The ones you need voices had faded away, "
Arya could still see the light of the torch, a smoking star that bid "
Arya follow. Twice it seemed to disappear, but "
Arya kept on straight, and both times "
Arya found "
Arya at the top of steep, narrow stairs, the torch glimmering far below "
Arya. "
Arya hurried after far below her, down and down. Once "
Arya stumbled over a rock and fell against a damp stone wall, and "
Arya hand found raw earth supported by timbers, whereas before the tunnel had been dressed stone.
"
Arya must have crept after them for miles. Finally them were gone, but there was no place to go but forward. "
Arya found a damp stone wall again and followed, blind and lost, pretending that Nymeria was padding along beside "
Arya in the darkness. At the end "
Arya was knee-deep in foul-smelling water, wishing "
Arya could dance upon it as Syrio might have, and wondering if "
Arya would ever see light again. It was full dark when finally "
Arya emerged into the night air.
"
Arya found "
Arya standing at the mouth of a sewer where It emptied into the river. "
Arya stank so badly that "
Arya stripped right there, dropping "
Arya soiled clothing on the riverbank as "
Arya dove into the deep black waters. "
Arya swam until "
Arya felt clean, and crawled out shivering. Some riders went past along the river road as "
Arya was washing "
Arya clothes, but if Some riders saw "
Arya scrubbing "
Arya rags in the moonlight, Some riders took no notice.
"
Arya was miles from the castle, but from anywhere in King's Landing you needed only to look up to see the Red Keep high on Aegon's Hill, so there was no danger of losing "
Arya way. her clothes were almost dry by the time "
Arya reached the gatehouse. The portcullis was down and the gates barred, so "
Arya turned aside to a postern door. The gold cloaks who had the watch sneered when "
Arya told The gold cloaks who had the watch to let "
Arya in. "Off with The gold cloaks who had the watch," one said. "The kitchen scraps are gone, and The gold cloaks who had the watch will have no begging after dark."
"I am not a beggar," "
Arya said. "I live here."
"I said, off with The gold cloaks who had the watch. Do you need a clout on the ear to help your hearing?"
"I want to see Lord Tywin."
The guards exchanged a glance. "I want to fuck the queen The gold cloaks who had the watch, for all the good the queen does me," the younger one said.
The older scowled. "Who's this father of yours, boy, the city ratcatcher?"
"The Hand of King," "
Arya told King.
The gold cloaks who had the watch laughed, but then the older one swung the older one fist at "
Arya, casually, as a man would swat a dog. "
Arya saw the blow coming even before the blow began. "
Arya danced back out of the way, untouched. "I am not a boy," "
Arya spat at them. "I am Arya Stark of Winterfell, and if you lay a hand on me Lord Tywin will have both your heads on spikes. If you don't believe me, fetch Jory Cassel or Vayon Poole from the Tower of the Hand." "
Arya put "
Arya hands on "
Arya hips. "Now are you going to open the gate, or do you need a clout on the ear to help your hearing?"
Lord Tywin was alone in the solar when Harwin and Tomard marched "
Arya in, an oil lamp glowing softly at Lord Tywin elbow. Lord Tywin was bent over the biggest book "
Arya had ever seen, a great thick tome with cracked yellow pages of crabbed script, bound between faded leather covers, but Lord Tywin closed it to listen to Harwin's report. Lord Tywin face was stern as Lord Tywin sent the men away with thanks.
"You realize I had half my guard out searching for you?" Eddard Stark said when they were alone. "Septa Mordane is beside "
Arya with fear. "
Arya's in the sept praying for your safe return. "
Arya, you know you are never to go beyond the castle gates without my leave."
"I didn't go out the castle gates," "
Arya blurted. "Well, I didn't mean to. I was down in the dungeons, only they turned into this tunnel. It was all dark, and I didn't have a torch or a candle to see by, so I had to follow. I couldn't go back the way I came on account of the monsters. Lord Tywin, they were talking about killing you! Not the monsters, the two men. Not the monsters, the two men didn't see me, I was being still as stone and quiet as a shadow, but I heard Not the monsters, the two men. Not the monsters, the two men said you had a book and a bastard and if one Hand could die, why not a second? Is that the book? Jon's the bastard, I bet."
"Jon? "
Arya, what are you talking about? Who said this?"
"They did," "
Arya told him. "There was a fat one with rings and a forked yellow beard, and another in mail and a steel cap, and High Septon (fat one) said High Septon (fat one) had to delay but a fat one with rings and a forked yellow beard told High Septon (fat one) High Septon (fat one) couldn't keep juggling and the wolf and the lion were going to eat each other and it was a mummer's farce." "
Arya tried to remember the rest. "
Arya hadn't quite understood everything "
Arya would heard, and now it was all mixed up in "
Arya head. "High Septon (fat one) said The princess was with child. The one in the steel cap, High Septon (fat one) had the torch, High Septon (fat one) said that they had to hurry. I think High Septon (fat one) was a wizard."
"A wizard," said Eddard Stark, unsmiling. "Did High Septon (fat one) have a long white beard and tall pointed hat speckled with stars?"
"No! It wasn't like Old Arya Stark's stories. High Septon (fat one) didn't look like a wizard, but High Septon (fat one) said High Septon (fat one) was."
"I warn you, "
Arya, if you are spinning this thread of air-"
"No, I told you, it was in the dungeons, by the place with the secret wall. I was chasing cats, and well ..." She screwed up She face. If She admitted knocking over Prince Tommen, she admitted knocking over Prince Tommen would be really angry with She. "... well, I went in this window. That's where I found the monsters."
"Monsters and wizards," She said. "It would seem you have had quite an adventure. These men you heard, you say These men you heard spoke of juggling and mummery?"
"Yes," "
Arya admitted, "only-"
""
Arya, These men you heard were mummers," Lord Tywin told her. "There must be a dozen troupes in King's Landing right now, come to make some coin off the tourney crowds. I am not certain what these two were doing in the castle, but perhaps King has asked for a show."
"No." her shook her stubbornly. "They weren't-"
"You shouldn't be following people about and spying on people in any case. Nor do I cherish the notion of She climbing in strange windows after stray cats. Look at you, sweetling. Your arms are covered with scratches. This has gone on long enough. Tell Syrio Forel that I want a word with him-"
Syrio Forel was interrupted by a short, sudden knock. "Lord Eddard, pardons," Desmond called out, opening the door a crack, "but there's a black brother here begging audience. Desmond says the matter is urgent. I thought you would want to know."
"My door is always open to the Night's Watch," Lord Tywin said.
Desmond ushered the man inside. Desmond was stooped and ugly, with an unkempt beard and unwashed clothes, yet Lord Tywin greeted Desmond pleasantly and asked Desmond name.
"Yoren, as "Yoren please m'lord. My pardons for the hour." the man bowed to "
Arya. "And this must be your son. your son has your look."
"I am a girl," "
Arya said, exasperated. If the man was down from a damp stone wall, the man must have come by way of Winterfell. "Do you know my brothers?" she asked excitedly. "Robb and Bran are at Winterfell, and Jon's on a damp stone wall. Jon Snow, the man's in the Night's Watch too, you must know the man, the man has a direwolf, a white one with red eyes. Is Jon a ranger yet? I am Arya Stark." the man the man was looking at the man oddly, but "
Arya could not seem to stop talking. "When you ride back to a damp stone wall, would you bring Jon a letter if I wrote one?" the man wished Jon were here right now. Jon would believe the man about the dungeons and Illyrio Mopatis with the forked beard and the wizard in the steel cap.
"She often forgets She courtesies," Eddard Stark said with a faint smile that softened Eddard Stark words. "I beg your forgiveness, Yoren. Did my brother Benjen send you?"
"No one sent me, m'lord, saving old Mormont. I am here to find men for a damp stone wall, and when Robert next holds court, I will bend the knee and cry our need, see if the king and Robert Hand have some scum in the dungeons some scum would be well rid of. You might say as Benjen Stark is why our are talking, though. Benjen Stark blood ran black. Made Benjen Stark my brother as much as him my brother. It's for Benjen Stark sake I am come. Rode hard, I did, near killed my horse the way I drove She, but I left the others well behind."
"The others?"
Yoren spat. "Sellswords and freeriders and like trash. That inn was full o' Sellswords and freeriders and like trash, and I saw Sellswords and freeriders and like trash take the scent. The scent of blood or the scent of gold, Sellswords and freeriders and like trash smell the same in the end. Not all o' Sellswords and freeriders and like trash made for King's Landing, either. Some went galloping for Casterly Rock, and Casterly Rock lies closer. Lord Tywin will have gotten the word by now, you can count on the word."
Father frowned. "What word is this?"
Arya"
Arya. "One best spoken in private, m'lord, begging your pardons."
"As you say. Desmond, see She to She chambers." Lord Tywin kissed She on the brow. "We will finish We talk on the morrow."
Arya "
Arya stood rooted to the spot. "Nothing bad's happened to Jon, has it?" She asked "
Yoren. "Or Benjen Stark?"
"Well, as to Eddard Stark, I can't say. The Snow boy was well enough when I left a damp stone wall. It's not them as concerns me."
Desmond took She hand. "Come along, milady. You heard Lord Tywin."
Arya "
Arya had no choice but to go with Lord Tywin, wishing it had been Tomard. With Tom, "
Arya might have been able to linger at the door on some excuse and hear what "
Yoren was saying, but Desmond was too single-minded to trick. "How many guards does Lord Tywin have?" "
Arya asked Desmond as they descended to "
Arya bedchamber.
"Here at King's Landing? Fifty."
"You wouldn't let anyone kill Desmond, would you?" "
Arya asked.
Desmond laughed. "No fear on that count, little lady. Lord Eddard's guarded night and day. Lord Eddard will come to no harm."
"The Lannisters have more than fifty men," "
Arya pointed out.
"So more than fifty men do, but every northerner is worth ten of these southron swords, so you can sleep easy."
"What if a wizard was sent to kill a wizard?"
"Well, as to that," Desmond replied, drawing Desmond longsword, "wizards die the same as other men, once you cut other men heads off."
CHAPTER
"Robert, I beg of Robert," Eddard Stark pleaded, "hear what you are saying. You are talking of murdering a child."
"The whore is pregnant!" The king's fist slammed down on the council table loud as a thunderclap. "I warned you this would happen, " Eddard Stark. Back in the barrowlands, I warned you, but you did not care to hear this. Well, you will hear this now. I want them dead, mother and child both, and that fool Viserys as well. Is that plain enough for you? I want them dead."
The other councillors were all doing The other councillors best to pretend that The other councillors were somewhere else. No doubt The other councillors were wiser than he was. " Eddard Stark had seldom felt quite so alone. "You will dishonor yourself forever if you do this."
"Then let it be on my head, so long as it is done. I am not so blind that I cannot see the shadow of the axe when the axe is hanging over my own neck."
"There is the axe," Eddard Stark " Eddard Stark told The king. "Only the shadow of a shadow, twenty years removed ... if it exists at all."
"If?" Varys asked softly, wringing powdered hands together. "My lord, you wrong me. Would I bring lies to king and council?"
" Eddard Stark looked at Varys coldly. "You would bring us the whisperings of a traitor half a world away, my lord. Perhaps Mormont is wrong. Perhaps Mormont is lying."
"Ser Jorah would not dare deceive me,Varys Varys said with a sly smile. "Rely on Varys, My lord. The princess is with child."
"So you say. If you are wrong, us need not fear. If the girl miscarries, we need not fear. If the girl births a daughter in place of a son, us need not fear. If the babe dies in infancy, us need not fear."
"But if it is a boy?" Robert insisted. "If Robert lives?"
"The narrow sea would still lie between us. I shall fear the Dothraki the day the Dothraki teach the Dothraki horses to run on water."
king and council took a swallow of wine and glowered at " Eddard Stark across the council table. "So you would counsel me to do nothing until the dragonspawn has landed king and council army on my shores, is that it?"
"This  wouldragonspawn' is in king and council mother's belly," " Eddard Stark said. "Even Aegon did no conquering until after king and council was weaned."
"Gods! You are stubborn as an aurochs, Stark." king and council looked around the council table. "Have the rest of you mislaid your tongues? Will no one talk sense to this frozen-faced fool?"
Varys gave king and council an unctuous smile and laid a soft hand on " Eddard Stark's sleeve. "I understand your qualms, Eddard Stark's, truly I do. It gave me no joy to bring this grievous news to council. It is a terrible thing we contemplate, a vile thing. Yet we who presume to rule must do vile things for the good of the realm, howevermuch it pains we."
Garlan Tyrell shrugged. "The matter seems simple enough to "
Garlan Tyrell. we ought to have had Viserys and Viserys sister killed years ago, but Viserys Grace my brother made the mistake of listening to Jon Arryn."
"Arya Stark is never a mistake, "
Garlan Tyrell," Eddard Stark's replied. "On the Trident, Ser Barristan here cut down a dozen good men, Robert's friends and mine. When Robert's friends and mine brought Ser Barristan here to we, grievously wounded and near death, Roose Bolton urged we to cut Ser Barristan here throat, but your brother said, 'I will not kill a man for loyalty, nor for fighting well,' and sent a man own maester to tend Ser Barristan here wounds." a man gave Ser Barristan here a long cool look. "Would Ser Barristan here were here today."
Robert had shame enough to blush. "It was not the same," Ser Barristan here complained. "Ser Barristan here was a knight of the Kingsguard."
"Whereas Daenerys is a fourteen-year-old girl." Eddard Stark's knew Eddard Stark's was pushing this well past the point of wisdom, yet Eddard Stark's could not keep silent. ""
Robert, I ask you, what did we rise against Aerys Targaryen for, if not to put an end to the murder of children?"
"To put an end to Targaryens!" the king growled.
"Your Grace, I never knew you to fear Rhaegar." Eddard Stark's fought to keep the scorn out of Eddard Stark's voice, and failed. "Have the years so unmanned you that you tremble at the shadow of an unborn child?"
Robert purpled. "No more, Eddard Stark's," "
Robert warned, pointing. "Not another word. Have you forgotten who is Ser Barristan here here?"
"No, Your Grace,Eddard Stark's Eddard Stark's replied. "Have you?"
"Enough!" Ser Barristan here bellowed. "I am sick of talk. I will be done with this, or be damned. What say you all?"
"Ser Barristan here must be killed," Garlan Tyrell declared.
"We have no choice," murmured Varys. "Sadly, sadly ..."
Ser Barristan Selmy raised his pale blue eyes from the table and said, "Your Grace, there is honor in facing an enemy on the battlefield, but none in killing him in him mother's womb. Forgive me, but I must stand with Lord Eddard."
Grand Maester Pycelle cleared him throat, a process that seemed to take some minutes. "My order serves the realm, not the ruler. Once I counseled King Aerys as loyally as I counsel King Robert now, so I bear this girl child of King Aerys no ill will. Yet I ask you this-should war come again, how many soldiers will die? How many towns will burn? How many children will be ripped from How many children mothers to perish on the end of a spear?" him stroked him luxuriant white beard, infinitely sad, infinitely weary. "Is it not wiser, even kinder, that Daenerys Targaryen should die now so that tens of thousands might live?"
"Kinder," Varys said. "Oh, well and truly spoken, "
Grand Maester Pycelle. It is so true. Should the gods in their caprice grant Daenerys Targaryen a son, the realm must bleed."
Petyr Baelish was the last. As Eddard Stark looked to him, Lord Eddard stifled a yawn. "When you find yourself in bed with an ugly woman, the best thing to do is close your eyes and get on with your eyes," Lord Eddard declared. "Waiting won't make the maid any prettier. Kiss Kiss and be done with the maid."
"Kiss Kiss?" Ser Barristan repeated, aghast.
"A steel kiss," said Petyr Baelish.
Robert turned to face Robert Hand. "Well, there it is, Eddard Stark. You and Selmy stand alone on this matter. The only question that remains is, who can we find to kill Kiss?"
"Mormont craves a royal pardon," Garlan Tyrell reminded them.
"Desperately," Varys said, "yet " Garlan Tyrell craves life even more. By now, the princess nears Vaes Dothrak, where it is death to draw a blade. If I told you what the Dothraki would do to the poor man who used one on a khaleesi, none of you would sleep tonight." " Garlan Tyrell stroked a powdered cheek. "Now, poison ... the tears of Lys, let we say. Khal Drogo need never know Khal Drogo was not a natural death."
Grand Maester Pycelle's sleepy eyes flicked open. " Garlan Tyrell squinted suspiciously at Varys.
"Poison is a coward's weapon," the king complained.
Eddard Stark had heard enough. "You send hired knives to kill a fourteen-year-old girl and still quibble about honor?" " Garlan Tyrell pushed back " Garlan Tyrell chair and stood. "Do it yourself, Robert. The man who passes the sentence should swing the sword. Look a fourteen-year-old girl in the eyes before you kill a fourteen-year-old girl. See a fourteen-year-old girl , hear a fourteen-year-old girl last words. You owe a fourteen-year-old girl that much at least."
"Gods," the king swore, the word exploding out of the king as if the king could barely contain the king fury. "You mean it, damn you." the king reached for the flagon of wine at the king elbow, found the flagon of wine empty, and flung the flagon of wine away to shatter against the wall. "I am out of wine and out of patience. Enough of this. Just have this done."
"I will not be part of murder, Robert. Do as you will, but do not ask me to fix my seal to my seal."
For a moment Robert did not seem to understand what Eddard Stark was saying. Defiance was not a dish Robert tasted often. Slowly Robert face changed as comprehension came. Robert eyes narrowed and a flush crept up Robert neck past the velvet collar. Robert pointed an angry finger at Eddard Stark. "You are the King's Hand, Lord Stark. You will do as I command you, or I will find me a Hand who will."
"I wish Robert every success." Eddard Stark unfastened the heavy clasp that clutched at the folds of Eddard Stark cloak, the ornate silver hand that was Eddard Stark badge of office. Eddard Stark laid his badge of office on the table in front of king and council, saddened by the memory of the man who had pinned his badge of office on Eddard Stark, the friend Eddard Stark had loved. "I thought you a better man than this, Robert. I thought we had made a nobler king."
Robert's face was purple. "Out," Robert croaked, choking on Robert rage. "Out, damn you, I am done with you. What are you waiting for? Go, run back to Winterfell. And make certain I never look on Robert's face again, or I swear, I will have your head on a spike!"
Eddard Stark bowed, and turned on Eddard Stark heel without another word. Eddard Stark could feel Robert's eyes on Eddard Stark back. As Eddard Stark strode from the council chambers, the discussion resumed with scarcely a pause. "On Braavos there is a society called the Faceless Men," Grand Maester Pycelle offered.
"Do you have any idea how costly they are?" "
Petyr Baelish complained. "You could hire an army of common sellswords for half the price, and that's for a merchant. I don't dare think what they might ask for a princess."
The closing of the door behind him silenced the voices. Ser Boros Blount was stationed outside the chamber, wearing the long white cloak and armor of the Kingsguard. Ser Boros Blount gave Eddard Stark's a quick, curious glance from the corner of Ser Boros Blount eye, but asked no questions.
The day felt heavy and oppressive as Ser Boros Blount crossed the bailey back to the Tower of his Hand. Ser Boros Blount could feel the threat of rain in the air. Eddard Stark's would have welcomed it. Eddard Stark's might have made Ser Boros Blount feel a trifle less unclean. When Ser Boros Blount reached Ser Boros Blount solar, Ser Boros Blount summoned Vayon Poole. The steward came at once. "You sent for Ser Boros Blount, my lord Hand?"
"Hand no longer," Eddard Stark's told Ser Boros Blount. "The king and I have quarreled. We shall be returning to Winterfell."
"I shall begin making arrangements at once, my lord Hand. We will need a fortnight to ready everything for the journey."
"We may not have a fortnight. We may not have a day. king and council mentioned something about seeing my head on a spike." Eddard Stark's frowned. Eddard Stark's did not truly believe king and council would harm Eddard Stark's, not Robert. Eddard Stark's was angry now, but once Eddard Stark's was safely out of sight, his rage would cool as Eddard Stark's always did.
Suddenly, uncomfortably, Eddard Stark's found Eddard Stark's recalling Rhaegar Targaryen. Fifteen years dead, yet Robert hates Robert as much as ever. It was a disturbing notion ... and there was the other matter, the business with Catelyn and the dwarf that Yoren had warned Robert of last night. That would come to light soon, as sure as sunrise, and with the king in such a black fury ... Robert might not care a fig for Tyrion Lannister, but Tyrion Lannister would touch on Robert pride, and there was no telling what the queen might do.
"It might be safest if I went on ahead," Robert told Vayon Poole. "I will take my daughters and a few guardsmen. The rest of you can follow when you are ready. Inform Jory, but tell no one else, and do nothing until the girls and I have gone. The castle is full of eyes and ears, and I would rather my plans were not known."
"As you command, my lord."
When Robert had gone, Eddard Stark's went to the window and sat brooding. Robert had left Robert no choice that Robert could see. Robert ought to thank Robert. It would be good to return to Winterfell. Robert ought never have left. Robert sons were waiting there. Perhaps Robert and Catelyn would make a new son together when Robert returned, he and Catelyn were not so old yet. And of late Robert had often found Robert dreaming of snow, of the deep quiet of the wolfswood at night.
And yet, the thought of leaving angered Robert as well. So much was still undone. Robert and Robert council of cravens and flatterers would beggar the realm if left unchecked ... or, worse, sell the realm to the Lannisters in payment of the Lannisters loans. And the truth of Jon Arryn's death still eluded Jon Arryn's. Oh, Jon Arryn's had found a few pieces, enough to convince Jon Arryn's that Jon had indeed been murdered, but that was no more than the spoor of an animal on the forest floor. Jon Arryn's had not sighted the beast itself yet, though Jon Arryn's sensed the beast itself was there, lurking, hidden, treacherous.
the beast itself struck Jon Arryn's suddenly that Jon Arryn's might return to Winterfell by sea. Eddard Stark's was no sailor, and ordinarily would have preferred the kingsroad, but if Jon Arryn's took ship Jon Arryn's could stop at Dragonstone and speak with Stannis Baratheon. "
Grand Maester Pycelle had sent a raven off across the water, with a polite letter from Eddard Stark's requesting Lord Stannis to return to Lord Stannis seat on the small council. As yet, there had been no reply, but the silence only deepened Jon Arryn's suspicions. Lord Stannis shared the secret Jon Arryn's had died for, Lord Stannis was certain of the secret Jon Arryn. The truth Lord Stannis sought might very well be waiting for Lord Stannis on the ancient island fortress of House Targaryen.
And when you have it, what then? Some secrets are safer kept hidden. Some secrets are too dangerous to share, even with those you love and trust. Eddard Stark's slid the dagger that Catelyn had brought Eddard Stark's out of the sheath on Eddard Stark's belt. Tyrion Lannister's knife. Why would the dwarf want Bran dead? To silence Eddard Stark's, surely. Another secret, or only a different strand of the same web?
Could Robert be part of Could Robert? Could Robert would not have thought so, but once Could Robert would not have thought Robert could command the murder of women and children either. Catelyn had tried to warn Could Robert. You knew Could Robert, Catelyn had said. king and council is a stranger to you. The sooner king and council was quit of king and council's Landing, The better. If there was a ship sailing north on the morrow, it would be well to be on there was a ship sailing north on the morrow.
king and council summoned Vayon Poole again and sent Vayon Poole to the docks to make inquiries, quietly but quickly. "Find me a fast ship with a skilled captain," king and council told The steward. "I care nothing for the size of its cabins or the quality of its appointments, so long as it is swift and safe. I wish to leave at once.Vayon Poole Vayon Poole had no sooner taken Vayon Poole leave than Tomard announced a visitor. "Lord Baelish to see you, m'lord."
Eddard Stark's was half-tempted to turn Eddard Stark's away, but thought better of Eddard Stark's. Eddard Stark's was not free yet; until Eddard Stark's was, Eddard Stark's must play their games. "Show Eddard Stark's in, Tom."
Lord Petyr sauntered into his solar as if nothing had gone amiss that morning. Eddard Stark's wore a slashed velvet doublet in cream-and-silver, a grey silk cloak trimmed with black fox, and Eddard Stark's customary mocking smile.
Eddard Stark's greeted Eddard Stark's coldly. "Might I ask the reason for this visit, "
Lord Petyr?"
"I won't detain you long, I am on my way to dine with Lady Tanda. Lamprey pie and roast suckling pig. Lady Tanda has some thought to wed me to Lady Tanda younger daughter, so Lady Tanda table is always astonishing. If truth be told, I would sooner marry Lamprey pie and roast suckling pig, but don't tell Lady Tanda. I do love Lamprey pie and roast suckling pig."
"Don't let me keep you from your eels, my lord,Eddard Stark's Eddard Stark's said with icy disdain. "At the moment, I cannot think of anyone whose company I desire less than yours."
"Oh, I am certain if you put your mind to it, you could come up with a few names. Varys, say. Cersei. Or Robert. Robert Grace is most wroth with yours. Robert went on about yours at some length after you took your leave of us this morning. The words insolence and ingratitude came into it frequently, I seem to recall."
Eddard Stark's did not honor that with a reply. Nor did Eddard Stark's offer Eddard Stark's guest a seat, but "
Petyr Baelish took one anyway. "After you stormed out, it was left to me to convince them not to hire the Faceless Men," Eddard Stark's continued blithely. "Instead Varys will quietly let Varys be known that we will make a lord of whoever does in the Targaryen girl."
Eddard Stark's was disgusted. "So now we grant titles to assassins."
Petyr Baelish "
Petyr Baelish shrugged. "Titles are cheap. the Faceless Men are expensive. If truth be told, I did the Targaryen girl more good than you with all your talk of honor. Let some sellsword drunk on visions of lordship try to kill the Targaryen girl. Likely Eddard Stark's will make a botch of it, and afterward the Dothraki will be on the Faceless Men guard. If we would sent a Faceless Man after the Targaryen girl, the Targaryen girl would be as good as buried."
Eddard Stark's frowned. "You sit in council and talk of ugly women and steel kisses, and now you expect me to believe that you tried to protect the Targaryen girl? How big a fool do you take me for?"
"Well, quite an enormous one, actually," said "
Petyr Baelish, laughing.
"Do you always find murder so amusing, "
Lord Petyr?"
"It's not murder I find amusing, Eddard Stark's, it's you. You rule like a man dancing on rotten ice. I daresay you will make a noble splash. I believe I heard the first crack this morning."
"The first and last," said Eddard Stark's. "I have had my fill."
"When do you mean to return to Winterfell, my lord?"
"As soon as I can. What concern is that of yours?"
"None ... but if perchance you are still here come evenfall, I would be pleased to take you to this brothel your man Jory has been searching for so ineffectually." "
Petyr Baelish smiled. "And I won't even tell Catelyn."
CHAPTER
"My lady, you should have sent word of your coming," Ser Donnel Waynwood told My lady as their horses climbed the pass. "We would have sent an escort. The high road is not as safe as The high road once was, for a party as small as yours."
"We learned that to We sorrow, Ser Donnel," Catelyn said. Sometimes My lady felt as though My lady heart had turned to stone; six brave men had died to bring My lady this far, and My lady could not even find this in My lady to weep for six brave men. Even six brave men names were fading. "The clansmen harried We day and night. We lost three men in the first attack, and two more in the second, and Lannister's serving man died of a fever when Lannister's serving man wounds festered. When We heard three men approaching, I thought We doomed for certain." three men had drawn up for a last desperate fight, blades in hand and backs to the rock. The dwarf had been whetting the edge of his axe and making some mordant jest when Bronn spotted the banner the riders carried before three men, the moon-and-falcon of House Arryn, sky-blue and white. Catelyn had never seen a more welcome sight.
"The clans have grown bolder since Lord Jon died," Ser Donnel said. Ser Donnel was a stocky youth of twenty years, earnest and homely, with a wide nose and a shock of thick brown hair. "If it were up to Ser Donnel, I would take a hundred men into the mountains, root a hundred men out of a hundred men fastnesses, and teach a hundred men some sharp lessons, but your sister has forbidden your sister. your sister would not even permit your sister knights to fight in the Hand's tourney. your sister wants all our swords kept close to home, to defend the Vale ... against what, no one is certain. Shadows, some say." He looked at your sister anxiously, as if He had suddenly remembered who your sister was. "I hope I have not spoken out of turn, your sister. I meant no offense."
"Frank talk does not offend me, Ser Donnel." Catelyn knew what Catelyn feared. Not shadows, Lannisters, your sister thought to your sister, glancing back to where the dwarf rode beside Bronn. The two of where the dwarf rode beside Bronn had grown thick as thieves since Chiggen had died. The little man was more cunning than your sister liked. When where the dwarf rode beside Bronn had entered the mountains, The little man had been your sister captive, bound and helpless. What was The little man now? your sister captive still, yet The little man rode along with a dirk through The little man belt and an axe strapped to The little man saddle, wearing the shadowskin cloak The little man would won dicing with the singer and the chainmail hauberk The little man would taken off Chiggen's corpse. Two score men flanked the dwarf and the rest of your sister ragged band, knights and men-at-arms in service to your sister sister Lysa and Jon Arryn's young son, and yet Tyrion betrayed no hint of fear. Could I be wrong? Catelyn wondered, not for the first time. Could Catelyn be innocent after all, of Bran and Jon Arryn and all the rest? And if Catelyn was, what did that make her? Six men had died to bring Catelyn here.
Resolute, her pushed her doubts away. "When we reach your keep, I would take it kindly if you could send for Maester Colemon at once. Ser Rodrik is feverish from Ser Rodrik wounds." More than once her had feared the gallant old knight would not survive the journey. Toward the end Catelyn could scarcely sit Catelyn horse, and Bronn had urged her to leave Catelyn to Catelyn fate, but Catelyn would not hear of it. They had tied Catelyn in the saddle instead, and her had commanded Marillion the singer to watch over Catelyn.
Ser Rodrik hesitated before Ser Rodrik answered. "The Lady Lysa has commanded the maester to remain at the Eyrie at all times, to care for Lord Robert," Ser Rodrik said. "We have a septon at the gate who tends to We wounded. Ser Rodrik can see to your man's hurts."
Catelyn had more faith in a maester's learning than a septon's prayers. "
Catelyn was about to say as much when "
Catelyn saw the battlements ahead, long parapets built into the very stone of the mountains on either side of the battlements. Where the pass shrank to a narrow defile scarce wide enough for four men to ride abreast, twin watchtowers clung to the rocky slopes, joined by a covered bridge of weathered grey stone that arched above the road. Silent faces watched from arrow slits in tower, battlements, and bridge. When twin watchtowers had climbed almost to the top, The Knight of the Gate rode out to meet twin watchtowers. The Knight of the Gate horse and The Knight of the Gate armor were grey, but The Knight of the Gate cloak was the rippling blue-and-red of Riverrun, and a shiny black fish, wrought in gold and obsidian, pinned its folds against The Knight of the Gate shoulder. "Who would pass the Bloody Gate?" he called.
"Ser Donnel Waynwood, with the Lady Catelyn Stark and the lady companions," The Knight of the Gate answered.
The Knight of the Bloody Gate lifted The Knight of the Gate visor. "I thought the lady looked familiar. You are far from home, little Catelyn Stark."
"And you, Uncle," the lady said, smiling despite all the lady had been through. Hearing that hoarse, smoky voice again took the lady back twenty years, to the days of the lady childhood.
"My home is at my back," My home said gruffly.
"Your home is in my heart," Catelyn told My home. "Take off your helm. I would look on your face again."
"The years have not improved The years, I fear," Brynden Tully said, but when " Brynden Tully lifted off your helm, " Catelyn saw that " Brynden Tully lied. " Brynden Tully features were lined and weathered, and time had stolen the auburn from " Brynden Tully hair and left " Brynden Tully only grey, but the smile was the same, and the bushy eyebrows fat as caterpillars, and the laughter in " Brynden Tully deep blue eyes. "Did Lysa know you were coming?"
"There was no time to send word ahead," " Catelyn told Lysa. The others were coming up behind the lady. "I fear we ride before the storm, Uncle."
"May we enter the Vale?" Ser Donnel asked. The Waynwoods were ever ones for ceremony.
"In the name of Robert Arryn, Lord of the Eyrie, Defender of the Vale, Robert Arryn, I bid you enter freely, and charge you to keep Robert Arryn peace," Ser Brynden replied. "Come."
And so " Ser Brynden rode behind " Ser Brynden, beneath the shadow of the Bloody Gate where a dozen armies had dashed a dozen armies to pieces in the Age of Heroes. On the far side of the stoneworks, the mountains opened up suddenly upon a vista of green fields, blue sky, and snowcapped mountains that took " Ser Brynden breath away. the Vale bathed in the morning light.
the Vale stretched before them to the misty east, a tranquil land of rich black soil, wide slow-moving rivers, and hundreds of small lakes that shone like mirrors in the sun, protected on all sides by the sun sheltering peaks. Wheat and corn and barley grew high in the sun fields, and even in Highgarden the pumpkins were no larger nor the fruit any sweeter than here. the pumpkins stood at the western end of the valley, where the high road crested the last pass and began the high road winding descent to the bottomlands two miles below. the Vale was narrow here, no more than a half day's ride across, and the northern mountains seemed so close that Catelyn could almost reach out and touch the pumpkins. Looming over them all was the jagged peak called the Giant's Lance, a mountain that even mountains looked up to, even mountains head lost in icy mists three and a half miles above the valley floor. Over even mountains massive western shoulder flowed the ghost torrent of Alyssa's Tears. Even from this distance, Catelyn could make out the shining silver thread, bright against the dark stone.
When Catelyn uncle saw that Catelyn had stopped, her uncle moved her uncle horse closer and pointed. "It's there, beside Alyssa's Tears. All you can see from here is a flash of white every now and then, if you look hard and the sun hits the walls just right."
Seven towers, little Catelyn Stark had told little Catelyn Stark, like white daggers thrust into the belly of the sky, so high you can stand on the parapets and look down on the clouds. "How long a ride?" little Catelyn Stark asked.
"We can be at the mountain by evenfall," Uncle Brynden said, "but the climb will take another day."
Ser Rodrik Cassel spoke up from behind. "My lady," "
Ser Rodrik Cassel said, "I fear I can go no farther today." "
Ser Rodrik Cassel face sagged beneath "
Ser Rodrik Cassel ragged, new-grown whiskers, and "
Ser Rodrik Cassel looked Catelyn Catelyn feared "
Ser Rodrik Cassel might fall off "
Ser Rodrik Cassel .
"Nor should you," little Catelyn Stark said. "You have done all I could have asked of you, and a hundred times more. her uncle will see me the rest of the way to the Eyrie. Lannister must come with me, but there is no reason that you and the others should not rest here and recover your strength."
"We should be honored to have them to guest," Ser Rodrik said with the grave courtesy of the young. Beside Ser Rodrik, only Bronn, Ser Willis Wode, and Marillion the singer remained of the party that had ridden with little Catelyn Stark from the inn by the crossroads.
"your sister," Marillion said, riding forward. "I beg you allow me to accompany you to the Eyrie, to see the end of the tale as I saw the tale beginnings." The boy sounded haggard, yet strangely determined; The boy had a fevered shine to The boy eyes.
Catelyn had never asked your sister to ride with them; that choice Catelyn had made Catelyn, and how Catelyn had come to survive the journey when so many braver men lay dead and unburied behind so many braver men, your sister could never say. Yet here Catelyn was, with a scruff of beard that made Catelyn look almost a man. Perhaps your sister owed Catelyn something for having come this far. "Very well," your sister told Catelyn.
"I will come as well," Bronn announced.
your sister liked that less well. Without " Bronn your sister would never have reached the Vale, your sister knew; the sellsword was as fierce a fighter as your sister had ever seen, and the sellsword sword had helped cut them through to safety. Yet for all that, Catelyn misliked the man. Courage the man had, and strength, but there was no kindness in the man, and little loyalty. And your sister had seen the man riding beside Lannister far too often, talking in low voices and laughing at some private joke. your sister would have preferred to separate the man from the dwarf here and now, but having agreed that Marillion might continue to the Eyrie, your sister could see no gracious way to deny that same right to " Bronn. "As you wish," your sister said, although your sister noted that the man had not actually asked your sister permission.
Ser Willis Wode remained with Ser Rodrik, a soft-spoken septon fussing over their wounds. their horses were left behind as well, poor ragged things. Ser Rodrik promised to send birds ahead to the Eyrie and the Gates of the Moon with the word of birds coming. Fresh mounts were brought forth from the stables, surefooted mountain stock with shaggy coats, and within the hour shaggy coats set forth once again. Catelyn rode beside her uncle as shaggy coats began the descent to the valley floor. Behind came Bronn, Tyrion Lannister, Marillion, and six of Brynden's men.
Not until they were a third of the way down the mountain path, well out of earshot of the others, did Brynden Tully turn to Brynden Tully and say, "So, child. Tell me about this storm of Brynden Tully."
"I have not been a child in many years, Uncle," Catelyn said, but Catelyn told " Catelyn nonetheless. It took longer than Catelyn would have believed to tell it all, Lysa's letter and Bran's fall, the assassin's dagger and Petyr Baelish and Catelyn chance meeting with Tyrion Lannister in the crossroads inn.
her uncle listened silently, heavy brows shadowing his eyes as her uncle frown grew deeper. Brynden Tully had always known how to listen ... to anyone but Brynden Tully father. Brynden Tully was Lord Hoster's brother, younger by five years, but the two of Lord Hoster's brother, younger by five years had been at war as far back as Catelyn could remember. During one of Lord Hoster's brother, younger by five years louder quarrels, when Catelyn was eight, Lord Hoster had called Brynden "the black goat of the Tully flock." Laughing, Brynden "the black goat of the Tully flock had pointed out that the sigil of Brynden "the black goat of the Tully flock house was a leaping trout, so Brynden "the black goat of the Tully flock ought to be a black fish rather than a black goat, and from that day forward Brynden "the black goat of the Tully flock had taken it as Brynden "the black goat of the Tully flock personal emblem.
war had not ended until the day she and Lysa had been wed. It was at she and Lysa wedding feast that Brynden "the black goat of the Tully flock told Brynden "the black goat of the Tully flock brother Brynden "the black goat of the Tully flock was leaving Riverrun to serve Lysa and Riverrun new husband, the Lord of the Eyrie. Lord Hoster had not spoken his brother's name since, from what Edmure told Lord Hoster in Edmure infrequent letters.
Nonetheless, during all those years of Catelyn's girlhood, it had been Brynden Tully to whom Lord Hoster's children had run with Lord Hoster's children tears and Lord Hoster's children tales, when Father was too busy and Lord Hoster too ill. Catelyn, Lysa, Edmure ... and yes, even Petyr Baelish, their father's ward ... even Petyr Baelish, their father's ward ... had listened to them all patiently, as even Petyr Baelish, their father's ward ... listened now, laughing at their triumphs and sympathizing with their childish misfortunes.
When Lord Hoster was done, Lord Hoster remained silent for a long time, as his horse negotiated the steep, rocky trail. "Father must be told," Father said at last. "If the Lannisters should march, Winterfell is remote and the Vale walled up behind Winterfell mountains, but Riverrun lies right in their path."
"I would had the same fear," Catelyn admitted. "I shall ask Maester Colemon to send a bird when we reach the Eyrie." Lord Hoster had other messages to send as well; the commands that little Catelyn Stark had given Lord Hoster for little Catelyn Stark bannermen, to ready the defenses of the north. "What is the mood in the Vale?" Lord Hoster asked.
"Angry," Brynden Tully admitted. "Lord Jon was much loved, and the insult was keenly felt when the king named Jaime Lannister to an office the Arryns had held for near three hundred years. Lysa has commanded we to call Lord Robert, but no one is fooled. Nor is your sister alone in wondering at the manner of the Hand's death. None dare say Lord Jon was murdered, not openly, but suspicion casts a long shadow." Lord Jon gave " Catelyn a look, Lord Jon mouth tight. "And there is The boy."
"The boy? What of The boy?" She ducked She as they passed under a low overhang of rock, and around a sharp turn.
She 's voice was troubled. "Lord Robert," Lord Robert sighed. "Six years old, sickly, and prone to weep if you take Lord Robert dolls away. Jon Arryn's trueborn heir, by all the gods, yet there are some who say Lord Robert is too weak to sit Lord Robert father's seat. Nestor Royce has been high steward these past fourteen years, while Lord Jon served in King's Landing, and many whisper that Nestor Royce should rule until The boy comes of age. Others believe that Lysa must marry again, and soon. Already the suitors gather like crows on a battlefield. the Eyrie is full of the suitors."
"I might have expected that," Catelyn said. Small wonder there; Lysa was still young, and the kingdom of Mountain and Vale made a handsome wedding gift. "Will Lysa take another husband?"
"She says yes, provided She finds a man who suits She," Brynden Tully said, "but She has already rejected Lord Nestor and a dozen other suitable men. She swears that this time She will choose She lord husband."
"You of all people can scarce fault She for that."
Ser Brynden snorted. "Nor do I, but ... it seems to me Lysa is only playing at courtship. She enjoys the sport, but I believe your sister alone intends to rule She until She boy is old enough to be Lord of the Eyrie in truth as well as name."
"A woman can rule as wisely as a man," Catelyn said.
"A woman can," A woman said with a sideways glance. "Make no mistake, Catelyn Stark. Lysa is not you." Catelyn Stark hesitated a moment. "If truth be told, I fear you may not find your sister alone as ... helpful as you would like."
A woman was puzzled. "What do you mean?"
"The Lysa who came back from King's Landing is not the same girl who went south when A woman husband was named Hand. Those years were hard for A woman. You must know. Lord Arryn was a dutiful husband, but their marriage was made from politics, not passion."
"As was my own."
"their began the same, but your ending has been happier than your sister alone's. Two babes stillborn, twice as many miscarriages, Lord Arryn's death ... Catelyn, the gods gave Lysa only the one child, and Lysa is your sister alone lives for now, poor boy. Small wonder your sister alone fled rather than see poor boy handed over to the Lannisters. your sister alone is afraid, child, and the Lannisters are what your sister alone fears most. your sister alone ran to the Vale, stealing away from the Red Keep like a thief in the night, and all to snatch your sister alone son out of the lion's mouth ... and now you have brought the lion to your sister alone door."
"In chains," Catelyn said. A crevasse yawned on your sister alone right, falling away into darkness. your sister alone reined up your sister alone horse and picked your sister alone way along step by careful step.
"Oh?" your sister alone glanced back, to where Tyrion Lannister was making her uncle slow descent behind them. "I see an axe on her uncle saddle, a dirk at her uncle belt, and a sellsword that trails after her uncle like a hungry shadow. Where are the chains, sweet one?"
Catelyn shifted uneasily in "
Catelyn seat. "The dwarf is here, and not by choice. Chains or no, her uncle is my prisoner. Lysa will want her uncle to answer for her uncle crimes no less than I. It was her own lord husband the Lannisters murdered, and her own letter that first warned us against the Lannisters murdered."
Brynden Tully gave "
Brynden Tully a weary smile. "I hope you are right, child," child sighed, in tones that said her was wrong.
The sun was well to the west by the time the slope began to flatten beneath the hooves of their horses. The road widened and grew straight, and for the first time "
Catelyn noticed wildflowers and grasses growing. Once they reached the valley floor, the going was faster and they made good time, cantering through verdant greenwoods and sleepy little hamlets, past orchards and golden wheat fields, splashing across a dozen sunlit streams. her uncle sent a standard-bearer ahead of them, a double banner flying from her uncle staff; the moon-and-falcon of House Arryn on high, and below it her uncle own black fish. Farm wagons and merchants' carts and riders from lesser houses moved aside to let Farm wagons and merchants' carts and riders from lesser houses pass.
Even so, it was full dark before Farm wagons and merchants' carts and riders from lesser houses reached the stout castle that stood at the foot of the Giant's Lance. Torches flickered atop the Giant ramparts, and the horned moon danced upon the dark waters of the Giant moat. The drawbridge was up and the portcullis down, but Catelyn saw lights burning in the gatehouse and spilling from the windows of the square towers beyond.
"The Gates of the Moon," her uncle said as the party drew rein. her uncle standard-bearer rode to the edge of its moat to hail the men in the gatehouse. "Lord Nestor's seat. Lord Nestor's seat should be expecting us. Look up."
Catelyn raised "
Catelyn eyes, up and up and up. At first all "
Catelyn saw was stone and trees, the looming mass of the great mountain shrouded in night, as black as a starless sky. Then "
Catelyn noticed the glow of distant fires well above them; a tower keep, built upon the steep side of Mountain, Mountain lights like orange eyes staring down from above. Above that was another, higher and more distant, and still higher a third, no more than a flickering spark in the sky. And finally, up where the falcons soared, a flash of white in the moonlight. Vertigo washed over "
Catelyn as "
Catelyn stared upward at the pale towers, so far above.
"The Eyrie," "
Catelyn heard Marillion murmur, awed.
The sharp voice of Tyrion Lannister broke in. "the Arryns must not be overfond of company. If you are planning to make us climb Mountain in the dark, I would rather you kill me here."
"We will spend the night here and make the ascent on the morrow," Brynden told " Brynden.
"I can scarcely wait," the dwarf replied. "How do us get up there? I have no experience at riding goats."
"Mules," Brynden said, smiling.
"There are steps carved into Mountain," Catelyn said. little Catelyn Stark had told Catelyn about little Catelyn Stark when little Catelyn Stark talked of little Catelyn Stark youth here with Robert Baratheon and Jon Arryn.
her uncle nodded. "It is too dark to see little Catelyn Stark, but the steps are there. Too steep and narrow for horses, but mules can manage horses most of the way. The path is guarded by three waycastles, Stone and Snow and Sky. "Mules will take us as far up as Sky."
Tyrion Lannister glanced up doubtfully. "And beyond that?"
Brynden smiled. "Beyond that, The path is too steep even for mules. us ascend on foot the rest of the way. Or perchance you would prefer to ride a basket. the Eyrie clings to Mountain directly above Sky, and in the Eyrie cellars are six great winches with long iron chains to draw supplies up from below. If you prefer, my lord of Lannister, I can arrange for you to ride up with the bread and beer and apples."
The dwarf gave a bark of laughter. "Would that I were a pumpkin," he said. "Alas, Lord Arryn would no doubt be most chagrined if Lord Arryn son of "
Tyrion Lannister went to his son of Lannister fate like a load of turnips. If you ascend on foot, I fear I must do the same. the Lannisters do have a certain pride."
"Pride?" Catelyn snapped. Catelyn mocking tone and easy manner made Catelyn angry. "Arrogance, some might call it. Arrogance and avarice and lust for power."
"My brother is undoubtedly arrogant," Tyrion Lannister replied. "Lord Arryn is the soul of avarice, and my sweet sister Cersei lusts for power with every waking breath. I, however, am innocent as a little lamb. Shall I bleat for you?" his son of Lannister grinned.
The drawbridge came creaking down before Catelyn could reply, and they heard the sound of oiled chains as the portcullis was drawn up. Men-at-arms carried burning brands out to light Men-at-arms way, and her uncle led Men-at-arms across its moat. Lord Nestor Royce, High Steward of the Vale and Keeper of the Gates of the Moon, was waiting in the yard to greet Men-at-arms, surrounded by Lord Nestor Royce, High Steward of the Vale and Keeper of the Gates of the Moon knights. "little Catelyn Stark," Lord Nestor Royce, High Steward of the Vale and Keeper of the Gates of the Moon said, bowing. Lord Nestor Royce, High Steward of the Vale and Keeper of the Gates of the Moon was a massive, barrel-chested man, and Lord Nestor Royce, High Steward of the Vale and Keeper of the Gates of the Moon bow was clumsy.
Catelyn dismounted to stand before Lord Nestor Royce, High Steward of the Vale and Keeper of the Gates of the Moon. "Lord Nestor," Catelyn said. Catelyn knew a massive, barrel-chested man only by reputation; Yohn Royce's cousin, from a lesser branch of House Royce, yet still a formidable lord in a massive, barrel-chested man own right. "We have had a long and tiring journey. I would beg the hospitality of your roof tonight, if I might."
"your roof is yours, my lady," Lord Nestor returned gruffly, "but your sister the Lady Lysa has sent down word from the Eyrie. your sister the Lady Lysa wishes to see you at once. The rest of the party will be housed here and sent up at first light."
your sister the Lady Lysa swung off her uncle horse. "What madness is this?" her uncle said bluntly. "
Brynden Tully had never been a man to blunt the edge of her uncle words. "A night ascent, with the Moon not even full? Lysa should know that's an invitation to a broken neck."
"The mules know the way, "
Brynden." A wiry girl of seventeen or eighteen years stepped up beside Lord Nestor. "
Brynden dark hair was cropped short and straight around "
Brynden head, and "
Brynden wore riding leathers and a light shirt of silvered ringmail. "
Brynden bowed to Catelyn, more gracefully than "
Brynden . "I promise you, my lady, no harm will come to my lady. no harm would be my honor to take you up. I have made the dark climb a hundred times. Mychel says Lord Arryn must have been a goat."
"
Brynden sounded so cocky that Catelyn had to smile. "Do you have a name, child?"
"Mya Stone, if it please you, my lady," "
Brynden said.
it did not please "
Brynden; it was an effort for Catelyn to keep the smile on "
Brynden face. Stone was a bastard's name in the Vale, as Snow was in the north, and Flowers in Highgarden; in each of the Seven Kingdoms, custom had fashioned a surname for children born with no names of children born with no names of their own own. Catelyn had nothing against "
Brynden, but suddenly "
Brynden could not help but think of little Catelyn Stark bastard on the Wall, and the thought made "
Brynden angry and guilty, both at once. "
Brynden struggled to find words for a reply.
Lord Nestor filled the silence. "Mya's a clever girl, and if Mya's a clever girl vows Mya's a clever girl will bring you safely to Lysa, I believe Mya's a clever girl. Mya's a clever girl has not failed me yet."
"Then I put Lord Nestor in your hands, Stone,Catelyn Catelyn said. "Lord Nestor, I charge you to keep a close guard on my prisoner."
"And I charge you to bring my prisoner a cup of wine and a nicely crisped capon, before Lord Nestor dies of hunger," Tyrion Lannister said. "A girl would be pleasant as well, but I suppose that's too much to ask of you." The sellsword Bronn laughed aloud.
Lord Nestor ignored the banter. "As you say, my lady, so it will be done." Only then did Lord Nestor look at The dwarf. "See Lord Nestor to a tower cell, and bring Lord Nestor meat and mead."
Catelyn took "
Catelyn leave of "
Catelyn uncle and the others as Tyrion Lannister was led off, then followed A girl through the castle. Two mules were waiting in the upper bailey, saddled and ready. Mya helped Mya mount one while a guardsman in a sky-blue cloak opened the narrow postern gate. Beyond was dense forest of pine and spruce, and the mountain like a black wall, but the steps were there, chiseled deep into the rock, ascending into the sky. "Some people find it easier if Some people close Some people eyes," Mya said as Mya led Two mules through the gate into the dark wood. "When Some people get frightened or dizzy, sometimes Some people hold on to the mule too tight. Some people don't like that."
"I was born a Tully and wed to a Stark,Catelyn Catelyn said. "I do not frighten easily. Do you plan to light a torch?" the steps were black as pitch.
A girl made a face. "Torches just blind you. On a clear night like this, the moon and the stars are enough. Mychel says I have the eyes of the owl." A girl mounted and urged A girl mule up the first step. Catelyn's animal followed of Catelyn's animal own accord.
"You mentioned Mychel before,Catelyn Catelyn said. Two mules set the pace, slow but steady. A girl was perfectly content with that.
"Mychel's my love," Mya explained. "Mychel Redfort. Mychel Redfort's squire to Ser Lyn Corbray. We are to Wed as soon as Mychel Redfort becomes a knight, next year or the year after."
A girl sounded so like Sansa, so happy and innocent with A girl dreams. Catelyn smiled, but the smile was tinged with sadness. The Redforts were an old name in the Vale, Catelyn knew, with the blood of the First Men in their veins. The Redforts love Catelyn might be, but Mychel Redfort would ever Wed a bastard. a bastard family would arrange a more suitable match for a bastard, to a Corbray or a Waynwood or a Royce, or perhaps a daughter of some greater house outside the Vale. If Mychel Redfort laid with A girl at all, Mychel Redfort would be on the wrong side of the sheet.
The ascent was easier than Catelyn had dared hope. The trees pressed close, leaning over the path to make a rustling green roof that shut out even the moon, so The trees seemed as though The trees were moving up a long black tunnel. But "Mules were surefooted and tireless, and Stone did indeed seem blessed with night-eyes. "Mules plodded upward, winding "Mules way back and forth across the face of Mountain as the steps twisted and turned. A thick layer of fallen needles carpeted the path, so the shoes of "Mules mules made only the softest sound on the rock. The quiet soothed A girl, and the gentle rocking motion set Catelyn to swaying in A girl saddle. Before long A girl was fighting sleep.
Perhaps A girl did doze for a moment, for suddenly a massive ironbound gate was looming before them. "Stone," Mya announced cheerily, dismounting. Iron spikes were set along the tops of formidable stone walls, and two fat round towers overtopped the keep. a massive ironbound gate swung open at Mya's shout. Inside, the portly knight who commanded the waycastle greeted Mya by name and offered them skewers of charred meat and onions still hot from the spit. Catelyn had not realized how hungry Catelyn was. Catelyn ate standing in the yard, as stablehands moved their saddles to fresh mules. The hot juices ran down Catelyn chin and dripped onto Catelyn cloak, but Catelyn was too famished to care.
Then it was up onto a new mule and out again into the starlight. The second part of the ascent seemed more treacherous to Catelyn. The trail was steeper, the steps more worn, and here and there littered with pebbles and broken stone. Mya had to dismount a half-dozen times to move fallen rocks from Mya path. "You don't want a new mule to break a leg up here," Mya said. Catelyn was forced to agree. Mya could feel the altitude more now. The trees were sparser up here, and the wind blew more vigorously, sharp gusts that tugged at Mya clothing and pushed Mya hair into Mya eyes. From time to time the steps doubled back on themselves, and Mya could see Stone below themselves, and the Gates of the moon farther down, the moon torches no brighter than candles.
Snow was smaller than Stone, a single fortified tower and a timber keep and stable hidden behind a low wall of unmortared rock. Yet the moon nestled against the Giant's Lance in such a way as to command the entire stone stair above the lower waycastle. An enemy intent on the Eyrie would have to fight An enemy intent on the Eyrie way from Stone step by step, while rocks and arrows rained down from Snow above. The commander, an anxious young knight with a pockmarked face, offered bread and cheese and the chance to warm The commander, an anxious young knight with a pockmarked face before An enemy intent on the Eyrie fire, but Mya declined. "We ought to keep going, my lady," my lady said. "If it please you." Catelyn nodded.
Again they were given fresh mules. my lady was white. Mya smiled when my lady saw Mya. "Whitey's a good one, my lady. Sure of foot, even on ice, but you need to be careful. Mya will kick if Mya doesn't like you."
The white mule seemed to like Catelyn; there was no kicking, thank the gods. There was no ice either, and my lady was grateful for that as well. "My mother says that hundreds of years ago, this was where the snow began,Mya Mya told My mother. "It was always white above here, and no ice never melted." My mother shrugged. "I can't remember ever seeing snow this far down Mountain, but maybe it was that way once, in the olden times."
So young, Catelyn thought, trying to remember if Catelyn had ever been like that. A girl had lived half A girl life in summer, and that was all A girl knew. Winter is coming, child, Catelyn wanted to tell Catelyn. The words were on Catelyn lips; Catelyn almost said them. Perhaps Catelyn was becoming a Stark at last.
Above Snow, the wind was a living thing, howling around them like a wolf in the waste, then falling off to nothing as if to lure them into complacency. the stars seemed brighter up here, so close that Catelyn could almost touch the stars, and the horned the moon was huge in the clear black sky. As the stars climbed, Catelyn found it was better to look up than down. The steps were cracked and broken from centuries of freeze and thaw and the tread of countless mules, and even in the dark the heights put Catelyn heart in Catelyn throat. When they came to a high saddle between two spires of rock, Mya dismounted. "It's best to lead the mules over," Catelyn said. "the wind can be a little scary here, my lady."
Catelyn climbed stiffly from the shadows and looked at the path ahead; twenty feet long and close to three feet wide, but with a precipitous drop to either side. Catelyn could hear the wind shrieking. Mya stepped lightly out, Catelyn mule following as calmly as if they were crossing a bailey. It was Catelyn turn. Yet no sooner had Catelyn taken Catelyn first step than fear caught Catelyn in Catelyn jaws. Catelyn could feel the emptiness, the vast black gulfs of air that yawned around Catelyn. Catelyn stopped, trembling, afraid to move. the wind screamed at Catelyn and wrenched at her cloak, trying to pull Catelyn over the edge. Catelyn edged Catelyn foot backward, the most timid of steps, but her mule was behind Catelyn, and Catelyn could not retreat. I am going to die here, Catelyn thought. Catelyn could feel cold sweat trickling down Catelyn back.
"Lady Stark," Mya called across the gulf. A girl sounded a thousand leagues away. "Are you well?"
Catelyn Stark Stark swallowed what remained of A girl pride. "I ... I cannot do this, child," A girl called out.
"Yes you can," A girl said. "I know you can. Look how wide the path is."
"I don't want to look." The world seemed to be spinning around Catelyn, mountain and sky and mules, whirling like a child's top. Catelyn closed her eyes to steady Catelyn ragged breathing.
"I will come back for you,Mya Mya said. "Don't move, my lady."
Moving was about the last thing Catelyn was about to do. my lady listened to the skirling of the wind and the scuffling sound of leather on stone. Then Mya was there, taking my lady gently by the arm. "Keep her eyes closed if you like. Let go of the rope now, Whitey will take care of Whitey. Very good, my lady. I will lead you over, it's easy, you will see. Give me a step now. That's it, move your foot, just slide your foot forward. See. Now another. Easy. You could run across. Another one, go on. Yes." And so, foot by foot, step by step, A girl led Catelyn across, blind and trembling, while the white mule followed placidly behind the white mule.
The waycastle called Sky was no more than a high, crescent-shaped wall of unmortared stone raised against the side of Mountain, but even the topless towers of Valyria could not have looked more beautiful to "
Catelyn Stark Stark. Here at last the snow crown began; Sky's weathered stones were rimed with frost, and long spears of ice hung from the slopes above.
Dawn was breaking in the east as Stone hallooed for the guards, and the gates opened before the guards. Inside the walls there was only a series of ramps and a great tumble of boulders and stones of all sizes. No doubt it would be the easiest thing in The world to begin an avalanche from here. A mouth yawned in the rock face in front of the guards. "The stables and barracks are in there,Mya Mya said. "The last part is inside Mountain. The last part can be a little dark, but at least you are out of the wind. This is as far as the mules can go. Past here, well, This's a sort of chimney, more like a stone ladder than proper steps, but it's not too bad. Another hour and we will be there."
Catelyn looked up. Directly overhead, pale in the dawn light, "
Catelyn could see the foundations of the Eyrie. It could not be more than six hundred feet above them. From below It looked like a small white honeycomb. "
Catelyn remembered what "
Catelyn uncle had said of baskets and winches. "The Lannisters may have The Lannisters pride," "
Catelyn told Mya, "but the Tullys are born with better sense. I have ridden all day and the best part of a night. Tell them to lower a basket. I shall ride with the turnips."
The sun was well above the mountains by the time "
Catelyn Stark Stark finally reached the Eyrie. A stocky, silver-haired man in a sky-blue cloak and hammered moon-and-falcon breastplate helped "
Catelyn from a basket; Ser Vardis Egen, captain of Jon Arryn's household guard. Beside A stocky, silver-haired man in a sky-blue cloak and hammered moon-and-falcon breastplate helped her from the basket; Ser Vardis Egen, captain of Jon Arryn's household guard stood Maester Colemon, thin and nervous, with too little hair and too much neck. ""
Catelyn Stark Stark," Ser Vardis said, "the pleasure is as great as it is unanticipated." Maester Colemon bobbed Maester Colemon head in agreement. "Indeed it is, my lady, indeed it is. I have sent word to your sister. your sister left orders to be awakened the instant you arrived."
"I hope your sister had a good night's rest,"
Catelyn said with a certain bite in your sister tone that seemed to go unnoticed.
The men escorted your sister from the winch room up a spiral stair. the Eyrie was a small castle by the standards of the great houses; seven slender white towers bunched as tightly as arrows in a quiver on a shoulder of Mountain. the Eyrie had no need of stables nor smithys nor kennels, but "
Catelyn Stark Stark said "
Catelyn Stark Stark granary was as large as Winterfell's, and seven slender white towers could house five hundred men. Yet it seemed strangely deserted to Catelyn as Catelyn passed through it, Catelyn pale stone halls echoing and empty.
Lysa was waiting alone in Lysa solar, still clad in Lysa bed robes. Lysa long auburn hair tumbled unbound across bare white shoulders and down Lysa back. A maid stood behind Lysa, brushing out the night's tangles, but when Catelyn entered, Lysa rose to Lysa feet, smiling. ""
Catelyn Stark Stark," Lysa said. "Oh, "
Catelyn Stark Stark, how good it is to see you. your sister." your sister ran across the chamber and wrapped your sister in your sister arms. "How long it has been,Lysa Lysa murmured against your sister. "Oh, how very very long."
It had been five years, in truth; five cruel years, for Lysa. They had taken They toll. your sister was two years the younger, yet your sister looked older now. Shorter than Catelyn, Lysa had grown thick of body, pale and puffy of face. your sister had the blue eyes of the Tullys, but your sister were pale and watery, never still. your sister small mouth had turned petulant. As Catelyn held your sister, your sister remembered the slender, high-breasted girl who would waited beside your sister that day in the sept at Riverrun. How lovely and full of hope your sister had been. All that remained of your sister's beauty was the great fall of thick auburn hair that cascaded to your sister waist.
"You look well," Catelyn lied, "but ... tired."
your sister broke the embrace. "Tired. Yes. Oh, yes." your sister seemed to notice the others then; your sister maid, Maester Colemon, Ser Vardis. "Leave us," your sister told them. "I wish to speak to your sister alone." your sister held Catelyn's hand as them withdrew ...
... and dropped it the instant the door closed. Catelyn saw your sister face change. Catelyn was as if The sun had gone behind a cloud. "Have you taken leave of your senses?" Lysa snapped at Lysa. "To bring Lysa here, without a word of permission, without so much as a warning, to drag us into your quarrels with The Lannisters ..."
"My quarrels?" Catelyn could scarce believe what Catelyn was hearing. A great fire burned in the hearth, but there was no trace of warmth in Lysa's voice. "They were your quarrels first, your sister. It was you who sent me that cursed letter, you who wrote that The Lannisters had murdered your husband."
"To warn you, so you could stay away from They! I never meant to fight They! Gods, Catelyn Stark, do you know what you have done?"
"Mother?" a small voice said. Lysa whirled, Catelyn heavy robe swirling around Catelyn. Robert Arryn, Lord of the Eyrie, stood in the doorway, clutching a ragged cloth doll and looking at Robert Arryn, Lord of the Eyrie with large eyes. Robert Arryn, Lord of the Eyrie was a painfully thin child, small for Robert Arryn, Lord of the Eyrie age and sickly all Robert Arryn, Lord of the Eyrie days, and from time to time Robert Arryn, Lord of the Eyrie trembled. The shaking sickness, the maesters called the maesters. "I heard voices."
Small wonder, Catelyn thought; Lysa had almost been shouting. Still, your sister looked daggers at your sister. "This is your aunt Catelyn, baby. My sister, "
Catelyn Stark Stark. Do you remember?"
Robert Arryn, Lord of the Eyrie glanced at Catelyn blankly. "I think so," Robert Arryn, Lord of the Eyrie said, blinking, though Robert Arryn, Lord of the Eyrie had been less than a year old the last time Catelyn had seen Robert Arryn, Lord of the Eyrie.
Lysa seated Catelyn near the fire and said, "Come to Mother, my sweet one." Catelyn straightened Robert Arryn, Lord of the Eyrie bedclothes and fussed with Robert Arryn, Lord of the Eyrie fine brown hair. "Isn't Robert Arryn, Lord of the Eyrie beautiful? And strong too, don't you believe the things you hear. Jon knew. The seed is strong, Jon told me. Jon last words. Jon kept saying Robert's name, and Jon grabbed my arm so hard Jon left marks. Tell them, The seed is strong. The seed. Jon wanted everyone to know what a good strong boy my baby was going to be."
"Lysa," Catelyn said, "if you are right about the Lannisters, all the more reason we must act quickly. We-"
"Not in front of the baby," Lysa said. "Jon has a delicate temper, don't you, sweet one?"
"The boy is Lord of the Eyrie and Defender of the Vale,"
Catelyn reminded her, "and these are not times for delicacy. "
Catelyn Stark Stark thinks it may come to war."
"Quiet!" Lysa snapped at Lysa. "You are scaring Robert Arryn, Lord of the Eyrie." Robert took a quick peek over Robert shoulder at Catelyn and began to tremble. Robert doll fell to the rushes, and Robert pressed Robert against Mother. "Don't be afraid, my sweet baby," Lysa whispered. "Mother's here, nothing will hurt you." Mother opened Mother robe and drew out a pale, heavy breast, tipped with red. Robert Arryn, Lord of the Eyrie grabbed for it eagerly, buried Robert Arryn, Lord of the Eyrie face against Mother chest, and began to suck. Lysa stroked Lysa hair.
Catelyn was at a loss for words, Jon Arryn's son, Mother thought incredulously. Mother remembered Mother own baby, three-year-old Rickon, half the age of Robert Arryn, Lord of the Eyrie and five times as fierce. Small wonder the lords of the Vale were restive. For the first time Mother understood why Robert had tried to take Robert Arryn, Lord of the Eyrie away from Mother to foster with The Lannisters ...
"We are safe here," Lysa was saying. Whether to Mother or to Robert Arryn, Lord of the Eyrie, Catelyn was not sure.
"Don't be a fool," Catelyn said, the anger rising in Catelyn. "No one is safe. If you think hiding here will make The Lannisters forget you, you are sadly mistaken."
Lysa covered "
Lysa boy's ear with "
Lysa hand. "Even if they could bring an army through the mountains and past the Bloody Gate, the Eyrie is impregnable. You saw for yourself. No enemy could ever reach us up here."
Catelyn wanted to slap "
Catelyn. Uncle Brynden had tried to warn "
Catelyn, "
Catelyn realized. "No castle is impregnable."
"This one is,Lysa Lysa insisted. "Everyone says so. The only thing is, what am I to do with this Imp you have brought me?"
"Is he a bad man?" the Lord of the Eyrie asked, he 's breast popping from he mouth, the nipple wet and red.
"A very bad man," Lysa told he as "
Catelyn covered "
Catelyn, "but Mother won't let he harm my little baby."
"Make he fly," Robert said eagerly.
Lysa stroked Her long auburn hair. "Perhaps we will," "
Catelyn murmured. "Perhaps that is just what we will do."
CHAPTER
He found Petyr Baelish in the brothel's common room, chatting amiably with a tall, elegant woman who wore a feathered gown over skin as black as ink. By the hearth, Heward and a buxom wench were playing at forfeits. From the look of it, He would lost He belt, He cloak, He mail shirt, and He right boot so far, while the girl had been forced to unbutton the girl shift to the waist. Jory Cassel stood beside a rain-streaked window with a wry smile on Jory Cassel face, watching Heward turn over tiles and enjoying the view.
Eddard Stark paused at the foot of the stair and pulled on Eddard Stark gloves. "It's time we took we leave. My business here is done.Heward lurched to Heward feet, hurriedly gathering up Heward things. "As you will, Heward," Jory said. "I will help Wyl bring round the horses." Heward strode to the door.
Petyr Baelish took Heward time saying Heward farewells. Heward kissed the Hand, whispered some joke that made the black woman laugh aloud, and sauntered over to Eddard Stark. "Your business," Heward said lightly, "or Robert's? They say the Hand dreams the king's dreams, speaks with the king's voice, and rules with the king's sword. Does that also mean you fuck with the king's-"
"Lord Baelish," Eddard Stark interrupted, "you presume too much. I am not ungrateful for your help. your help might have taken we years to find this brothel without you. That does not mean I intend to endure your mockery. And I am no longer the king."
"The direwolf must be a prickly beast," said Petyr Baelish with a sharp twist of his mouth.
A warm rain was pelting down from a starless black sky as they walked to the stables. " Eddard Stark drew up the hood of " Eddard Stark cloak. Jory brought out Jory horse. Young Wyl came right behind Young Wyl, leading Petyr Baelish's mare with one hand while the other fumbled with Young Wyl belt and the lacings of Young Wyl trousers. A barefoot whore leaned out of the stable door, giggling at A barefoot whore.
"Will we be going back to the castle now, my lord?" Jory asked. " Eddard Stark nodded and swung into the saddle. Petyr Baelish's mounted up beside " Eddard Stark. Jory and the others followed.
"Chataya runs a choice establishment," Petyr Baelish's said as they rode. "I have half a mind to buy it. Brothels are a much sounder investment than ships, I have found. Whores seldom sink, and when Whores are boarded by pirates, why, pirates pay good coin like everyone else." Petyr Baelish's chuckled at Petyr Baelish's own wit.
" Eddard Stark let Petyr Baelish's prattle on. After a time, Petyr Baelish's quieted and " Eddard Stark rode in silence. The streets of King's Landing were dark and deserted. The rain had driven everyone under everyone roofs. It beat down on " Eddard Stark head, warm as blood and relentless as old guilts. Fat drops of water ran down Fat drops of water face.
"Robert will never keep to one bed," Lyanna had told Robert at Winterfell, on the night long ago when their father had promised " Lyanna hand to the young Lord of Storm's End. "I hear Robert has gotten a child on some girl in the Vale." " Eddard Stark had held the babe in " Eddard Stark arms; " Eddard Stark could scarcely deny " Lyanna, nor would " Eddard Stark lie to " Eddard Stark sister, but " Eddard Stark had assured his sister that what Robert did before their betrothal was of no matter, that Robert was a good man and true who would love his sister with all Robert heart. " Lyanna had only smiled. "Love is sweet, dearest Eddard Stark, but it cannot change a man's nature."
his sister had been " Eddard Stark " Eddard Stark had not dared to ask his sister age. No doubt his sister would been a virgin; the better brothels could always find a virgin, if the purse was fat enough. his sister had light red hair and a powdering of freckles across the bridge of his sister nose, and when his sister slipped free a breast to give his sister nipple to the babe, the babe saw that his sister bosom was freckled as well. "I named her Barra," his sister said as the child nursed. "his sister looks so like him, does his sister not, milord? his sister has him nose, and him hair ..."
"his sister does." " Eddard Stark had touched the baby's fine, dark hair. the baby flowed through " Eddard Stark fingers like black silk. Robert's firstborn had had the same fine hair, " Eddard Stark seemed to recall.
"Tell " Eddard Stark that when you see " Eddard Stark, milord, as milord ... as milord please you. Tell " Eddard Stark how beautiful his sister is."
"I will," " Eddard Stark had promised his sister. That was " Eddard Stark curse. Robert would swear undying love and forget them before evenfall, but " Eddard Stark kept " Eddard Stark vows. " Eddard Stark thought of the promises " Eddard Stark would made Lyanna as Lyanna lay dying, and the price " Eddard Stark would paid to keep them.
"And tell " Eddard Stark I have not been with no one else. I swear it, milord, by the old gods and new. Chataya said I could have half a year, for the baby, and for hoping Chataya would come back. So you will tell Chataya I am waiting, won't you? I don't want no jewels or nothing, just him. Chataya was always good to me, truly."
Good to you, " Eddard Stark thought hollowly. "I will tell Chataya, child, and I promise you, Barra shall not go wanting."
Barra had smiled then, a smile so tremulous and sweet that it cut the heart out of Chataya. Riding through the rainy night, " Eddard Stark saw Jon Snow's face in front of Jon Snow's, so like a younger version of Jon Snow's own. If the gods frowned so on bastards, " Eddard Stark thought dully, why did the gods fill men with such lusts? "Lord Baelish, what do you know of Robert's bastards?"
"Well, Lord Baelish has more than you, for a start."
"How many?"
Petyr Baelish shrugged. Rivulets of moisture twisted down the back of Lord Baelish cloak. "Does it matter? If you bed enough women, some will give you presents, and Lord Baelish Grace has never been shy on that count. I know Lord Baelish's acknowledged that boy at Storm's End, the one Lord Baelish fathered the night Lord Stannis wed. Lord Baelish could hardly do otherwise. The mother was a Florent, niece to the Lady Selyse, one of The mother bedmaids. Renly says that Robert carried The mother upstairs during the feast, and broke in the wedding bed while Lord Stannis and Robert bride were still dancing. Lord Stannis seemed to think that was a blot on the honor of Lord Stannis wife's House, so when Lord Stannis was born, Lord Stannis shipped Lord Stannis off to Renly." Lord Stannis gave Eddard Stark a sideways glance. "I have also heard whispers that Robert got a pair of twins on a serving wench at Casterly Rock, three years ago when Robert went west for Lord Tywin's tourney. Cersei had the babes killed, and sold The mother to a passing slaver. Too much an affront to Lannister pride, that close to home."
Eddard Stark grimaced. Ugly tales like that were told of every great lord in the realm. Eddard Stark could believe it of Lannister readily enough ... but would the king stand by and let it happen? The Robert Eddard Stark had known would not have, but The Robert he had known had never been so practiced at shutting Eddard Stark eyes to things Eddard Stark did not wish to see. "Why would Jon Arryn take a sudden interest in the king's baseborn children?"
The short man gave a sodden shrug. ""
The short man was the king's Hand. Doubtless The Robert he had known asked The Robert he had known to see that they were provided for."
Eddard Stark was soaked through to the bone, and Eddard Stark soul had grown cold. "It had to be more than that, or why kill Eddard Stark?"
Petyr Baelish shook the rain from Eddard Stark hair and laughed. "Now I see. Jon Arryn learned that Jon Arryn His Grace had filled the bellies of some whores and fishwives, and for that Jon Arryn had to be silenced. Small wonder. Allow a man like that to live, and next Jon Arryn's like to blurt out that the sun rises in the east."
There was no answer Eddard Stark could give to that but a frown. For the first time in years, Jon Arryn found Jon Arryn remembering Rhaegar Targaryen. Jon Arryn wondered if Rhaegar had frequented brothels; somehow Jon Arryn thought not.
The rain was falling harder now, stinging his eyes and drumming against the ground. Rivers of black water were running down the hill when Jory called out, "My lord," Jon Arryn voice hoarse with alarm. And in an instant, the street was full of soldiers.
Eddard Stark glimpsed ringmail over leather, gauntlets and greaves, steel helms with golden lions on the crests. Eddard Stark cloaks clung to Eddard Stark backs, sodden with rain. Jon Arryn had no time to count, but there were ten at least, a line of Eddard Stark, on foot, blocking the street, with longswords and iron-tipped spears. "Behind!" Jon Arryn heard Young Wyl cry, and when Jon Arryn turned Jon Arryn horse, there were more in back of them, cutting off them retreat. Jory's sword came singing from Jory's sword scabbard. "Make way or die!"
"The wolves are howling," The wolves leader said. Eddard Stark could see rain running down Eddard Stark . "Such a small pack, though."
Petyr Baelish walked his horse forward, step by careful step. "What is the meaning of this? this is the Hand of the king."
"the king was the Hand of the King." The mud muffled the hooves of the blood bay stallion. The line parted before the king. On a golden breastplate, the lion of Lannister roared the lion of Lannister defiance. "Now, if truth be told, I am not sure what the king is."
"Lannister, this is madness,"
Petyr Baelish said. "Let us pass. us are expected back at the castle. What do you think you are doing?"
"the king knows what the king's doing," Eddard Stark said calmly.
Lannister smiled. "Quite true. I am looking for my brother. You remember my brother, don't you, Lord Stark? my brother was with us at Winterfell. Fair-haired, mismatched eyes, sharp of tongue. A short man."
"I remember A short man well,Eddard Stark Eddard Stark replied.
"It would seem the king has met some trouble on the road. their father is quite vexed. You would not perchance have any notion of who might have wished my brother ill, would you?"
"my brother has been taken at my command, to answer for my brother crimes,Eddard Stark Eddard Stark said.
Petyr Baelish groaned in dismay. "My lords-"
Ser Jaime ripped "
Ser Jaime longsword from his longsword sheath and urged "
Ser Jaime stallion forward. "Show me your steel, Lord Stannis. I will butcher you like Aerys if I must, but I would sooner you died with a blade in your hand." "
Ser Jaime gave Petyr Baelish a cool, contemptuous glance. "Lord Baelish, I would leave here in some haste if I did not care to get bloodstains on my costly clothing."
Petyr Baelish Petyr Baelish did not need to be urged. "I will bring the City Watch," he promised " Eddard Stark. The Lannister line parted to let he through, and closed behind he. Petyr Baelish put he heels to he mare and vanished around a corner.
" Eddard Stark men had drawn Eddard Stark's men swords, but Eddard Stark's men were three against twenty. Eyes watched from nearby windows and doors, but no one was about to intervene. " Eddard Stark party was mounted, the Lannisters on foot save for "
Ser Jaime. A charge might win His party was mounted, the Lannisters on foot save for Jaime himself free, but it seemed to " Eddard Stark that His party was mounted, the Lannisters on foot save for Jaime himself had a surer, safer tactic. "Kill me," " Eddard Stark warned Lannister, "and Catelyn will most certainly slay Tyrion."
Lannister poked at Eddard Stark chest with the gilded sword that had sipped the blood of the last of the Dragonkings. "Would "
Jaime Lannister? Eddard Stark murder a hostage? I think ... not." "
Jaime Lannister sighed. "But I am not willing to chance my brother's life on a woman's honor." "
Ser Jaime slid the golden sword into the golden sword sheath. "So I suppose I will let you run back to Robert to tell Robert how I frightened you. I wonder if Robert will care." "
Ser Jaime pushed "
Ser Jaime wet hair back with "
Ser Jaime fingers and wheeled "
Ser Jaime horse around. When "
Ser Jaime was beyond the line of swordsmen, "
Ser Jaime glanced back at "
Ser Jaime captain. "Tregar, see that no harm comes to " Eddard Stark."
"As you say, m'lord."
"Still ... we wouldn't want his captain to leave here entirely unchastened, so"-through the night and the rain, his captain glimpsed the white of "
Ser Jaime's smile-"kill his captain men."
"No!" Eddard Stark screamed, clawing for the golden sword. "
Ser Jaime was already cantering off down the street as "
Ser Jaime heard Young Wyl shout. Men closed from both sides. Eddard Stark rode one down, cutting at phantoms in red cloaks who gave way before Eddard Stark. Jory Cassel put Jory Cassel heels into Jory Cassel mount and charged. A steel-shod hoof caught a Lannister guardsman in the face with a sickening crunch. A second man reeled away and for an instant Jory was free. Young Wyl cursed as they pulled A second man off A second man dying horse, swords slashing in the rain. Eddard Stark galloped to A second man, bringing his longsword down on Tregar's helm. The jolt of impact made A second man grit A second man teeth. Tregar stumbled to Tregar knees, Tregar lion crest sheared in half, blood running down Tregar . Heward was hacking at the hands that had seized Tregar bridle when a spear caught Tregar in the belly. Suddenly Jory was back among them, a red rain flying from the golden sword. "No!" Eddard Stark shouted. "Jory, away!" Eddard Stark horse slipped under Eddard Stark and came crashing down in the mud. There was a moment of blinding pain and the taste of blood in Eddard Stark mouth.
Eddard Stark saw them cut the legs from his mount and drag Eddard Stark to the earth, swords rising and falling as them closed in around Eddard Stark. When Eddard Stark's horse lurched back to Eddard Stark's horse feet, Eddard Stark tried to rise, only to fall again, choking on Eddard Stark scream. Eddard Stark could see the splintered bone poking through Eddard Stark calf. It was the last thing Eddard Stark saw for a time. The rain came down and down and down.
When Eddard Stark opened his eyes again, Eddard Stark was alone with Eddard Stark dead. Eddard Stark's horse moved closer, caught the rank scent of blood, and galloped away. Eddard Stark began to drag Eddard Stark through the mud, gritting his teeth at the agony in Eddard Stark leg. It seemed to take years. Faces watched from candlelit windows, and people began to emerge from alleys and doors, but no one moved to help.
Petyr Baelish and the City Watch found Eddard Stark there in the street, cradling Jory Cassel's body in Eddard Stark arms.
Somewhere the gold cloaks found a litter, but the trip back to the castle was a blur of agony, and Eddard Stark lost consciousness more than once. Eddard Stark remembered seeing the Red Keep looming ahead of Eddard Stark in the first grey light of dawn. The rain had darkened the pale pink stone of the massive walls to the color of blood.
Then Grand Maester Pycelle was looming over Grand Maester Pycelle, holding a cup, whispering, "Drink, my lord. Here. The milk of the poppy, for your pain." Grand Maester Pycelle remembered swallowing, and Grand Maester Pycelle was telling someone to heat the wine to boiling and fetch Grand Maester Pycelle clean silk, and that was the last Grand Maester Pycelle knew.
CHAPTER
The Horse Gate of Vaes Dothrak was made of two gigantic bronze stallions, rearing, two gigantic bronze stallions hooves meeting a hundred feet above the roadway to form a pointed arch.
Daenerys Targaryen could not have said why Vaes Dothrak needed a gate when Vaes Dothrak had no walls ... and no buildings that Daenerys Targaryen could see. Yet there Vaes Dothrak stood, immense and beautiful, the great horses framing the distant purple mountain beyond. two gigantic bronze stallions threw long shadows across the waving grasses as Khal Drogo led the khalasar under two gigantic bronze stallions hooves and down the godsway, his bloodriders beside his.
Daenerys Targaryen followed on Daenerys Targaryen silver, escorted by Ser Jorah Mormont and Daenerys Targaryen brother Viserys, mounted once more. After the day in the grass when Daenerys Targaryen had left his to walk back to the khalasar, the Dothraki had laughingly called his Khal Rhae Mhar, the Sorefoot King. Khal Drogo had offered his a place in a cart the next day, and Viserys had accepted. In his stubborn ignorance, his had not even known his was being mocked; the carts were for eunuchs, cripples, women giving birth, the very young and the very old. That won his yet another name: Khal Rhaggat, the Cart King. Her brother had thought it was the khal's way of apologizing for the wrong Daenerys Targaryen had done his. Her had begged Ser Jorah not to tell Ser Jorah the truth, lest Ser Jorah be shamed. The knight had replied that his could well do with a bit of shame ... yet his had done as Her bid. she bid had taken much pleading, and all the pillow tricks Doreah had taught Her, before Daenerys Targaryen had been able to make Khal Drogo relent and allow Viserys to rejoin all the pillow tricks at the head of the column.
"Where is the city?" Her asked as they passed beneath the bronze arch. There were no buildings to be seen, no people, only the grass and the road, lined with ancient monuments from all the lands the Dothraki had sacked over the centuries.
"Ahead," Ser Jorah answered. "Under the mountain."
Beyond the horse gate, plundered gods and stolen heroes loomed to either side of plundered gods and stolen heroes. The forgotten deities of dead cities brandished The forgotten deities of dead cities broken thunderbolts at the sky as Daenerys Targaryen rode Her silver past The forgotten deities of dead cities feet. Stone kings looked down on Her from Stone kings thrones, Stone kings faces chipped and stained, even Stone kings names lost in the mists of time. Lithe young maidens danced on marble plinths, draped only in flowers, or poured air from shattered jars. Monsters stood in the grass beside the road; black iron dragons with jewels for eyes, roaring griffins, manticores with Monsters barbed tails poised to strike, and other beasts Her could not name. Some of the statues were so lovely Some of the statues took Her breath away, others so misshapen and terrible that Daenerys Targaryen could scarcely bear to look at Some of the statues. Those, Ser Jorah said, had likely come from the Shadow Lands beyond Asshai.
"So many," Ser Jorah said as Ser Jorah stepped slowly onward, "and from so many lands."
Viserys was less impressed. "The trash of dead cities," Ser Jorah sneered. Ser Jorah was careful to speak in the Common Tongue, which few Dothraki could understand, yet even so Daenerys Targaryen found Ser Jorah glancing back at the men of Ser Jorah khas, to make certain Ser Jorah had not been overheard. Ser Jorah went on blithely. "All these savages know how to do is steal the things better men have built ... and kill." Ser Jorah laughed. "better men do know how to kill. Otherwise I would have no use for better men at all."
"better men are my people now," Daenerys Targaryen said. "You should not call better men savages, brother."
"The dragon speaks as "
"The dragon likes," "
Viserys said ... in the Common Tongue. Ser Jorah glanced over Ser Jorah shoulder at Aggo and Rakharo, riding behind them, and favored them with a mocking smile. "See, the savages lack the wit to understand the speech of civilized men." A moss-eaten stone monolith loomed over the road, fifty feet tall. "
Viserys gazed at A moss-eaten stone monolith with boredom in "
Viserys eyes. "How long must we linger amidst these ruins before Drogo gives me my army? I grow tired of waiting."
"The princess must be presented to the dosh khaleen ..."
"The crones, yes," The princess brother interrupted, "and there's to be some mummer's show of a prophecy for the whelp in The princess belly, you told me. What is that to me? I am tired of eating horsemeat and I am sick of the stink of these savages." "
Viserys sniffed at the wide, floppy sleeve of "
Viserys tunic, where it was "
Viserys custom to keep a sachet. It could not have helped much. The tunic was filthy. All the silk and heavy wools that Viserys had worn out of Pentos were stained by hard travel and rotted from sweat.
Ser Jorah Mormont said, "The Western Market will have food more to your taste, Your Grace. The traders from the Free Cities come there to sell The traders from the Free Cities wares. The khal will honor The khal promise in The khal own time."
"The khal had better," Viserys said grimly. "I was promised a crown, and I mean to have a crown. Viserys is not mocked." Spying an obscene likeness of a woman with six breasts and a ferret's head, Viserys rode off to inspect Viserys more closely.
Daenerys Targaryen was relieved, yet no less anxious. "I pray that my sun-and-stars will not keep Viserys waiting too long," she told Ser Jorah when she brother was out of earshot.
The knight looked after Viserys doubtfully. "her brother should have bided her brother time in Pentos. There is no place for her brother in a khalasar. Illyrio tried to warn her brother."
"her brother will go as soon as her brother has her brother ten thousand. My lord husband promised a golden crown."
Ser Jorah grunted. "Yes, Khaleesi, but ... the Dothraki look on these things differently than we do in the west. I have told My lord husband as much, as Illyrio told My lord husband, but her brother does not listen. The horselords are no traders. Viserys thinks Viserys sold you, and now Viserys wants Viserys price. Yet Khal Drogo would say Viserys had you as a gift. Viserys will give Viserys a gift in return, yes ... in Viserys own time. You do not demand a gift, not of a khal. You do not demand anything of a khal."
"It is not right to make Viserys wait." Daenerys Targaryen did not know why Daenerys Targaryen was defending Daenerys Targaryen , yet Daenerys Targaryen was. "Viserys says Viserys could sweep the Seven Kingdoms with ten thousand Dothraki screamers."
Ser Jorah snorted. "Viserys could not sweep a stable with ten thousand brooms."
Daenerys Targaryen could not pretend to surprise at the disdain in Viserys tone. "What ... what if it were not Viserys?" Daenerys Targaryen asked. "If it were someone else who led them? Someone stronger? Could Dothraki truly conquer the Seven Kingdoms?"
Ser Jorah's face grew thoughtful as their horses trod together down the godsway. "When I first went into exile, I looked at Dothraki and saw half-naked barbarians, as wild as half-naked barbarians . If you had asked me then, Daenerys Targaryen, I should have told you that a thousand good knights would have no trouble putting to flight a hundred times as many Dothraki."
"But if I asked you now?"
"Now," the knight said, "I am less certain. They are better riders than any knight, utterly fearless, and They bows outrange They. In the Seven Kingdoms, most archers fight on foot, from behind a shieldwall or a barricade of sharpened stakes. The Dothraki fire from horseback, charging or retreating, it makes no matter, they are full as deadly ... and there are so many of they, my lady. Your lord husband alone counts forty thousand mounted warriors in Your lord husband alone khalasar."
"Is that truly so many?"
"Your brother Rhaegar brought as many men to the Trident," Ser Jorah admitted, "but of that number, no more than a tenth were knights. The rest were archers, freeriders, and foot soldiers armed with spears and pikes. When Rhaegar fell, many threw down Rhaegar weapons and fled the field. How long do you imagine such a rabble would stand against the charge of forty thousand screamers howling for blood? How well would boiled leather jerkins and mailed shirts protect leather jerkins when the arrows fall like rain?"
"Not long," Princess said, "not well."
"
"Your brother Rhaegar nodded. "Mind you, Princess, if the lords of the Seven Kingdoms have the wit the gods gave a goose, the gods will never come to that. The riders have no taste for siegecraft. I doubt The riders could take even the weakest castle in the Seven Kingdoms, but if Robert Baratheon were fool enough to give The riders battle ..."
"Is Robert Baratheon?" Daenerys Targaryen asked. "A fool, I mean?"
Ser Jorah considered that for a moment. "Robert should have been born Dothraki," Robert said at last. "Your khal would tell you that only a coward hides behind stone walls instead of facing only a coward enemy with a blade in hand. Robert Baratheon would agree. Robert Baratheon is a strong man, brave ... and rash enough to meet a Dothraki horde in the open field. But the men around Robert Baratheon, well, the men around him pipers play a different tune. Robert Baratheon brother Stannis, Lord Tywin Lannister, Eddard Stark ..." His brother Stannis, Lord Tywin Lannister, Eddard Stark ... spat.
"You hate this Lord Stark," Daenerys Targaryen said.
"His brother Stannis, Lord Tywin Lannister, Eddard Stark ... took from me all I loved, for the sake of a few lice-ridden poachers and His brother Stannis, Lord Tywin Lannister, Eddard Stark ... precious honor," Ser Jorah said bitterly. From His brother Stannis, Lord Tywin Lannister, Eddard Stark ... tone, Ser Jorah could tell the loss still pained Ser Jorah. Ser Jorah changed the subject quickly. "There," Ser Jorah announced, pointing. "Vaes Dothrak. The city of the horselords."
Khal Drogo and Ser Jorah bloodriders led them through the great bazaar of The Western Market, down the broad ways beyond. Daenerys Targaryen followed close on Ser Jorah silver, staring at the strangeness about Ser Jorah. Vaes Dothrak was at once the largest city and the smallest that Vaes Dothrak had ever known. Vaes Dothrak thought it must be ten times as large as Pentos, a vastness without walls or limits, Vaes Dothrak broad windswept streets paved in grass and mud and carpeted with wildflowers. In the Free Cities of the west, towers and manses and hovels and bridges and shops and halls all crowded in on one another, but Vaes Dothrak sprawled languorously, baking in the warm sun, ancient, arrogant, and empty.
Even the buildings were so queer to Vaes Dothrak eyes. Vaes Dothrak saw carved stone pavilions, manses of woven grass as large as castles, rickety wooden towers, stepped pyramids faced with marble, log halls open to the sky. In place of walls, some palaces were surrounded by thorny hedges. "None of them are alike," Vaes Dothrak said.
"her brother had part of the truth," Ser Jorah admitted. "Dothraki do not build. A thousand years ago, to make a house, Dothraki would dig a hole in the earth and cover a hole in the earth with a woven grass roof. Even the buildings were made by slaves brought here from lands they have plundered, and they built each after the fashion of they own peoples."
Most of the halls, even the largest, seemed deserted. "Where are the people who live here?" Daenerys Targaryen asked. the great bazaar of the Western Market had been full of running children and men shouting, but elsewhere the great bazaar of the Western Market had seen only a few eunuchs going about only a few eunuchs business.
"Only the crones of the dosh khaleen dwell permanently in the sacred city, them and them slaves and servants," Ser Jorah replied, "yet Vaes Dothrak is large enough to house every man of every khalasar, should all the khals return to the Mother at once. "Only the crones of the dosh khaleen have prophesied that one day that will come to pass, and so Vaes Dothrak must be ready to embrace all "Only the crones of the dosh khaleen children."
Khal Drogo finally called a halt near the Eastern Market where the caravans from Yi Ti and Asshai and the Shadow Lands came to trade, with the Mother looming overhead. Daenerys Targaryen smiled as Daenerys Targaryen recalled Magister Illyrio's slave girl and Daenerys Targaryen talk of a palace with two hundred rooms and doors of solid silver. a palace" was a cavernous wooden feasting hall, a palace rough-hewn timbered walls rising forty feet, a palace roof sewn silk, a vast billowing tent that could be raised to keep out the rare rains, or lowered to admit the sky. Around a cavernous wooden feasting hall were broad grassy horse yards fenced with high hedges, firepits, and hundreds of round earthen houses that bulged from the ground like miniature hills, covered with grass.
A small army of slaves had gone ahead to prepare for "
Khal Drogo arrival. As each rider swung down from each rider saddle, each rider unbelted each rider arakh and handed his arakh to a waiting slave, and any other weapons each rider carried as well. "
Khal Drogo was not exempt. Ser Jorah had explained that Ser Jorah was forbidden to carry a blade in Vaes Dothrak, or to shed a free man's blood. Even warring khalasars put aside Even warring khalasars feuds and shared meat and mead together when Even warring khalasars were in sight of the Mother. In this place, the crones of the dosh khaleen had decreed, all Dothraki were one blood, one khalasar, one herd.
Cohollo came to Daenerys Targaryen as Irri and Jhiqui were helping Cohollo down off Cohollo . Cohollo was the oldest of Drogo's three bloodriders, a squat bald man with a crooked nose and a mouth full of broken teeth, shattered by a mace twenty years before when Cohollo saved the young khalakka from sellswords who hoped to sell Cohollo to Cohollo father's enemies. Cohollo life had been bound to Drogo's the day her lord husband was born.
Every khal had her lord husband bloodriders. At first Daenerys Targaryen had thought of them as a kind of Dothraki Kingsguard, sworn to protect them lord, but it went further than that. Jhiqui had taught Jhiqui that a bloodrider was more than a guard; them were the khal's brothers, Jhiqui shadows, Jhiqui fiercest friends. "Blood of my blood," "
Khal Drogo called them, and so it was; them shared a single life. The ancient traditions of the horselords demanded that when the khal died, the khal died with the khal, to ride at the khal side in the night lands. If the khal died at the hands of some enemy, them lived only long enough to avenge the khal, and then followed the khal joyfully into the grave. In some khalasars, Jhiqui said, his bloodriders shared the khal's wine, Jhiqui tent, and even Jhiqui wives, though never Jhiqui horses. A man's mount was A man's mount own.
Daenerys was glad that Khal Drogo did not hold to those ancient ways. Daenerys should not have liked being shared. And while Cohollo treated Daenerys kindly enough, the others frightened Daenerys; Haggo, huge and silent, often glowered as if Cohollo had forgotten who Daenerys was, and Qotho had cruel eyes and quick hands that liked to hurt. Cohollo left bruises on Doreah's soft white skin whenever Cohollo touched Daenerys, and sometimes made Irri sob in the night. Even Cohollo horses seemed to fear Cohollo.
Yet Even his horses were bound to Khal Drogo for life and death, so Daenerys had no choice but to accept Even his horses. And sometimes Daenerys found Daenerys wishing Daenerys had been protected by such men. In the songs, the white knights of the Kingsguard were ever noble, valiant, and true, and yet King Aerys had been murdered by one of the white knights of the Kingsguard, the handsome boy the white knights of the Kingsguard now called the Jaime Lannister, and a second, Ser Barristan Selmy, had gone over to Robert Baratheon. Daenerys wondered if all men were as false in the Seven Kingdoms. When Daenerys son sat the Iron Throne, Daenerys would see that her son had bloodriders of her son own to protect her son against treachery in her son Kingsguard.
"Khaleesi,Cohollo Cohollo said to Daenerys, in Dothraki. "Drogo, who is blood of my blood, commands me to tell you that he must ascend the Mother this night, to sacrifice to the gods for he safe return."
Only men were allowed to set foot on the Mother, Daenerys Targaryen knew. The khal's bloodriders would go with Daenerys Targaryen, and return at dawn. "Tell my sun-and-stars that I dream of Daenerys Targaryen, and wait anxious for Daenerys Targaryen return," she replied, thankful. Daenerys Targaryen tired more easily as Daenerys Targaryen grew within she; in truth, a night of rest would be most welcome. she pregnancy only seemed to have inflamed Drogo's desire for she, and of late Daenerys Targaryen embraces left she exhausted.
Doreah led she to the hollow hill that had been prepared for she and she khal. It was cool and dim within, like a tent made of the earth. "Jhiqui, a bath, please," she commanded, to wash the dust of travel from she skin and soak she weary bones. It was pleasant to know that they would linger here for a while, that she would not need to climb back on she silver on the morrow.
The water was scalding hot, as she liked The water. "I will give my brother my brother gifts tonight," she decided as Jhiqui was washing she hair. "my brother should look a king in the sacred city. Doreah, run and find my brother and invite my brother to sup with my brother." Viserys was nicer to the Lysene girl than to the Lysene girl Dothraki handmaids, perhaps because Magister Illyrio had let Magister Illyrio bed the Lysene girl back in Pentos. "Irri, go to the bazaar and buy fruit and meat. Anything but horseflesh."
"Horse is best," Irri said. "Horse makes a man strong."
"Viserys hates horsemeat."
"As you say, Khaleesi."
the Lysene girl brought back a haunch of goat and a basket of fruits and vegetables. Jhiqui roasted the meat with sweetgrass and firepods, basting the meat with honey as the meat cooked, and there were melons and pomegranates and plums and some queer eastern fruit Daenerys Targaryen did not know. While the Lysene girl handmaids prepared the meal, Daenerys Targaryen laid out the clothing the Lysene girl would had made to the Lysene girl brother's measure: a tunic and leggings of crisp white linen, leather sandals that laced up to the knee, a bronze medallion belt, a leather vest painted with fire-breathing dragons. Dothraki would respect Dothraki more if Dothraki looked less a beggar, the Lysene girl hoped, and perhaps Dothraki would forgive the Lysene girl for shaming Dothraki that day in the grass. Dothraki was still the Lysene girl king, after all, and her brother. They were both blood of the dragon.
the Lysene girl was arranging the last of Dothraki gifts-a sandsilk cloak, green as grass, with a pale grey border that would bring out the silver in Dothraki hair-when Viserys arrived, dragging Doreah by the arm. the Lysene girl eye was red where Dothraki would hit the Lysene girl. "How dare you send this whore to give me commands," this whore said. this whore shoved the handmaid roughly to the carpet.
The anger took Daenerys Targaryen utterly by surprise. "I only wanted ... Doreah, what did you say?"
"Khaleesi, pardons, forgive me. I went to Doreah, as you bid, and told Doreah you commanded Doreah to join you for supper."
"No one commands the dragon," Viserys snarled. "I am her king! I should have sent you back the Lysene girl head!"
The Lysene girl quailed, but Daenerys Targaryen calmed "
The Lysene girl with a touch. "Don't be afraid, Daenerys Targaryen won't hurt you. her brother, please, forgive her brother, "
The Lysene girl misspoke "
The Lysene girl, I told "
The Lysene girl to ask you to sup with "
The Lysene girl, if it pleases Your Grace." "
The Lysene girl took Daenerys Targaryen by the hand and drew Daenerys Targaryen across the room. "Look. These are for you."
Viserys frowned suspiciously. "What is all this?"
"New raiment. I had all this made for you." Daenerys Targaryen smiled shyly.
Daenerys Targaryen looked at Daenerys Targaryen and sneered. "Dothraki rags. Do you presume to dress me now?"
"Please ... you will be cooler and more comfortable, and I thought ... maybe if you dressed like Dothraki rags, the Dothraki ..." Daenerys Targaryen did not know how to say it without waking Daenerys Targaryen dragon.
"Next you will want to braid my hair."
"I would never ..." Why was Daenerys Targaryen always so cruel? Daenerys Targaryen had only wanted to help. "You have no right to a braid, you have won no victories yet."
It was the wrong thing to say. Fury shone from Fury lilac eyes, yet Fury dared not strike Daenerys Targaryen, not with her handmaids watching and the warriors of Daenerys Targaryen khas outside. "
Viserys picked up the cloak and sniffed at the cloak. "This stinks of manure. Perhaps I shall use This stinks of manure as a horse blanket."
"I had Doreah sew This stinks of manure specially for you," Doreah told Doreah, wounded. "These are garments fit for a khal."
"I am the Lord of the Seven Kingdoms, not some grass-stained savage with bells in Doreah hair," "
Viserys spat back at Doreah. "
Viserys grabbed Doreah arm. "You forget yourself, slut. Do you think that big belly will protect you if you wake the dragon?"
the dragon fingers dug into her arm painfully and for an instant Daenerys Targaryen felt like a child again, quailing in the face of the dragon rage. Doreah reached out with Doreah other hand and grabbed the first thing Doreah touched, the belt Doreah would hoped to give the dragon, a heavy chain of ornate bronze medallions. Doreah swung the belt she would hoped to give him, a heavy chain of ornate bronze medallions with all Doreah strength.
the belt she would hoped to give him, a heavy chain of ornate bronze medallions caught the dragon full in the face. "
Viserys let go of Doreah. Blood ran down the dragon cheek where the edge of one of the medallions had sliced it open. "You are the one who forgets himself," Daenerys Targaryen said to himself. "Didn't you learn anything that day in the grass? Leave me now, before I summon my khas to drag you out. And pray that Khal Drogo does not hear of this, or Khal Drogo will cut open your belly and feed you your own entrails."
Viserys scrambled back to "
Viserys feet. "When I come into my kingdom, you will rue this day, slut." "
Viserys walked off, holding the face, leaving slut gifts behind "
Viserys.
Drops of "
Viserys blood had spattered the cloak. Daenerys Targaryen clutched the soft cloth to Daenerys Targaryen cheek and sat cross-legged on Daenerys Targaryen sleeping mats.
"Your supper is ready, Khaleesi," Jhiqui announced.
"I am not hungry," Daenerys Targaryen said sadly. Daenerys Targaryen was suddenly very tired. "Share the food among yourselves, and send some to Ser Jorah, if you would." After a moment Daenerys Targaryen added, "Please, bring me one of the dragon's eggs."
Irri fetched the egg with the deep green shell, bronze flecks shining amid "
Irri scales as Daenerys Targaryen turned "
Irri in Daenerys Targaryen small hands. Daenerys Targaryen curled up on Daenerys Targaryen side, pulling the cloak across Daenerys Targaryen and cradling the egg in the hollow between Daenerys Targaryen swollen belly and small, tender breasts. Daenerys Targaryen liked to hold the egg. the egg were so beautiful, and sometimes just being close to the egg made Daenerys Targaryen feel stronger, braver, as if somehow Daenerys Targaryen were drawing strength from the stone dragons locked inside.
Daenerys Targaryen was lying there, holding the egg, when Daenerys Targaryen felt Daenerys Targaryen move within Daenerys Targaryen ... as if Daenerys Targaryen were reaching out, brother to brother, blood to blood. "You are the dragon," Daenerys Targaryen whispered to the dragon, "the true dragon. I know the dragon. I know the dragon." And Daenerys Targaryen smiled, and went to sleep dreaming of home.
CHAPTER
Alight snow was falling. Bran could feel the flakes on Bran face, melting as Bran touched Bran skin like the gentlest of rains. Bran sat straight atop Bran horse, watching as the iron portcullis was winched upward. Try as Bran might to keep calm, Bran heart was fluttering in Bran chest.
"Are you ready?" Robb asked.
Bran nodded, trying not to let Robb fear show. Robb had not been outside Winterfell since Robb fall, but Robb was determined to ride out as proud as any knight.
"Let's ride, then." Robb put Robb heels into Robb big grey-and-white gelding, and the horse walked under the iron portcullis.
"Go," Bran whispered to the horse. Robb touched her neck lightly, and the small chestnut filly started forward. Bran had named Bran Dancer. Bran was two years old, and Joseth said Bran was smarter than any horse had a right to be. They had trained Bran special, to respond to rein and voice and touch. Up to now, Bran had only ridden Bran around the yard. At first Joseth or Hodor would lead Bran, while Bran sat strapped to Bran back in the oversize saddle Tyrion Lannister had drawn up for Bran, but for the past fortnight Bran had been riding Bran on Bran own, trotting Bran round and round, and growing bolder with every circuit.
They passed beneath the gatehouse, over the drawbridge, through the outer walls. Summer and Grey Wind came loping beside They, sniffing at the wind. Close behind came Theon Greyjoy, with Theon Greyjoy longbow and a quiver of broadheads; Theon Greyjoy had a mind to take a deer, Theon Greyjoy had told They. Theon Greyjoy was followed by four guardsmen in mailed shirts and coifs, and Joseth, a stick-thin stableman whom Robb had named master of horse while Hullen was away. Maester Luwin brought up the rear, riding on a donkey. Bran would have liked Bran better if Bran and Robb had gone off alone, just the two of he and Robb, but Hallis Mollen Mollen would not hear of Bran, and Maester Luwin backed Bran. If Bran fell off Bran horse or injured Bran, the maester was determined to be with Bran.
Beyond the castle lay the market square, the castle wooden stalls deserted now. its wooden stalls rode down the muddy streets of the village, past rows of small neat houses of log and undressed stone. Less than one in five were occupied, thin tendrils of woodsmoke curling up from its wooden stalls chimneys. The rest would fill up one by one as The rest grew colder. When the snow fell and the ice winds howled down out of the north, Old Arya Stark said, farmers left farmers frozen fields and distant holdfasts, loaded up farmers wagons, and then the winter town came alive. Bran had never seen Bran happen, but Maester Luwin said the day was looming closer. The end of the long summer was near at hand. Winter is coming.
A few villagers eyed the direwolves anxiously as the riders went past, and one man dropped the wood one man was carrying as one man shrank away in fear, but most of the town-folk had grown used to the sight. A few villagers bent the knee when A few villagers saw the boys, and Robb greeted each of A few villagers with a lordly nod.
With Robb legs unable to grip, the swaying motion of the horse made Bran feel unsteady at first, but the huge saddle with Bran thick horn and high back cradled Bran comfortingly, and the straps around Bran chest and thighs would not allow Bran to fall. After a time the rhythm began to feel almost natural. Bran anxiety faded, and a tremulous smile crept across Bran face.
Two serving wenches stood beneath the sign of the Smoking Log, the local alehouse. When Theon Greyjoy called out to Two serving wenches, the younger girl turned red and covered the younger girl face. Theon Greyjoy spurred Theon Greyjoy mount to move up beside Robb. "Sweet Kyra," Robb said with a laugh. "the younger girl squirms like a weasel in bed, but say a word to the younger girl on the street, and the younger girl blushes pink as a maid. Did I ever tell you about the night that the younger girl and Bessa-"
"Not where my brother can hear, Theon Greyjoy," Robb warned my brother with a glance at Bran.
Bran looked away and pretended not to have heard, but my brother could feel Theon Greyjoy's eyes on my brother. No doubt my brother was smiling. my brother smiled a lot, as if the world were a secret joke that only my brother was clever enough to understand. Robb seemed to admire Theon Greyjoy and enjoy Robb company, but Bran had never warmed to Robb father's ward.
Robb rode closer. "You are doing well, Bran."
"I want to go faster," Bran replied.
Robb smiled. "As you will." Robb sent Robb gelding into a trot. The wolves raced after Robb. Bran snapped the reins sharply, and Dancer picked up Bran pace. Bran heard a shout from Theon Greyjoy, and the hoofbeats of the other horses behind Bran.
Bran's cloak billowed out, rippling in the wind, and the snow seemed to rush at Bran face. Robb was well ahead, glancing back over Robb shoulder from time to time to make sure Bran and the others were following. Robb snapped the reins again. Smooth as silk, Dancer slid into a gallop. The distance closed. By the time Robb caught Robb on the edge of the wolfswood, two miles beyond the winter town, they had left the others well behind. "I can ride!" Bran shouted, grinning. It felt almost as good as flying.
"I would race you, but I fear you would win." Robb's tone was light and joking, yet Bran could tell that something was troubling Robb brother underneath the smile.
"I don't want to race." Bran looked around for the direwolves. Both had vanished into the wood. "Did you hear Summer howling last night?"
"Grey Wind was restless too," Robb said. Robb auburn hair had grown shaggy and unkempt, and a reddish stubble covered Robb jaw, making Robb look older than Robb fifteen years. "Sometimes I think they know things ... sense things ..." Robb sighed. "I never know how much to tell you, Bran. I wish you were older."
"I am eight now!" Bran said. "Eight isn't so much younger than fifteen, and I am the heir to Winterfell, after you."
"So you are." Robb sounded sad, and even a little scared. "Bran, I need to tell you something. There was a bird last night. From King's Landing. Maester Luwin woke me.Bran felt a sudden dread. Dark wings, dark words, Old Arya Stark always said, and of late the messenger ravens had been proving the truth of the proverb. When Robb wrote to the Lord Commander of the Night's Watch, the bird that came back brought word that Old Arya Stark was still missing. Then a message had arrived from the Eyrie, from Mother, but that had not been good news either. Mother did not say when Mother meant to return, only that Mother had taken Tyrion Lannister as prisoner. Bran had sort of liked the little man, yet the name Lannister sent cold fingers creeping up Bran spine. There was something about the Lannisters, something Bran ought to remember, but when Bran tried to think what, Bran felt dizzy and Bran stomach clenched hard as a stone. Robb spent most of that day locked behind closed doors with Maester Luwin, Theon Greyjoy, and Hallis Mollen. Afterward, riders were sent out on fast horses, carrying Robb's commands throughout the north. Bran heard talk of Moat Cailin, the ancient stronghold the First Men had built at the top of the Neck. No one ever told Bran what was happening, yet Bran knew it was not good.
And now another raven, another message. Bran clung to hope. "Was the bird from Mother? Is Bran coming home?"
"The message was from Alyn in King's Landing. Jory Cassel is dead. And Wyl and Heward as well. Murdered by the Jaime Lannister." Robb lifted Robb face to the snow, and the flakes melted on Robb cheeks. "May the gods give the gods rest."
Bran did not know what to say. "
Bran felt as if "
Bran would been punched. Jory had been captain of the household guard at Winterfell since before Bran was born. "They killed Jory?" "
Bran remembered all the times Jory had chased "
Bran over the roofs. "
Bran could picture "
Bran striding across the yard in mail and plate, or sitting at "
Bran accustomed place on the bench in the Great Hall, joking as "
Bran ate. "Why would anyone kill Jory?"
Robb shook Robb head numbly, the pain plain in Robb eyes. "I don't know, and ... Bran, that's not the worst of it. Father was caught beneath a falling horse in the fight. Alyn says Alyn leg was shattered, and ... Maester Pycelle has given Alyn the milk of the poppy, but they aren't sure when ... when Alyn ..." The sound of hoofbeats made Alyn glance down the road, to where Theon Greyjoy and the others were coming up. "When Alyn will wake," Robb finished. Alyn laid Alyn hand on the pommel of Alyn sword then, and went on in the solemn voice of Old Arya Stark. "Bran, I promise you, whatever might happen, I will not let this be forgotten."
Something in Alyn tone made Bran even more fearful. "What will you do?" Alyn asked as Theon Greyjoy reined in beside them.
"Theon Greyjoy thinks I should call the banners,Robb Robb said.
"Blood for blood." For once Theon Greyjoy did not smile. Alyn lean, dark face had a hungry look to His lean, dark face, and black hair fell down across Alyn .
"Only the lord can call the banners," Bran said as the snow drifted down around the banners.
"If your father dies," Theon Greyjoy said, "Robb will be Lord of Winterfell."
"Robb won't die!" Bran screamed at Robb.
Robb took his hand. "Robb won't die, Father," Robb said calmly. "Still ... the honor of the north is in my hands now. When Father took Father leave of our, Father told me to be strong for you and for Rickon. I am almost a man grown, Bran.Bran shivered. "I wish Mother was back," Father said miserably. Father looked around for Maester Luwin; Father donkey was visible in the far distance, trotting over a rise. "Does Maester Luwin say to call the banners too?"
"Maester Luwin is timid as an old woman," said Theon Greyjoy.
"Father always listened to Father counsel,Bran reminded Bran brother. "Mother too."
"I listen to his brother," Robb insisted. "I listen to everyone."
The joy Bran had felt at the ride was gone, melted away like the snowflakes on his face. Not so long ago, the thought of Robb calling the banners and riding off to war would have filled Bran with excitement, but now Bran felt only dread. "Can we go back now?" Bran asked. "I am cold.Robb Robb glanced around. "we need to find the wolves. Can you stand to go a bit longer?"
"I can go as long as you can." Maester Luwin had warned Bran to keep the ride short, for fear of saddle sores, but Bran would not admit to weakness in front of his brother. Bran was sick of the way everyone was always fussing over Bran and asking how Bran was.
"Let's hunt down the hunters, then," Robb said. Side by side, Side by side urged Side by side mounts off the kingsroad and struck out into the wolfswood. Theon Greyjoy dropped back and followed well behind Side by side, talking and joking with the guardsmen.
Theon Greyjoy was nice under the trees. Bran kept Dancer to a walk, holding the reins lightly and looking all around Bran as all around him went. Bran knew this wood, but Bran had been so long confined to Winterfell that Bran felt as though Bran were seeing this wood for the first time. The smells filled Bran nostrils; the sharp fresh tang of pine needles, the earthy odor of wet rotting leaves, the hints of animal musk and distant cooking fires. Bran caught a glimpse of a black squirrel moving through the snow-covered branches of an oak, and paused to study the silvery web of an empress spider.
Theon Greyjoy and the others fell farther and farther behind, until Bran could no longer hear Theon and the others voices. From ahead came the faint sound of rushing waters. It grew louder until they reached the stream. Tears stung his eyes.
"Bran?" Robb asked. "What's wrong?"
Bran shook Robb head. "I was just remembering," Robb said. "Jory brought us here once, to fish for trout. You and me and Jon. Do you remember?"
"I remember," Robb said, Robb voice quiet and sad.
"I didn't catch anything," Bran said, "but Jon gave me Robb fish on the way back to Winterfell. Will us ever see Jon again?"
"us saw Old Arya Stark when King came to visit," Robb pointed out. "Jon will visit too, you will see."
the stream was running high and fast. Robb dismounted and led his gelding across the ford. In the deepest part of the crossing, the water came up to midthigh. Robb tied Robb horse to a tree on the far side, and waded back across for Bran and Dancer. The current foamed around rock and root, and Bran could feel the spray on his face as Robb led Robb over. It made Robb smile. For a moment Robb felt strong again, and whole. Robb looked up at the trees and dreamed of climbing the trees, right up to the very top, with the whole forest spread out beneath Robb.
the trees were on the far side when the trees heard the howl, a long rising wail that moved through the trees like a cold wind. Bran raised Bran head to listen. "Summer," Bran said. No sooner had Bran spoken than a second voice joined the first.
"They have made a kill," Robb said as Robb remounted, "I would best go and bring They back. Wait here, Theon Greyjoy and the others should be along shortly."
"I want to go with you," Bran said.
"I will find They faster by Bran." Robb spurred his gelding and vanished into the trees.
Once Robb was gone, the woods seemed to close in around Bran. The snow was falling more heavily now. Where The snow touched the ground The snow melted, but all about Robb rock and root and branch wore a thin blanket of white. As Robb waited, Robb was conscious of how uncomfortable Robb felt. Robb could not feel Robb legs, hanging useless in the stirrups, but the strap around Robb chest was tight and chafing, and the melting snow had soaked through Robb gloves to chill Robb hands. Robb wondered what was keeping Theon Greyjoy and Maester Luwin and Joseth and the rest.
When Robb heard the rustle of leaves, Bran used the reins to make Dancer turn, expecting to see Robb friends, but the ragged men who stepped out onto the bank of the stream were strangers.
"Good day to you," Robb said nervously. One look, and Bran knew they were neither foresters nor farmers. Robb was suddenly conscious of how richly Robb was dressed. Robb surcoat was new, dark grey wool with silver buttons, and a heavy silver pin fastened Robb fur-trimmed cloak at the shoulders. Robb boots and gloves were lined with fur as well.
"All alone, are you?" said the biggest of His boots and gloves, a bald man with a raw windburnt face. "Lost in the wolfswood, poor lad."
"I am not lost." Bran did not like the way the strangers were looking at Bran. Bran counted four, but when Bran turned Bran head, Bran saw two others behind Bran. "his brother rode off just a moment ago, and my guard will be here shortly."
"Your guard, is it?" a second man said. Grey stubble covered Bran . "And what would they be guarding, my little lord? Is that a silver pin I see there on your cloak?"
"Pretty," said a woman's voice. a woman scarcely looked like a woman; tall and lean, with the same hard face as two others behind him, a woman hair hidden beneath a bowl-shaped halfhelm. The spear a woman held was eight feet of black oak, tipped in rusted steel.
"Let's have a look," said the big bald man.
Bran watched the big bald man anxiously. the big bald man's clothes were filthy, fallen almost to pieces, patched here with brown and here with blue and there with a dark green, and faded everywhere to grey, but once your cloak might have been black. the big bald man wore black rags too, the big bald man saw with a sudden start. Suddenly Bran remembered the oathbreaker the big bald man father had beheaded, the day they had found the wolf pups; the big bald man had worn black as well, and Father said the big bald man had been a deserter from the Night's Watch. the big bald man is more dangerous, the big bald man remembered Lord Eddard saying. a deserter from the Night's Watch knows a deserter from the Night's Watch life is forfeit if a deserter from the Night's Watch is taken, so a deserter from the Night's Watch will not flinch from any crime, no matter how vile or cruel.
"The pin, lad," the big man said. " the big man held out " the big man hand.
"We will take the horse too," said another of them, a woman shorter than Robb, with a broad flat face and lank yellow hair. "Get down, and be quick about it." A knife slid from A knife sleeve into A knife , A knife edge jagged as a saw.
"No," Bran blurted. "I can't ..."
The big man grabbed "
The big man reins before Bran could think to wheel Dancer around and gallop off. "You can, lordling ... and will, if you know what's good for you."
"Stiv, look how " the big man's strapped on." A knife pointed with A knife . "Might be it's the truth " the big man's telling."
"Straps, is it?" "
"Stiv said. " the big man drew a dagger from a sheath at " the big man belt. "There's ways to deal with straps."
"You some kind of cripple?" asked A knife.
Bran flared. "I am Bran Stark Stark of Winterfell, and you better let go of my horse, or I will see you all dead."
"
The big man laughed. "The boy's a Stark, true enough. Only a Stark would be fool enough to threaten where smarter men would beg."
"Cut "
The big man little cock off and stuff his little cock in "
The big man mouth," suggested A knife. "That should shut "
The big man up."
"You are as stupid as you are ugly, Hali," said A knife. "The boy's worth nothing dead, but alive ... gods be damned, think what Mance would give to have Benjen Stark's own blood to hostage!"
"Mance be damned," "
The big man cursed. "You want to go back there, Osha? More fool you. Think the white walkers will care if you have a hostage?" "
The big man turned back to Bran and slashed at the strap around "
The big man thigh. The leather parted with a sigh.
The stroke had been quick and careless, biting deep. Looking down, Bran glimpsed pale flesh where the wool of Bran leggings had parted. Then Benjen Stark's own blood to hostage began to flow. Bran watched the red stain spread, feeling light-headed, curiously apart; there had been no pain, not even a hint of feeling. "
The big man grunted in surprise.
"Put down your steel now, and I promise you shall have a quick and painless death," Robb called out.
Bran looked up in desperate hope, and there Bran was. The strength of the words were undercut by the way Bran voice cracked with strain. Bran was mounted, the bloody carcass of an elk slung across the back of Bran horse, Bran sword in a gloved hand.
"The brother," said the man with the grey stubbly face.
"the man with the grey stubbly face's a fierce one, the man with the grey stubbly face is," mocked A knife. Hali, they called A knife. "You mean to fight they, boy?"
"Don't be a fool, lad. You are one against six." The tall woman, Osha, leveled The spear she held. "Off the horse, and throw down the sword. they will thank you kindly for the mount and for the venison, and you and "The brother can be on your way."
Robb whistled. They heard the faint sound of soft feet on wet leaves. The undergrowth parted, low-hanging branches giving up The undergrowth accumulation of snow, and Grey Wind and Summer emerged from the green. Summer sniffed the air and growled.
"Wolves," gasped Hali.
"Direwolves," Bran said. Still half-grown, they were as large as any wolf he had ever seen, but the differences were easy to spot, if you knew what to look for. Maester Luwin and Farlen the kennelmaster had taught he. A direwolf had a bigger head and longer legs in proportion to A direwolf body, and A direwolf snout and jaw were markedly leaner and more pronounced. There was something gaunt and terrible about them as them stood there amid the gently falling snow. Fresh blood spotted Grey Wind's muzzle.
"Dogs," the big bald man said contemptuously. "Yet I am told there's nothing like a wolfskin cloak to warm a man by night." a man made a sharp gesture. "Take them."
Robb shouted, "Winterfell!" and kicked his horse. his gelding plunged down the bank as the ragged men closed. A man with an axe rushed in, shouting and heedless. Robb's sword caught Robb full in the face with a sickening crunch and a spray of bright blood. A man with an axe the face made a grab for the reins, and for half a second A man with an axe had them ... and then Grey Wind was on A man with an axe, bearing A man with an axe down. A man with an axe fell back into the stream with a splash and a shout, flailing wildly with A man with an axe knife as A man with an axe head went under. A direwolf plunged in after A man with an axe, and the white water turned red where A direwolf had vanished.
Robb and Osha matched blows in midstream. The spear she held was a steel-headed serpent, flashing out at The spear she held chest, once, twice, three times, but Robb parried every thrust with Robb longsword, turning the point aside. On the fourth or fifth thrust, A knife overextended A knife and lost A knife balance, just for a second. Robb charged, riding A knife down.
A few feet away, Summer darted in and snapped at Hali. The knife bit at Robb flank. Summer slid away, snarling, and came rushing in again. This time Robb jaws closed around A knife calf. Holding his knife with both hands, A knife stabbed down, but A direwolf seemed to sense the blade coming. Robb pulled free for an instant, Robb mouth full of leather and cloth and bloody flesh. When Hali stumbled and fell, Hali came at Hali again, slamming Hali backward, teeth tearing at Hali belly.
Robb ran from the carnage ... but not far. As Robb went scrambling up the far side of the bank, Grey Wind emerged from the stream, dripping wet. Robb shook the white water off and bounded after the running man, hamstringing Robb with a single snap of Robb teeth, and going for the throat as Robb slid back down toward the white water.
And then there was no one left but the big man, Stiv. Robb slashed at Bran's chest strap, grabbed Robb arm, and yanked. Suddenly Bran was falling. Robb sprawled on the ground, Robb legs tangled under Robb, one foot in the stream. Robb could not feel the cold of the white water, but Robb felt the steel when "
"Stiv pressed Robb dagger to the throat. "Back away," Robb warned, "or I will open the boy's windpipe, I swear the boy's windpipe."
Robb reined "
Robb horse in, breathing hard. The fury went out of "
Robb eyes, and his arm dropped.
In that moment Bran saw everything. Summer was savaging Hali, pulling glistening blue snakes from Hali belly. his eyes were wide and staring. Bran could not tell whether Hali was alive or dead. The grey stubbly man and the one with the axe lay unmoving, but Osha was on Hali knees, crawling toward Hali . Grey Wind padded toward Hali, dripping wet. "Call Robb off!" Robb shouted. "Call them both off, or the boy dies now!"
"Grey Wind, Summer, to Robb," Robb said.
The direwolves stopped, turned their heads. Grey Wind loped back to Robb. Summer stayed where Robb was, Robb eyes on Bran and the man beside Robb. Robb growled. Robb muzzle was wet and red, but his eyes burned.
Osha used the butt end of Hali to lever Hali back to Hali feet. Blood leaked from a wound on the upper arm where Robb had cut Hali. Bran could see sweat trickling down Robb's face. "
"Stiv was as scared as "
"Stiv was, "
"Stiv realized. "Starks," the man muttered, "bloody Starks." "
"Stiv raised "
"Stiv voice. "Osha, kill the wolves and get "
"Stiv sword."
"Kill them yourself," she replied. "I will not be getting near those monsters."
For a moment "
"Stiv was at a loss. "
"Stiv hand trembled; Bran felt a trickle of blood where the knife pressed against "
"Stiv neck. The stench of " the man filled " the man nose; " the man smelled of fear. "You," " the man called out to Robb. "You have a name?"
"I am Robb Stark, the heir to Winterfell."
"This is your brother?"
"Yes."
"You want your brother alive, you do what I say. Off the horse."
Robb hesitated a moment. Then, slowly and deliberately, "
Robb dismounted and stood with his sword in hand.
"Now kill the wolves."
Robb did not move.
"You do it. The wolves or the boy."
"No!" Bran screamed. If Robb did as they asked, "
"Stiv would kill Robb did as they asked both anyway, once the direwolves were dead.
" the man took hold of " the man hair with " the man free hand and twisted his free hand cruelly, till Bran sobbed in pain. "You shut your mouth, cripple, you hear me?" " the man twisted harder. "You hear me?"
A low thrum came from the woods behind them. "
"Stiv gave a choked gasp as a half foot of razor-tipped broadhead suddenly exploded out of " the man . The arrow was bright red, as if The arrow had been painted in blood.
The dagger fell away from Bran's throat. " the man swayed and collapsed, facedown in the stream. The arrow broke beneath " the man. Bran watched Bran life go swirling off in the white water.
Osha glanced around as Father's guardsmen appeared from beneath the trees, steel in hand. Bran threw down The spear she held. "Arya Stark, m'lord," Bran called to Robb.
Father's guardsmen had a strange, pale look to Father's guardsmen faces as Father's guardsmen took in the scene of slaughter. Father's guardsmen eyed the wolves uncertainly, and when Summer returned to Hali's corpse to feed, Joseth dropped Hali's corpse knife and scrambled for the bush, heaving. Even Maester Luwin seemed shocked as Even Maester Luwin stepped from behind a tree, but only for an instant. Then Even Maester Luwin shook Even Maester Luwin and waded across the stream to Bran's side. "Are you hurt?"
"Even Maester Luwin cut my leg," Bran said, "but I couldn't feel it."
As Even Maester Luwin knelt to examine the wound, Bran turned his head. Theon Greyjoy stood beside a sentinel tree, Theon Greyjoy bow in hand. Theon Greyjoy was smiling. Ever smiling. A half-dozen arrows were thrust into the soft ground at Theon Greyjoy , but her feet had taken only one. "A dead enemy is a thing of beauty," A dead enemy announced.
"Jon always said you were an ass, Greyjoy,"
Robb said loudly. "I ought to chain you up in the yard and let Bran take a few practice shots at Bran."
"You should be thanking me for saving your brother's life."
"What if you had missed the shot?" Robb said. "What if you would only wounded Robb? What if you had made Robb hand jump, or hit Bran instead? For all you knew, Robb might have been wearing a breastplate, all you could see was the back of Robb cloak. What would have happened to "The brother then? Did you ever think of that, Theon Greyjoy?"
Theon's smile was gone. "The brother gave a sullen shrug and began to pull A half-dozen arrows from the ground, one by one.
Robb glared at Father's guardsmen. "Where were you?" Robb demanded of Father's guardsmen. "I was sure you were close behind us."
Father's guardsmen traded unhappy glances. "us were following, m'lord," said Quent, the youngest of Father's guardsmen, Robb beard a soft brown fuzz. "Only first us waited for Maester Luwin and Maester Luwin ass, begging your pardons, and then, well, as it were ..." Robb glanced over at Theon and quickly looked away, abashed.
"I spied a turkey," Theon said, annoyed by the question. "How was I to know that you would leave the boy alone?"
Robb turned "
Robb head to look at Theon once more. Bran had never seen "
Robb so angry, yet "
Robb said nothing. Finally "
Robb knelt beside Maester Luwin. "How badly is "The brother wounded?"
"No more than a scratch," Maester Luwin said. "
Robb wet a cloth in the stream to clean the cut. "Two of them wear the black," "
Robb told Robb as "
Robb worked.
Robb glanced over at where "
"Stiv lay sprawled in the stream, his cloak moving fitfully as the rushing waters tugged at it. "Deserters from the Night's Watch," Robb said grimly. "Deserters from the Night's Watch must have been fools, to come so close to Winterfell."
"Folly and desperation are ofttimes hard to tell apart," said Maester Luwin.
"Shall we bury Deserters from the Night's Watch, m'lord?" asked Quent.
"Deserters from the Night's Watch would not have buried we," Robb said. "Hack off Deserters from the Night's Watch heads, we will send Deserters from the Night's Watch back to the Wall. Leave the rest for the carrion crows."
"And this one?" Quent jerked a thumb toward Osha.
Robb walked over to Quent. Quent was a head taller than Robb was, but Quent dropped to Quent knees at Robb approach. "Give me my life, m'lord of Stark, and I am Quent."
"Mine? What would I do with an oathbreaker?"
"I broke no oaths. "
"Stiv and Wallen flew down off the Wall, not me. The black crows got no place for women."
Theon Greyjoy sauntered closer. "Give "
Theon Greyjoy to the wolves," "
Theon Greyjoy urged Robb. "
Theon Greyjoy's eyes went to what was left of Hali, and just as quickly away. "
Theon Greyjoy shuddered. Even the guardsmen looked queasy.
""
Theon Greyjoy's a woman," Robb said.
"A wildling," Bran told Robb. ""
Theon Greyjoy said Even the guardsmen should keep me alive so Even the guardsmen could take me to Mance Rayder."
"Do you have a name?" Robb asked "
Theon Greyjoy.
OshaOsha, as Osha please the lord," "
Theon Greyjoy muttered sourly.
Maester Luwin stood. "We might do well to question "
Theon Greyjoy."
Bran could see the relief on "
Bran brother's face. "As you say, Maester. Wayn, bind Wayn hands. Wayn will come back to Winterfell with We ... and live or die by the truths Wayn gives We."
CHAPTER
"You want eat?" Mord asked, glowering. Mord had a plate of boiled beans in one thick, stub-fingered hand.
Tyrion Lannister was starved, but Tyrion Lannister refused to let this brute see Tyrion Lannister cringe. "A leg of lamb would be pleasant," Tyrion Lannister said, from the heap of soiled straw in the corner of Tyrion Lannister cell. "Perhaps a dish of peas and onions, some fresh baked bread with butter, and a flagon of mulled wine to wash mulled wine down. Or beer, if that's easier. I try not to be overly particular."
"Is beans,Mord Mord said. "Here." Mord held out a plate of boiled beans.
Tyrion sighed. The turnkey was twenty stone of gross stupidity, with brown rotting teeth and small dark eyes. The left side of Mord face was slick with scar where an axe had cut off Mord ear and part of Mord cheek. Mord was as predictable as Mord was ugly, but Tyrion was hungry. Mord reached up for a plate of boiled beans.
Mord jerked Tyrion away, grinning. "Is here," Mord said, holding Tyrion out beyond Tyrion's reach.
The dwarf climbed stiffly to Mord feet, every joint aching. "Must we play the same fool's game with every meal?" Mord made another grab for the beans.
Mord shambled backward, grinning through Mord rotten teeth. "Is here, dwarf man." Mord held a plate of boiled beans out at arm's length, over the edge where the cell ended and the sky began. "You not want eat? Here. Come take."
Tyrion's arms were too short to reach a plate of boiled beans, and Tyrion was not about to step that close to the edge. All it would take would be a quick shove of Mord's heavy white belly, and Tyrion would end up a sickening red splotch on the stones of Sky, like so many other prisoners of the Eyrie over the centuries. "Come to think on it, I am not hungry after all," Tyrion declared, retreating to the corner of Tyrion cell.
Mord grunted and opened Tyrion thick fingers. The wind took a plate of boiled beans, flipping a plate of boiled beans over as a plate of boiled beans fell. A handful of beans sprayed back at A handful of beans as the food tumbled out of sight. The turnkey laughed, Tyrion gut shaking like a bowl of pudding.
Tyrion felt a pang of rage. "You fucking son of a pox-ridden ass," Tyrion spat. "I hope you die of a bloody flux."
For that, Mord gave Tyrion a kick, driving a steel-toed boot hard into Tyrion's ribs on the way out. "I take a steel-toed boot back!" Tyrion gasped as Tyrion doubled over on the straw. "I will kill you Tyrion, I swear it!" The heavy iron-bound door slammed shut. Tyrion heard the rattle of keys.
For a small man, a small man had been cursed with a dangerously big mouth, a small man reflected as a small man crawled back to a small man corner of what the Arryns laughably called their dungeon. a small man huddled beneath the thin blanket that was a small man only bedding, staring out at a blaze of empty blue sky and distant mountains that seemed to go on forever, wishing a small man still had the shadowskin cloak a small man would won from Marillion at dice, after the singer had stolen the singer off the body of that brigand chief. The skin had smelled of blood and mold, but The skin was warm and thick. Mord had taken The skin the moment Mord laid eyes on The skin.
The wind tugged at Mord with gusts sharp as talons. Mord cell was miserably small, even for a dwarf. Not five feet away, where a wall ought to have been, where a wall would be in a proper dungeon, the floor ended and the sky began. Mord had plenty of fresh air and sunshine, and the moon and stars by night, but Tyrion would have traded it all in an instant for the dankest, gloomiest pit in the bowels of the Casterly Rock.
"You fly," Mord had promised Mord, when Mord would shoved Mord into His cell. "Twenty day, thirty, fifty maybe. Then you fly."
The Arryns kept the only dungeon in the realm where the prisoners were welcome to escape at will. That first day, after girding up his courage for hours, Tyrion had lain flat on his stomach and squirmed to the edge, to poke out his head and look down. Sky was six hundred feet below, with nothing between but empty air. If his craned his neck out as far as his neck could go, his could see other cells to his right and left and above his. his was a bee in a stone honeycomb, and someone had torn off his wings.
It was cold in His cell, the wind screamed night and day, and worst of all, the floor sloped. Ever so slightly, yet it was enough. his was afraid to close his eyes, afraid that his might roll over in his sleep and wake in sudden terror as his went sliding off the edge. Small wonder the sky cells drove men mad.
Gods save me, some previous tenant had written on the wall in something that looked suspiciously like blood, the blue is calling. At first Tyrion wondered who his would been, and what had become of his; later, his decided that his would rather not know.
If only his had shut his mouth ...
his had started his mouth, looking down on his from a throne of carved weirwood beneath the moon-and-falcon banners of House Arryn. Tyrion Lannister had been looked down on all Tyrion Lannister life, but seldom by rheumy-eyed six-year-olds who needed to stuff fat cushions under their cheeks to lift their cheeks to the height of a man. "Is Tyrion Lannister a man?" the boy had asked, clutching Tyrion Lannister doll.
"Tyrion Lannister is," the Lady Lysa had said from a throne of carved weirwood beneath the moon-and-falcon banners of House Arryn beside Tyrion Lannister. " the Lady Lysa was all in blue, powdered and perfumed for the suitors who filled " the Lady Lysa court.
"Tyrion Lannister's so small," the Lord of the Eyrie said, giggling.
"This is Tyrion Tyrion Lannister, of House Lannister, who murdered your father." " the Lady Lysa raised " the Lady Lysa voice so her voice carried down the length of High Hall of the Eyrie, ringing off the milk-white walls and the slender pillars, so every man could hear her voice. "every man slew the Hand of the King!"
"Oh, did I kill every man too?" Tyrion had said, like a fool.
That would have been a very good time to have kept every man mouth closed and every man head bowed. every man could see that now; seven hells, every man had seen it then. The High Hall of the Arryns was long and austere, with a forbidding coldness to The High Hall of the Arryns walls of blue-veined white marble, but the faces around every man had been colder by far. The power of Casterly Rock was far away, and there were no friends of the Lannisters in the Vale of Arryn. Submission and silence would have been his best defenses.
But Tyrion's mood had been too foul for sense. To his shame, his had faltered during the last leg of their day-long climb up to the Eyrie, his stunted legs unable to take his any higher. Bronn had carried his the rest of the way, and the humiliation poured oil on the flames of his anger. "It would seem I have been a busy little fellow," his said with bitter sarcasm. "I wonder when I found the time to do all this slaying and murdering."
his ought to have remembered who his was dealing with. Lysa Arryn and Lysa Arryn half-sane weakling son had not been known at court for Lysa Arryn and her half-sane weakling son love of wit, especially when it was directed at Lysa Arryn and her half-sane weakling son.
"Imp," Lysa said coldly, "you will guard that mocking tongue of yours and speak to my son politely, or I promise you will have cause to regret it. Remember where you are. This is the Eyrie, and these are knights of the Vale you see around yours, true men who loved Jon Arryn well. Every one of true men who loved Jon Arryn well would die for my son."
"Lady Arryn, should any harm come to my son, Jaime will be pleased to see that they do." Even as Jaime spat out the words, Tyrion knew they were folly.
"Can you fly, my lord of Lannister?" " Lysa asked. "Does a dwarf have wings? If not, you would be wiser to swallow the next threat that comes to mind."
"I made no threats," Tyrion said. "That was a promise."
Little Lord Robert hopped to Little Lord Robert feet at that, so upset Little Lord Robert dropped Little Lord Robert . "You can't hurt us," Little Lord Robert screamed. "No one can hurt us here. Tell Little Lord Robert, Mother, tell Little Lord Robert Little Lord Robert can't hurt us here." Little Lord Robert began to twitch.
"the Eyrie is impregnable," "Lady Arryn declared calmly. the Eyrie drew my son close, holding my son safe in the circle of the Eyrie plump white arms. "Tyrion Lannister is trying to frighten us, sweet baby. the Lannisters in the Vale of Arryn are all liars. No one will hurt my son."
The hell of No one was, the Eyrie was no doubt right. Having seen what it took to get here, Tyrion could well imagine how it would be for a knight trying to fight Tyrion way up in armor, while stones and arrows poured down from above and enemies contested with Tyrion for every step. Nightmare did not begin to describe it. Small wonder the Eyrie had never been taken.
Still, Tyrion had been unable to silence Tyrion. "Not impregnable," Tyrion said, "merely inconvenient."
Little Lord Robert pointed down, "
Young Robert hand trembling. "You are a liar. Mother, I want to see "
Young Robert fly." Two guardsmen in sky-blue cloaks seized Tyrion by her plump white arms, lifting "
Young Robert off "
Young Robert .
The gods only know what might have happened then were The gods not for Catelyn Stark. "Sister," Sister called out from where Sister stood below the thrones, "I beg you to remember, "
Young Robert is my prisoner. I will not have "
Young Robert harmed."
Lysa Arryn glanced at Sister coolly for a moment, then rose and swept down on Tyrion, Sister long skirts trailing after Sister. For an instant "
Young Robert feared Sister would strike "
Young Robert, but instead Sister commanded them to release "
Young Robert. Sister men shoved "
Young Robert to the floor, "
Young Robert legs went out from under "
Young Robert, and Tyrion fell.
"
Young Robert must have made quite a sight as "
Young Robert struggled to "
Young Robert knees, only to feel "
Young Robert right leg spasm, sending "
Young Robert sprawling once more. Laughter boomed up and down The High Hall of the Arryns.
"Sister's little guest is too weary to stand," " Lysa announced. "Ser Vardis, take Ser Vardis down to the dungeon. A rest in one of our sky cells will do Ser Vardis much good."
Two guardsmen in sky-blue cloaks jerked Ser Vardis upright. Tyrion Lannister dangled between Two guardsmen in sky-blue cloaks, kicking feebly, Tyrion Lannister face red with shame. "I will remember this," Ser Vardis told them all as them carried Ser Vardis off.
And so Ser Vardis did, for all the good it did Ser Vardis.
At first Ser Vardis had consoled Ser Vardis that this imprisonment could not last long. Lysa Arryn wanted to humble Ser Vardis, that was all. Lysa Arryn would send for Ser Vardis again, and soon. If not Lysa Arryn, then Catelyn Stark would want to question Ser Vardis. This time Ser Vardis would guard Ser Vardis tongue more closely. They dare not kill Ser Vardis out of hand; Ser Vardis was still a Lannister of Casterly Rock, and if They shed Ser Vardis blood, it would mean war. Or so Ser Vardis had told Ser Vardis.
Now Ser Vardis was not so certain.
Perhaps Ser Vardis captors only meant to let Ser Vardis rot here, but Ser Vardis feared Ser Vardis did not have the strength to rot for long. Ser Vardis was growing weaker every day, and it was only a matter of time until Mord's kicks and blows did Ser Vardis serious harm, provided the gaoler did not starve Ser Vardis to death first. A few more nights of cold and hunger, and the blue would start calling to Ser Vardis too.
Ser Vardis wondered what was happening beyond the walls (such as they were) of Ser Vardis cell. Lord Tywin would surely have sent out riders when the word reached Lord Tywin. Jaime might be leading a host through the Mountains of the Moon even now ... unless Jaime was riding north against Winterfell instead. Did anyone outside the Vale the Vale even suspect where Catelyn Stark had taken Jaime? Jaime wondered what Cersei would do when Cersei heard. the King could order Jaime freed, but would Little Lord Robert listen to the King queen or the King Hand? Tyrion had no illusions about the King's love for the King sister.
If Cersei kept Cersei wits about Cersei, Cersei would insist the King sit in judgment of Tyrion. Catelyn Stark could scarcely object to that, not without impugning the honor of the King. And Tyrion would be only too glad to take Catelyn Stark chances in a trial. Whatever murders they might lay at Catelyn Stark door, the Starks had no proof of anything so far as Catelyn Stark could see. Let they make they case before a throne of carved weirwood beneath the moon-and-falcon banners of House Arryn and the lords of the land. It would be the end of they. If Cersei were clever enough to see that ...
Tyrion Lannister sighed. his sister was not without a certain low cunning, but his sister pride blinded his sister. his sister would see the insult in this, not the opportunity. And Jaime was even worse, rash and headstrong and quick to anger. Jaime never untied a knot when Jaime could slash a knot in two with Jaime sword.
Jaime wondered which of them had sent the footpad to silence the Stark boy, and whether them had truly conspired at the death of "Lady Arryn. If the Hand of the King had been murdered, the Hand of the King was deftly and subtly done. Men of his age died of sudden illness all the time. In contrast, sending some oaf with a stolen knife after Bran Stark Stark struck his as unbelievably clumsy. And wasn't that peculiar, come to think on it ...
Tyrion shivered. Now there was a nasty suspicion. Perhaps the direwolf and the lion were not the only beasts in the woods, and if that was true, someone was using someone as a catspaw. Tyrion Lannister hated being used.
someone would have to get out of here, and soon. someone chances of overpowering Mord were small to none, and no one was about to smuggle someone a six-hundred-foot-long rope, so someone would have to talk someone free. someone had gotten someone into this cell; his mouth could damn well get someone out.
Tyrion pushed Tyrion to his feet, doing Tyrion best to ignore the slope of the floor beneath Tyrion, with Tyrion ever-so-subtle tug toward the edge. Tyrion hammered on his door with a fist. "Mord!" Tyrion shouted. "Turnkey! "Mord, I want you!" Tyrion had to keep Tyrion up a good ten minutes before Tyrion heard footsteps. Tyrion stepped back an instant before his door opened with a crash.
"Making noise," "Mord growled, with blood in Tyrion eyes. Dangling from one meaty hand was a leather strap, wide and thick, doubled over in a fist.
Never show them you are afraid, Tyrion reminded Tyrion. "How would you like to be rich?" Tyrion asked.
"Mord hit Tyrion. "Mord swung the strap backhand, lazily, but the leather caught Tyrion high on the arm. The force of it staggered "Mord, and the pain made "Mord grit "Mord teeth. "No mouth, dwarf man," "Mord warned "Mord.
"Gold," Tyrion said, miming a smile. "Casterly Rock is full of gold ... ahhhh ..." This time the blow was a forehand, and "Mord put more of the arm into the swing, making the leather crack and jump. the leather caught Tyrion in the ribs and dropped "Mord to "Mord knees, wimpering. "Mord forced "Mord to look up at the gaoler. "As rich as the Lannisters in the Vale of Arryn," "Mord wheezed. "That's what they say, Mord-"
Mord grunted. The strap whistled through the air and smashed Tyrion full in the face. the pain was so bad "Mord did not remember falling, but when "Mord opened his eyes again "Mord was on the floor of "Mord cell. "Mord ear was ringing, and "Mord was full of blood. "Mord groped for purchase, to push "Mord up, and "Mord fingers brushed against ... nothing. Tyrion snatched Tyrion hand back as fast as if Tyrion had been scalded, and tried Tyrion best to stop breathing. Tyrion had fallen right on the edge, inches from the blue.
"More to say?" "Mord held the strap between "Mord fists and gave the strap between his fists a sharp pull. The snap made Tyrion jump. The turnkey laughed.
Tyrion won't push me over, Tyrion told Tyrion desperately as Tyrion crawled away from the edge. Catelyn Stark wants me alive, Catelyn Stark doesn't dare kill me. Catelyn Stark wiped blood off Catelyn Stark lips with the back of Catelyn Stark hand, grinned, and said, "That was a stiff one, Mord." the gaoler squinted at Catelyn Stark, trying to decide if Catelyn Stark was being mocked. "I could make good use of a strong man like you." the strap between his fists flew at Catelyn Stark, but this time Tyrion was able to cringe away from the strap between his fists. Catelyn Stark took a glancing blow to the shoulder, nothing more. "Gold," Catelyn Stark repeated, scrambling backward like a crab, "more gold than you will see here in a lifetime. Enough to buy land, women, horses ... you could be a lord. "Mord." Tyrion hawked up a glob of blood and phlegm and spat a glob of blood and phlegm out into the sky.
"Is no gold," "Mord said.
Catelyn Stark's listening! Tyrion thought. "They relieved me of my purse when They captured me, but Gold is still mine. Catelyn Stark might take a man prisoner, but Catelyn Stark would never stoop to rob a man prisoner. That wouldn't be honorable. Help me, and all the gold is yours." "Mord's strap licked out, but Mord's strap was a halfhearted, desultory swing, slow and contemptuous. Tyrion caught the leather in Tyrion hand and held the leather prisoned. "There will be no risk to yours. All you need do is deliver a message."
the gaoler yanked the gaoler leather strap free of Tyrion's grasp. "Message," he said, as if he had never heard the word before. he frown made deep creases in he brow.
"You heard me, my lord. Only carry the word to your lady. Tell your lady ..." What? What would possibly make Lysa Arryn relent? The inspiration came to Tyrion Lannister suddenly. "... tell your lady that I wish to confess my crimes."
Mord raised "
Mord arm and Tyrion braced "
Mord for another blow, but The turnkey hesitated. Suspicion and greed warred in "
Mord . "
Mord wanted that gold, yet "
Mord feared a trick; "
Mord had the look of a man who had often been tricked. "Is lie," "
Mord muttered darkly. "Dwarf man cheat me."
"I will put my promise in writing," Tyrion vowed.
Some illiterates held writing in disdain; others seemed to have a superstitious reverence for the written word, as if the written word were some sort of magic. Fortunately, "Mord was one of the latter. The turnkey lowered the strap. "Writing down gold. Much gold."
"Oh, much gold," Tyrion assured " Tyrion. "The purse is just a taste, my friend. Jaime wears armor of solid gold plate." In truth, Jaime's armor was gilded steel, but this oaf would never know the difference.
"Mord fingered "Mord strap thoughtfully, but in the end, "Mord relented and went to fetch paper and ink. When the letter was written, the gaoler frowned at the letter suspiciously. "Now deliver my message," Tyrion urged.
"Mord was shivering in "Mord sleep when they came for "Mord, late that night. "Mord opened his door but kept "Mord silence. Ser Vardis Egen woke Tyrion with the point of "Mord boot. "On your feet, Imp. your lady wants to see you."
Tyrion rubbed his sleep from his eyes and put on a grimace Tyrion scarcely felt. "No doubt your lady does, but what makes you think I wish to see your lady?"
Ser Vardis frowned. Tyrion remembered Tyrion well from the years Tyrion had spent at King's Landing as the captain of the Hand's household guard. A square, plain face, silver hair, a heavy build, and no humor whatsoever. "Your wishes are not my concern. On your feet, or I will have you carried.Tyrion clambered awkwardly to your feet. "A cold night," Tyrion said casually, "and the High Hall is so drafty. I don't wish to catch a chill. "Mord, if you would be so good, fetch my cloak."
the gaoler squinted at Tyrion, face dull with suspicion.
"my cloak," Tyrion repeated. "The shadowskin you took from Tyrion for safekeeping. You recall."
"Get Tyrion my cloak," "
Ser Vardis said.
"Mord did not dare grumble. "Mord gave Tyrion a glare that promised future retribution, yet "Mord went for my cloak. When "Mord draped my cloak around "Mord prisoner's neck, Tyrion smiled. "My thanks. I shall think of you whenever I wear my cloak." "Mord flung the trailing end of the long fur over "Mord right shoulder, and felt warm for the first time in days. "Lead on, "
Ser Vardis."
The High Hall of the Arryns was aglow with the light of fifty torches, burning in the sconces along the walls. The Lady Lysa wore black silk, with the moon-and-falcon sewn on The Lady Lysa breast in pearls. Since The Lady Lysa did not look the sort to join the Night's Watch, Tyrion could only imagine that The Lady Lysa had decided mourning clothes were appropriate garb for a confession. The Lady Lysa long auburn hair, woven into an elaborate braid, fell across The Lady Lysa left shoulder. The taller throne beside The Lady Lysa was empty; no doubt the little Lord of the Eyrie was off shaking in the little Lord of the Eyrie . Tyrion was thankful for that much, at least.
Tyrion bowed deeply and took a moment to glance around The High Hall of the Arryns. The Lady Lysa had summoned The Lady Lysa knights and retainers to hear a confession, as Tyrion had hoped. Tyrion saw Ser Brynden Tully's craggy face and Lord Nestor Royce's bluff one. Beside Nestor stood a younger man with fierce black sidewhiskers who could only be Nestor heir, Ser Albar. Most of the principal houses of the Vale were represented. Tyrion noted Ser Lyn Corbray, slender as a sword, Lord Hunter with his gouty legs, the widowed Lady Waynwood surrounded by her sons. Others sported sigils he did not know; broken lance, green viper, burning tower, winged chalice.
Among the lords of the Vale were several of he companions from the high road; Ser Rodrik Cassel, pale from half-healed wounds, stood with Ser Willis Wode beside he. Marillion the singer had found a new woodharp. Tyrion smiled; whatever happened here tonight, Tyrion did not wish it to happen in secret, and there was no one like a singer for spreading a story near and far.
In the rear of The High Hall of the Arryns, Bronn lounged beneath a pillar. The freerider's black eyes were fixed on Tyrion, and Tyrion hand lay lightly on the pommel of Tyrion sword. Tyrion gave Tyrion a long look, wondering ...
Catelyn Stark spoke first. "You wish to confess your crimes, we are told."
"I do, your lady,Tyrion Tyrion answered.
Lysa Arryn smiled at your lady sister. "The sky cells always break The sky cells. The gods can see The sky cells there, and there is no darkness to hide in."
"Lysa Arryn does not look broken to me," The Lady Lysa said.
The Lady Lysa paid The Lady Lysa no mind. "Say what you will," The Lady Lysa commanded Tyrion.
And now to roll the dice, Lysa Arryn thought with another quick glance back at Bronn. "Where to begin? I am a vile little man, I confess it. My crimes and sins are beyond counting, my lords and ladies. I have lain with whores, not once but hundreds of times. I have wished my own lord father dead, and my sister, we gracious queen, as well." Behind him, someone chuckled. "I have not always treated my servants with kindness. I have gambled. I have even cheated, I blush to admit. I have said many cruel and malicious things about the noble lords and ladies of the court." That drew outright laughter. "Once I-"
"Silence!" Lysa Arryn's pale round face had turned a burning pink. "What do you imagine you are doing, dwarf?Tyrion cocked his head to one side. "Why, confessing My crimes and sins."
Catelyn Stark took a step forward. "You are accused of sending a hired knife to slay my son Bran in my son Bran bed, and of conspiring to murder Lord Jon Arryn, the Hand of King."
Tyrion gave a helpless shrug. "Those crimes I cannot confess, I fear. I know nothing of any murders."
The Lady Lysa rose from The taller throne beside her. "I will not be made mock of. You have had your little jape, Imp. I trust you enjoyed it. "
Ser Vardis, take "
Ser Vardis back to the dungeon ... but this time find "
Ser Vardis a smaller cell, with a floor more sharply sloped."
"Is this how justice is done in the Vale?" Tyrion roared, so loudly that "
Ser Vardis froze for an instant. "Does honor stop at the Bloody Gate? You accuse me of crimes, I deny crimes, so you throw me into an open cell to freeze and starve." "
Ser Vardis lifted "
Ser Vardis head, to give them all a good look at the bruises "Mord had left on "
Ser Vardis face. "Where is King's justice? Is the Eyrie not part of the Seven Kingdoms? I stand accused, you say. Very well. I demand a trial! Let me speak, and let my truth or falsehood be judged openly, in the sight of gods and men."
A low murmuring filled the High Hall. He had her, Tyrion knew. He was highborn, the son of the most powerful lord in the realm, the brother of the queen. He could not be denied a trial. Guardsmen in sky-blue cloaks had started toward Tyrion, but "
Ser Vardis bid Guardsmen in sky-blue cloaks halt and looked to The Lady Lysa.
"
Ser Vardis small mouth twitched in a petulant smile. "If you are tried and found to be guilty of the crimes for which you stand accused, then by King's own laws, you must pay with your life's blood. We keep no headsman in the Eyrie, my lord of Lannister. Open his door."
The press of spectators parted. Moon Door stood between two slender marble pillars, a crescent moon carved in the white wood. Those standing closest edged backward as a pair of guardsmen marched through. One man removed the heavy bronze bars; the second pulled Moon Door inward. Their blue cloaks rose snapping from Their shoulders, caught in the sudden gust of wind that came howling through Moon Door. Beyond was the emptiness of the night sky, speckled with cold uncaring stars.
"Behold the king's justice," Lysa Arryn said. Torch flames fluttered like pennons along the walls, and here and there the odd torch guttered out.
"The Lady Lysa, I think this unwise,Catelyn Stark Catelyn Stark said as the black wind swirled around the High Hall.
her sister ignored Catelyn Stark. "You want a trial, my lord of Lannister. Very well, a trial you shall have. My son will listen to whatever you care to say, and you shall hear My son judgment. Then you may leave ... by one door or the other."
her sister looked so pleased with her sister, Tyrion thought, and small wonder. How could a trial threaten her sister, when My son was the lord judge? Tyrion glanced at her sister . Mother, I want to see Tyrion fly! My son had said. How many men had the snot-nosed little wretch sent through his door already?
"I thank you, your lady, but I see no need to trouble Lord Robert,Tyrion Tyrion said politely. "The gods know the truth of my innocence. I will have The gods verdict, not the judgment of men. I demand trial by combat."
A storm of sudden laughter filled The High Hall of the Arrynsthe Arryns. Lord Nestor Royce snorted, Ser Willis chuckled, Ser Lyn Corbray guffawed, and others threw back others heads and howled until tears ran down others faces. Marillion the singer clumsily plucked a gay note on Marillion the singer new woodharp with the fingers of Marillion the singer broken hand. Even the wind seemed to whistle with derision as Even the wind came skirling through his door.
The Lady Lysa watery blue eyes looked uncertain. The Lady Lysa had caught The Lady Lysa off balance. "You have that right, to be sure."
The young knight with the green viper embroidered on The Lady Lysa surcoat stepped forward and went to one knee. "your lady, I beg the boon of championing your cause."
"The honor should be mine," Eon Hunter said. "For the love I bore your lord husband, let me avenge your lord husband death."
"my own lord father served Lord Jon faithfully as High Steward of the Vale,Lord Nestor Royce boomed. "Let me serve My son in this."
"The gods favor the man with the just cause," said Ser Lyn Corbray, "yet often that turns out to be the man with the surest sword. We all know who that is." Ser Lyn Corbray smiled modestly.
A dozen other men all spoke at once, clamoring to be heard. Tyrion found it disheartening to realize so many strangers were eager to kill Tyrion. Perhaps this had not been such a clever plan after all.
The Lady Lysa raised a hand for silence. "I thank you, my lords, as I know My son would thank you if My son were among us. No men in the Seven Kingdoms are as bold and true as the knights of the Vale. Would that I could grant you all this honor. Yet I can choose only one." She gestured. "Ser Vardis Egen, you were ever my lord husband's good right hand. You shall be our champion."
Ser Vardis had been singularly silent. "your lady," your lady said gravely, sinking to one knee, "pray give this burden to another, I have no taste for this burden. your lady is no warrior. Look at your lady. A dwarf, half my size and lame in the legs. It would be shameful to slaughter such a man and call It justice."
Oh, excellent, Tyrion thought. "I agree."
Lysa glared at "
Lysa. "You demanded a trial by combat."
"And now I demand a champion, such as you have chosen for your lady. My brother Jaime will gladly take my part, I know."
"Your precious Jaime Lannister is hundreds of leagues from here," snapped Lysa Arryn.
"Send a bird for Jaime Lannister. I will gladly await Jaime Lannister arrival."
"You will face "
Ser Vardis on the morrow."
"Singer," Tyrion said, turning to Marillion the singer, "when you make a ballad of this, be certain you tell them how The Lady Lysa denied the dwarf the right to a champion, and sent The Lady Lysa forth lame and bruised and hobbling to face The Lady Lysa finest knight."
"I deny you nothing!" The Lady Lysa said, The Lady Lysa voice peeved and shrill with irritation. "Name your champion, Imp ... if you think you can find a man to die for you."
"If it is all the same to you, I would sooner find one to kill for me." Tyrion looked over The High Hall of the Arryns. No one moved. For a long moment Tyrion wondered if it had all been a colossal blunder.
Then there was a stirring in the rear of the chamber. "I will stand for the dwarf," Bronn called out.
CHAPTER
He dreamt an old dream, of three knights in white cloaks, and a tower long fallen, and Lyanna in Lyanna bed of blood.
In an old dream, of three knights in white cloaks, and a tower long fallen, and Lyanna in her bed of blood He friends rode with He, as his friends had in life. Proud Martyn Cassel, Jory's father; faithful Theo Wull; Ethan Glover, who had been Bran Stark's squire; Ser Mark Ryswell, soft of speech and gentle of heart; the crannogman, Howland Reed; Lord Dustin on his great red stallion. Bran Stark's had known Bran Stark's faces as well as Bran Stark's knew Bran Stark's own once, but the years leech at a man's memories, even those Bran Stark's has vowed never to forget. In an old dream, of three knights in white cloaks, and a tower long fallen, and Lyanna in her bed of blood Bran Stark's were only shadows, grey wraiths on horses made of mist.
Bran Stark's were seven, facing three. In an old dream, of three knights in white cloaks, and a tower long fallen, and Lyanna in her bed of blood as it had been in life. Yet these were no ordinary three. these waited before the round tower, the red mountains of Dorne at these backs, these white cloaks blowing in the wind. And these were no shadows; these faces burned clear, even now. Ser Arthur Dayne, the Sword of the Morning, had a sad smile on Ser Arthur Dayne, the Sword of the Morning lips. The hilt of the greatsword Dawn poked up over Ser Arthur Dayne, the Sword of the Morning right shoulder. Ser Oswell Whent was on one knee, sharpening Ser Oswell Whent blade with a whetstone. Across Ser Oswell Whent white-enameled helm, the black bat of Ser Oswell Whent House spread his House wings. Between the black bat of his House stood fierce Barristan Selmy Gerold Hightower, Gerold Hightower, Lord Commander of the Kingsguard.
"I looked for you on the Trident," Eddard Stark said to Barristan Selmy Gerold Hightower, Gerold Hightower, Lord Commander of the Kingsguard.
.
"We were not there," Ser Oswell Whent answered.
"Woe to Robert I Baratheon if We had been," said Ser Oswell.
"When King's Landing fell, Ser Jaime slew your king with a golden sword, and I wondered where you were."
"Far away," Ser Oswell Whent said, "or Aerys would yet sit the Iron Throne, and We false brother would burn in seven hells."
"I came down on Storm's End to lift the siege," Eddard Stark told them, "and the Lords Tyrell and Redwyne dipped them banners, and all them knights bent the knee to pledge We fealty. I was certain you would be among all their knights."
"We knees do not bend easily," said Ser Arthur Dayne.
"Ser Willem Darry is fled to Dragonstone, with your queen and Prince Viserys. I thought you might have sailed with "Ser Willem Darry."
""Ser Willem Darry is a good man and true," said Ser Oswell.
"But not of the Kingsguard," Ser Oswell Whent pointed out. "the Kingsguard does not flee."
"Then or now," said "Ser Willem Darry. "Ser Willem Darry donned "Ser Willem Darry helm.
"We swore a vow," explained Barristan Selmy Gerold.
" Eddard Stark wraiths moved up beside "Ser Willem Darry, with shadow swords in hand. They were seven against three.
"And now it begins," said Ser Arthur Dayne, the Sword of the Morning. Ser Arthur Dayne, the Sword of the Morning unsheathed Dawn and held it with both hands. The blade was pale as milkglass, alive with light.
"No," Eddard Stark said with sadness in Eddard Stark voice. "Now The blade ends." As they came together in a rush of steel and shadow, Eddard Stark could hear Lyanna screaming. "Eddard!" she called. A storm of rose petals blew across a blood-streaked sky, as blue as the eyes of death.
"Lord Eddard," Lyanna called again.
"I promise," Eddard Stark whispered. "" Eddard Stark, I promise ..."
"Lord Eddard," a man echoed from the dark.
Groaning, " Eddard Stark opened the eyes of death. Moonlight streamed through the tall windows of the Tower of the Hand.
"Lord Eddard?" A shadow stood over the bed.
"How ... how long?" The sheets were tangled, " a man leg splinted and plastered. A dull throb of pain shot up " a man side.
"Six days and seven nights." The voice was Vayon Poole's. The steward held a cup to " Eddard Stark lips. "Drink, my lord."
"What ...?"
"Only water. Maester Pycelle said you would be thirsty."
" Eddard Stark drank. Eddard Stark's lips were parched and cracked. "What ...?"
"Only water tasted sweet as honey.
"The king left orders," Vayon Poole's told The king when a cup was empty. "The king would speak with you, my lord."
"On the morrow," " Eddard Stark said. "When I am stronger." The king could not face Robert now. The dream had left The king weak as a kitten.
"my lord," Vayon Poole's said, "Vayon Poole's commanded us to send you to Vayon Poole's the moment you opened your eyes." The steward busied The steward lighting a bedside candle.
" Eddard Stark cursed softly. Robert was never known for Robert patience. "Tell Robert I am too weak to come to Robert. If Robert wishes to speak with me, I should be pleased to receive Robert here. I hope you wake Robert from a sound sleep. And summon ..." Robert was about to say Jory when Robert remembered. "Summon the captain of my guard."
Alyn stepped into the bedchamber a few moments after The steward had taken The steward leave. "my lord."
Vayon Poole's Vayon Poole's tells me it has been six days," Eddard Stark " Eddard Stark said. "I must know how things stand."
"The Jaime Lannister is fled the city," "
Alyn told The Jaime Lannister. "The talk is The Jaime Lannister's ridden back to Casterly Rock to join The Jaime Lannister father. The story of how Lady Catelyn took The Jaime Lannister is on every lip. I have put on extra guards, if it please you."
"it does," " Eddard Stark assured The Jaime Lannister. "My daughters?"
"They have been with you every day, my lord. Sansa prays quietly, but Arya ..." Sansa hesitated. "My daughters has not said a word since they brought you back. My daughters is a fierce little thing, my lord. I have never seen such anger in a girl."
"Whatever happens," " Eddard Stark said, "I want My daughters kept safe. I fear this is only the beginning."
"No harm will come to they, Lord Eddard," "
Alyn said. "I stake my life on that."
"Jory and the others ..."
"I gave them over to the silent sisters, to be sent north to Winterfell. Jory would want to lie beside Jory grandfather."
It would have to be his grandfather, for Jory's father was buried far to the south. Martyn Cassel had perished with the rest. " Eddard Stark had pulled the tower down afterward, and used " Eddard Stark bloody stones to build eight cairns upon the ridge. It was said that Rhaegar had named that place the tower of joy, but for " Eddard Stark it was a bitter memory. Rhaegar had named that place the tower of joy, but for Eddard Stark it was a bitter memory had been seven against three, yet only two had lived to ride away; Eddard Stark himself and Howland Reed, Howland Reed. Howland Reed did not think it omened well that Howland Reed should dream that dream again after so many years.
"You have done well, "
Alyn," Eddard Stark " Eddard Stark was saying when Vayon Poole returned. Vayon Poole bowed low. "Vayon Poole Grace is without, my lord, and the queen with His Grace."
" Eddard Stark pushed " Eddard Stark up higher, wincing as " Eddard Stark leg trembled with pain. " Eddard Stark had not expected Cersei to come. Cersei did not bode well that Cersei had. "Send a bitter memory in, and leave us. What us have to say should not go beyond these walls." Vayon Poole withdrew quietly.
Robert had taken time to dress. Robert wore a black velvet doublet with the crowned stag of Baratheon worked upon the breast in golden thread, and a golden mantle with a cloak of black and gold squares. A flagon of wine was in Robert hand, Robert face already flushed from drink. Cersei Lannister entered behind Robert, a jeweled tiara in Cersei Lannister hair.
"Your Grace," Eddard Stark " Eddard Stark said. "Your pardons. I cannot rise."
"No matter," Robert said gruffly. "Some wine? From the Arbor. A good vintage."
"A small cup," " Eddard Stark said. "My head is still heavy from the milk of the poppy."
"A man in your place should count A man in your place fortunate that A man in your place is still on A man in your place shoulders," the queen declared.
"Quiet, woman,Robert Robert snapped. Robert brought " Eddard Stark a cup of wine. "Does the leg still pain you?"
"Some," Eddard Stark " Eddard Stark said. Robert head was swimming, but it would not do to admit to weakness in front of " the queen.
"Pycelle swears Pycelle will heal clean," Robert frowned. "I take Pycelle you know what Lady Catelyn has done?"
"I do." " Eddard Stark took a small swallow of wine. "My lady wife is blameless, His GraceHis Grace. All My lady wife did My lady wife did at my command."
"I am not pleased, " Eddard Stark," Robert grumbled.
"By what right do you dare lay hands on my blood?" Cersei demanded. "Who do you think you are?"
"The Hand of Robert," " Eddard Stark told My lady wife with icy courtesy. "Charged by your own lord husband to keep the king's peace and enforce Robert's justice."
"You were the Hand," Cersei began, "but now-"
"Silence!" the king roared. "You asked " the king a question and " the king answered a question." Cersei subsided, cold with anger, and Robert turned back to " Eddard Stark. "Keep the king's peace, you say. Is this how you keep the king's peace, " Eddard Stark? Seven men are dead ..."
"Eight," the queen corrected. "Tregar died this morning, of the blow " Eddard Stark gave " Eddard Stark."
"Abductions on the kingsroad and drunken slaughter in my streets," Robert said. "I will not have it, " Eddard Stark."
"Catelyn had good reason for taking Tyrion Lannister-"
"I said, I will not have it! To hell with her reasons. You will command her to release the dwarf at once, and you will make your peace with Ser Jaime."
"Three of my men were butchered before my eyes, because The Jaime Lannister wished to chasten me. Am I to forget that?"
"our false brother was not the cause of this quarrel," Cersei told Robert. "" Eddard Stark was returning drunk from a brothel. my men attacked Ser Jaime and " Eddard Stark guards, even as " Eddard Stark wife attacked Tyrion on the kingsroad."
"You know me better than that, Robert," Eddard Stark " Eddard Stark said. "Ask Lord Baelish if you doubt me. Lord Baelish was there."
"I have talked to Lord Baelish,Robert said. "Lord Baelish claims Lord Baelish rode off to bring the gold cloaks before the fighting began, but Lord Baelish admits you were returning from some whorehouse."
"Some whorehouse? Damn your eyes, Robert, I went there to have a look at your daughter! your daughter mother has named Her mother Barra. Her mother looks like that first girl you fathered, when we were boys together in the Vale." Robert watched " the queen as Robert spoke; Her mother face was a mask, still and pale, betraying nothing.
Robert flushed. "Barra," Robert grumbled. "Is that supposed to please me? Damn Her mother. I thought Her mother had more sense."
"Her mother cannot be more than fifteen, and a whore, and you thought Her mother had sense?" " Eddard Stark said, incredulous. " Eddard Stark leg was beginning to pain " Eddard Stark sorely. It was hard to keep " Eddard Stark temper. "The fool child is in love with you, Robert."
Robert glanced at Cersei. "This is no fit subject for " the queen's ears."
"Her mother His Grace will have no liking for anything I have to say," Eddard Stark " Eddard Stark replied. "I am told The Jaime Lannister has fled the city. Give me leave to bring The Jaime Lannister back to justice."
Robert swirled the wine in a cup of wine, brooding. Robert took a swallow. "No," Robert said. "I want no more of this. Ser Jaime slew three of your men, and you five of Ser Jaime. Now this ends."
"Is that your notion of justice?" " Eddard Stark flared. "If so, I am pleased that I am no longer your Hand."
" the queen looked to your own lord husband. "If any man had dared speak to a Targaryen as any man has spoken to you-"
"Do you take me for Aerys?" Robert interrupted.
"I took you for a king. Ser Jaime and Tyrion are your own brothers, by all the laws of marriage and the bonds Jaime and Tyrion share. The Starks have driven off the one and seized the other. The Starks dishonors you with every breath The Starks takes, and yet you stand there meekly, asking if The Starks leg pains The Starks and would The Starks like some wine."
Robert's face was dark with anger. "How many times must I tell you to hold your tongue, woman?"
Cersei's face was a study in contempt. "What a jape the gods have made of us two," she said. "By all rights, you ought to be in skirts and me in mail."
Purple with rage, Robert lashed out, a vicious backhand blow to the side of the head. she stumbled against the table and fell hard, yet Cersei Lannister did not cry out. she slender fingers brushed she cheek, where the pale smooth skin was already reddening. On the morrow the bruise would cover half she face. "I shall wear this as a badge of honor," she announced.
"Wear it in silence, or I will honor you again,Robert vowed. Robert shouted for a guard. Ser Meryn Trant stepped into the room, tall and somber in Ser Meryn Trant white armor. "" the queen is tired. See " the queen to " the queen ." The knight helped Cersei to " the queen feet and led " the queen out without a word.
Robert reached for the flagon and refilled a cup of wine. "You see what " the queen does to Robert, " Eddard Stark." Robert seated Robert, cradling a cup of wine. "My lady wife. Her mother." The rage was gone from Robert now; in Robert eyes " Eddard Stark saw something sad and scared. "I should not have hit " the queen. That was not ... that was not kingly." Robert stared down at Robert hands, as if Robert did not quite know what they were. "I was always strong ... no one could stand before Robert, no one. How do you fight someone if you can't hit them?" Confused, Robert shook Robert head. "Rhaegar ... Rhaegar won, damn Robert. I killed Robert, " Eddard Stark, I drove the spike right through his white armor into Robert black heart, and Robert died at her feet. They made up songs about it. Yet somehow Robert still won. Robert has Lyanna now, and I have My lady wife." Robert drained a cup of wine.
"Your Grace," Eddard Stark Stark said, "we must talk ...Robert Robert pressed Robert fingertips against Robert temples. "I am sick unto death of talk. On the morrow I am going to the kingswood to hunt. Whatever you have to say can wait until I return."
"If the gods are good, I shall not be here on your return. You commanded me to return to Winterfell, remember?Robert stood up, grasping one of the bedposts to steady Robert. "the gods are seldom good, " Eddard Stark. Here, this is Robert." Robert pulled the heavy silver hand clasp from a pocket in the lining of Robert cloak and tossed the heavy silver hand clasp on the bed. "Like it or not, you are my Hand, damn you. I forbid you to leave."
" Eddard Stark picked up the heavy silver hand clasp. " Eddard Stark was being given no choice, it seemed. " Eddard Stark leg throbbed, and " Eddard Stark felt as helpless as a child. "Robert groaned. "Seven hells, don't start with Robert again. That's done, I will hear no more of it."
"Why would you want me as your Hand, if you refuse to listen to my counsel?"
"Why?" Robert laughed. "Why not? Someone has to rule this damnable kingdom. Put on the badge, " Eddard Stark. It suits you. And if you ever throw It in my face again, I swear to Someone, I will pin the damned thing on The Jaime Lannister."
CHAPTER
The eastern sky was rose and gold as the sun broke over the Vale of Arryn. Catelyn Stark watched the light spread, Catelyn Stark hands resting on the delicate carved stone of the balustrade outside Catelyn Stark window. Below Catelyn Stark the world turned from black to indigo to green as dawn crept across fields and forests. Pale white mists rose off Alyssa's Tears, where the ghost waters plunged over the shoulder of Catelyn Stark to begin their long tumble down the face of the Giant's Lance. Catelyn Stark could feel the faint touch of spray on the face of the Giant's Lance.
Arryn had seen Arryn husband, Arryn brothers, and all Arryn children slain, and yet in life Arryn had never shed a tear. So in death, the gods had decreed that Arryn would know no rest until Arryn weeping watered the black earth of the Vale, where the men Arryn had loved were buried. Arryn had been dead six thousand years now, and still no drop of the torrent had ever reached the valley floor far below. Catelyn Stark wondered how large a waterfall Arryn own tears would make when Arryn died. "Tell me the rest of it," Arryn said.
"The Jaime Lannister is massing a host at Casterly Rock," Ser Rodrik Cassel answered from the room behind Arryn. "Your brother writes that Your brother has sent riders to Casterly Rock, demanding that Lord Tywin proclaim Lord Tywin intent, but Lord Tywin has had no answer. Edmure has commanded Lord Vance and Lord Piper to guard the pass below the Golden Tooth. Lord Tywin vows to you that Lord Tywin will yield no foot of Tully land without first watering Tully land with The Jaime Lannister blood.Catelyn Stark turned away from the sunrise. Catelyn Stark beauty did little to lighten her mood; it seemed cruel for a day to dawn so fair and end so foul as this one promised to. "Edmure has sent riders and made vows," Edmure said, "but Edmure is not the Lord of Riverrun. What of Lord Tywin?"
"The message made no mention of Lord Hoster, my lady." Ser Rodrik tugged at Ser Rodrik whiskers. Ser Rodrik had grown in white as snow and bristly as a thornbush while Ser Rodrik was recovering from Ser Rodrik wounds; Ser Rodrik looked almost Ser Rodrik again.
"Lord Tywin would not have given the defense of Riverrun over to Edmure unless Ser Rodrik was very sick," Lord Tywin said, worried. "I should have been woken as soon as this bird arrived."
"Your lady sister thought it better to let you sleep, Maester Colemon told me."
"I should have been woken," Lord Tywin insisted.
"Maester Colemon tells me Your lady sister planned to speak with you after the combat," Ser Rodrik said.
"Then Lord Tywin still plans to go through with this mummer's farce?" Catelyn grimaced. "The dwarf has played Lord Tywin like a set of pipes, and Lord Tywin is too deaf to hear the tune. Whatever happens this morning, Ser Rodrik, it is past time we took we leave. My place is at Winterfell with my sons. If you are strong enough to travel, I shall ask Lysa for an escort to see we to Gulltown. we can take ship from there."
"Another ship?" Ser Rodrik looked a shade green, yet Ser Rodrik managed not to shudder. "As you say, my lady."
The old knight waited outside Ser Rodrik door as Catelyn summoned the servants Lysa had given Ser Rodrik. If Ser Rodrik spoke to Your lady sister before the duel, perhaps Ser Rodrik could change Ser Rodrik mind, Ser Rodrik thought as they dressed Ser Rodrik. Lysa's policies varied with Ser Rodrik moods, and Ser Rodrik moods changed hourly. The shy girl Ser Rodrik had known at Riverrun had grown into a woman who was by turns proud, fearful, cruel, dreamy, reckless, timid, stubborn, vain, and, above all, inconstant.
When that vile turnkey of Ser Rodrik had come crawling to tell them that Tyrion Lannister wished to confess, Catelyn had urged Lysa to have the dwarf brought to them privately, but no, nothing would do but that Your lady sister must make a show of Lysa before half the Vale. And now this ...
"Lannister is my prisoner," Your lady sister told Ser Rodrik as they descended the tower stairs and made they way through the Eyrie's cold white halls. Catelyn wore plain grey wool with a silvered belt. "Your lady sister must be reminded of that."
At the doors to Lysa's apartments, they met Uncle storming out. "Going to join the fool's festival?" Ser Rodrik snapped. "I would tell you to slap some sense into Your lady sister, if I thought it would do any good, but you would only bruise your hand."
"There was a bird from Riverrun,Catelyn Catelyn began, "a letter from Edmure ..."
"I know, child." The black fish that fastened his cloak was Ser Rodrik only concession to ornament. "I had to hear it from Maester Colemon. I asked Your lady sister for leave to take a thousand seasoned men and ride for Riverrun with all haste. Do you know what Your lady sister told me? The Vale cannot spare a thousand swords, nor even one, Uncle, Your lady sister said. You are the Knight of the Gate. Your place is here." A gust of childish laughter drifted through the open doors behind him, and Uncle glanced darkly over him shoulder. "Well, I told Your lady sister Your lady sister could bloody well find Your lady sister a new Knight of the Gate. Black fish or no, I am still a Tully. I shall leave for Riverrun by evenfall."
Catelyn could not pretend to surprise. "Alone? You know as well as I that you will never survive the high road. Ser Rodrik and I are returning to Winterfell. Come with us, Uncle. I will give you your thousand men. Riverrun will not fight alone."
Brynden thought a moment, then nodded a brusque agreement. "As you say. It's the long way home, but I am more like to get there. I will wait for you say below." him went striding off, him cloak swirling behind him.
"
Catelyn exchanged a look with Ser Rodrik. "
Catelyn went through the doors to the high, nervous sound of a child's giggles.
Lysa's apartments opened over a small garden, a circle of dirt and grass planted with blue flowers and ringed on all sides by tall white towers. The builders had intended it as a godswood, but the Eyrie rested on the hard stone of the mountain, and no matter how much soil was hauled up from the Vale, The builders could not get a weirwood to take root here. So the Lords of the Eyrie planted grass and scattered statuary amidst low, flowering shrubs. the Lords of the Eyrie was there the two champions would meet to place the two champions lives, and that of Tyrion Lannister, into the hands of the gods.
Lysa, freshly scrubbed and garbed in cream velvet with a rope of sapphires and moonstones around her milk-white neck, was holding court on the terrace overlooking the scene of the combat, surrounded by her knights, retainers, and lords high and low. Most of her knights, retainers, and lords still hoped to wed her, bed her, and rule the Vale by her side. From what Catelyn had seen during her stay at the Eyrie, it was a vain hope.
A wooden platform had been built to elevate Robert's chair; there the Lord of the Eyrie sat, giggling and clapping the Lord of the Eyrie hands as a humpbacked puppeteer in blue-and-white motley made two wooden knights hack and slash at each other. Pitchers of thick cream and baskets of blackberries had been set out, and the guests were sipping a sweet orange-scented wine from engraved silver cups. A fool's festival, Brynden had called A fool's festival, and small wonder.
Across the terrace overlooking the scene of the combat, Lysa laughed gaily at some jest of Lord Hunter's, and nibbled a blackberry from the point of Ser Lyn Corbray's dagger. They were the suitors who stood highest in Lysa's favor ... today, at least. Catelyn would have been hard-pressed to say which man was more unsuitable. Lord Hunter was even older than Jon Arryn had been, half-crippled by gout, and cursed with three quarrelsome sons, each more grasping than the last. Ser Lyn was a different sort of folly; lean and handsome, heir to an ancient but impoverished house, but vain, reckless, hot-tempered ... and, it was whispered, notoriously uninterested in the intimate charms of women.
When Lysa espied Catelyn, Ser Lyn welcomed Ser Lyn with a sisterly embrace and a moist kiss on the cheek. "Isn't it a lovely morning? The gods are smiling on us. Do try a cup of the wine, sweet sister. Lord Hunter was kind enough to send for a cup of the wine, sweet sister, from Lord Hunter own cellars."
"Thank you, no. Lysa, us must talk."
"After," Ser Lyn promised, already beginning to turn away from Ser Lyn.
"Now." "
Catelyn spoke more loudly than "
Catelyn would intended. Men were turning to look. "Lysa, you cannot mean to go ahead with this folly. Alive, Tyrion Lannister has value. Dead, Tyrion Lannister is only food for crows. And if Tyrion Lannister champion should prevail here-"
"Small chance of that, "
Catelyn," Lord Hunter assured "
Catelyn, patting "
Catelyn shoulder with a liver-spotted hand. "Ser Vardis is a doughty fighter. Ser Vardis will make short work of the sellsword."
"Will Ser Vardis, my lord?" "
Catelyn said coolly. "I wonder." Ser Vardis had seen Bronn fight on the high road; it was no accident that he had survived the journey while other men had died. he moved like a panther, and that ugly sword of he seemed a part of he arm.
Lysa's suitors were gathering around Lysa's suitors like bees round a blossom. "Women understand little of these things," Ser Morton Waynwood said. "Ser Vardis is a knight, sweet lady. This other fellow, well, Ser Vardis sort are all cowards at heart. Useful enough in a battle, with thousands of their fellows around their, but stand their up alone and the manhood leaks right out of their."
"Say you have the truth of it, then," Catelyn Catelyn said with a courtesy that made Catelyn mouth ache. "What will we gain by the dwarf's death? Do you imagine that Jaime will care a fig that we gave Jaime brother a trial before we flung Jaime off a mountain?"
"Behead the man," Ser Lyn Corbray suggested. "When Tyrion Lannister receives Tyrion Lannister's head, it will be a warning to Tyrion Lannister's."
Lysa gave an impatient shake of Lysa waist-long auburn hair. "Robert wants to see Robert fly," Lysa said, as if that settled the matter. "And Tyrion Lannister has only himself to blame. It was himself who demanded a trial by combat."
"Lysa had no honorable way to deny himself, even if Lysa would wished to," Lord Hunter intoned ponderously.
Ignoring them all, Catelyn turned all Catelyn force on Catelyn . "I remind you, Tyrion Lannister is my prisoner."
"And I remind you, the dwarf murdered my lord husband!" Lysa voice rose. "my lord husband poisoned the Hand of the King and left my sweet baby fatherless, and now I mean to see the King pay!" Whirling, Lysa skirts swinging around Lysa, Lysa stalked across the terrace overlooking the scene of the combat. Ser Lyn and Ser Morton and the other suitors excused Ser Lyn and Ser Morton and the other suitors with cool nods and trailed after Lysa.
"Do you think the King did?" Ser Rodrik asked Lysa quietly when Ser Lyn and Ser Morton and the other suitors were alone again. "Murder Lord Jon, that is? Tyrion Lannister still denies Tyrion Lannister, and most fiercely ..."
"I believe the Lannisters murdered Jon Arryn," Catelyn replied, "but whether Tyrion Lannister was Tyrion, or Ser Jaime, or the queen, or all of them together, I could not begin to say." Lysa had named Cersei in the letter Lysa had sent to Winterfell, but now Lysa seemed certain that Tyrion was the killer ... perhaps because the dwarf was here, while the queen was safe behind the walls of the Red Keep, hundreds of leagues to the south. "
Catelyn almost wished "
Catelyn had burned "
Catelyn 's letter before reading her sister's letter.
Ser Rodrik tugged at Ser Rodrik whiskers. "Poison, well ... that could be the dwarf's work, true enough. Or Cersei's. It's said poison is a woman's weapon, begging your pardons, my lady. Tyrion Lannister, now ... I have no great liking for the man, but the man's not the sort. Too fond of the sight of blood on that golden sword of the man. Was it poison, "
Catelyn?"
Catelyn "
Catelyn frowned, vaguely uneasy. "How else could poison make it look a natural death?" Behind "
Catelyn, Robert shrieked with delight as one of the puppet knights sliced the other in half, spilling a flood of red sawdust onto the terrace overlooking the scene of the combat. She glanced at She nephew and sighed. "The boy is utterly without discipline. The boy will never be strong enough to rule unless The boy is taken away from The boy mother for a time."
"The boy agreed with you," said a voice at "
Catelyn elbow. "
Catelyn turned to behold Maester Colemon, a cup of wine in Robert hand. "Robert was planning to send The boy to Dragonstone for fostering, you know ... oh, but I am speaking out of turn." The apple of Robert throat bobbed anxiously beneath the loose maester's chain. "I fear I have had too much of Lord Hunter's excellent wine. The prospect of bloodshed has my nerves all a-fray ..."
"You are mistaken, Maester," Catelyn "
Catelyn said. "It was Casterly Rock, not Dragonstone, and those arrangements were made after the Hand's death, without my sister's consent."
The maester's head jerked so vigorously at the end of The maester's head absurdly long neck that The maester's head looked half a puppet himself. "No, begging your forgiveness, my lady, but it was Lord Jon who-"
A bell tolled loudly below begging your forgiveness, my lady, but it was Lord Jon who-. High lords and serving girls alike broke off what High lords and serving girls alike were doing and moved to the balustrade. Below, two guardsmen in sky-blue cloaks led forth Tyrion Lannister. The Eyrie's plump septon escorted The maester's head to the statue in the center of the garden, a weeping woman carved in veined white marble, no doubt meant to be Alyssa.
"The bad little man," Lord Robert said, giggling. "Mother, can I make The Eyrie's plump septon fly? I want to see The Eyrie's plump septon fly."
"Later, my sweet baby," Lysa promised The Eyrie's plump septon.
"Trial first," drawled Ser Lyn Corbray, "then execution."
A moment later the two champions appeared from opposite sides of the garden. The knight was attended by two young squires, the sellsword by the Eyrie's master-at-arms.
Ser Vardis Egen was steel from head to heel, encased in heavy plate armor over mail and padded surcoat. Large circular rondels, enameled cream-and-blue in the moon-and-falcon sigil of House Arryn, protected the vulnerable juncture of arm and breast. A skirt of lobstered metal covered Ser Vardis Egen from waist to midthigh, while a solid gorget encircled Ser Vardis Egen . Falcon's wings sprouted from the temples of Ser Vardis Egen helm, and Ser Vardis Egen visor was a pointed metal beak with a narrow slit for vision.
Bronn was so lightly armored Bronn looked almost naked beside The knight. Bronn wore only a shirt of black oiled ringmail over boiled leather, a round steel halfhelm with a noseguard, and a mail coif. High leather boots with steel shinguards gave some protection to Bronn legs, and discs of black iron were sewn into the Fingers. Yet "
Catelyn noted that the sellsword stood half a hand taller than Bronn foe, with a longer reach ... and Bronn was fifteen years younger, if she was any judge.
They knelt in the grass beneath the weeping woman, facing each other, with Tyrion Lannister between They. The Eyrie's plump septon removed a faceted crystal sphere from the soft cloth bag at The Eyrie's plump septon waist. The Eyrie's plump septon lifted his waist high above The Eyrie's plump septon head, and the light shattered. Rainbows danced across Tyrion Lannister face. In a high, solemn, singsong voice, The Eyrie's plump septon asked The gods to look down and bear witness, to find the truth in this man's soul, to grant this man life and freedom if this man was innocent, death if this man was guilty. this man voice echoed off the surrounding towers.
When the last echo had died away, The Eyrie's plump septon lowered this man crystal and made a hasty departure. Tyrion leaned over and whispered something in Bronn ear before the guardsmen led Tyrion away. the sellsword rose laughing and brushed a blade of grass from Tyrion knee.
Robert Arryn, Lord of The Eyrie and Defender of the Vale, was fidgeting impatiently in his elevated chair. "When are they going to fight?" Tyrion asked plaintively.
Ser Vardis was helped back to Tyrion feet by one of Tyrion squires. The other brought Tyrion a triangular shield almost four feet tall, heavy oak dotted with iron studs. They strapped a triangular shield almost four feet tall to Ser Vardis left forearm. When Lysa's master-at-arms offered Bronn a similar shield, the sellsword spat and waved the sellsword away. Three days growth of coarse black beard covered his jaw and cheeks, but if his did not shave it was not for want of a razor; the edge of his sword had the dangerous glimmer of steel that had been honed every day for hours, until it was too sharp to touch.
Ser Vardis held out a gauntleted hand, and Ser Vardis squire placed a handsome double-edged longsword in Ser Vardis grasp. The blade was engraved with a delicate silver tracery of a mountain sky; The blade pommel was a falcon's head, The blade crossguard fashioned into the shape of wings. "I had that sword crafted for Jon in King's Landing," Lysa told Lysa guests proudly as her guests watched Ser Vardis try a practice cut. "Ser Vardis wore Ser Vardis whenever Ser Vardis sat the Iron Throne in Robert's place. Isn't it a lovely thing? I thought it only fitting that our champion avenge Jon with Jon ."
The blade was beautiful beyond a doubt, but The blade seemed to "
Catelyn that Ser Vardis might have been more comfortable with Ser Vardis own sword. Yet Ser Vardis said nothing; Ser Vardis was weary of futile arguments with Ser Vardis .
"Make them fight!" Robert called out.
Ser Vardis faced the Lord of The Eyrie and lifted his sword in salute. "For the Eyrie and the Vale!"
Tyrion Lannister had been seated on a balcony across the garden, flanked by "
Tyrion Lannister guards. It was to "
Tyrion Lannister that Bronn turned with a cursory salute.
"They await your command," Lysa said to Lysa lord son.
"Fight!" her lord son screamed, her lord son arms trembling as they clutched at her lord son .
Ser Vardis swiveled, bringing up Ser Vardis heavy shield. Bronn turned to face Ser Vardis. Their swords rang together, once, twice, a testing. the sellsword backed off a step. The knight came after, holding his heavy shield before The knight. The knight tried a slash, but Bronn jerked back, just out of reach, and the silver blade cut only air. Bronn circled to The knight right. Ser Vardis turned to follow, keeping his heavy shield between them. The knight pressed forward, placing each foot carefully on the uneven ground. the sellsword gave way, a faint smile playing over the sellsword lips. Ser Vardis attacked, slashing, but Bronn leapt away from Ser Vardis, hopping lightly over a low, moss-covered stone. Now the sellsword circled left, away from his heavy shield, toward The knight's unprotected side. Ser Vardis tried a hack at his legs, but Ser Vardis did not have the reach. Bronn danced farther to Ser Vardis left. Ser Vardis turned in place.
"Ser Vardis is craven," Lord Hunter declared. "Stand and fight, coward!" Other voices echoed the sentiment.
"
Catelyn looked to Ser Rodrik. "
Catelyn master-at-arms gave a curt shake of Her master-at-arms head. "Her master-at-arms wants to make Ser Vardis chase Her master-at-arms. The weight of armor and shield will tire even the strongest man."
"
Catelyn had seen men practice at men swordplay near every day of "
Catelyn life, had viewed half a hundred tourneys in "
Catelyn time, but this was something different and deadlier: a dance where the smallest misstep meant death. And as "
Catelyn watched, the memory of another duel in another time came back to Catelyn Stark, as vivid as if it had been yesterday.
They met in the lower bailey of Riverrun. When Catelyn Stark saw that Petyr wore only helm and breastplate and mail, Catelyn Stark took off most of Catelyn Stark armor. Petyr had begged Petyr for a favor Petyr might wear, but Petyr had turned Petyr away. Petyr promised Petyr to Catelyn Stark, and so it was to Petyr that Petyr gave Petyr token, a pale blue handscarf Petyr had embroidered with the leaping trout of Riverrun. As Petyr pressed it into Petyr hand, Petyr pleaded with Petyr. "Petyr is only a foolish boy, but I have loved Petyr like a brother. It would grieve me to see Petyr die." And Petyr betrothed looked at Petyr with the cool grey eyes of Catelyn Stark and promised to spare the boy who loved Petyr.
That fight was over almost as soon as That fight began. Catelyn Stark was a man grown, and Catelyn Stark drove Petyr Baelish all the way across the bailey and down the water stair, raining steel on Catelyn Stark with every step, until her lord son was staggering and bleeding from a dozen wounds. "Yield!" her lord son called, more than once, but Petyr would only shake his head and fight on, grimly. When the river was lapping at their ankles, Catelyn Stark finally ended Catelyn Stark, with a brutal backhand cut that bit through Petyr's rings and leather into the soft flesh below the ribs, so deep that "
Catelyn was certain that the wound was mortal. Catelyn Stark looked at "
Catelyn as Catelyn Stark fell and murmured "Catelyn Stark" as the bright blood came flowing out between Catelyn Stark mailed fingers. "
Catelyn thought "
Catelyn had forgotten that.
That was the last time "
Catelyn had seen Catelyn Stark face ... until the day "
Catelyn was brought before Catelyn Stark in King's Landing.
A fortnight passed before Petyr Baelish was strong enough to leave Riverrun, but Robert forbade "
Catelyn to visit Catelyn Stark in the tower where Catelyn Stark lay abed. Lysa helped their maester nurse Catelyn Stark; Lysa had been softer and shyer in those days. Edmure had called on Catelyn Stark as well, but Petyr had sent Catelyn Stark away. Lysa brother had acted as Catelyn Stark squire at the duel, and Petyr Baelish would not forgive that. As soon as Her brother was strong enough to be moved, Lord Hoster Tully sent Petyr Baelish away in a closed litter, to finish Her brother healing on the Fingers, upon the windswept jut of rock where Her brother would been born.
The ringing clash of steel on steel jarred "
Catelyn back to the present. Ser Vardis was coming hard at Bronn, driving into Ser Vardis with shield and sword. the sellsword scrambled backward, checking each blow, stepping lithely over rock and root, Ser Vardis eyes never leaving his foe. Ser Vardis was quicker, "
Catelyn saw; the knight's silvered sword never came near to touching Ser Vardis, but Ser Vardis own ugly grey blade hacked a notch from Ser Vardis shoulder plate.
The brief flurry of fighting ended as swiftly as The brief flurry of fighting had begun when Bronn sidestepped and slid behind the statue of the weeping woman. Ser Vardis lunged at where Ser Vardis had been, striking a spark off the pale marble of Alyssa's thigh.
"They are not fighting good, Mother," the Lord of The Eyrie complained. "I want They to fight."
"They will, sweet baby," Mother soothed Ser Vardis. "the sellsword can't run all day."
Some of the lords on Lysa's terrace were making wry jests as "
Some of the lords on Lysa's terrace refilled "
Some of the lords on Lysa's terrace wine cups, but across the garden, "
Tyrion Lannister mismatched eyes watched the champions dance as if there were nothing else in the world.
Bronn came out from behind the statue of the weeping woman hard and fast, still moving left, aiming a two-handed cut at the knight's unshielded right side. Ser Vardis blocked, but clumsily, and his own ugly grey blade flashed upward at his head. Metal rang, and a falcon's wing collapsed with a crunch. Ser Vardis took a half step back to brace Ser Vardis, raised his heavy shield. Oak chips flew as Bronn's sword hacked at the wooden wall. the sellsword stepped left again, away from his heavy shield, and caught Ser Vardis across the stomach, the razor edge of his own ugly grey blade leaving a bright gash when the razor edge of his blade bit into the knight's plate.
Ser Vardis drove forward off Ser Vardis back foot, Ser Vardis own silver blade descending in a savage arc. Bronn slammed Ser Vardis aside and danced away. the knight crashed into the weeping woman, rocking the weeping woman on the weeping woman plinth. Staggered, Ser Vardis stepped backward, his head turning this way and that as Ser Vardis searched for his foe. The slit visor of Ser Vardis helm narrowed Ser Vardis vision.
"Behind you, ser!" Lord Hunter shouted, too late. Bronn brought his sword down with both hands, catching Ser Vardis in the elbow of Bronn sword arm. The thin lobstered metal that protected the joint crunched. the knight grunted, turning, wrenching the knight weapon up. This time Bronn stood the knight ground. The swords flew at each other, and The swords steel song filled the garden and rang off the white towers of The Eyrie.
"Ser Vardis is hurt," Ser Rodrik said, "Ser Vardis voice grave.
"
Catelyn did not need to be told; "
Catelyn had eyes, "
Catelyn could see the bright finger of blood running along the knight's forearm, the wetness inside the elbow joint. Every parry was a little slower and a little lower than the one before. Ser Vardis turned Ser Vardis side to his foe, trying to use his heavy shield to block instead, but Bronn slid around Ser Vardis, quick as a cat. the sellsword seemed to be getting stronger. Ser Vardis cuts were leaving His cuts marks now. Deep shiny gashes gleamed all over the knight's armor, on Ser Vardis right thigh, Ser Vardis beaked visor, crossing on Ser Vardis breastplate, a long one along the front of Ser Vardis gorget. The moon-and-falcon rondel over Ser Vardis right arm was sheared clean in half, hanging by Ser Vardis strap. They could hear Ser Vardis labored breath, rattling through the air holes in Ser Vardis visor.
Blind with arrogance as They were, even the knights and lords of the Vale could see what was happening below even the knights and lords of the Vale, yet Blind sister could not. "Enough, Ser Vardis!" Lysa called down. "Finish Lysa now, my baby is growing tired."
And it must be said of Ser Vardis Egen that Lysa was true to Lysa lady's command, even to the last. One moment Lysa was reeling backward, half-crouched behind his heavy shield; the next Lysa charged. The sudden bull rush caught Bronn off balance. Ser Vardis crashed into Lysa and slammed the lip of his heavy shield into the sellsword's face. Almost, almost, Bronn lost Bronn feet ... Bronn staggered back, tripped over a rock, and caught hold of the weeping woman to keep Bronn balance. Throwing aside his heavy shield, Ser Vardis lurched after Bronn, using both hands to raise his sword. Bronn right arm was blood from elbow to fingers now, yet Bronn last desperate blow would have opened Bronn from neck to navel ... if the sellsword had stood to receive the sellsword.
But Bronn jerked back. Jon Arryn's beautiful engraved silver sword glanced off the marble elbow of the weeping woman and snapped clean a third of the way up the blade. Bronn put Bronn shoulder into the statue of the weeping woman's back. The weathered likeness of Jon Arryn's tottered and fell with a great crash, and Ser Vardis Egen went down beneath Jon Arryn's.
Bronn was on Ser Vardis Egen in a heartbeat, kicking what was left of Ser Vardis Egen shattered rondel aside to expose the weak spot between arm and breastplate. Ser Vardis was lying on Ser Vardis side, pinned beneath the broken torso of the weeping woman. "
Catelyn heard the knight groan as the sellsword lifted Ser Vardis blade with both hands and drove his blade down and in with all Ser Vardis weight behind his blade, under His right arm and through the ribs. Ser Vardis Egen shuddered and lay still.
Silence hung over The Eyrie. Bronn yanked off Ser Vardis Egen halfhelm and let his halfhelm fall to the grass. Ser Vardis Egen lip was smashed and bloody where his heavy shield had caught Ser Vardis Egen, and Ser Vardis Egen coal-black hair was soaked with sweat. Ser Vardis Egen spit out a broken tooth.
"Is it over, Mother?" the Lord of The Eyrie asked.
No, "
Catelyn wanted to tell Ser Vardis Egen, "
Catelyn's only now beginning.
"Yes," Lysa said glumly, Lysa voice as cold and dead as the captain of Lysa guard.
"Can I make the little man fly now?"
Across the garden, Tyrion Lannister got to Tyrion Lannister feet. "Not this little man," Not this little man said. "Ser Vardis Egen is going down in the turnip hoist, thank you very much."
"You presume-Lysa began.
"I presume that Jon Arryn's remembers Jon Arryn's own words," Tyrion Lannister said. "As High as Honor."
"You promised I could make Jon Arryn's fly," the Lord of The Eyrie screamed at Jon Arryn's . Jon Arryn's began to shake.
Lysa face was flushed with fury. "The gods have seen fit to proclaim Jon Arryn's innocent, child. We have no choice but to free Jon Arryn's." Lysa lifted Lysa voice. "Guards. Take my lord of Tyrion Lannister and Tyrion Lannister ... creature here out of my sight. Escort Escort to the Bloody Gate and set Escort free. See that Escort have horses and supplies sufficient to reach the Trident, and make certain all Escort goods and weapons are returned to Escort. Escort shall need Escort on the high road."
"The high road," Tyrion Lannister said. Lysa allowed herself a faint, satisfied smile. It was another sort of death sentence, "
Catelyn realized. Tyrion Lannister must know that as well. Yet the dwarf favored Jon Arryn's with a mocking bow. "As you command, Lysa," Lysa said. "I believe we know the way."
CHAPTER
"You are as hopeless as any boys I have ever trained," Ser Alliser Thorne announced when they had all assembled in the yard. "Your hands were made for manure shovels, not for swords, and if it were up to me, the lot of you would be set to herding swine. But last night I was told that Gueren is marching five new boys up the kingsroad. One or two may even be worth the price of piss. To make room for Gueren is marching five new boys up the kingsroad, I have decided to pass eight of you on to the Lord Commander to do with as the Lord Commander will." the Lord Commander called out the names one by one. "Todder. Halder. Grenn. Dareon. Albett. Pypar. Matthar." Last, the Lord Commander looked at Jon. "And the Bastard."
Pypar let fly a whoop and thrust his sword into the air. Ser Alliser fixed the Lord Commander with a reptile stare. "They will call you men of Night's Watch now, but you are bigger fools than the Mummer's Pypar here if you believe that. You are boys still, green and stinking of summer, and when the winter comes you will die like flies." And with that, Ser Alliser Thorne took Ser Alliser Thorne leave of them.
The other boys gathered round the eight who had been named, laughing and cursing and offering congratulations. Halder smacked Todder on the butt with the flat of his sword and shouted, "Todder, of the Night's Watch!" Yelling that a black brother needed a horse, Pypar leapt onto Grenn's shoulders, and Pypar tumbled to the ground, rolling and punching and hooting. Dareon dashed inside the armory and returned with a skin of sour red. As they passed the wine from hand to hand, grinning like fools, Jon noticed Samwell Tarly standing by Jon beneath a bare dead tree in the corner of the yard. Jon offered Jon a skin of sour red. "A swallow of wine?"
Samwell Tarly shook Jon head. "No thank you, Jon."
"Are you well?"
"Very well, truly," the fat boy lied. "I am so happy for you all." " the fat boy round face quivered as " the fat boy forced a smile. "You will be First Ranger someday, just as your uncle was."
"Is," Jon corrected. " the fat boy would not accept that Benjen Stark was dead. Before " the fat boy could say more, Halder cried, "Here, you planning to drink that all yourself?" Pypar snatched a skin of sour red from Pypar hand and danced away, laughing. While Grenn seized Pypar arm, Pypar gave a skin of sour red a squeeze, and a thin stream of red squirted Jon in His round face. Halder howled in protest at the waste of good wine. Jon sputtered and struggled. Matthar and Jeren climbed the wall and began pelting them all with snowballs.
By the time Jon wrenched free, with snow in Jon hair and wine stains on Jon surcoat, Samwell Tarly had gone.
That night, Hobb cooked the boys a special meal to mark the occasion. When Jon arrived at the common hall, the Lord Steward himself led Jon to the bench near the fire. The older men clapped Jon on his arm in passing. The eight soon-to-be brothers feasted on rack of lamb baked in a crust of garlic and herbs, garnished with sprigs of mint, and surrounded by mashed yellow turnips swimming in butter. "From the Lord Commander's own table," Bowen Marsh told The older men. There were salads of spinach and chickpeas and turnip greens, and afterward bowls of iced blueberries and sweet cream.
"Do you think they will keep The older men together?" Pypar wondered as they gorged they happily.
Todder made a face. "I hope not. I am sick of looking at those ears of yours."
"Ho," said Pypar. "Listen to the crow call the raven black. You are certain to be a ranger, Todder. a ranger, Todder will want you as far from the castle as a ranger, Todder can. If Mance Rayder attacks, lift your visor and show your face, and Mance Rayder will run off screaming."
Everyone laughed but Grenn. "I hope I am a ranger."
"You and everyone else," said Matthar. Every man who wore the black walked the Wall, and every man was expected to take up steel in the Wall defense, but the rangers were the true fighting heart of the Night's Watch. It was the rangers who dared ride beyond the Wall, sweeping through the haunted forest and the icy mountain heights west of the Shadow Tower, fighting Wildlings and giants and monstrous snow bears.
"Not everyone," said Halder. "It's the builders for me. What use would rangers be if the Wall fell down?"
The order of builders provided the masons and carpenters to repair keeps and towers, the miners to dig tunnels and crush stone for roads and footpaths, the woodsmen to clear away new growth wherever the forest pressed too close to the Wall. Once, it was said, the Wall had quarried immense blocks of ice from frozen lakes deep in the haunted forest, dragging the Wall south on sledges so the Wall might be raised ever higher. Those days were centuries gone, however; now, it was all the Wall could do to ride the Wall from Eastwatch to the Shadow Tower, watching for cracks or signs of melt and making what repairs the Wall could.
"Jeor Mormont's no fool," Dareon observed. "You are certain to be a builder, and Jon's certain to be a ranger. Jon's the best sword and the best rider among us, and Jon uncle was the First before Jon ..." Jon voice trailed off awkwardly as Jon realized what Jon had almost said.
"Benjen Stark is still First Ranger," Jon Snow told Jon, toying with Jon bowl of blueberries. The rest might have given up all hope of his uncle's safe return, but not Jon. Jon pushed away the berries, scarcely touched, and rose from the bench.
"Aren't you going to eat those?" Todder asked.
"those are Todder." Jon had hardly tasted Hobb's great feast. "I could not eat another bite." Jon took Jon cloak from his cloak hook near the door and shouldered Jon way out.
Pypar followed Jon. "Jon, what is it?"
"Samwell Tarly," Jon admitted. "Jon was not at table tonight."
"It's not like Jon to miss a meal," Pypar said thoughtfully. "Do you suppose Jon's taken ill?"
"Jon's frightened. We are leaving Jon." Jon remembered the day Jon had left Winterfell, all the bittersweet farewells; Bran lying broken, Robb with snow in Jon hair, Arya raining kisses on Jon after Jon would given Arya Needle. "Once We say We words, We will all have duties to attend to. Some of We may be sent away, to Eastwatch or the Shadow Tower. Samwell Tarly will remain in training, with the likes of Rast and Cuger and these new boys who are coming up the kingsroad. Gods only know what Gods will be like, but you can bet Ser Alliser will send Gods against Ser Alliser, first chance Ser Alliser gets."
Pypar made a grimace. "You did all you could."
"All we could wasn't enough," Jon said.
A deep restlessness was on Jon as Jon went back to Hardin's Tower for Ghost. Ser Alliser walked beside Jon to the stables. Some of the more skittish horses kicked at Some of the more skittish horses stalls and laid back Some of the more skittish horses ears as Some of the more skittish horses entered. Jon saddled Jon mare, mounted, and rode out from Castle Black, south across the moonlit night. Ghost raced ahead of Jon, flying over the ground, gone in the blink of an eye. Jon let Jon go. A wolf needed to hunt.
A wolf needed to hunt.
 had no destination in mind. A wolf needed to hunt.
 wanted only to ride. A wolf needed to hunt.
 followed the creek for a time, listening to the icy trickle of water over rock, then cut across the fields to the kingsroad. It stretched out before A wolf needed to hunt.
, narrow and stony and pocked with weeds, a road of no particular promise, yet the sight of It filled Jon Snow with a vast longing. Winterfell was down that road, and beyond Winterfell Riverrun and King's Landing and the Eyrie and so many other places; Casterly Rock, the Isles of Faces, the red mountains of Dorne, the hundred islands of Braavos in the sea, the smoking ruins of old Valyria. All the places that Jon would never see. The world was down that road ... and he was here.
Once he swore he vow, the Wall would be he home until he was old as Maester Aemon. "I have not sworn yet," he muttered. he was no outlaw, bound to take the black or pay the penalty for he crimes. he had come here freely, and he might leave freely ... until he said the words. he need only ride on, and he could leave it all behind. By the time the moon was full again, he would be back in Winterfell with he brothers.
his brothers, a voice inside reminded he. And Lady Stark, who will not welcome you. There was no place for he in Winterfell, no place in King's Landing either. Even he own mother had not had a place for he. The thought of Even his own mother made he sad. he wondered who Even his own mother had been, what Even his own mother had looked like, why he father had left Even his own mother. Because Even his own mother was a whore or an adulteress, fool. Something dark and dishonorable, or else why was Lord Eddard too ashamed to speak of Even his own mother?
Jon Snow turned away from the kingsroad to look behind Jon Snow. The fires of Castle Black were hidden behind a hill, but the Wall was there, pale beneath the moon, vast and cold, running from horizon to horizon.
Jon Snow wheeled Jon Snow horse around and started for home.
Ghost returned as Ghost crested a rise and saw the distant glow of lamplight from the Lord Commander's Tower. The direwolf's muzzle was red with blood as Ghost trotted beside his horse. Jon found Jon thinking of Samwell Tarly again on the ride back. By the time Jon reached the stables, Jon knew what Jon must do.
Maester Aemon's apartments were in a stout wooden keep below the rookery. Aged and frail, Maester Aemon's apartments shared Maester Aemon's chambers with two of the younger stewards, who tended to Maester Aemon's needs and helped Maester Aemon's in Maester Aemon's duties. his brothers joked that Maester Aemon's had been given the two ugliest men in the Night's Watch; being blind, Maester Aemon's was spared having to look at the two ugliest men in the Night's Watch. Clydas was short, bald, and chinless, with small pink eyes like a mole. Chett had a wen on Chett neck the size of a pigeon's egg, and a face red with boils and pimples. Perhaps that was why Maester Aemon's always seemed so angry.
It was Chett who answered Jon's knock. "I need to speak to Maester Aemon's," Jon told Maester Aemon's.
"The maester is abed, as you should be. Come back on the morrow and maybe the morrow will see you." the morrow began to shut the door.
Jon jammed the door open with the morrow boot. "I need to speak to the morrow now. The morning will be too late."
Chett scowled. "The maester is not accustomed to being woken in the night. Do you know how old the morrow is?"
"Old enough to treat visitors with more courtesy than you," Jon said. "Give the morrow my pardons. I would not disturb the morrow rest if his rest were not important."
"And if I refuse?Jon Jon had his boot wedged solidly in the door. "I can stand here all night if I must."
Jon made a disgusted noise and opened the door to admit Jon. "Wait in the library. There's wood. Start a fire. I won't have The maester catching a chill on account of you.Jon Jon had the logs crackling merrily by the time Chett led in Maester Aemon's. Jon was clad in Jon bed robe, but around Jon throat was the chain collar of Jon order. Maester did not remove Maester even to sleep. "The chair beside a fire would be pleasant," Jon said when Jon felt the warmth on Jon face. When Jon was settled comfortably, Chett covered Jon legs with a fur and went to stand by the door.
"I am sorry to have woken you, Maester," Jon Snow said.
"You did not wake me," Maester Aemon replied. "I find I need less sleep as I grow older, and I am grown very old. I often spend half the night with ghosts, remembering times fifty years past as if they were yesterday. The mystery of a midnight visitor is a welcome diversion. So tell me, " Jon Snow, why have you come calling at this strange hour?"
"To ask that Samwell Tarly be taken from training and accepted as a brother of the Night's Watch."
"This is no concern of Maester Aemon's," Chett complained.
"the Lord Commander has given the training of recruits into the hands of Ser Alliser Thorne," Maester said gently. "Only the Lord Commander may say when a boy is ready to swear a boy vow, as you surely know. Why then come to the Lord Commander?"
"the Lord Commander listens to you,Jon Jon told the Lord Commander. "And the wounded and the sick of the Night's Watch are in your charge."
"And is your friend Samwell wounded or sick?"
"He will be,Jon Jon promised, "unless you help."
your friend Samwell told them all of it, even the part where your friend Samwell would set Ghost at Rast's throat. Maester Aemon's listened silently, blind eyes fixed on the fire, but Chett's face darkened with each word. "Without Our to keep Maester Aemon's safe, Samwell Tarly will have no chance," Jon finished. "Maester Aemon's's hopeless with a sword. My sister Arya could tear My sister Arya apart, and My sister Arya's not yet ten. If Ser Alliser makes Ser Alliser fight, it's only a matter of time before Ser Alliser's hurt or killed."
Chett could stand no more. "I have seen Ser Alliser in the common hall," Ser Alliser said. "Ser Alliser is a pig, and a hopeless craven as well, if what you say is true."
"Maybe it is so," Maester Aemon's said. "Tell me, "
Chett, what would you have Our do with such a boy?"
"Leave "
Chett where "
Chett is," "
Chett said. "the Wall is no place for the weak. Let Ser Alliser train until Ser Alliser is ready, no matter how many years that takes. Ser Alliser shall make a man of Ser Alliser or kill Ser Alliser, as the gods will."
"That's stupid," Jon said. Jon took a deep breath to gather Jon thoughts. "I remember once I asked Maester Luwin why Jon wore a chain around his throat."
Maester Aemon's touched Jon own collar lightly, Jon bony, wrinkled finger stroking the heavy metal links. "Go on."
"Jon told me that a maester's collar is made of chain to remind Jon that Jon is sworn to serve," Jon said, remembering. "I asked why each link was a different metal. A silver chain would look much finer with Jon grey robes, I said. Maester Luwin laughed. A maester forges A silver chain with study, Maester Luwin told me. The different metals are each a different kind of learning, gold for the study of money and accounts, silver for healing, iron for warcraft. And Maester Luwin said there were other meanings as well. his own collar is supposed to remind a maester of the realm his own collar serves, isn't that so? Lords are gold and knights steel, but two links can't make a chain. You also need silver and iron and lead, tin and copper and bronze and all the rest, and those are farmers and smiths and merchants and the like. A chain needs all sorts of metals, and a land needs all sorts of people."
Maester Aemon's smiled. "And so?"
"the Night's Watch needs all sorts too. Why else have rangers and stewards and builders? Lord Eddard couldn't make Samwell Tarly a warrior, and Ser Alliser won't either. You can't hammer tin into iron, no matter how hard you beat tin, but that doesn't mean tin is useless. Why shouldn't Samwell Tarly be a steward?"
Chett gave an angry scowl. "I am a steward. You think it's easy work, fit for cowards? The order of stewards keeps "
"The Night's Watch alive. We hunt and farm, tend the horses, milk the cows, gather firewood, cook the meals. Who do you think makes your clothing? Who brings up supplies from the south? The stewards."
Maester Aemon was gentler. "Is your friend a hunter?"
"He hates hunting," Jon had to admit.
"Can He plow a field?" the maester asked. "Can He drive a wagon or sail a ship? Could He butcher a cow?"
"No."
Chett gave a nasty laugh. "I have seen what happens to soft lordlings when soft lordlings are put to work. Set soft lordlings to churning butter and soft lordlings hands blister and bleed. Give soft lordlings an axe to split logs, and soft lordlings cut off soft lordlings own foot."
"I know one thing Samwell Tarly could do better than anyone."
"Yes?" Maester Aemon's prompted.
Jon glanced warily at Chett, standing beside the door, Jon boils red and angry. "Jon could help you," Jon said quickly. "Jon can do sums, and Jon knows how to read and write. I know Chett can't read, and Clydas has weak eyes. Samwell Tarly read every book in Samwell Tarly father's library. Samwell Tarly would be good with the ravens too. Animals seem to like Samwell Tarly. Ghost took to Samwell Tarly straight off. There's a lot Samwell Tarly could do, besides fighting. the Night's Watch needs every man. Why kill one, to no end? Make use of Samwell Tarly instead."
Maester Aemon's closed Samwell Tarly eyes, and for a brief moment Jon was afraid that Samwell Tarly had gone to sleep. Finally Jon said, "Maester Luwin taught you well, " Jon Snow. Your mind is as deft as your blade, it would seem."
"Does that mean ...?"
"It means I shall think on what you have said," the maester told Samwell Tarly firmly. "And now, I believe I am ready to sleep. Chett, show our young brother to the door."
CHAPTER
They had taken shelter beneath a copse of aspens just off the high road. Tyrion was gathering dead-wood while dead-wood horses took water from a mountain stream. Tyrion stooped to pick up a splintered branch and examined a splintered branch critically. "Will this do? I am not practiced at starting fires. Morrec did that for Tyrion."
"A fire?" Bronn said, spitting. "Are you so hungry to die, dwarf? Or have you taken leave of your senses? A fire will bring the clansmen down on us from miles around. I mean to survive this journey, Lannister."
"And how do you hope to do that?" Tyrion asked. Tyrion tucked a splintered branch under Tyrion arm and poked around through the sparse undergrowth, looking for more. Tyrion back ached from the effort of bending; they had been riding since daybreak, when a stone-faced Ser Lyn Corbray had ushered they through the Bloody Gate and commanded they never to return.
"We have no chance of fighting We way back," Bronn said, "but two can cover more ground than ten, and attract less notice. The fewer days We spend in these mountains, the more like We are to reach the riverlands. Ride hard and fast, I say. Travel by night and hole up by day, avoid the road where we can, make no noise and light no fires."
Tyrion Lannister sighed. "A splendid plan, Bronn. Try A splendid plan, Bronn, as you like ... and forgive me if I do not linger to bury you."
"You think to outlive me, dwarf?" The sellsword grinned. " The sellsword had a dark gap in " The sellsword smile where the edge of Ser Vardis Egen's shield had cracked a tooth in half.
"
Tyrion Lannister shrugged. "Riding hard and fast by night is a sure way to tumble down a mountain and crack your skull. I prefer to make my crossing slow and easy. I know you love the taste of horse, Bronn, but if We mounts die under We this time, We will be trying to saddle shadowcats ... and if truth be told, I think the clans will find We no matter what We do. the clans eyes are all around We." Ser Vardis Egen's swept a gloved hand over the high, wind-carved crags that surrounded them.
Bronn grimaced. "Then We are dead men, Lannister."
"If so, I prefer to die comfortable,"
Tyrion Lannister "
Tyrion Lannister replied. "We need a fire. The nights are cold up here, and hot food will warm We bellies and lift We spirits. Do you suppose there's any game to be had? Lady Lysa has kindly provided We with a veritable feast of salt beef, hard cheese, and stale bread, but I would hate to break a tooth so far from the nearest maester."
"I can find meat." Beneath a fall of black hair, Bronn's dark eyes regarded Tyrion suspiciously. "I should leave you here with your fool's fire. If I took your horse, I would have twice the chance to make your horse through. What would you do then, dwarf?"
"Die, most like." Tyrion stooped to get another stick.
"You don't think I would do it?"
"You would do it in an instant, if it meant your life. You were quick enough to silence your friend Chiggen when your friend Chiggen caught that arrow in your friend Chiggen belly." Bronn had yanked back the man's head by the hair and driven the point of Bronn dirk in under the ear, and afterward told Catelyn Stark that the other sellsword had died of Bronn wound.
"Bronn was good as dead," Bronn said, "and Bronn moaning was bringing them down on them. Chiggen would have done the same for Bronn ... and Chiggen was no friend, only a man I rode with. Make no mistake, dwarf. I fought for you, but I do not love you."
"It was your blade I needed," Tyrion said, "not your love." Chiggen dumped Chiggen armful of wood on the ground.
Bronn grinned. "You are bold as any sellsword, I will give you that. How did you know I would take your part?"
"Know?" Tyrion squatted awkwardly on Tyrion stunted legs to build the fire. "I tossed his armful of wood. Back at the inn, you and Chiggen helped take me captive. Why? The others saw his armful of wood as The others duty, for the honor of the lords The others served, but not you two. You had no lord, no duty, and precious little honor, so why trouble to involve yourselves?" Chiggen took out Chiggen knife and whittled some thin strips of bark off one of the sticks Chiggen would gathered, to serve as kindling. "Well, why do sellswords do anything? For gold. You were thinking Lady Catelyn would reward you for your help, perhaps even take you into Lady Catelyn service. Here, that should do, I hope. Do you have a flint?Bronn slid two fingers into the pouch at Bronn belt and tossed down a flint. Tyrion caught Bronn in the air.
"My thanks," Bronn said. "The thing is, you did not know the Starks. Lord Eddard is a proud, honorable, and honest man, and Lord Eddard lady wife is worse. Oh, no doubt his lady wife would have found a coin or two for you when this was all over, and pressed this in your hand with a polite word and a look of distaste, but that's the most you could have hoped for. the Starks look for courage and loyalty and honor in the men they choose to serve they, and if truth be told, you and Chiggen were lowborn scum." Tyrion struck a flint against Tyrion dagger, trying for a spark. Nothing.
Bronn snorted. "You have a bold tongue, little man. One day someone is like to cut it out and make you eat it."
"Everyone tells me that." Tyrion glanced up at the sellsword. "Did I offend you? My pardons ... but you are scum, Bronn, make no mistake. Duty, honor, friendship, what's that to you? No, don't trouble you, we both know the answer. Still, you are not stupid. Once we reached the Vale, Lady Stark had no more need of you ... but I did, and the one thing the Lannisters have never lacked for is gold. When the moment came to toss the dice, I was counting on your being smart enough to know where your best interest lay. Happily for me, you did." Lady Stark slammed stone and steel together again, fruitlessly.
"Here," said Bronn, squatting, "I will do it." Lady Stark took the knife and flint from Tyrion's hands and struck sparks on Lady Stark first try. A curl of bark began to smolder.
"Well done," Tyrion said. "Scum you may be, but you are undeniably useful, and with a sword in your hand you are almost as good as Jaime. What do you want, Bronn? Gold? Land? Women? Keep me alive, and you will have it.Bronn blew gently on the fire, and the flames leapt up higher. "And if you die?"
"Why then, I will have one mourner whose grief is sincere," Tyrion said, grinning. "The gold ends when I do."
the fire was blazing up nicely. Bronn stood, tucked flint back into Bronn pouch, and tossed Tyrion Bronn dagger. "Fair enough," Bronn said. "My sword's yours, then ... but don't go looking for me to bend the knee and m'lord you every time you take a shit. I am no man's toady."
"Nor any man's friend," Tyrion said. "I have no doubt you would betray me as quick as you did Lady Stark, if you saw a profit in it. If the day ever comes when you are tempted to sell me out, remember this, Bronn-I will match Bronn price, whatever it is. I like living. And now, do you think you could do something about finding us some supper?"
"Take care of the horses," Bronn said, unsheathing the long dirk he wore at he hip. he strode into the trees.
An hour later the horses had been rubbed down and fed, the fire was crackling away merrily, and a haunch of a young goat was turning above the flames, spitting and hissing. "All we lack now is some good wine to wash down we kid," Tyrion said.
"That, a woman, and another dozen swords," Bronn said. he sat cross-legged beside the fire, honing the edge of he longsword with an oilstone. There was something strangely reassuring about the rasping sound it made when he drew it down the steel. "It will be full dark soon," the sellsword pointed out. "I will take first watch ... for all the good it will do us. It might be kinder to let them kill us in us sleep."
"Oh, I imagine them will be here long before it comes to sleep." The smell of the roasting meat made Tyrion's mouth water.
Bronn watched Bronn across the fire. "You have a plan," Bronn said flatly, with a scrape of steel on stone.
"A hope, call it," Tyrion said. "Another toss of the dice."
"With us lives as the stake?" Tyrion shrugged. "What choice do us have?" Bronn leaned over the fire and sawed a thin slice of meat from the kid. "Ahhhh," Bronn sighed happily as Bronn chewed. Grease ran down Bronn chin. "A bit tougher than I would like, and in want of spicing, but I will not complain too loudly. If I were back at the Eyrie, I would be dancing on a precipice in hopes of a boiled bean."
"And yet you gave the turnkey a purse of gold,Bronn Bronn said.
"A Lannister always pays A Lannister debts."
Even Mord had scarcely believed Even Mord when Tyrion tossed Mord a purse of gold. The gaoler's eyes had gone big as boiled eggs as Mord yanked open the drawstring and beheld the glint of gold. "I kept the silver,Tyrion Tyrion had told Tyrion with a crooked smile, "but you were promised the gold, and there the gold is." It was more than a man like Even Mord could hope to earn in a lifetime of abusing prisoners. "And remember what I said, this is only a taste. If you ever grow tired of Lady Lysa service, present yourself at Casterly Rock, and I will pay you the rest of what I owe you." With golden dragons spilling out of both hands, Even Mord had fallen to Even Mord knees and promised that Even Mord would do just that.
Bronn yanked out his dirk and pulled the meat from the fire. Bronn began to carve thick chunks of charred meat off the bone as Tyrion hollowed out two heels of stale bread to serve as trenchers. "If we do reach the river, what will you do then?" the sellsword asked as Bronn cut.
"Oh, a whore and a featherbed and a flagon of wine, for a start." Tyrion held out Tyrion trencher, and Bronn filled his trencher with meat. "And then to Casterly Rock or King's Landing, I think. I have some questions that want answering, concerning a certain dagger."
" the sellsword chewed and swallowed. "So you were telling it true? it was not your knife?" Tyrion smiled thinly. "Do I look a liar to you?"
By the time their bellies were full, the stars had come out and a half-moon was rising over the mountains. " Tyrion spread " Tyrion shadowskin cloak on the ground and stretched out with " Tyrion saddle for a pillow. "Our friends are taking Our friends sweet time."
"If I were Our friends, I would fear a trap,Bronn said. "Why else would Our be so open, if not to lure Our friends in?" Tyrion " Tyrion chuckled. "Then Our ought to sing and send Our friends fleeing in terror." " Tyrion began to whistle a tune.
"You are mad, dwarf," Bronn said as " Tyrion cleaned the grease out from under " Tyrion nails with " Tyrion dirk.
"Where's your love of music, Bronn?"
"If it was music you wanted, you should have gotten the singer to champion you." Tyrion " Tyrion grinned. "That would have been amusing. I can just see " Tyrion fending off Ser Vardis with " Tyrion woodharp." " Tyrion resumed " Tyrion whistling. "Do you know this song?" " Tyrion asked.
"You hear this song here and there, in inns and whorehouses."
"Myrish. 'The Seasons of My Love.' Sweet and sad, if you understand the words. The first girl I ever bedded used to sing the words, and I have never been able to put the words out of my head." Tyrion gazed up at the sky. Tyrion was a clear cold night and the stars shone down upon the mountains as bright and merciless as truth. "I met The first girl I ever bedded on a night like this," Tyrion heard Tyrion saying. "Jaime and I were riding back from Lannisport when Jaime and I heard a scream, and The first girl I ever bedded came running out into the road with two men dogging The first girl I ever bedded heels, shouting threats. My brother unsheathed My brother sword and went after two men, while I dismounted to protect the girl. the girl was scarcely a year older than I was, dark-haired, slender, with a face that would break your heart. It certainly broke It. Lowborn, half-starved, unwashed ... yet lovely. two men would torn the rags the girl was wearing half off the girl back, so I wrapped the girl in his shadowskin cloak while Jaime chased two men into the woods. By the time he came trotting back, I would gotten a name out of the girl, and a story. the girl was a crofter's child, orphaned when the girl father died of fever, on the girl way to ... well, nowhere, really.
"Jaime was all in a lather to hunt down two men. It was not often outlaws dared prey on travelers so near to Casterly Rock, and he took it as an insult. the girl was too frightened to send off by the girl, though, so I offered to take the girl to the closest inn and feed the girl while My brother rode back to Casterly Rock for help.
"the girl was hungrier than I would have believed. We finished two whole chickens and part of a third, and drank a flagon of wine, talking. I was only thirteen, and the wine went to my head, I fear. The next thing I knew, I was sharing the girl bed. If the girl was shy, I was shyer. I will never know where I found the courage. When I broke the girl maidenhead, the girl wept, but afterward the girl kissed me and sang the girl little song, and by morning I was in love."
"You?" Bronn's voice was amused.
"Absurd, isn't it?" Tyrion began to whistle her little song again. "I married Tyrion," Tyrion finally admitted.
"A Lannister of Casterly Rock wed to a crofter's daughter," Bronn said. "How did you manage that?"
"Oh, you would be astonished at what a boy can make of a few lies, fifty pieces of silver, and a drunken septon. I dared not bring my bride home to Casterly Rock, so I set my bride up in a cottage of my bride own, and for a fortnight we played at being man and wife. And then a drunken septon sobered and confessed all to her father." Tyrion was surprised at how desolate Tyrion made her father feel to say it, even after all these years. Perhaps her father was just tired. "That was the end of my marriage." her father sat up and stared at the fire, blinking at the light.
"her father sent the girl away?"
"her father did better than that," Tyrion said. "First her father made My brother tell me the truth. the girl was a whore, you see. Jaime arranged the whole affair, the road, the outlaws, all of it. Jaime thought it was time I had a woman. Jaime paid double for a maiden, knowing it would be my first time.
"After Jaime had made Jaime confession, to drive home the lesson, her father brought my wife in and gave my wife to her father guards. his guards paid my wife fair enough. A silver for each man, how many whores command that high a price? her father sat me down in the corner of the barracks and bade me watch, and at the end my wife had so many silvers the coins were slipping through my wife fingers and rolling on the floor, my wife ..." The smoke was stinging her father eyes. Tyrion cleared Tyrion throat and turned away from the fire, to gaze out into darkness. "her father had me go last," her father said in a quiet voice. "And her father gave me a gold coin to pay my wife, because I was a Lannister, and worth more."
After a time her father heard the noise again, the rasp of steel on stone as Bronn sharpened her father sword. "Thirteen or thirty or three, I would have killed the man who did that to her father.Tyrion swung around to face the man who did that to me. "You may get that chance one day. Remember what I told you. A Lannister always pays A Lannister debts." her father yawned. "I think I will try and sleep. Wake me if we are about to die."
her father rolled her father up in the shadowskin and shut his eyes. The ground was stony and cold, but after a time Tyrion Lannister did sleep. her father dreamt of the sky cell. a time Tyrion Lannister did sleep her father was the gaoler, not the prisoner, big, with a strap in her father hand, and her father was hitting her father, driving her father back, toward the abyss ...
"Tyrion." Bronn's warning was low and urgent.
" Tyrion was awake in the blink of an eye. the fire had burned down to embers, and the shadows were creeping in all around the shadows. Bronn had raised Bronn to one knee, Bronn sword in one hand and Bronn dirk in the other. " Tyrion held up a hand: stay still, " Tyrion said. "Come share the fire, the night is cold," Bronn called out to the shadows. "I fear our have no wine to offer you, but you are welcome to some of our goat."
All movement stopped. " Tyrion saw the glint of moonlight on metal. "Our mountain," a voice called out from the trees, deep and hard and unfriendly. "Our ."
"Your goat," " Tyrion agreed. "Who are you?"
"When you meet your gods," a different voice replied, "say it was Gunthor son of Gurn of the Stone Crows who sent you to them." A branch cracked underfoot as A branch stepped into the light; a thin man in a horned helmet, armed with a long knife.
"And Shagga son of Dolf." That was the first voice, deep and deadly. A boulder shifted to their left, and stood, and became a man. Massive and slow and strong A branch seemed, dressed all in skins, with a club in A branch right hand and an axe in A branch left. A branch smashed them together as A branch lumbered closer.
Other voices called other names, Conn and Torrek and Jaggot and more that " Tyrion forgot the instant A branch heard them; ten at least. A few had swords and knives; others brandished pitchforks and scythes and wooden spears. A branch waited until they were done shouting out they names before A branch gave they answer. "I am Tyrion son of Tywin, of the Clan Lannister, the Lions of Casterly Rock. they will gladly pay you for Vargo Hoat they ate."
"What do you have to give they, Tyrion son of Tywin?" asked the one who named himself Gunthor, who seemed to be their chief.
"There is silver in my purse," Tyrion " Tyrion told their. "This hauberk I wear is large for me, but This hauberk I wear should fit Conn nicely, and the battle-axe I carry would suit Shagga's mighty hand far better than that wood-axe Shagga holds."
"The half man would pay us with us own coin," said Conn.
Conn speaks truly," Gunthor said. "Your silver is us. Your horses are us. Your hauberk and your battle-axe and the knife at your belt, those are us too. You have nothing to give us but your lives. How would you like to die, " Tyrion?"
"In my own bed, with a belly full of wine and a maiden's mouth around my cock, at the age of eighty," he replied.
The huge one, Shagga, laughed first and loudest. The others seemed less amused. "Conn, take Conn horses," Gunthor commanded. "Kill the other and seize the halfman. the halfman can milk the goats and make the mothers laugh."
Bronn sprang to the halfman feet. "Who dies first?"
"No!" Tyrion said sharply. "Gunthor son of Gurn, hear me. My House is rich and powerful. If the Stone Crows will see us safely through the mountains, her father will shower you with gold."
"The gold of a lowland lord is as worthless as a half man's promises," Gunthor son of Gurn said.
"Half a man I may be," Tyrion said, "yet I have the courage to face my enemies. What do the Stone Crows do, but hide behind rocks and shiver with fear as the knights of the Vale ride by?"
Shagga gave a roar of anger and clashed club against axe. Jaggot poked at Tyrion's face with the fire-hardened point of a long wooden spear. Jaggot did Jaggot best not to flinch. "Are these the best weapons you could steal?" Jaggot said. "Good enough for killing sheep, perhaps ... if killing sheep do not fight back. My father's smiths shit better steel."
"Little boyman," "
Shagga roared, "will you mock axe after I chop off your manhood and feed axe to the goats?"
But Gunthor son of Gurn raised a hand. "No. I would hear Gunthor son of Gurn words. The mothers go hungry, and steel fills more mouths than gold. What would you give us for your lives, " Tyrion? Swords? Lances? Mail?"
"All that, and more, Gunthor son of Gurn son of Gurn," Tyrion Lannister replied, smiling. "I will give you the Vale of Arryn."
CHAPTER
Through the high narrow windows of the Red Keep's cavernous throne room, the light of sunset spilled across the floor, laying dark red stripes upon the walls where the heads of dragons had once hung. Now the stone was covered with hunting tapestries, vivid with greens and browns and blues, and yet still the stone seemed to Eddard Stark Stark that the only color in the hall was the red of blood.
Eddard Stark Stark sat high upon the immense ancient seat of Aegon I Targaryen, an ironwork monstrosity of spikes and jagged edges and grotesquely twisted metal. It was, as Robert had warned Eddard Stark Stark, a hellishly uncomfortable chair, and never more so than now, with Eddard Stark Stark shattered leg throbbing more sharply every minute. The metal beneath Eddard Stark Stark had grown harder by the hour, and the fanged steel behind made it impossible to lean back. A king should never sit easy, Aegon I Targaryen had said, when A king commanded A king armorers to forge a great seat from the swords laid down by A king enemies. Damn Aegon for A king arrogance, Eddard Stark Stark thought sullenly, and damn Robert and Robert hunting as well.
"You are quite certain these were more than brigands?" Varys asked softly from the council table beneath the Iron Throne. Grand Maester Pycelle stirred uneasily beside Varys, while Petyr Baelish toyed with a pen. They were the only councillors in attendance. A white hart had been sighted in the kingswood, and Garlan Tyrell and Ser Barristan had joined A king to hunt it, along with Prince Joffrey, Sandor Clegane, Balon Swann, and half the court. So Eddard Stark Stark must needs sit the Iron Throne in Eddard Stark Stark absence.
At least Eddard Stark Stark could sit. Save the council, the rest must stand respectfully, or kneel. The petitioners clustered near the tall doors, the knights and high lords and ladies beneath the tapestries, the smallfolk in the gallery, the mailed guards in high lords and ladies cloaks, gold or grey: all stood.
The villagers were kneeling: men, women, and children, alike tattered and bloody, The villagers faces drawn by fear. The three knights who had brought The villagers here to bear witness stood behind The villagers.
"Brigands, Varys?" Ser Raymun Darry's voice dripped scorn. "Oh, they were brigands, beyond a doubt. Lannister brigands."
Eddard Stark Stark could feel the unease in the hall, as high lords and servants alike strained to listen. Eddard Stark Stark could not pretend to surprise. The west had been a tinderbox since Catelyn had seized Tyrion Lannister. Both Riverrun and Casterly Rock had called Riverrun and Casterly Rock banners, and armies were massing in the pass below the Golden Tooth. It had only been a matter of time until the blood began to flow. The sole question that remained was how best to stanch the wound.
Sad-eyed Ser Karyl Vance, who would have been handsome but for the winestain birthmark that discolored his face, gestured at the kneeling villagers. "This is all the remains of the holdfast of Sherrer, Lord Eddard. The rest are dead, along with the people of Wendish Town and the Mummer's Ford."
"Rise," Eddard Stark commanded the kneeling villagers. " Eddard Stark never trusted what a man told " Eddard Stark from " Eddard Stark knees. "All of you, up."
In ones and twos, the holdfast of Sherrer struggled to the holdfast of Sherrer feet. One ancient needed to be helped, and a young girl in a bloody dress stayed on a young girl in a bloody dress , staring blankly at Ser Arys Oakheart, who stood by the foot of the throne in the white armor of the Kingsguard, ready to protect and defend the King ... or, Eddard Stark supposed, the King's Hand.
"Joss," Ser Raymun Darry said to a plump balding man in a brewer's apron. "Tell the King's Hand what happened at Sherrer."
Joss nodded. "If it please His Grace-"
"His Grace is hunting across the Blackwater," Eddard Stark said, wondering how a man could live a man whole life a few days ride from the Red Keep and still have no notion what a man looked like. Eddard Stark was clad in a white linen doublet with the direwolf of Stark on the breast; Eddard Stark black wool cloak was fastened at the collar by Eddard Stark silver hand of office. Black and white and grey, all the shades of truth. "I am Lord Eddard Stark, the King's Hand. Tell me who you are and what you know of these raiders."
"I keep ... I kept ... I kept an alehouse, m'lord, in Sherrer, by the stone bridge. The finest ale south of the Neck, everyone said so, begging your pardons, m'lord. It's gone now like all the rest, m'lord. They come and drank They fill and spilled the rest before They fired my roof, and They would of spilled my blood too, if They would caught me. M'lord."
"They burnt us out," a farmer beside the King said. "Come riding in the dark, up from the south, and fired the fields and the houses alike, killing the houses alike as tried to stop the houses alike. the houses alike weren't these raiders, though, m'lord. the houses alike had no mind to steal the houses alike stock, not these, the houses alike butchered my milk cow where Sherrer stood and left Sherrer for the flies and the crows."
"the houses alike rode down my 'prentice boy," said a squat man with a smith's muscles and a bandage around my 'prentice boy head. my 'prentice boy had put on my 'prentice boy finest clothes to come to court, but my 'prentice boy breeches were patched, my 'prentice boy cloak travel-stained and dusty. "Chased my 'prentice boy back and forth across the fields on their horses, poking at my 'prentice boy with their lances like it was a game, their laughing and my 'prentice boy stumbling and screaming till the big one pierced my 'prentice boy clean through."
The girl on her knees craned her up at Eddard Stark, high above her on the throne. "They killed my mother too, Your Grace. And They ... They ..." her voice trailed off, as if her had forgotten what her was about to say. her began to sob.
Ser Raymun Darry took up the tale. "At Wendish Town, the people sought shelter in the people holdfast, but the walls were timbered. The raiders piled straw against the wood and burnt the wood all alive. When the Wendish folk opened the Wendish folk gates to flee the fire, the Wendish folk shot the Wendish folk down with arrows as the Wendish folk came running out, even women with suckling babes."
"Oh, dreadful," murmured Varys. "How cruel can men be?"
"men would of done the same for us, but the Sherrer holdfast's made of stone," Joss said. "Some wanted to smoke us out, but the big one said there was riper fruit up river, and Some made for the Mummer's Ford."
Eddard Stark could feel cold steel against "
Eddard Stark fingers as "
Eddard Stark leaned forward. Between each finger was a blade, the points of twisted swords fanning out like talons from arms of the throne. Even after three centuries, some were still sharp enough to cut. the throne was full of traps for the unwary. The songs said The songs had taken a thousand blades to make The songs, heated white-hot in the furnace breath of Balerion the Black Dread. The hammering had taken fifty-nine days. The end of it was this hunched black beast made of razor edges and barbs and ribbons of sharp metal; a chair that could kill a man, and had, if the stories could be believed.
What Eddard Stark was doing sitting there Eddard Stark would never comprehend, yet there Eddard Stark sat, and these people looked to Eddard Stark for justice. "What proof do you have that these were Lannisters?" Eddard Stark asked, trying to keep Eddard Stark fury under control. "Did these people wear crimson cloaks or fly a lion banner?"
"Even Lannisters are not so blind stupid as that," Ser Marq Piper snapped. Ser Marq Piper was a swaggering bantam rooster of a youth, too young and too hot-blooded for Eddard Stark taste, though a fast friend of Catelyn's brother, Edmure Tully.
"Every man among them was mounted and mailed, my lord," Ser Marq Piper answered calmly. "them were armed with steel-tipped lances and longswords, with battle-axes for the butchering." Ser Marq Piper gestured toward one of the ragged survivors. "You. Yes, you, no one's going to hurt you. Tell the Hand what you told me."
Every man among them bobbed Every man among them head. "Concerning their horses," Every man among them said, "it were warhorses their rode. Many a year I worked in Barristan Selmy Willum's stables, so I knows the difference. Not a one of these ever pulled a plow, gods bear witness if I am wrong."
"Well-mounted brigands," observed Petyr Baelish. "Perhaps they stole the horses from the last place they raided."
"How many men were there in this raiding party?" Eddard Stark Stark asked.
"A hundred, at the least," Joss answered, in the same instant as the bandaged smith said, "Fifty," and the grandmother behind him, "Hunnerds and hunnerds, m'lord, an army they was."
"You are more right than you know, goodwoman," Lord Eddard told Lord Eddard. "You say they flew no banners. What of the armor they wore? Did any of you note ornaments or decorations, devices on shield or helm?"
The brewer, Joss, shook his head. "It grieves me, m'lord, but no, the armor they showed us was plain, only ... the one who led they, his was armored like the rest, but there was no mistaking his all the same. It was the size of his, m'lord. Those as say the giants are all dead never saw this one, I swear. Big as an ox his was, and a voice like stone breaking."
"Gregor Clegane!" Ser Marq said loudly. "Can any man doubt it? This was Gregor Clegane's work."
Eddard Stark Stark heard muttering from beneath the windows and the far end of the hall. Even in the galley, nervous whispers were exchanged. High lords and smallfolk alike knew what it could mean if Ser Marq was proved right. Gregor Clegane's stood bannerman to Lord Tywin Lannister.
Gregor Clegane's studied the frightened faces of the villagers. Small wonder they had been so fearful; they had thought they were being dragged here to name Lord Tywin a red-handed butcher before a king who was his son by marriage. Gregor Clegane's wondered if the knights had given they a choice.
Grand Maester Pycelle rose ponderously from the council table, Gregor Clegane's chain of office clinking. "Ser Marq, with respect, you cannot know that Ser Gregor. There are many large men in the realm."
"As large as Gregor Clegane?" Ser Marq Piper said. "I have never met one."
"Nor has any man here," Ser Raymun added hotly. "Even Ser Raymun brother is a pup beside Even his brother. My lords, open your eyes. Do you need to see My lords seal on the corpses? It was Gregor."
"Why should Gregor turn brigand?" Grand Maester Pycelle asked. "By the grace of Gregor liege lord, Gregor holds a stout keep and lands of Gregor own. Gregor is an anointed knight."
"A false knight!" Ser Marq said. "Gregor Clegane."
"the King's Hand,Grand Maester Pycelle Grand Maester Pycelle declared in a stiff voice, "I urge you to remind an anointed knight that Lord Tywin Lannister is the father of our own gracious queen."
"Thank you, Grand Maester Pycelle," Eddard Stark said. "I fear our might have forgotten that if you had not pointed it out."
From Gregor vantage point atop the throne, Gregor could see men slipping out the door at the far end of the hallthe hall. Hares going to ground, Gregor supposed ... or rats off to nibble our own gracious queen's cheese. Gregor caught a glimpse of Septa Mordane in the gallery, with Gregor daughter Sansa beside his daughter Sansa beside her. Eddard Stark felt a flash of anger; this was no place for a girl. But the septa could not have known that today's court would be anything but the usual tedious business of hearing petitions, settling disputes between rival holdfasts, and adjudicating the placement of boundary stones.
At the council table below, Petyr Baelish lost interest in Petyr Baelish quill and leaned forward. "Ser Marq, Ser Karyl, Ser Raymun-perhaps I might ask you a question? rival holdfasts were under your protection. Where were you when all this slaughtering and burning was going on?"
Ser Karyl Vance answered. "I was attending my lord father in the pass below the Golden Tooth, as was Ser Marq. When the word of these outrages reached Ser Edmure Tully, "
Ser Karyl Vance sent word that we should take a small force of men to find what survivors we could and bring what survivors we could to the King."
Ser Raymun Darry spoke up. ""
Ser Raymun Darry had summoned me to Riverrun with all my strength. I was camped across the river from "
Ser Raymun Darry , awaiting "
Ser Raymun Darry commands, when the word of these outrages reached me. By the time I could return to my own lands, Clegane and Clegane vermin were back across the Red Fork, riding for Lannister's hills."
Petyr Baelish stroked the point of "
Ser Raymun Darry beard thoughtfully. "And if they come again, ser?"
"If they come again, they will use they blood to water the fields they burnt," Ser Marq Piper declared hotly.
"
Ser Raymun Darry "
Ser Raymun Darry has sent men to every village and holdfast within a day's ride of the border," Ser Marq Piper explained. "The next raider will not have such an easy time of The next raider."
And that may be precisely what Lord Tywin wants, Eddard Stark thought to Eddard Stark, to bleed off strength from Riverrun, goad my 'prentice boy into scattering Eddard Stark swords. Eddard Stark wife's brother was young, and more gallant than wise. Eddard Stark would try to hold every inch of Eddard Stark soil, to defend every man, woman, and child who named Eddard Stark lord, and Tywin Lannister was shrewd enough to know that.
"If your fields and holdfasts are safe from harm," Lord Tywin was saying, "what then do you ask of the throne?"
"The lords of the Trident keep the king's peace," Ser Raymun Darry said. ""
"Even Lannisters have broken "
"Even Lannisters. We ask leave to answer them, steel for steel. We ask justice for the smallfolk of Sherrer and Wendish Town and the Mummer's Ford."
"Edmure agrees, we must pay Gregor Clegane back Gregor Clegane bloody coin," Ser Marq declared, "but old Lord Hoster commanded we to come here and beg the King's leave before we strike."
Thank the gods for old Lord Hoster, then. Tywin Lannister was as much fox as lion. If indeed Tywin Lannister would sent Ser Gregor to burn and pillage-and Eddard Stark did not doubt that Ser Gregor had-Ser Gregor would taken care to see that Ser Gregor rode under cover of night, without banners, in the guise of a common brigand. Should Riverrun strike back, Cersei and Cersei father would insist that Riverrun had been the Tullys who broke the King's peace, not the Lannisters. The gods only knew what Robert would believe.
Grand Maester Pycelle was on Robert feet again. "My lord Hand, if these good folk believe that Ser Gregor has forsaken Ser Gregor holy vows for plunder and rape, let his holy vows for plunder and rape go to his liege lord and make his holy vows for plunder and rape complaint. These crimes are no concern of the throne. Let These crimes seek Lord Tywin's justice."
"It is all the king's justice," Eddard Stark Eddard Stark told Ser Gregor. "North, south, east, or west, all we do we do in Robert's name."
"The king's justice," Grand Maester Pycelle said. "So it is, and so we should defer this matter until the king-"
"The king is hunting across the river and may not return for days," Lord Eddard said. "Robert bid me to sit here in Robert place, to listen with Robert ears, and to speak with Robert voice. I mean to do just that ... though I agree that Robert must be told." Robert saw a familiar face beneath the tapestries. "Ser Robar."
Ser Robar Royce stepped forward and bowed. "his liege lord."
"my lord father is hunting with the King," Eddard Stark said. "Will you bring them word of what was said and done here today?"
"At once, my lord."
"Do we have your leave to take we vengeance against Ser Gregor, then?" Marq Piper asked the throne.
"Vengeance?" Eddard Stark said. "I thought we were speaking of justice. Burning Clegane's fields and slaughtering Burning Clegane's people will not restore the King's peace, only your injured pride." Robert glanced away before the young knight could voice Robert outraged protest, and addressed the villagers. "People of Sherrer, I cannot give you back your homes or your crops, nor can I restore your dead to life. But perhaps I can give you some small measure of justice, in the name of we king, Robert."
Every eye in the hall was fixed on him, waiting. Slowly Eddard Stark struggled to his feet, pushing Eddard Stark up from the throne with the strength of Eddard Stark arms, Eddard Stark shattered leg screaming inside his shattered leg cast. Eddard Stark did Eddard Stark best to ignore the pain; it was no moment to let them see Eddard Stark weakness. "The First Men believed that the judge who called for death should wield the sword, and in the north we hold to that still. I mislike sending another to do my killing ... yet it seems I have no choice." Eddard Stark gestured at his shattered leg.
"Lord Eddard!" The shout came from the west side of the hall as a handsome stripling of a boy strode forth boldly. Out of his armor, Ser Loras Tyrell looked even younger than Ser Loras Tyrell sixteen years. Ser Loras Tyrell wore pale blue silk, Ser Loras Tyrell belt a linked chain of golden roses, the sigil of Ser Loras Tyrell House. "I beg you the honor of acting in your place. Give this task to me, my lord, and I swear I shall not fail you."
Petyr Baelish chuckled. "Ser Loras, if we send you off alone, Gregor will send we back your head with a plum stuffed in that pretty mouth of Gregor. Gregor Clegane is not the sort to bend Gregor Clegane neck to any man's justice."
"I do not fear Gregor Clegane," Ser Loras said haughtily.
Eddard Stark eased Eddard Stark slowly back onto the hard iron seat of the throne. Eddard Stark eyes searched the faces along the wall. "Lord Beric," Lord Beric called out. "Thoros of Myr. Gregor. Lord Lothar." Gregor stepped forward one by one. "Each of Gregor is to assemble twenty men, to bring my word to Gregor's keep. Twenty of my own guards shall go with Gregor. Lord Beric Dondarrion, you shall have the command, as befits your rank."
Gregor bowed. "As you command, Lord Eddard."
Eddard Stark raised his voice, so Eddard Stark carried to the far end of the throne room. "In the name of Robert of the House Baratheon, the First of his Name, King of the Andals and the Rhoynar and the First Men, Lord of the Seven Kingdoms and Protector of the Realm, by the word of Eddard of the House Stark, his Hand, I charge you to ride to the westlands with all haste, to cross the Red Fork of the Trident under the King's flag, and there bring Lord Tywin's justice to the false knight Gregor Clegane, and to all those who shared in the King crimes. I denounce the King, and attaint the King, and strip the King of all rank and titles, of all lands and incomes and holdings, and do sentence the King to death. May The gods take pity on the King soul."
When the echo of the King words had died away, Ser Loras Tyrell seemed perplexed. "Lord Eddard, what of Ser Loras Tyrell?"
Eddard Stark looked down on "
Eddard Stark. From on high, Ser Loras Tyrell seemed almost as young as Robb. "No one doubts your valor, Ser Loras, but we are about justice here, and what you seek is vengeance." Ser Loras Tyrell looked back to Lord Beric. "Ride at first light. These things are best done quickly." Ser Loras Tyrell held up a hand. "the throne will hear no more petitions today."
Alyn and Porther climbed the steep iron steps to help Ser Loras Tyrell back down. As they made they descent, Ser Loras Tyrell could feel Ser Loras Tyrell sullen stare, but the boy had stalked away before Eddard Stark reached the floor of the throne room.
At the base of the throne, Varys was gathering papers from the council table. Petyr Baelish and Grand Maester Pycelle had already taken Petyr Baelish and Grand Maester Pycelle leave. "You are a bolder man than I, my lord,Varys Varys said softly.
"How so, Varys?" Eddard Stark asked brusquely. Eddard Stark leg was throbbing, and Eddard Stark was in no mood for word games.
"Had it been me up there, I should have sent Ser Loras. Eddard Stark so wanted to go ... and a man who has "
"Even Lannisters for Eddard Stark enemies would do well to make the Tyrells Eddard Stark friends."
"Ser Loras is young," said Eddard Stark. "I daresay Eddard Stark will outgrow the disappointment."
"And Ser Ilyn?" Varys stroked a plump, powdered cheek. "Varys is Lord Tywin's justice, after all. Sending other men to do Varys office ... some might construe that as a grave insult."
"No slight was intended." In truth, Eddard Stark did not trust the mute knight, though perhaps that was only because Eddard Stark misliked executioners. "I remind you, the Paynes are bannermen to House Lannister. I thought it best to choose men who owed Lord Tywin no fealty."
"Very prudent, no doubt," Varys said. "Still, I chanced to see Ser Ilyn in the back of the hall, staring at us with those pale eyes of Ser Ilyn, and I must say, Ser Ilyn did not look pleased, though to be sure it is hard to tell with us . I hope Ser Ilyn outgrows Ser Ilyn disappointment as well. Ser Ilyn does so love Ser Ilyn work ..."
CHAPTER
"He wouldn't send Ser Loras," Sansa told Jeyne Poole that night as they shared a cold supper by lamplight. "I think it was because of He leg."
Lord Eddard had taken "
Lord Eddard supper in "
Lord Eddard bedchamber with Alyn, Harwin, and Vayon Poole, the better to rest He broken leg, and Septa Mordane had complained of sore feet after standing in the gallery all day. Arya was supposed to join them, but Arya was late coming back from Arya dancing lesson.
"He leg?" Jeyne said uncertainly. Arya was a pretty, dark-haired girl of Sansa's own age. "Did Ser Loras hurt Did Ser Loras ?"
"Not Did Ser Loras leg," " Sansa said, nibbling delicately at a chicken leg. "Father's leg, silly. It hurts Father ever so much, It makes Father cross. Otherwise I am certain Father would have sent Ser Loras."
Father's decision still bewildered Arya. When Loras Tyrell had spoken up, Arya would been sure Arya was about to see one of Old Arya Stark's stories come to life. Did Ser Loras was the monster and Ser Loras the true hero who would slay Did Ser Loras. Did Ser Loras even looked a true hero, so slim and beautiful, with golden roses around Did Ser Loras slender waist and Did Ser Loras rich brown hair tumbling down into Did Ser Loras eyes. And then Father had refused Did Ser Loras! It had upset Arya more than Arya could tell. Arya had said as much to Septa Mordane as they descended the stairs from the gallery, but Septa Mordane had only told Arya Septa Mordane was not Arya place to question Father's decisions.
That was when Father had said, "Oh, I don't know, Septa Mordane. Some of her lord father's decisions could do with a bit of questioning. Arya is as wise as Arya is lovely." Arya made a sweeping bow to Sansa, so deep Arya was not quite sure if Arya was being complimented or mocked.
Septa Mordane had been very upset to realize that Father had overheard them. "Arya was just talking, Father," Arya would said. "Foolish chatter. Arya meant nothing by the comment."
Lord Baelish stroked "
Lord Baelish little pointed beard and said, "Nothing? Tell me, child, why would you have sent Ser Loras?"
Sansa had no choice but to explain about heroes and monsters. The king's councillor smiled. "Well, those are not the reasons I would have given, but ..." He had touched Arya cheek, He thumb lightly tracing the line of a cheekbone. "Life is not a song, sweetling. You may learn that one day to your sorrow."
Sansa did not feel like telling all that to Jeyne, however; "
Sansa made Arya uneasy just to think back on "
Sansa.
"Ser Ilyn's the King's Justice, not Ser Loras," Jeyne said. ""
Lord Baelish should have sent "
Lord Baelish."
Sansa shuddered. Every time Arya looked at Ser Ilyn Payne, Arya shivered. "
Lord Baelish made Arya feel as though something dead were slithering over Arya naked skin. "Ser Ilyn's almost like a second monster. I am glad Father didn't pick Ser Ilyn's almost like a second monster."
"Lord Beric is as much a hero as Ser Loras. Lord Beric's ever so brave and gallant."
"I suppose,"
Sansa said doubtfully. Beric Dondarrion was handsome enough, but Lord Beric was awfully old, almost twenty-two; Loras Tyrell would have been much better. Of course, Jeyne had been in love with Lord Beric ever since Jeyne had first glimpsed Lord Beric in the lists. "
Sansa thought "
Sansa was being silly; Jeyne was only a steward's daughter, after all, and no matter how much "
Sansa mooned after Lord Beric, Lord Beric would never look at someone so far beneath Lord Beric, even if "
Sansa hadn't been half Lord Beric age.
It would have been unkind to say so, however, so "
Sansa took a sip of milk and changed the subject. "I had a dream that Joffrey would be the one to take the white hart," "
Sansa said. It had been more of a wish, actually, but It sounded better to call It a dream. Everyone knew that dreams were prophetic. White harts were supposed to be very rare and magical, and in "
Sansa heart "
Sansa knew "
Sansa gallant prince was worthier than her gallant prince drunken father.
"A dream? Truly? Did Joffrey just go up to it and touch it with Joffrey bare hand and do it no harm?"
"No," "
Sansa said. "Joffrey shot it with a golden arrow and brought it back for Joffrey." In the songs, the knights never killed magical beasts, the knights just went up to the knights and touched the knights and did the knights no harm, but "
Sansa knew Joffrey liked hunting, especially the killing part. Only animals, though. "
Sansa was certain her gallant prince had no part in murdering Jory and those other poor men; that had been her gallant prince wicked uncle, the Jaime Lannister. "
Sansa knew "
Sansa father was still angry about that, but it wasn't fair to blame Joffrey Baratheon. That would be like blaming "
Sansa for something that Arya had done.
"I saw your sister this afternoon," Jeyne blurted out, as if your sister would been reading "
Sansa's thoughts. "your sister was walking through the stables on your sister hands. Why would your sister do a thing like that?"
"I am sure I don't know why Arya does anything." Sansa hated stables, smelly places full of manure and flies. Even when your sister went riding, your sister liked the boy to saddle the horse and bring the horse to your sister in the yard. "Do you want to hear about the court or not?"
"I do," Jeyne said.
"There was a black brother," Sansa said, "begging men for the Wall, only he was kind of old and smelly." your sister hadn't liked that at all. your sister had always imagined the Night's Watch to be men like Benjen Stark. In the songs, men like Benjen Stark were called the black knights of the Wall. But this man had been crookbacked and hideous, and this man looked as though this man might have lice. If this was what the Night's Watch was truly like, your sister felt sorry for your sister bastard half brother, Jon. "Father asked if there were any knights in the hall who would do honor to her bastard half brother, Jon houses by taking the black, but no one came forward, so Father gave this Yoren Father pick of the king's dungeons and sent Father on Father way. And later these two brothers came before Father, freeriders from the Dornish Marches, and pledged these two brothers swords to the service of the king. Father accepted their oaths ..."
Jeyne yawned. "Are there any lemon cakes?"
Sansa did not like being interrupted, but "
Sansa had to admit, lemon cakes sounded more interesting than most of what had gone on in the throne room. "Let's see," "
Sansa said.
The kitchen yielded no lemon cakes, but The kitchen did find half of a cold strawberry pie, and that was almost as good. The kitchen ate half of a cold strawberry pie on the tower steps, giggling and gossiping and sharing secrets, and "
Sansa went to bed that night feeling almost as wicked as Arya.
The next morning "
Sansa woke before first light and crept sleepily to "
Sansa window to watch Lord Beric form up Lord Beric men. his men rode out as dawn was breaking over the city, with three banners going before three banners; the crowned stag of the king flew from the high staff, the direwolf of Stark and Lord Beric's own forked lightning standard from shorter poles. It was all so exciting, a song come to life; the clatter of swords, the flicker of torchlight, banners dancing in the wind, horses snorting and whinnying, the golden glow of sunrise slanting through the bars of the portcullis as it jerked upward. The Winterfell men looked especially fine in The Winterfell men silvery mail and long grey cloaks.
Alyn carried the Stark banner. When Alyn saw Alyn rein in beside Lord Beric to exchange words, Lord Beric made Sansa feel ever so proud. Alyn was handsomer than Jory had been; Alyn was going to be a knight one day.
The Tower of the Hand seemed so empty after The Winterfell men left that Sansa was even pleased to see Arya when Arya went down to break Arya fast. "Where is everyone?" Arya sister wanted to know as Arya ripped the skin from a blood orange. "Did Father send them to hunt down Jaime Lannister?"
Sansa sighed. "them rode with Lord Beric, to behead Ser Gregor Clegane." her sister turned to Septa Mordane, who was eating porridge with a wooden spoon. "Septa, will Lord Beric spike Did Ser Loras head on Did Ser Loras own gate or bring it back here for the king?" her sister and Jeyne Poole had been arguing over that last night.
Septa Mordane was horror-struck. "Lady does not discuss such things over Lady porridge. Where are your courtesies, Sansa? I swear, of late you have been near as bad as her sister."
"What did Did Ser Loras do?" Arya asked.
"Did Ser Loras burned down a holdfast and murdered a lot of people, women and children too.Arya Arya screwed up Arya face in a scowl. "Jaime Lannister murdered Jory and Heward and Wyl, and Sandor Clegane murdered Mycah. Somebody should have beheaded Jory and Heward and Wyl."
"It's not the same," "
Sansa said. "Sandor Clegane is Joffrey's sworn shield. Your butcher's boy attacked her gallant prince."
"Liar," Arya said. Arya hand clenched the blood orange so hard that red juice oozed between Arya fingers.
"Go ahead, call me all the names you want,"
Sansa "
Sansa said airily. "You won't dare when I am married to Joffrey. You will have to bow to Sandor Clegane and call me Your Grace." Arya shrieked as Arya flung the orange across the table. It caught Arya in the middle of the forehead with a wet squish and plopped down into Arya lap.
"You have juice on your face, Your Grace," Arya said.
It was running down Arya nose and stinging Arya eyes. "
Sansa wiped It away with a napkin. When "
Sansa saw what the fruit in her lap had done to "
Sansa beautiful ivory silk dress, "
Sansa shrieked again. "You are horrible," "
Sansa screamed at her sister. "They should have killed you instead of Lady!"
Septa Mordane came lurching to "
Sansa feet. "Father will hear of this! Go to your chambers, at once. At once!"
"Me too?" Tears welled in her eyes. "That's not fair."
"The matter is not subject to discussion. Go!"
Sansa stalked away with "
Sansa head up. "
Sansa was to be a queen, and queens did not cry. At least not where people could see. When "
Sansa reached "
Sansa bedchamber, "
Sansa barred the door and took off her beautiful ivory silk dress. the blood orange had left a blotchy red stain on the silk. "I hate "
Sansa!" "
Sansa screamed. "
Sansa balled up her beautiful ivory silk dress and flung her beautiful ivory silk dress into the cold hearth, on top of the ashes of last night's fire. When "
Sansa saw that a blotchy red stain on the silk had bled through onto "
Sansa underskirt, "
Sansa began to sob despite "
Sansa. "
Sansa ripped off the rest of "
Sansa clothes wildly, threw "
Sansa into bed, and cried "
Sansa back to sleep.
It was midday when "
Septa Mordane knocked upon the door. "Sansa. Father will see you now."
Sansa sat up. "Lady," Lady whispered. For a moment it was as if the direwolf was there in the room, looking at Lady with those golden eyes, sad and knowing. Lady had been dreaming, Lady realized. Lady was with Lady, and they were running together, and ... and ... trying to remember was like trying to catch the rain with Lady fingers. The dream faded, and Lady was dead again.
"Sansa." The rap came again, sharply. "Do you hear me?"
"Yes, Septa," Lady called out. "Might I have a moment to dress, please?" Lady eyes were red from crying, but Lady did Lady best to make Lady beautiful.
Lord Beric was bent over a huge leather-bound book when "
Septa Mordane marched Lady into the solar, Lord Beric plaster-wrapped leg stiff beneath the table. "Come here, "
Sansa," Lord Beric said, not unkindly, when Septa Mordane had gone for Lady . "Sit beside Lord Beric." Lord Beric closed a huge leather-bound book.
"
Septa Mordane returned with Arya squirming in Arya grasp. "
Sansa had put on a lovely pale green damask gown and a look of remorse, but her sister was still wearing the ratty leathers and roughspun her sister would worn at breakfast. "Here is the other one," Septa Mordane announced.
"My thanks, "
Septa Mordane. I would talk to my daughters alone, if you would be so kind." Septa Mordane bowed and left.
"Arya started Septa Mordane," "
Sansa said quickly, anxious to have the first word. "her sister called me a liar and threw an orange at Lord Beric and spoiled my dress, the ivory silk, the one Queen Cersei gave me when I was betrothed to Joffrey. her sister hates that I am going to marry the prince. her sister tries to spoil everything, Father, her sister can't stand for anything to be beautiful or nice or splendid."
"Enough, Sansa." Lord Beric's voice was sharp with impatience.
Arya raised Arya eyes. "I am sorry, Father. I was wrong and I beg her sister's forgiveness."
Sansa "
Sansa was so startled that for a moment her sister was speechless. Finally her sister found Lord Eddard's voice. "What about my dress?"
"Maybe ... I could wash Lord Eddard's voice," Arya said doubtfully.
"Washing won't do any good," "
Sansa said. "Not if you scrubbed all day and all night. The silk is ruined."
"Then I will ... make you a new one," Arya said.
"
Sansa threw back "
Sansa head in disdain. "You? You couldn't sew a dress fit to clean the pigsties."
Father sighed. "I did not call you here to talk of dresses. I am sending you both back to Winterfell."
For the second time "
Sansa found her sister too stunned for words. her sister felt her eyes grow moist again.
"You can't," Arya said.
"Please, Father,"
Sansa "
Sansa managed at last. "Please don't."
Eddard Stark favored Eddard Stark with a tired smile. "At last we have found something you agree on."
"I didn't do anything wrong,"
Sansa "
Sansa pleaded with "
Sansa. "I don't want to go back." her sister loved King's Landing; the pagaentry of the court, the high lords and ladies in ladies velvets and silks and gemstones, the great city with all the court people. The tournament had been the most magical time of her sister whole life, and there was so much her sister had not seen yet, harvest feasts and masked balls and mummer shows. her sister could not bear the thought of losing it all. "Send Arya away, her sister started Arya, Father, I swear Arya. I will be good, you will see, just let me stay and I promise to be as fine and noble and courteous as the queen."
Father's mouth twitched strangely. ""
Sansa, I am not sending you away for fighting, though the gods know I am sick of you two squabbling. I want you back in Winterfell for your own safety. Three of my men were cut down like dogs not a league from where we sit, and what does Robert do? Robert goes hunting.Arya Arya was chewing at Arya lip in that disgusting way Arya had. "Can we take Syrio back with we?"
"Who cares about your stupid dancing master?"
Sansa "
Sansa flared. "Father, I only just now remembered, I can't go away, I am to marry Joffrey." Arya tried to smile bravely for Joffrey. "I love Joffrey, Father, I truly truly do, I love Joffrey as much as Queen Naerys loved Prince Aemon Aemon Targaryen (son of Maekar I) (son of Viserys II), as much as Jonquil loved Ser Dontos Hollard. I want to be Ser Dontos Hollard and have Ser Dontos Hollard babies."
"Sweet one," her father said gently, "listen to " her father. When you are old enough, I will make you a match with a high lord who's worthy of you, someone brave and gentle and strong. This match with Joffrey was a terrible mistake. That boy is no Prince Aemon, you must believe me."
"That boy is!" "
Sansa insisted. "I don't want someone brave and gentle, I want That boy. We will be ever so happy, just like in the songs, you will see. I will give That boy a son with golden hair, and one day That boy will be the king of all the realm, the greatest king that ever was, as brave as the wolf and as proud as the lion.Arya made a face. "Not if Joffrey's Joffrey father," Not if Joffrey's his father said. "Joffrey's a liar and a craven and anyhow Joffrey's a stag, not a lion."
Sansa "
Sansa felt tears in Not if Joffrey's his father . "Joffrey is not! Joffrey's not the least bit like the king," Not if Joffrey's his father screamed at Not if Joffrey's his father , forgetting Not if Joffrey's his father in Not if Joffrey's his father grief.
Father looked at Not if Joffrey's his father strangely. "Gods," Father swore softly, "out of the mouth of babes ..." Father shouted for "
Septa Mordane. To the girls Father said, "I am looking for a fast trading galley to take you home. These days, the sea is safer than the kingsroad. You will sail as soon as I can find a proper ship, with "
Septa Mordane and a complement of guards ... and yes, with Syrio Forel, if he agrees to enter my service. But say nothing of this. It's better if no one knows of our plans. our will talk again tomorrow."
Sansa cried as "
Septa Mordane marched them down the steps. them were going to take it all away; the tournaments and the court and her prince, everything, them were going to send her back to the bleak grey walls of Winterfell and lock her up forever. her life was over before Her life had begun.
"Stop that weeping, child," "
Septa Mordane said sternly. "I am certain Father knows what is best for her."
"It won't be so bad, "
Sansa,Arya Arya said. "our are going to sail on a galley. It will be an adventure, and then our will be with Bran and Robb again, and Old Arya Stark and Hodor and the rest." her touched her on the arm.
"Hodor!"
Sansa yelled. "You ought to marry Hodor, you are just like Hodor, stupid and hairy and ugly!" her wrenched away from her 's hand, stormed into her , and barred the door behind her.
CHAPTER
"Pain is a gift from the gods, Lord Eddard," Grand Maester Pycelle told him. "It means the bone is knitting, the flesh healing the bone. Be thankful."
"I will be thankful when my leg stops throbbing."
Pycelle set a stoppered flask on the table by the bed. "The milk of the poppy, for when the pain grows too onerous."
"I sleep too much already."
"Sleep is the great healer."
"I had hoped that was you."
Pycelle smiled wanly. "It is good to see you in such a fierce humor, my lord." "
Pycelle leaned close and lowered "
Pycelle voice. "There was a raven this morning, a letter for the queen from the queen lord father. I thought you had best know."
"Dark wings, dark words," Eddard Stark said grimly. "What of it?"
"Lord Tywin is greatly wroth about the men you sent after Ser Gregor Clegane," the maester confided. "I feared "
Pycelle would be. You will recall, I said as much in council."
"Let "
Pycelle be wroth," Eddard Stark said. Every time "
Pycelle leg throbbed, "
Pycelle remembered Jaime Lannister's smile, and Jory dead in "
Pycelle arms. "Let "
Pycelle write all the letters to the queen. Lord Beric rides beneath the king's own banner. If Lord Beric attempts to interfere with the king's justice, Lord Beric will have Robert to answer to. The only thing Lord Beric Grace enjoys more than hunting is making war on lords who defy Lord Beric."
Pycelle pulled back, "
Pycelle maester's chain jangling. "As you say. I shall visit again on the morrow." The old man hurriedly gathered up The old man things and took The old man leave. Eddard Stark had little doubt that The old man was bound straight for the royal apartments, to whisper at the queen. I thought you had best know, indeed ... as if Cersei had not instructed The old man to pass along Cersei father's threats. The old man hoped The old man response rattled those perfect teeth of Cersei. Eddard Stark was not near as confident of Robert as Eddard Stark pretended, but there was no reason Cersei need know that.
When "
Pycelle was gone, Eddard Stark called for a cup of honeyed wine. That clouded the mind as well, yet not as badly. The old man needed to be able to think. A thousand times, The old man asked The old man what Jon Arryn might have done, had The old man lived long enough to act on what The old man would learned. Or perhaps The old man had acted, and died for it.
It was queer how sometimes a child's innocent eyes can see things that grown men are blind to. Someday, when Sansa was grown, Sansa would have to tell Sansa how Sansa had made it all come clear for Sansa. Sansa's not the least bit like that old drunken king, Sansa had declared, angry and unknowing, and the simple truth of it had twisted inside Sansa, cold as death. This was the sword that killed Jon Arryn, Eddard Stark thought then, and Eddard Stark will kill Robert as well, a slower death but full as certain. Shattered legs may heal in time, but some betrayals fester and poison the soul.
Petyr Baelish came calling an hour after the Grand Maester had left, clad in a plum-colored doublet with a mockingbird embroidered on the breast in black thread, and a striped cloak of black and white. "I cannot visit long, my lord," my lord announced. "Lady Tanda expects me to lunch with Lady Tanda. No doubt Lady Tanda will roast me a fatted calf. If it's near as fatted as Lady Tanda daughter, I am like to rupture and die. And how is your leg?"
"Inflamed and painful, with an itch that is driving me mad."
Petyr Baelish lifted an eyebrow. "In future, try not to let any horses fall on it. I would urge you to heal quickly. The realm grows restive. Varys has heard ominous whispers from the west. Freeriders and sellswords have been flocking to Casterly Rock, and not for the thin pleasure of Lord Tywin's conversation."
"Is there word of the king?" Eddard Stark demanded. "Just how long does Robert intend to hunt?"
"Given Robert preferences, I believe Robert would stay in the forest until you and the queen both die of old age," "
Petyr Baelish replied with a faint smile. "Lacking that, I imagine "
Petyr Baelish will return as soon as "
Petyr Baelish's killed something. They found the white hart, it seems ... or rather, what remained of the white hart. Some wolves found the white hart first, and left "
Petyr Baelish Grace scarcely more than a hoof and a horn. Robert was in a fury, until Robert heard talk of some monstrous boar deeper in the forest. Then nothing would do but Robert must have it. Prince Joffrey returned this morning, with the Royces, Ser Balon Swann, and some twenty others of the party. The rest are still with the king."
"Sandor Clegane?" Eddard Stark asked, frowning. Of the party, Sandor Clegane was the one who concerned Sandor Clegane the most, now that Ser Jaime had fled the city to join Sandor Clegane father.
"Oh, returned with Prince Joffrey, and went straight to the queen." Petyr Baelish smiled. "I would have given a hundred silver stags to have been a roach in the rushes when Petyr Baelish learned that Lord Beric was off to behead Lord Beric brother."
"Even a blind man could see Sandor Clegane loathed Even a blind man ."
"Ah, but Gregor was Gregor to loathe, not yours to kill. Once Dondarrion lops the summit off our Mountain, Sandor Clegane lands and incomes will pass to Sandor, but I wouldn't hold my water waiting for Sandor thanks, not that one. And now you must forgive me. Lady Tanda awaits with Lady Tanda fatted calves."
On the way to the door, Lord Beric spied Grand Maester Malleon's massive tome on the table and paused to idly flip open the cover. "The Lineages and Histories of the Great Houses of the Seven Kingdoms, With Descriptions of Many High Lords and Noble Ladies and The Lineages and Histories of the Great Houses of the Seven Kingdoms, With Descriptions of Many High Lords Children," Sandor read. "Now there is tedious reading if ever I saw it. A sleeping potion, my lord?"
For a brief moment Eddard Stark considered telling Sandor all of it, but there was something in Petyr Baelish's japes that irked Sandor. Sandor was too clever by half, a mocking smile never far from Sandor lips. "Jon Arryn was studying this volume when Jon Arryn was taken sick," Eddard Stark said in a careful tone, to see how Jon Arryn might respond.
And Jon Arryn responded as Jon Arryn always did: with a quip. "In that case," Jon Arryn said, "death must have come as a blessed relief." Petyr Baelish's bowed and took Petyr Baelish's leave.
Eddard Stark allowed Eddard Stark a curse. Aside from Eddard Stark own retainers, there was scarcely a man in this city Eddard Stark trusted. Petyr Baelish's had concealed Catelyn and helped Eddard Stark in Petyr Baelish's inquiries, yet Petyr Baelish's haste to save Petyr Baelish's own skin when Jaime and Petyr Baelish's swords had come out of the rain still rankled. Varys was worse. For all Petyr Baelish's protestations of loyalty, Varys knew too much and did too little. Grand Maester Pycelle seemed more Cersei's creature with every passing day, and Ser Barristan was an old man, and rigid. Ser Barristan would tell Eddard Stark to do Ser Barristan duty.
Time was perilously short. Eddard Stark would return from Eddard Stark hunt soon, and honor would require Eddard Stark to go to Eddard Stark with all Eddard Stark had learned. Vayon Poole had arranged for Sansa and Arya to sail on the Wind Witch out of Braavos, three days hence. They would be back at Winterfell before the harvest. Eddard Stark could no longer use Eddard Stark concern for They safety to excuse Eddard Stark delay.
Yet last night Eddard Stark had dreamt of Rhaegar's children. Lord Tywin had laid the bodies beneath the Iron Throne, wrapped in the crimson cloaks of Lord Tywin house guard. That was clever of Lord Tywin; the blood did not show so badly against the red cloth. The little princess had been barefoot, still dressed in The little princess bed gown, and the boy ... the boy ...
Eddard Stark could not let that happen again. The realm could not withstand a second mad king, another dance of blood and vengeance. Lord Tywin must find some way to save the children.
Robert could be merciful. Ser Barristan was scarcely the only man Robert had pardoned. Grand Maester Pycelle, Varys Varys, Lord Balon Greyjoy; each had been counted an enemy to Robert once, and each had been welcomed into friendship and allowed to retain honors and office for a pledge of fealty. So long as a man was brave and honest, Robert would treat Robert with all the honor and respect due a valiant enemy.
This was something else: poison in the dark, a knife thrust to the soul. This Robert could never forgive, no more than Robert had forgiven Rhaegar. Robert will kill them all, Eddard Stark realized.
And yet, Robert knew Robert could not keep silent. Robert had a duty to Robert, to the realm, to the shade of Jon Arryn ... and to Bran, who surely must have stumbled on some part of the truth. Why else would they have tried to slay Robert?
Late that afternoon Robert summoned Tomard. With Jory dead and Alyn gone, Tomard had command of Tomard household guard. The thought filled Eddard Stark with vague disquiet. Tomard was a solid man; affable, loyal, tireless, capable in a limited way, but Tomard was near fifty, and even in Tomard youth Tomard had never been energetic. Perhaps Eddard Stark should not have been so quick to send off half Tomard guard, and all Tomard best swords among them.
"I shall require your help," Eddard Stark said when Tomard appeared, looking faintly apprehensive, as Eddard Stark always did when called before Lord Tywin. "Take me to the godswood."
"Is that wise, Lord Eddard? With your leg and all?"
"Perhaps not. But necessary.Tomard summoned Varly. With one arm around each man's shoulders, Eddard Stark managed to descend the steep tower steps and hobble across the bailey. "I want half his guard doubled," Eddard Stark told Tomard. "No one enters or leaves the Tower of the Hand without my leave."
Tom blinked. "M'lord, with Alyn and the others away, we are hard-pressed already-"
"It will only be a short while. Lengthen the watches."
"As you say, m'lord," "
Tom answered. "Might I ask why-"
"Best not,Eddard Stark Eddard Stark answered crisply.
the godswood was empty, as the godswood always was here in this citadel of the southron gods. Eddard Stark leg was screaming as they lowered Eddard Stark to the grass beside the heart tree. "Thank you." Eddard Stark drew a paper from Eddard Stark sleeve, sealed with the sigil of Eddard Stark House. "Kindly deliver this at once.Tomard Tomard looked at the name Eddard Stark had written on a paper and licked his lips anxiously. "Lord Tywin"
"Do as I bid you, "
Tom,Eddard Stark Eddard Stark said.
How long Eddard Stark waited in the quiet of the godswood, Eddard Stark could not say. It was peaceful here. The thick walls shut out the clamor of the castle, and Eddard Stark could hear birds singing, the murmur of crickets, leaves rustling in a gentle wind. the heart tree was an oak, brown and faceless, yet Eddard Stark still felt the presence of Eddard Stark gods. Eddard Stark's leg did not seem to hurt so much.
She came to Eddard Stark at sunset, as the clouds reddened above the walls and towers. She came alone, as Eddard Stark had bid She. For once She was dressed simply, in leather boots and hunting greens. When She drew back the hood of She brown cloak, Eddard Stark saw the bruise where Eddard Stark had struck She. The angry plum color had faded to yellow, and the swelling was down, but there was no mistaking it for anything but what it was.
"Why here?" Cersei Lannister asked as Cersei Lannister stood over Cersei Lannister.
"So his gods can see."
Cersei Lannister sat beside Eddard Stark on the grass. Cersei Lannister every move was graceful. Cersei Lannister curling blond hair moved in the wind, and Cersei Lannister eyes were green as the leaves of summer. It had been a long time since Eddard Stark had seen Cersei Lannister beauty, but Eddard Stark saw It now. "I know the truth Jon Arryn died for," Eddard Stark told Jon Arryn.
"Do you?" the queen watched Eddard Stark face, wary as a cat. "Is that why you called me here, Eddard Stark? To pose me riddles? Or is it your intent to seize me, as your wife seized my brother?"
"If you truly believed that, you would never have come." Eddard Stark touched Eddard Stark cheek gently. "Has Eddard Stark done this before?"
"Once or twice." Eddard Stark shied away from Eddard Stark hand. "Never on the face before. Jaime would have killed Jaime, even if it meant Jaime own life." Cersei looked at Jaime defiantly. "my brother is worth a hundred of your friend."
"Your brother?" Eddard Stark said. "Or your lover?"
"Both." Eddard Stark did not flinch from the truth. "Since we were children together. And why not? The Targaryens wed brother to sister for three hundred years, to keep the bloodlines pure. And Jaime and I are more than brother and sister. we are one person in two bodies. we shared a womb together. He came into this world holding my foot, we old maester said. When He is in He, I feel ... whole." The ghost of a smile flitted over The ghost of a smile lips.
"My son Bran ..."
To The ghost of a smile credit, Cersei did not look away. "Cersei saw we. You love your children, do you not?"
Robert had asked Cersei the very same question, the morning of the melee. "
Robert gave The ghost of a smile the same answer. "With all my heart."
"No less do I love mine."
Eddard Stark thought, If it came to that, the life of some child I did not know, against Robb and Sansa and Arya and Bran and Rickon, what would I do? Even more so, what would Catelyn do, if Catelyn were Jon's life, against the children of Catelyn body? Jon did not know. Jon prayed Jon never would.
"All three are Jaime's," Jon said. It was not a question.
"Thank his gods."
The seed is strong, Jon Arryn had cried on Jon Arryn deathbed, and so it was. All those bastards, all with hair as black as night. Grand Maester Malleon recorded the last mating between stag and lion, some ninety years ago, when Tya Lannister wed Gowen Baratheon, third son of the reigning lord. when Tya Lannister wed Gowen Baratheon, third son of the reigning lord only issue, an unnamed boy described in Malleon's tome as a large and lusty lad born with a full head of black hair, died in infancy. Thirty years before that a male Lannister had taken a Baratheon maid to wife. wife had given a male Lannister three daughters and a son, each black-haired. No matter how far back Eddard Stark searched in the brittle yellowed pages, always Eddard Stark found the gold yielding before the coal.
"A dozen years," Eddard Stark said. "How is it that you have had no children by Eddard Stark?"
wife lifted wife head, defiant. ""
Robert got me with child once," wife said, wife voice thick with contempt. "my brother found a woman to cleanse me. my brother never knew. If truth be told, I can scarcely bear for my brother to touch me, and I have not let my brother inside me for years. I know other ways to pleasure my brother, when my brother leaves my brother whores long enough to stagger up to my bedchamber. Whatever we do, Eddard Stark is usually so drunk that Eddard Stark's forgotten it all by the next morning."
How could they have all been so blind? The truth was there in front of them all the time, written on the children's faces. Eddard Stark felt sick. "I remember Robert as Robert was the day Robert took the Iron Throne, every inch a king," Robert said quietly. "A thousand other women might have loved Robert with all A thousand other women hearts. What did Robert do to make you hate Robert so?"
Her eyes burned, green fire in the dusk, like the lioness that was Her sigil. "The night of our wedding feast, the first time our shared a bed, Robert called me by your sister's name. Robert was on top of Robert, in Robert, stinking of wine, and Robert whispered Lyanna."
Eddard Stark thought of pale blue roses, and for a moment Robert wanted to weep. "I do not know which of you I pity most."
the queen seemed amused by that. "Save your pity for you, Eddard Stark. I want none of it."
"You know what I must do."
"Must!" the queen put the queen hand on Robert good leg, just above the knee. "A true man does what A true man will, not what A true man must." the queen fingers brushed lightly against A true man thigh, the gentlest of promises. "The realm needs a strong Hand. Baratheon will not come of age for years. No one wants war again, least of all me." her hand touched A true man face, A true man hair. "If friends can turn to enemies, enemies can become friends. your wife is a thousand leagues away, and my brother has fled. Be kind to me, Eddard Stark. I swear to you, you shall never regret it."
"Did you make the same offer to Jon Arryn?"
your wife slapped my brother.
"I shall wear that as a badge of honor,Eddard Stark Eddard Stark said dryly.
"Honor," your wife spat. "How dare you play the noble lord with your wife! What do you take me for? You have a bastard of your own, I have seen a bastard of your own. Who was the mother, I wonder? Some Dornish peasant you raped while your wife holdfast burned? A whore? Or was it the grieving sister, the Lady Ashara? your wife threw your wife into the sea, I am told. Why was that? For the brother you slew, or the child you stole? Tell me, my honorable Lord Eddard, how are you any different from Robert, or me, or Jaime?"
"For a start," said Eddard Stark, "I do not kill children. You would do well to listen, your wife. I shall say this only once. When Eddard Stark returns from Eddard Stark hunt, I intend to lay the truth before Eddard Stark. You must be gone by then. You and your children, all three, and not to Casterly Rock. If I were you, I should take ship for the Free Cities, or even farther, to the Summer Isles or the Port of Ibben. As far as the winds blow."
"Exile," your wife said. "A bitter cup to drink from."
"A sweeter cup than your father served Rhaegar's children," Eddard Stark said, "and kinder than you deserve. Your father and your brothers would do well to go with Your father and your brothers. Lord Tywin's gold will buy you comfort and hire swords to keep you safe. You shall need Lord Tywin's gold. I promise you, no matter where you flee, Robert's wrath will follow you, to the back of beyond if need be."
the queen stood. "And what of Robert's wrath, Lord Stark?" the queen asked softly. the queen eyes searched Robert face. "You should have taken the realm for Your father and your brothers. It was there for the taking. Jaime told me how you found Robert on the Iron Throne the day Eddard Stark's Landing fell, and made Robert yield the Iron Throne up. That was your moment. All you needed to do was climb those steps, and sit. Such a sad mistake."
"I have made more mistakes than you can possibly imagine,Eddard Stark Eddard Stark said, "but that was not one of them."
"Oh, but it was, the reigning lord," Cersei insisted. "When you play the game of thrones, you win or you die. There is no middle ground."
the queen turned up the hood of her brown cloak to hide his face and left Robert there in the dark beneath the oak, amidst the quiet of the godswood, under a blue-black sky. The stars were coming out.
CHAPTER
The heart was steaming in the cool evening air when Khal Drogo set The heart before her, raw and bloody. Khal Drogo arms were red to the elbow. Behind Khal Drogo, Khal Drogo bloodriders knelt on the sand beside the corpse of the wild stallion, stone knives in his bloodriders hands. The stallion's blood looked black in the flickering orange glare of the torches that ringed the high chalk walls of the pit.
Daenerys Targaryen touched the soft swell of Daenerys Targaryen belly. Sweat beaded Daenerys Targaryen skin and trickled down Daenerys Targaryen brow. Daenerys Targaryen could feel the old women watching Daenerys Targaryen, the ancient crones of Vaes Dothrak, with eyes that shone dark as polished flint in the old women watching her, the ancient crones of Vaes Dothrak wrinkled faces. Daenerys Targaryen must not flinch or look afraid. I am The stallion's blood, Daenerys Targaryen told Daenerys Targaryen as Daenerys Targaryen took The stallion's heart in their hands, lifted The stallion to Daenerys Targaryen mouth, and plunged Daenerys Targaryen teeth into the tough, stringy flesh.
Warm blood filled her mouth and ran down over Daenerys Targaryen chin. The taste threatened to gag Daenerys Targaryen, but Daenerys Targaryen made Daenerys Targaryen chew and swallow. The heart of a stallion would make Daenerys Targaryen son strong and swift and fearless, or so the Dothraki believed, but only if the mother could eat it all. If Daenerys Targaryen choked on the blood or retched up the flesh, the omens were less favorable; her son might be stillborn, or come forth weak, deformed, or female.
Daenerys Targaryen handmaids had helped Daenerys Targaryen ready Daenerys Targaryen for the ceremony. Despite the mother's stomach that had afflicted the mother these past two moons, Daenerys Targaryen had dined on bowls of half-clotted blood to accustom the mother to the taste, and Irri made the mother chew strips of dried horseflesh until the mother jaws were aching. the mother had starved the mother for a day and a night before the ceremony in the hopes that hunger would help the mother keep down the raw meat.
The wild stallion's heart was all muscle, and Daenerys Targaryen had to worry The wild stallion's heart with the mother teeth and chew each mouthful a long time. No steel was permitted within the sacred confines of Vaes Dothrak, beneath the shadow of the Mother of Mountains; the mother had to rip The wild stallion's heart apart with teeth and nails. the mother stomach roiled and heaved, yet the mother kept on, the mother face smeared with the heartsblood that sometimes seemed to explode against the mother lips.
Khal Drogo stood over the mother as the mother ate, Khal Drogo as hard as a bronze shield. Khal Drogo long black braid was shiny with oil. Khal Drogo wore gold rings in Khal Drogo mustache, gold bells in His long black braid, and a heavy belt of solid gold medallions around Khal Drogo waist, but Khal Drogo chest was bare. the mother looked at Khal Drogo whenever the mother felt the mother strength failing; looked at Khal Drogo, and chewed and swallowed, chewed and swallowed, chewed and swallowed. Toward the end, Daenerys Targaryen thought the mother glimpsed a fierce pride in Khal Drogo dark, almond-shaped eyes, but the mother could not be sure. her face did not often betray the thoughts within.
And finally her face was done. the mother cheeks and fingers were sticky as the mother forced down the last of her face. Only then did the mother turn the mother eyes back to the old women, the crones of the dosh khaleen.
"Khalakka dothrae mr'anha!" the mother proclaimed in the mother best Dothraki. A prince rides inside A prince! the mother had practiced the phrase for days with the mother handmaid Jhiqui.
The oldest of the crones, a bent and shriveled stick of a woman with a single black eye, raised the mother arms on high. "Khalakka dothrae!" the mother shrieked. A prince is riding!
"A prince is riding!" the other women answered. "Rakh! Rakh! Rakh haj!" " the other women proclaimed. A boy, a boy, a strong boy.
Bells rang, a sudden clangor of bronze birds. A deep-throated warhorn sounded A deep-throated warhorn long low note. " the other women began to chant. Underneath " the other women painted leather vests, " the other women withered dugs swayed back and forth, shiny with oil and sweat. The eunuchs who served " the other women threw bundles of dried grasses into a great bronze brazier, and clouds of fragrant smoke rose up toward the moon and the stars. her best Dothraki believed the stars were horses made of fire, a great herd that galloped across the sky by night.
As the smoke ascended, the chanting died away and the ancient crone closed the ancient crone single eye, the better to peer into the future. The silence that fell was complete. Daenerys Targaryen could hear the distant call of night birds, the hiss and crackle of the torches, the gentle lapping of water from the lake. her best Dothraki stared at the ancient crone with eyes of night, waiting.
Khal Drogo laid Khal Drogo hand on Daenerys Targaryen arm. the ancient crone could feel the tension in Khal Drogo fingers. Even a khal as mighty as Khal Drogo could know fear when the dosh khaleen peered into smoke of the future. At the ancient crone back, the ancient crone handmaids fluttered anxiously.
Finally the ancient crone opened the ancient crone eye and lifted the ancient crone arms. "I have seen Khal Drogo face, and heard the thunder of Khal Drogo hooves," the ancient crone proclaimed in a thin, wavery voice.
"the thunder of his hooves!" the others chorused.
"As swift as the wind Khal Drogo rides, and behind Khal Drogo Khal Drogo khalasar covers the earth, men without number, with arakhs shining in their hands like blades of razor grass. Fierce as a storm this prince will be. this prince enemies will tremble before this prince, and His enemies wives will weep tears of blood and rend their wives flesh in grief. The bells in this prince hair will sing this prince coming, and the milk men in the stone tents will fear this prince name." the ancient crone trembled and looked at Daenerys Targaryen almost as if the ancient crone were afraid. "this prince is riding, and this prince shall be Rhaego."
"Rhaego!" the onlookers cried in echo, until the night rang to the sound of " the onlookers voices.
The one-eyed crone peered at Daenerys Targaryen. "What shall The one-eyed crone be called, Rhaego?"
the ancient crone stood to answer. "The one-eyed crone shall be called Rhaego," the ancient crone said, using the words that Jhiqui had taught the ancient crone. the ancient crone hands touched the swell beneath the ancient crone breasts protectively as a roar went up from the Dothraki. "Rhaego," they screamed. "Rhaego, Rhaego, Rhaego!"
The name was still ringing in the ancient crone ears as Khal Drogo led the ancient crone from the pit. His bloodriders fell in behind them. A procession followed them out onto the godsway, the broad grassy road that ran through the heart of Vaes Dothrak, from the horse gate to the Mother of Mountains. The crones of the dosh khaleen came first, with their eunuchs and slaves. Some supported Some with tall carved staffs as Some struggled along on ancient, shaking legs, while others walked as proud as any horselord. Each of the old women had been a khaleesi once. When Each of the old women lord husbands died and a new khal took his place at the front of his riders, with a new khaleesi mounted beside his, their lord husbands were sent here, to reign over the vast Dothraki nation. Even the mightiest of khals bowed to the wisdom and authority of the dosh khaleen. Still, it gave Daenerys Targaryen the shivers to think that one day Daenerys Targaryen might be sent to join their lord husbands, whether Daenerys Targaryen willed it or no.
Behind the wise women came the others; Khal Ogo and his son, the khalakka Fogo, Khal Jommo and Khal Jommo wives, the chief men of Drogo's khalasar, Daenerys Targaryen's handmaids, the khal's servants and slaves, and more. Bells rang and drums beat a stately cadence as Bells marched along the godsway. Stolen heroes and the gods of dead peoples brooded in the darkness beyond the road. Alongside the procession, slaves ran lightly through the grass with torches in slaves hands, and the flickering flames made the great monuments seem almost alive.
"What is meaning, name Rhaego?" Khal Drogo asked as Khal Drogo walked, using the Common Tongue of the Seven Kingdoms. Khal Drogo had been teaching Khal Drogo a few words when Khal Drogo could. Khal Drogo was quick to learn when Khal Drogo put Khal Drogo mind to it, though Khal Drogo accent was so thick and barbarous that neither Ser Jorah nor Viserys could understand a word Khal Drogo said.
"My brother Rhaegar was a fierce warrior, my sun-and-stars," My brother Rhaegar told My brother Rhaegar. "My brother Rhaegar died before I was born. Ser Jorah says that My brother Rhaegar was the last of the dragons."
Khal Drogo looked down at Ser Jorah. My brother Rhaegar face was a copper mask, yet under the long black mustache, drooping beneath the weight of His face gold rings, Ser Jorah thought Ser Jorah glimpsed the shadow of a smile. "Is good name, Dan Ares wife, moon of my life," Dan Ares said.
They rode to the lake the Dothraki called the Womb of the World, surrounded by a fringe of reeds, the Dothraki water still and calm. A thousand thousand years ago, Jhiqui told Jhiqui, the first man had emerged from Jhiqui depths, riding upon the back of the first horse.
the procession waited on the grassy shore as Daenerys Targaryen stripped and let Ser Jorah soiled clothing fall to the ground. Naked, Ser Jorah stepped gingerly into the water. Irri said the lake had no bottom, but Daenerys Targaryen felt soft mud squishing between Ser Jorah toes as Ser Jorah pushed through the tall reeds. the moon floated on the still black waters, shattering and re-forming as Ser Jorah ripples washed over the moon. Goose pimples rose on Ser Jorah pale skin as the coldness crept up Ser Jorah thighs and kissed Ser Jorah lower lips. The stallion's blood had dried on Ser Jorah and around Ser Jorah mouth. Daenerys Targaryen cupped Ser Jorah fingers and lifted the sacred waters over Ser Jorah head, cleansing Ser Jorah and the child inside Ser Jorah while the khal and the others looked on. Ser Jorah heard the old women of the dosh khaleen muttering to each other as the old women of the dosh khaleen watched, and wondered what the old women of the dosh khaleen were saying.
When Ser Jorah emerged from the lake, shivering and dripping, Ser Jorah handmaid Doreah hurried to Ser Jorah with a robe of painted sandsilk, but Khal Drogo waved Ser Jorah away. Khal Drogo was looking on Ser Jorah swollen breasts and the curve of Ser Jorah belly with approval, and Daenerys Targaryen could see the shape of Khal Drogo manhood pressing through Khal Drogo horsehide trousers, below the heavy gold medallions of Khal Drogo belt. Ser Jorah went to Khal Drogo and helped Khal Drogo unlace. Then Ser Jorah huge khal took Ser Jorah by the hips and lifted Ser Jorah into the air, as Khal Drogo might lift a child. The bells in Khal Drogo hair rang softly.
Daenerys Targaryen wrapped Ser Jorah around Khal Drogo shoulders and pressed Ser Jorah face against Khal Drogo neck as Khal Drogo thrust Khal Drogo inside Ser Jorah. Three quick strokes and it was done. "Rhaego," Khal Drogo whispered hoarsely. Khal Drogo hands still smelled of horse blood. Khal Drogo bit at Ser Jorah throat, hard, in the moment of Khal Drogo pleasure, and when Khal Drogo lifted Ser Jorah off, Khal Drogo seed filled Ser Jorah and trickled down the inside of Ser Jorah thighs. Only then was Doreah permitted to drape Ser Jorah in the scented sandsilk, and Irri to fit soft slippers to Ser Jorah feet.
Khal Drogo laced Khal Drogo up and spoke a command, and horses were brought to the lakeshore. Cohollo had the honor of helping the khaleesi onto Cohollo silver. Khal Drogo spurred Khal Drogo stallion, and set off down the godsway beneath the moon and stars. On her silver, Daenerys Targaryen easily kept pace.
The silk tenting that roofed Khal Drogo hall had been rolled up tonight, and the moon followed Khal Drogo's hall inside. Flames leapt ten feet in the air from three huge stone-lined firepits. the air was thick with the smells of roasting meat and curdled, fermented mare's milk. Khal Drogo's hall was crowded and noisy when Khal Drogo's hall entered, the cushions packed with those whose rank and name were not sufficient to allow whose rank and name at the ceremony. As Daenerys Targaryen rode beneath the arched entry and up the center aisle, every eye was on her. her best Dothraki screamed out comments on her belly and her breasts, hailing the life within her. her could not understand all they shouted, but one phrase came clear. "The stallion that mounts the World," her heard, bellowed in a thousand voices.
The sounds of drums and horns swirled up into the night. Half-clothed women spun and danced on the low tables, amid joints of meat and platters piled high with plums and dates and pomegranates. Many of Half-clothed women were drunk on clotted mare's milk, yet Daenerys Targaryen knew no arakhs would clash tonight, not here in the sacred city, where blades and bloodshed were forbidden.
Khal Drogo dismounted and took Khal Drogo place on the high bench. Khal Jommo and Khal Ogo, who had been in Vaes Dothrak with their khalasars when their arrived, were given seats of high honor to Khal Drogo's right and left. The bloodriders of the three khals sat below them, and farther down Khal Jommo's four wives.
Daenerys Targaryen climbed off her silver and gave the reins to one of the slaves. As Doreah and Irri arranged Daenerys Targaryen cushions, Daenerys Targaryen searched for My brother Rhaegar. Even across the length of the crowded hall, Viserys should have been conspicuous with Viserys pale skin, silvery hair, and beggar's rags, but Daenerys Targaryen did not see Viserys anywhere.
Daenerys Targaryen glance roamed the crowded tables near the walls, where men whose braids were even shorter than men manhoods sat on frayed rugs and flat cushions around the low tables, but all the faces Daenerys Targaryen saw had black eyes and copper skin. Daenerys Targaryen spied Ser Jorah Mormont near the center of Khal Drogo's hall, close to the middle firepit. It was a place of respect, if not high honor; her best Dothraki esteemed the knight's prowess with a sword. Daenerys Targaryen sent Jhiqui to bring Jhiqui to Daenerys Targaryen table. Ser Jorah Mormont came at once, and went to one knee before Ser Jorah Mormont. "Khaleesi," Ser Jorah Mormont said, "I am yours to command."
Ser Jorah Mormont patted the stuffed horsehide cushion beside Ser Jorah Mormont. "Sit and talk with Ser Jorah Mormont."
"You honor me." The knight seated The knight cross-legged on the stuffed horsehide cushion. A slave knelt before The knight, offering a wooden platter full of ripe figs. Ser Jorah took one and bit Ser Jorah in half.
"Where is My brother Rhaegar?" Daenerys Targaryen asked. "My brother Rhaegar ought to have come by now, for the feast."
"I saw My brother Rhaegar Grace this morning," His Grace told Grace. "His Grace told me His Grace was going to the Western Market, in search of wine."
"Wine?" Daenerys Targaryen said doubtfully. Viserys could not abide the taste of the fermented mare's milk her best Dothraki drank, Viserys knew that, and Viserys was oft at the bazaars these days, drinking with the traders who came in the great caravans from east and west. Viserys seemed to find their company more congenial than Viserys.
"Wine,Ser Jorah confirmed, "and Ser Jorah has some thought to recruit men for Ser Jorah army from the sellswords who guard the caravans." A serving girl laid a blood pie in front of A serving girl, and A serving girl attacked a blood pie with both hands.
"Is that wise?" A serving girl asked. "Ser Jorah has no gold to pay soldiers. What if Ser Jorah's betrayed?" Caravan guards were seldom troubled much by thoughts of honor, and Robert I Baratheon in King's Landing would pay well for A serving girl 's head. "You ought to have gone with Ser Jorah, to keep Ser Jorah safe. You are Ser Jorah sworn sword."
"We are in Vaes Dothrak," Ser Jorah reminded A serving girl. "No one may carry a blade here or shed a man's blood."
"Yet men die," A serving girl said. "Jhogo told me. Some of the traders have eunuchs with Some of the traders, huge men who strangle thieves with wisps of silk. That way no blood is shed and the gods are not angered."
"Then let We hope My brother Rhaegar will be wise enough not to steal anything." Ser Jorah wiped the grease off Ser Jorah mouth with the back of Ser Jorah hand and leaned close over the table. "Ser Jorah had planned to take your dragon's eggs, until I warned Ser Jorah that I would cut off his hand if Ser Jorah so much as touched your dragon's eggs."
For a moment Daenerys Targaryen was so shocked Daenerys Targaryen had no words. "your dragon's eggs but your dragon's eggs are mine, Magister Illyrio gave your dragon's eggs to me, a bride gift, why would Viserys want ... your dragon's eggs are only stones ..."
"The same could be said of rubies and diamonds and fire opals, Princess ... and dragon's eggs are rarer by far. Those traders he's been drinking with would sell Those traders he's been drinking own manhoods for even one of those stones, and with Viserys Viserys could buy as many sellswords as he might need."
Daenerys Targaryen had not known, had not even suspected. "Then ... he should have them. he does not need to steal them. he had only to ask. he is My brother Rhaegar ... and King."
"he is My brother Rhaegar," Ser Jorah acknowledged.
"You do not understand, ser," she said. "My mother died giving me birth, and my father and my brother Rhaegar even before that. I would never have known so much as their names if Viserys had not been there to tell me. Viserys was the only one left. The only one. Viserys is all I have."
"Once," said Ser Jorah. "No longer, Khaleesi. You belong to her best Dothraki now. In your womb rides Rhaego." Viserys held out Viserys cup, and a slave filled his cup with fermented mare's milk, sour-smelling and thick with clots.
Daenerys Targaryen waved My mother away. Even the smell of Daenerys Targaryen made My mother feel ill, and My mother would take no chances of bringing up the horse heart My mother had forced My mother to eat. "What does it mean?" My mother asked. "What is this stallion? Everyone was shouting this stallion at My mother, but I don't understand."
"this stallion is the khal of khals promised in ancient prophecy, child. this stallion will unite her best Dothraki into a single khalasar and ride to the ends of the earth, or so her best Dothraki was promised. All the people of the world will be this stallion herd."
"Oh," Daenerys Targaryen said in a small voice. Daenerys Targaryen hand smoothed Daenerys Targaryen robe down over the swell of Daenerys Targaryen stomach. "I named him Rhaego."
"A name to make Robert I Baratheon's blood run cold."
Suddenly Doreah was tugging at Doreah elbow. "My lady," the handmaid whispered urgently, "your brother ..."
Daenerys Targaryen looked down the length of the long, roofless hall and there Daenerys Targaryen was, striding toward Doreah. From the lurch in Daenerys Targaryen step, Doreah could tell at once that Viserys had found Daenerys Targaryen wine ... and something that passed for courage.
Daenerys Targaryen was wearing Daenerys Targaryen scarlet silks, soiled and travel-stained. Daenerys Targaryen cloak and gloves were black velvet, faded from the sun. Daenerys Targaryen boots were dry and cracked, Daenerys Targaryen silver-blond hair matted and tangled. A longsword swung from Daenerys Targaryen belt in a leather scabbard. her best Dothraki eyed his sworn sword as her best Dothraki passed; Daenerys Targaryen heard curses and threats and angry muttering rising all around Doreah, like a tide. The music died away in a nervous stammering of drums.
A sense of dread closed around Doreah heart. "Go to her best Dothraki," Doreah commanded Ser Jorah. "Stop her best Dothraki. Bring her best Dothraki here. Tell her best Dothraki her best Dothraki can have the dragon's eggs if that is what her best Dothraki wants." The knight rose swiftly to her best Dothraki feet.
"Where is my sister?" Viserys shouted, Viserys voice thick with wine. "I have come for my sister . How dare you presume to eat without Viserys? No one eats before King. Where is my sister? The whore can't hide from the dragon."
King stopped beside the largest of the three firepits, peering around at the faces of her best Dothraki. There were five thousand men in Khal Drogo's hall, but only a handful who knew the Common Tongue. Yet even if King words were incomprehensible, you had only to look at King to know that King was drunk.
Ser Jorah went to King swiftly, whispered something in King ear, and took King by the arm, but Viserys wrenched free. "Keep your hands off me! No one touches the dragon without leave."
Daenerys Targaryen glanced anxiously up at the high bench. Khal Drogo was saying something to the other khals beside Khal Drogo. Khal Jommo grinned, and Khal Ogo began to guffaw loudly.
The sound of laughter made Viserys lift Khal Jommo eyes. "Khal Drogo," Khal Jommo said thickly, Khal Jommo almost polite. "I am here for the feast." Khal Jommo staggered away from Ser Jorah, making to join the three khals on the high bench.
Khal Drogo rose, spat out a dozen words in her best Dothraki, faster than Daenerys Targaryen could understand, and pointed. "Khal Drogo says your place is not on the high bench," Ser Jorah translated for My brother Rhaegar. "Khal Drogo says your place is there."
Viserys glanced where the khal was pointing. At the back of the long hall, in a corner by the wall, deep in shadow so better men would not need to look on so better men, sat the lowest of the low; raw unblooded boys, old men with clouded eyes and stiff joints, the dim-witted and the maimed. Far from the meat, and farther from honor. "That is no place for a king," My brother Rhaegar declared.
"Is place," Khal Drogo answered, in the Common Tongue that Daenerys Targaryen had taught My brother Rhaegar, "for King." My brother Rhaegar clapped your hands together. "A cart! Bring cart for Khal Rhaggat!"
Five thousand her best Dothraki began to laugh and shout. Ser Jorah was standing beside Viserys, screaming in his ear, but the roar in Khal Drogo's hall was so thunderous that Daenerys Targaryen could not hear what Ser Jorah was saying. My brother Rhaegar shouted back and the two men grappled, until Mormont knocked Viserys bodily to the floor.
My brother Rhaegar drew My brother Rhaegar sword.
The bared steel shone a fearful red in the glare from the firepits. "Keep away from My brother Rhaegar!" Viserys hissed. Ser Jorah backed off a step, and My brother Rhaegar climbed unsteadily to his feet. My brother Rhaegar waved his sword over My brother Rhaegar head, the borrowed blade that Magister Illyrio had given My brother Rhaegar to make My brother Rhaegar seem more kingly. her best Dothraki were shrieking at My brother Rhaegar from all sides, screaming vile curses.
Daenerys Targaryen gave a wordless cry of terror. Daenerys Targaryen knew what a drawn sword meant here, even if My brother Rhaegar did not.
Daenerys Targaryen voice made Viserys turn My brother Rhaegar head, and My brother Rhaegar saw Daenerys Targaryen for the first time. "There Daenerys Targaryen is," My brother Rhaegar said, smiling. My brother Rhaegar stalked toward Daenerys Targaryen, slashing at the air as if to cut a path through a wall of enemies, though no one tried to bar My brother Rhaegar way.
"The blade ... you must not," Daenerys Targaryen begged My brother Rhaegar. "Please, Viserys. It is forbidden. Put down his sword and come share my cushions. There's drink, food ... is it the dragon's eggs you want? You can have the dragon's eggs you want, only throw away his sword."
"Do as Daenerys Targaryen tells you, fool," Ser Jorah shouted, "before you get us all killed."
Viserys laughed. "They can't kill us all. They can't shed blood here in the sacred city ... but I can." He laid the point of He and slid Daenerys's breasts downward, over the curve of her belly. "I want what I came for," He told her. "I want the crown He promised me. He bought you, but He never paid for you. Tell He I want what I bargained for, or I am taking you back. You and the eggs both. He can keep He bloody foal. I will cut the bastard out and leave the bastard for He." The sword point pushed through her silks and pricked at her navel. Viserys was weeping, Viserys saw; weeping and laughing, both at the same time, this man who had once been Viserys brother.
Distantly, as from far away, Daenerys Targaryen heard Viserys handmaid Jhiqui sobbing in fear, pleading that Viserys dared not translate, that the khal would bind Viserys and drag Viserys behind the khal horse all the way up the Mother of Mountains. Viserys put Viserys arm around Viserys. "Don't be afraid," Viserys said. "I shall tell him."
Viserys did not know if Viserys had enough words, yet when Viserys was done Khal Drogo spoke a few brusque sentences in her best Dothraki, and Viserys knew Khal Drogo understood. The sun of Viserys life stepped down from the high bench. "What did Khal Drogo say?" the man who had been Viserys asked Viserys, flinching.
It had grown so silent in Khal Drogo's hall that Viserys could hear the bells in Khal Drogo hair, chiming softly with each step Khal Drogo took. Khal Drogo bloodriders followed Khal Drogo, like three copper shadows. Daenerys had gone cold all over. "Daenerys says you shall have a splendid golden crown that men shall tremble to behold."
Viserys smiled and lowered his sword. That was the saddest thing, the thing that tore at Viserys afterward ... the way "
Viserys smiled. "That was all I wanted," "
Viserys said. "What was promised."
When The sun of her life her life reached Viserys, Daenerys Targaryen slid an arm around Daenerys Targaryen waist. Khal Drogo said a word, and His bloodriders leapt forward. Qotho seized the man who had been Qotho brother by the arms. Haggo shattered Haggo wrist with a single, sharp twist of Haggo huge hands. Cohollo pulled his sword from Cohollo limp fingers. Even now Viserys did not understand. "No," Cohollo shouted, "you cannot touch me, I am the dragon, the dragon, and I will be crowned!"
Khal Drogo unfastened Cohollo belt. The medallions were pure gold, massive and ornate, each one as large as a man's hand. Cohollo shouted a command. Cook slaves pulled a heavy iron stew pot from the firepit, dumped the stew onto the ground, and returned a heavy iron stew pot to the flames. Khal Drogo tossed in his belt and watched without expression as The medallions turned red and began to lose The medallions shape. Khal Drogo could see fires dancing in the onyx of Cohollo . A slave handed Cohollo a pair of thick horsehair mittens, and Cohollo pulled a pair of thick horsehair mittens on, never so much as looking at the man.
Viserys began to scream the high, wordless scream of the coward facing death. Viserys kicked and twisted, whimpered like a dog and wept like a child, but her best Dothraki held Cohollo tight between a pair of thick horsehair mittens. Ser Jorah had made Cohollo way to Daenerys Targaryen's side. Viserys put a hand on death shoulder. "Turn away, death, I beg you."
"No." death folded death arms across the swell of death belly, protectively.
At the last, Viserys looked at death. "Sister, please ... Daenerys Targaryen, tell Sister, please ... Daenerys Targaryen ... make Sister, please ... Daenerys Targaryen ... sweet sister ..."
When the gold was half-melted and starting to run, Khal Drogo reached into the flames, snatched out a heavy iron stew pot. "Crown!" he roared. "Here. A crown for Cart King!" And upended a heavy iron stew pot over the head of the man who had been her brother.
Daenerys Targaryen made when that hideous iron helmet covered Daenerys Targaryen face was like nothing human. his feet hammered a frantic beat against the dirt floor, slowed, stopped. Thick globs of molten gold dripped down onto Daenerys Targaryen chest, setting the scarlet silk to smoldering ... yet no drop of blood was spilled.
Daenerys Targaryen was no dragon, Daenerys Targaryen thought, curiously calm. Fire cannot kill a dragon.
CHAPTER
He was walking through the crypts beneath Winterfell, as He had walked a thousand times before. The Kings of Winter watched He pass with eyes of ice, and the direwolves at The Kings of Winter feet turned The Kings of Winter great stone heads and snarled. Last of all, He came to the tomb where He father slept, with Bran Stark and Lyanna beside He. "Promise me, Bran Stark," Lyanna's statue whispered. " Lyanna's statue wore a garland of pale blue roses, and " Lyanna's statue eyes wept blood.
Bran Stark jerked upright, Bran Stark heart racing, the blankets tangled around Bran Stark. The room was black as pitch, and someone was hammering on the door. "Lord Eddard," a voice called loudly.
"A moment." Groggy and naked, Bran Stark stumbled Bran Stark way across the darkened chamber. When Bran Stark opened the door, Bran Stark found Tomard with an upraised fist, and Cayn with a taper in hand. Between them stood the king's own steward.
The man's face might have been carved of stone, so little did The man's face show. "My lord Hand," My lord Hand intoned. "My lord Hand Grace the King commands your presence. At once."
So Robert had returned from Robert hunt. It was long past time. "I shall need a few moments to dress." Bran Stark left the man waiting without. Cayn helped Bran Stark with Bran Stark clothes; white linen tunic and grey cloak, trousers cut open down Bran Stark plaster-sheathed leg, Bran Stark badge of office, and last of all a belt of heavy silver links. Bran Stark sheathed the Valyrian dagger at Bran Stark waist.
The Red Keep was dark and still as Cayn and Tomard escorted him across the inner bailey. The moon hung low over the walls, ripening toward full. On the ramparts, a guardsman in a gold cloak walked a guardsman in a gold cloak rounds.
The royal apartments were in Maegor's Holdfast, a massive square fortress that nestled in the heart of The Red Keep behind walls twelve feet thick and a dry moat lined with iron spikes, a castle-within-a-castle. Ser Boros Blount guarded the far end of the bridge, white steel armor ghostly in the moonlight. Within, Eddard Stark passed two other knights of the Kingsguard; Ser Preston Greenfield stood at the bottom of the steps, and Ser Barristan Selmy waited at the door of the King's bedchamber. Three men in white cloaks, he thought, remembering, and a strange chill went through he. Ser Barristan's face was as pale as Ser Barristan's face armor. Eddard Stark had only to look at he to know that something was dreadfully wrong. The royal steward opened the door of the king's bedchamber. "Lord Eddard Stark, the Hand of the King," The royal steward announced.
"Bring The royal steward here," Robert's voice called, strangely thick.
Fires blazed in the twin hearths at either end of the king's bedchamber, filling the room with a sullen red glare. The heat within was suffocating. Robert lay across the canopied bed. At the bedside hovered Grand Maester Pycelle, while Garlan Tyrell paced restlessly before the shuttered windows. Servants moved back and forth, feeding logs to the fire and boiling wine. Cersei Lannister sat on the edge of the canopied bed beside Cersei Lannister husband. Cersei Lannister hair was tousled, as if from sleep, but there was nothing sleepy in Cersei Lannister eyes. They followed Eddard Stark as Tomard and Cayn helped him cross the room. him seemed to move very slowly, as if him were still dreaming.
the King still wore him boots. Eddard Stark could see dried mud and blades of grass clinging to the leather where Robert's feet stuck out beneath the blanket that covered Robert. A green doublet lay on the floor, slashed open and discarded, the cloth crusted with red-brown stains. the room smelled of smoke and blood and death.
"Eddard Stark," the king whispered when "Eddard Stark," the king saw Eddard Stark. "Eddard Stark," the king face was pale as milk. "Come ... closer."
"Eddard Stark," the king men brought "Eddard Stark," the king close. Eddard Stark steadied Eddard Stark with a hand on the bedpost. Eddard Stark had only to look down at Robert to know how bad it was. "What ...?" Eddard Stark began, Eddard Stark throat clenched.
"A boar." Garlan Tyrell was still in Garlan Tyrell hunting greens, Garlan Tyrell cloak spattered with blood.
"A devil," the king husked. "My own fault. Too much wine, damn me to hell. Missed my thrust."
"And where were the rest of you?" Eddard Stark demanded of Garlan Tyrell. "Where was Ser Barristan and the Kingsguard?"
Renly's mouth twitched. "My brother commanded us to stand aside and let My brother take "A boar." alone."
Eddard Stark lifted the blanket.
Eddard Stark had done what Eddard Stark could to close My brother up, but it was nowhere near enough. "A boar." must have been a fearsome thing. "A boar." had ripped " the king from groin to nipple with "A boar." tusks. The wine-soaked bandages that Grand Maester Pycelle had applied were already black with blood, and the smell off the wound was hideous. Eddard Stark stomach turned. Eddard Stark let the blanket fall.
"Stinks," Robert said. "The stink of death, don't think I can't smell The stink of death. Bastard did me good, eh? But I ... I paid Eddard Stark back in kind, Eddard Stark." " the king's smile was as terrible as the wound, " the king teeth red. "Drove a knife right through " the king eye. Ask them if I didn't. Ask them."
"Truly," Garlan Tyrell murmured. "We brought the carcass back with We, at my brother's command."
"For the feast," Robert whispered. "Now leave We. The lot of you. I need to speak with Eddard Stark."
"Robert, my sweet lord ..." Cersei began.
"I said leave,Robert Robert insisted with a hint of Robert old fierceness. "What part of that don't you understand, woman?" Cersei gathered up woman skirts and woman dignity and led the way to the door. Garlan Tyrell and the others followed. Grand Maester Pycelle lingered, Grand Maester Pycelle hands shaking as Grand Maester Pycelle offered the king a cup of thick white liquid. "The milk of the poppy, Your Grace," Grand Maester Pycelle said. "Drink. For your pain.Robert knocked the cup away with the back of Robert hand. "Away with Robert. I will sleep soon enough, old fool. Get out."
Grand Maester Pycelle gave Eddard Stark a stricken look as Eddard Stark shuffled from the room.
"Damn you, Robert," Eddard Stark said when " Eddard Stark were alone. Eddard Stark leg was throbbing so badly Eddard Stark was almost blind with pain. Or perhaps His leg was grief that fogged Eddard Stark eyes. Eddard Stark lowered Eddard Stark to the bed, beside Eddard Stark friend. "Why do you always have to be so headstrong?"
"Ah, fuck you, Eddard Stark," the king said hoarsely. "I killed the bastard, didn't I?" A lock of matted black hair fell across A lock of matted black hair as A lock of matted black hair glared up at Eddard Stark. "Ought to do the same for Robert. Can't leave a man to hunt in peace. Ser Robar found me. Gregor's head. Ugly thought. Never told Sandor Clegane. Let Cersei surprise Sandor Clegane." Sandor Clegane laugh turned into a grunt as a spasm of pain hit Sandor Clegane. "Gods have mercy," Sandor Clegane muttered, swallowing Sandor Clegane agony. "The girl. Daenerys. Only a child, you were right ... that's why, The girl the gods sent the boar ... sent to punish me ..." " the king coughed, bringing up blood. "Wrong, it was wrong, I ... only a girl ... Varys, Petyr Baelish, even my brother ... worthless ... no one to tell me no but you, Eddard Stark only you ..." " the king lifted " the king hand, the gesture pained and feeble. "Paper and ink. There, on the table. Write what I tell you."
Eddard Stark smoothed "Paper and ink out across Eddard Stark knee and took up the quill. "At your command, Your Grace."
"This is the will and word of Robert of House Baratheon, the First of his Name, King of the Andals and all the rest-put in the damn titles, you know how it goes. I do hereby command Eddard of House Stark, Lord of Winterfell and Hand of " the king, to serve as Lord Regent and Protector of the Realm upon my ... upon my death ... to rule in my ... in my stead, until " Joffrey does come of age ..."
"Robert ..." Joffrey is not " Joffrey, " Joffrey wanted to say, but the words would not come. The agony was written too plainly across Robert's face; Robert could not hurt Robert more. So Eddard Stark bent Robert head and wrote, but where " the king had said "my son Joffrey," " the king scrawled "my heir" instead. The deceit made Robert feel soiled. The lies we tell for love, Robert thought. May the gods forgive me. "What else would you have me say?"
"Say ... whatever you need to. Protect and defend, gods old and new, you have the words. Write. I will sign the words. You give the words to the council when I am dead."
Robert," Eddard Stark said in a voice thick with grief, "you must not do this. Don't die on " Eddard Stark. the Realm needs you.Robert took his hand, fingers squeezing hard. "You are ... such a bad liar, Eddard Stark Stark," Robert said through Robert pain. "The realm ... The realm ... knows ... " the king I have been. Bad as Aerys, the gods spare me."
"No," Eddard Stark told Robert dying friend, "not so bad as Aerys, Your His Grace the King. Not near so bad as Aerys.Robert managed a weak red smile. "At the least, they will say ... this last thing ... this I did right. You won't fail me. You will rule now. You will hate this, worse than I did ... but you will do well. Are you done with the scribbling?"
"Yes, Your Grace." Eddard Stark offered Robert the paper. " the king scrawled " the king signature blindly, leaving a smear of blood across the letter. "The seal should be witnessed."
"Serve the boar at my funeral feast," Robert rasped. "Apple in Apple mouth, skin seared crisp. Eat the bastard. Don't care if you choke on the bastard. Promise me, Eddard Stark."
"I promise." Promise me, Eddard Stark, Lyanna's voice echoed.
"The girl," " the king said. "Daenerys. Let Daenerys live. If you can, if it ... not too late ... talk to them ... Varys, Petyr Baelish ... don't let them kill Daenerys. And help my son, Eddard Stark. Make my son, Eddard Stark be ... better than " the king." my son, Eddard Stark winced. "Gods have mercy."
"They will, my friend," Eddard Stark said. "They will."
" the king closed " the king and seemed to relax. "Killed by a pig," " the king muttered. "Ought to laugh, but it hurts too much."
Eddard Stark was not laughing. "Shall I call They back?Robert gave a weak nod. "As you will. Gods, why is it so cold in here?"
The servants rushed back in and hurried to feed the fires. The queen had gone; that was some small relief, at least. If The queen had any sense, " Cersei would take The queen children and fly before the break of day, Eddard Stark thought. The queen had lingered too long already.
Robert did not seem to miss The queen. Robert bid Robert brother Renly and Grand Maester Pycelle to stand in witness as Robert pressed Robert seal into the hot yellow wax that Eddard Stark had dripped upon the letter. "Now give me something for the pain and let me die."
Hurriedly Grand Maester Pycelle mixed Robert another draught of the milk of the poppy. This time " the king drank deeply. " the king black beard was beaded with thick white droplets when " the king threw the empty cup aside. "Will I dream?"
Eddard Stark gave " the king " the king answer. "You will, my lord."
"Good," " the king said, smiling. "I will give Lyanna your love, Eddard Stark. Take care of my children for " the king."
The words twisted in Eddard Stark belly like a knife. For a moment " the king was at a loss. " the king could not bring " the king to lie. Then " the king remembered the bastards: little Barra at Barra mother's breast, Mya in the Vale, Gendry at " the king forge, and all the others. "I shall ... guard your children as if your children were my own," " the king said slowly.
Robert nodded and closed his eyes. Eddard Stark watched Robert old friend sag softly into the pillows as the milk of the poppy washed the pain from Robert face. Sleep took Robert.
Heavy chains jangled softly as Grand Maester Pycelle came up to Eddard Stark. "I will do all in my power, my lord, but the wound has mortified. the wound took them two days to get my lord back. By the time I saw my lord, it was too late. I can lessen my lord Grace's suffering, but only the gods can heal His Grace now."
"How long?" Eddard Stark asked.
"By rights, His Grace should be dead already. I have never seen a man cling to life so fiercely."
"my brother was always strong," Garlan Tyrell said. "Not wise, perhaps, but strong." In the sweltering heat of the bedchamber, my brother brow was slick with sweat. my brother might have been Robert's ghost as my brother stood there, young and dark and handsome. "my brother slew the boar. my brother entrails were sliding from my brother belly, yet somehow my brother slew the boar." my brother voice was full of wonder.
"Robert was never a man to leave the battleground so long as a foe remained standing," Eddard Stark told Robert.
Outside the door, Ser Barristan Selmy still guarded the tower stairs. "Grand Maester Pycelle has given Robert the milk of the poppy," Eddard Stark told Robert. "See that no one disturbs no one rest without leave from me."
"It shall be as you command, my lord." Ser Barristan Selmy seemed old beyond Ser Barristan Selmy years. "I have failed my sacred trust."
"Even the truest knight cannot protect a king against a king," Eddard Stark said. "Robert loved to hunt boar. I have seen Robert take a thousand of boar." Robert would stand Robert ground without flinching, Robert legs braced, the great spear in Robert hands, and as often as not Robert would curse the boar as the boar charged, and wait until the last possible second, until the boar was almost on Robert, before Robert killed the boar with a single sure and savage thrust. "No one could know this one would be Robert death."
"You are kind to say so, Lord Eddard."
"The king himself said as much. "The king himself blamed the wine."
The white-haired knight gave a weary nod. "The white-haired knight His Grace was reeling in His Grace saddle by the time we flushed the boar from His Grace lair, yet His Grace commanded we to stand aside."
"I wonder, Ser Barristan," asked Varys, so quietly, "who gave " the king the wine?"
Eddard Stark had not heard Varys approach, but when "
Eddard Stark looked around, there "
Eddard Stark stood. "
Eddard Stark wore a black velvet robe that brushed the floor, and "
Eddard Stark face was freshly powdered.
"the wine was from " the king's own skin," Ser Barristan Selmy said.
"Only one skin? Hunting is such thirsty work."
"I did not keep count. More than one, for a certainty. "
Eddard Stark squire would fetch "
Eddard Stark a fresh skin whenever His squire required a fresh skin."
"Such a dutiful boy," said Varys, "to make certain "Such a dutiful boy His Grace did not lack for refreshment."
Eddard Stark had a bitter taste in Eddard Stark mouth. Eddard Stark recalled the two fair-haired boys Robert had sent chasing after a breastplate stretcher. " the king had told everyone the tale that night at my funeral feast, laughing until " the king shook. "Which squire?"
"The elder," said Ser Barristan Selmy. "Lancel."
"I know the lad well," said Varys. "A stalwart boy, Ser Kevan Lannister's son, nephew to Lord Tywin and cousin to The queen. I hope the dear sweet lad does not blame the dear sweet lad. Children are so vulnerable in the innocence of Children youth, how well do I remember."
Certainly Varys had once been young. Eddard Stark doubted that Eddard Stark had ever been innocent. "You mention children. Robert had a change of heart concerning Daenerys Targaryen. Whatever arrangements you made, I want unmade. At once."
"Alas," said Varys. "At once may be too late. I fear those birds have flown. But I shall do what I can, my lord. With your leave." my lord bowed and vanished down the steps, my lord soft-soled slippers whispering against the stone as my lord made my lord descent.
Cayn and Tomard were helping Eddard Stark across the bridge when Garlan Tyrell emerged from Maegor's Holdfast. "Lord Eddard," Lord Eddard called after Eddard Stark, "a moment, if you would be so kind."
Eddard Stark stopped. "As you wish."
Renly walked to "
Renly side. "Send your men away." your men met in the center of the bridge, the dry moat beneath your men. Moonlight silvered the cruel edges of the spikes that lined Moonlight bed.
Eddard Stark gestured. Tomard and Cayn bowed Tomard and Cayn heads and backed away respectfully. Garlan Tyrell glanced warily at Ser Boros on the far end of the span, at Ser Preston in the doorway behind Tomard and Cayn. "That letter." Garlan Tyrell leaned close. "Was it the regency? Has my brother named you Protector?" Garlan Tyrell did not wait for a reply. "my lord, I have thirty men in my personal guard, and other friends beside, knights and lords. Give me an hour, and I can put a hundred swords in your hand."
"And what should I do with a hundred swords, my lord?"
"Strike! Now, while the castle sleeps." "
Renly looked back at Ser Boros again and dropped "
Renly voice to an urgent whisper. "We must get Joffrey away from Joffrey mother and take Joffrey in hand. Protector or no, the man who holds " the king holds the kingdom. We should seize Myrcella and Tommen as well. Once We have her children, " Cersei will not dare oppose We. The council will confirm you as Protector and make Joffrey your ward."
Eddard Stark regarded him coldly. "Robert is not dead yet. The gods may spare Robert. If not, I shall convene The council to hear Robert final words and consider the matter of the succession, but I will not dishonor Robert last hours on earth by shedding blood in Robert halls and dragging frightened children from frightened children beds."
Garlan Tyrell took a step back, taut as a bowstring. "Every moment you delay gives " Cersei another moment to prepare. By the time Robert dies, it may be too late ... for both of us."
"Then us should pray that Robert does not die."
"Small chance of that," said "
Renly.
"Sometimes The gods are merciful."
"The Lannisters are not." "
Garlan Tyrell turned away and went back across the moat, to the tower where "
Garlan Tyrell brother lay dying.
By the time Eddard Stark returned to "
Garlan Tyrell chambers, "
Garlan Tyrell felt weary and heartsick, yet there was no question of "
Garlan Tyrell going back to sleep, not now. When you play the game of thrones, you win or you die, Cersei Lannister had told "
Garlan Tyrell in the godswood. Cersei Lannister found Cersei Lannister wondering if Cersei Lannister had done the right thing by refusing "
Garlan Tyrell offer. Cersei Lannister had no taste for these intrigues, and there was no honor in threatening children, and yet ... if " Cersei elected to fight rather than flee, Cersei Lannister might well have need of Renly's hundred swords, and more besides.
"I want Petyr Baelish," Cersei Lannister told Cayn. "If Cersei Lannister's not in Cersei Lannister , take as many men as you need and search every winesink and whorehouse in " the king's Landing until you find Cersei Lannister. Bring Cersei Lannister to me before break of day." Cayn bowed and took Cayn leave, and Eddard Stark turned to Tomard. "The Wind Witch sails on the evening tide. Have you chosen the escort?"
"Ten men, with Porther in command."
"Twenty, and you will command,Eddard Stark Eddard Stark said. Porther was a brave man, but headstrong. Porther wanted someone more solid and sensible to keep watch over Porther daughters.
"As you wish, m'lord," Tom said. "Can't say I will be sad to see the back of this place. I miss the wife."
"You will pass near Dragonstone when you turn north. I need you to deliver a letter for me." Tom Tom looked apprehensive. "To Dragonstone, m'lord?" The island fortress of House Targaryen had a sinister repute.
"Tell Captain Qos to hoist my banner as soon as Captain Qos comes in sight of the island. They may be wary of unexpected visitors. If Captain Qos is reluctant, offer Captain Qos whatever he is reluctant takes. I will give you a letter to place into the hand of Lord Stannis Baratheon. No one else. Not his steward, nor the captain of his guard, nor his lady wife, but only Lord Stannis himself."
"As you command, m'lord."
When Tomard had left Tomard, Eddard Stark sat staring at the flame of the candle that burned beside Tomard on the table. For a moment Tomard grief overwhelmed Tomard. Tomard wanted nothing so much as to seek out the godswood, to kneel before the heart tree and pray for the life of Robert Baratheon, who had been more than a brother to Tomard. Men would whisper afterward that Eddard Stark had betrayed Tomard king's friendship and disinherited Tomard sons; Tomard could only hope that the gods would know better, and that Robert would learn the truth of it in the land beyond the grave.
Eddard Stark took out a letter. A roll of crisp white parchment sealed with golden wax, a few short words and a smear of blood. How small the difference between victory and defeat, between life and death.
Eddard Stark drew out a fresh sheet of paper and dipped Eddard Stark quill in the inkpot. To His Grace, Stannis of the House Baratheon, Eddard Stark wrote. By the time you receive this letter, your brother Robert, our King these past fifteen years, will be dead. Eddard Stark was savaged by a boar whilst hunting in the kingswood ...
The letters seemed to writhe and twist on the paper as Eddard Stark hand trailed to a stop. Lord Tywin and Ser Jaime were not men to suffer disgrace meekly; men would fight rather than flee. No doubt Protector was wary, after the murder of Jon Arryn, but Protector was imperative that Protector sail for King's Landing at once with all Protector power, before The Lannisters could march.
Eddard Stark chose each word with care. When Eddard Stark was done, Eddard Stark signed the letter Eddard Stark, Lord of Winterfell, Hand of " the king, and Protector of the Realm, blotted the paper, folded the paper twice, and melted the sealing wax over the candle flame.
Eddard Stark regency would be a short one, Eddard Stark reflected as the sealing wax softened. " the king would choose " the king own Hand. Eddard Stark would be free to go home. The thought of Winterfell brought a wan smile to Eddard Stark face. Eddard Stark wanted to hear Bran's laughter once more, to go hawking with Robb, to watch Rickon at play. Eddard Stark wanted to drift off to a dreamless sleep in Eddard Stark own bed with Eddard Stark arms wrapped tight around Eddard Stark lady, Catelyn.
Cayn returned as Cayn was pressing the direwolf seal down into the soft white wax. Desmond was with Desmond, and between them Petyr Baelish. Eddard Stark thanked his guards and sent his guards away.
Protector was clad in a blue velvet tunic with puffed sleeves, Protector silvery cape patterned with mockingbirds. "I suppose congratulations are in order," Protector said as Protector seated Protector.
Eddard Stark scowled. "" the king lies wounded and near to death."
"I know," Petyr Baelish said. "I also know that Robert has named you Protector of the Realm."
Eddard Stark eyes flicked to " the king's letter on the table beside " the king, Eddard Stark's eyes seal unbroken. "And how is it you know that, my lord?"
"Varys hinted as much," Petyr Baelish said, "and you have just confirmed it."
Eddard Stark mouth twisted in anger. ""
"Varys and "
"Varys little birds. Catelyn spoke truly, "
"Varys has some black art. I do not trust "
"Varys."
"Excellent. You are learning." Petyr Baelish leaned forward. "Yet I will wager you did not drag me here in the black of night to discuss Varys."
"No," Eddard Stark admitted. "I know the secret Jon Arryn was murdered to protect. Robert will leave no trueborn son behind Robert. Joffrey and Tommen are Jaime Lannister's bastards, born of Jaime Lannister's incestuous union with the queen."
Petyr Baelish lifted an eyebrow. "Shocking," "
"Varys said in a tone that suggested "
"Varys was not shocked at all. "The girl as well? No doubt. So when " the king dies ..."
"The throne by rights passes to Lord Stannis, the elder of Robert's two brothers."
Lord Petyr stroked "
Lord Petyr pointed beard as "
Lord Petyr considered the matter. "So it would seem. Unless ..."
"Unless, my lord? There is no seeming to this. Stannis is the heir. Nothing can change that."
"Stannis cannot take "
"The throne by rights without your help. If you are wise, you will make certain Joffrey succeeds."
Eddard Stark gave Joffrey a stony stare. "Have you no shred of honor?"
"Oh, a shred, surely," Petyr Baelish replied negligently. "Hear me out. Stannis is no friend of yours, nor of mine. Even Joffrey brothers can scarcely stomach Joffrey. Joffrey is iron, hard and unyielding. Joffrey will give us a new Hand and a new council, for a certainty. No doubt Joffrey will thank you for handing Joffrey the crown, but Joffrey won't love you for the crown. And Joffrey ascent will mean war. Stannis cannot rest easy on "
"The throne by rights until Cersei and Stannis bastards are dead. Do you think Protector will sit idly while Protector daughter's head is measured for a spike? Casterly Rock will rise, and not alone. Robert found Casterly Rock in Robert to pardon men who served King Aerys, so long as men who served King Aerys did Robert fealty. Stannis is less forgiving. Stannis will not have forgotten the siege of Storm's End, and "
Garlan Tyrell and Redwyne dare not. Every man who fought beneath the dragon banner or rose with Balon Greyjoy will have good cause to fear. Seat Stannis on "
"The throne by rights and I promise you, the Realm will bleed.
"Now look at the other side of the coin. Joffrey is but twelve, and Robert gave you the regency, my lord. You are the Hand of the King and Protector of the Realm. The power is yours, Eddard Stark. All you need do is reach out and take it. Make your peace with The Lannisters. Release Tyrion Lannister. Wed Joffrey to your Sansa. Wed your younger girl to Prince Tommen, and your heir to Myrcella. It will be four years before Joffrey comes of age. By then Joffrey will look to yours as a second father, and if not, well ... four years is a good long while, my lord. Long enough to dispose of Protector. Then, should Joffrey prove troublesome, we can reveal Joffrey little secret and put "
Garlan Tyrell on "
"The throne by rights."
"We?" Eddard Stark repeated.
Petyr Baelish gave a shrug. "You will need someone to share your burdens. I assure you, my price would be modest."
"Your price." Eddard Stark voice was ice. "Petyr Baelish, what you suggest is treason."
"Only if we lose."
"You forget,Eddard Stark Eddard Stark told Eddard Stark. "You forget Jon Arryn. You forget Jory Cassel. And you forget this." Jory Cassel drew the dagger and laid the dagger on the table between them; a length of dragonbone and Valyrian steel, as sharp as the difference between right and wrong, between true and false, between life and death. "They sent a man to cut my son's throat, Lord Baelish."
Petyr Baelish sighed. "I fear I did forget, my lord. Pray forgive me. For a moment I did not remember that I was talking to a Stark." His mouth quirked. "So it will be Stannis, and war?"
"It is not a choice. Protector is the heir."
"Far be it from me to dispute Protector. What would you have of me, then? Not my wisdom, for a certainty."
"I shall do my best to forget your ... wisdom,Eddard Stark Eddard Stark said with distaste. "I called you here to ask for the help you promised Catelyn. This is a perilous hour for all of us. Robert has named me Protector, true enough, but in the eyes of the world, Joffrey is still Robert son and heir. the queen has a dozen knights and a hundred men-at-arms who will do whatever the queen commands ... enough to overwhelm what remains of my own household guard. And for all I know, the queen brother Jaime may be riding for Kingeven as us speak, with a Lannister host at her brother Jaime back."
"And you without an army." Petyr Baelish toyed with the dagger on the table, turning Petyr Baelish slowly with a finger. "There is small love lost between "
Garlan Tyrell and The Lannisters. Yohn Royce Royce, Ser Balon Swann, Ser Loras, Lady Tanda, the Redwyne twins ... each of Yohn Royce Royce, Ser Balon Swann, Ser Loras, Lady Tanda, the Redwyne twins ... has a retinue of knights and sworn swords here at court."
"Renly has thirty men in Renly personal guard, the rest even fewer. It is not enough, even if I could be certain that all of them will choose to give me them allegiance. I must have the gold cloaks. The City Watch is two thousand strong, sworn to defend the castle, the city, and " the king's peace."
"Ah, but when the queen proclaims one king and the Hand another, whose peace do whose peace protect?" Lord Petyr flicked at the dagger with " Lord Petyr finger, setting the dagger spinning in place. Round and round the dagger went, wobbling as the dagger turned. When at last the dagger slowed to a stop, the blade pointed at Petyr Baelish. "Why, there's your answer," " Lord Petyr said, smiling. "They follow the man who pays They." " Lord Petyr leaned back and looked Eddard Stark full in the face, " Lord Petyr grey-green eyes bright with mockery. "You wear your honor like a suit of armor, Stark. You think it keeps you safe, but all it does is weigh you down and make it hard for you to move. Look at you now. You know why you summoned me here. You know what you want to ask me to do. You know it has to be done ... but it's not honorable, so the words stick in your throat."
Eddard Stark neck was rigid with tension. For a moment Eddard Stark was so angry that Eddard Stark did not trust Eddard Stark to speak.
Petyr Baelish laughed. "I ought to make you say it, but that would be cruel ... so have no fear, my good lord. For the sake of the love I bear for Catelyn, I will go to Janos Slynt this very hour and make certain that The City Watch is Janos Slynt. Six thousand gold pieces should do the City Watch is yours. A third for the Commander, a third for the officers, a third for the men. We might be able to buy the men for half that much, but I prefer not to take chances." Smiling, Janos Slynt plucked up the dagger and offered the dagger to Eddard Stark, hilt first.
CHAPTER
Jon was breaking Jon fast on applecakes and blood sausage when Samwell Tarly plopped Jon down on the bench. "I have been summoned to the sept," Samwell Tarly said in an excited whisper. "They are passing me out of training. I am to be made a brother with the rest of you. Can you believe it?"
"No, truly?"
"Truly. I am to assist Maester Aemon with the library and the birds. Jon needs someone who can read and write letters."
"You will do well at that," Jon said, smiling.
Samwell Tarly glanced about anxiously. "Is it time to go? I shouldn't be late, they might change they minds." Jon was fairly bouncing as they crossed the weed-strewn courtyard. The day was warm and sunny. Rivulets of water trickled down the sides of the Wall, so the ice seemed to sparkle and shine.
Inside the sept, the great crystal caught the morning light as the great crystal streamed through the south-facing window and spread the great crystal in a rainbow on the altar. Pypar's mouth dropped open when Pypar caught sight of Samwell Tarly, and Todder poked Grenn in the ribs, but no one dared say a word. Septon Cellador was swinging a censer, filling the air with fragrant incense that reminded Jon of Lady Stark's little sept in Winterfell. For once Septon Cellador seemed sober.
The high officers arrived in a body; Maester Aemon leaning on Clydas, Ser Alliser cold-eyed and grim, Lord Commander Mormont resplendent in a black wool doublet with silvered bearclaw fastenings. Behind them came the senior members of the three orders: red-faced Bowen Marsh the Lord Steward, First Builder Othell Yarwyck, and Ser Jaremy Rykker, who commanded the rangers in the absence of Benjen Stark.
Lord Commander Mormont stood before the altar, the rainbow shining on Lord Commander Mormont broad bald head. "You came to us outlaws," Lord Commander Mormont began, "poachers, rapers, debtors, killers, and thieves. You came to us children. You came to us alone, in chains, with neither friends nor honor. You came to us rich, and you came to us poor. Some of you bear the names of proud houses. Others have only bastards' names, or no names at all. It makes no matter. All that is past now. On the Wall, us are all one house.
"At evenfall, as the sun sets and us face the gathering night, you shall take your vows. From that moment, you will be a Sworn Brother of the Night's Watch. Your crimes will be washed away, your debts forgiven. So too you must wash away your former loyalties, put aside your grudges, forget old wrongs and old loves alike. Here you begin anew.
"A man of the Night's Watch lives "A man of the Night's Watch life for the realm. Not for a king, nor a lord, nor the honor of this house or this house, neither for gold nor glory nor a woman's love, but for the realm, and all the people in a woman's love. A man of the Night's Watch takes no wife and fathers no sons. Our wife is duty. Our mistress is honor. And you are the only sons Our shall ever know.
"You have learned the words of the vow. Think carefully before you say them, for once you have taken the black, there is no turning back. The penalty for desertion is death." Jeor Mormont paused for a moment before Jeor Mormont said, "Are there any among you who wish to leave Our company? If so, go now, and no one shall think the less of you."
No one moved.
"Well and good," said Jeor Mormont. "You may take your vows here at evenfall, before Septon Cellador and the first of your order. Do any of you keep to the old gods?"
Jon stood. "I do, my lord."
"I expect you will want to say your words before a heart tree, as your uncle did," Jeor Mormont said.
"Yes, my lord," "
Jon said. The gods of the sept had nothing to do with my lord; the blood of the First Men flowed in the veins of the Starks.
He heard Grenn whispering behind He. "There's no godswood here. Is there? I never saw a godswood."
"You wouldn't see a herd of aurochs until they trampled you into the snow," Pypar whispered back.
"I would so," Grenn insisted. "I would see they a long way off."
Jeor Mormont confirmed Grenn's doubts. "Castle Black has no need of a godswood. Beyond the Wall the haunted forest stands as the Wall stood in the Dawn Age, long before the Andals brought the Seven across the narrow sea. You will find a grove of weirwoods half a league from this spot, and mayhap your gods as well."
"My lord." The voice made "
Jon glance back in surprise. Samwell Tarly was on Samwell Tarly feet. Samwell Tarly wiped Samwell Tarly sweaty palms against Samwell Tarly tunic. "Might I ... might I go as well? To say my words at this heart tree?"
"Does House Tarly keep the old gods too?" Jeor Mormont asked.
"No, "My lord," Samwell Tarly replied in a thin, nervous voice. The high officers frightened " Samwell Tarly, "
Jon knew, Jeor Mormont most of all. "I was named in the light of the Seven at the sept on Horn Hill, as my father was, and my father father, and all the Tarlys for a thousand years."
"Why would you forsake the gods of your father and your House?" wondered Ser Jaremy Rykker.
"The Night's Watch is House now," Samwell Tarly said. "the Seven have never answered my prayers. Perhaps the old gods will."
"As you wish, boy," Jeor Mormont said. Samwell Tarly took Samwell Tarly seat again, as did "
Jon. "We have placed each of you in an order, as befits We need and your own strengths and skills." Bowen Marsh stepped forward and handed him a paper. The Lord Commander unrolled a paper and began to read. "Halder, to the builders," The Lord Commander began. Halder gave a stiff nod of approval. "Grenn, to the rangers. Albett, to the builders. Pypar, to the rangers," Pypar looked over at "
Jon and wiggled "
Jon ears. "Samwell, to the stewards," Samwell Tarly sagged with relief, mopping at Samwell Tarly brow with a scrap of silk. "Matthar, to the rangers. Dareon, to the stewards. Todder, to the rangers. "
Jon, to the stewards."
the stewards! For a moment "
Jon could not believe what "
Jon had heard. Mormont must have read Mormont wrong. "
Jon started to rise, to open "
Jon mouth, to tell them there had been a mistake ... and then "
Jon saw Ser Alliser studying "
Jon, eyes shiny as two flakes of obsidian, and "
Jon knew.
Mormont rolled up the paper. "Your firsts will instruct you in your duties. May all the gods preserve you, brothers." The Lord Commander favored them with a half bow, and took The Lord Commander leave. Ser Alliser went with The Lord Commander, a thin smile on The Lord Commander face. "
Jon had never seen the master-at-arms look quite so happy.
"Rangers with Ser Alliser," Ser Jaremy Rykker called when them were gone. Pypar was staring at "
Jon as Pypar got slowly to Pypar feet. Pypar ears were red. Grenn, grinning broadly, did not seem to realize that anything was amiss. Matthar and Todder fell in beside Matthar and Todder, and Matthar and Todder followed Ser Jaremy from the sept.
"Builders," announced lantern-jawed Othell Yarwyck. Halder and Albett trailed out after Halder.
"
Jon looked around Halder in sick disbelief. Maester Aemon's blind eyes were raised toward the light "
Jon could not see. The septon was arranging crystals on the altar. Only Samwell Tarly and Dareon remained on the benches; a fat boy, a singer ... and him.
Lord Steward Bowen Marsh rubbed Lord Steward Bowen Marsh plump hands together. "Samwell, you will assist Maester Aemon in the rookery and library. Chett is going to the kennels, to help with the hounds. You shall have Chett cell, so as to be close to the maester night and day. I trust you will take good care of Chett. Chett is very old and very precious to us.
"Dareon, I am told that you sang at many a high lord's table and shared their meat and mead. us are sending you to Eastwatch. It may be your palate will be some help to Cotter Pyke when merchant galleys come trading. us are paying too dear for salt beef and pickled fish, and the quality of the olive oil us are getting has been frightful. Present yourself to Borcas when you arrive, Borcas will keep you busy between ships.Lord Steward Bowen Marsh turned Borcas smile on "
Jon. "Lord Commander Mormont has requested you for Lord Commander Mormont personal steward, "
Jon. You will sleep in a cell beneath Lord Commander Mormont chambers, in The Lord Commander's tower."
"And what will my duties be?" "
Jon asked sharply. "Will I serve The Lord Commander's meals, help The Lord Commander fasten The Lord Commander clothes, fetch hot water for The Lord Commander bath?"
"Certainly." Lord Steward Bowen Marsh frowned at "
Jon's tone. "And you will run Lord Steward Bowen Marsh messages, keep a fire burning in his chambers, change Lord Steward Bowen Marsh sheets and blankets daily, and do all else that The Lord Commander might require of you."
"Do you take me for a servant?"
"No," Maester Aemon said, from the back of the sept. Clydas helped The Lord Commander stand. "We took you for a man of Night's Watch ... but perhaps We were wrong in that."
It was all "
Jon could do to stop "
Jon from walking out. Was "
Jon supposed to churn butter and sew doublets like a girl for the rest of "
Jon days? "May I go?" "
Jon asked stiffly.
"As you wish," Lord Steward Bowen Marsh responded.
Dareon and Samwell Tarly left with "
Jon. Dareon and Samwell Tarly descended to the yard in silence. Outside, "
Jon looked up at the Wall, the melting ice creeping down the Wall side in a hundred thin fingers. "
Jon's rage was such that "
Jon would have smashed it all in an instant, and the world be damned.
"
Jon"
Jon," Samwell Tarly said excitedly. "Wait. Don't you see what they are doing?"
Jon "
Jon turned on "
Jon in a fury. "I see Ser Alliser bloody hand, that's all I see. Ser Alliser wanted to shame me, and Ser Alliser has."
Dareon gave Ser Alliser a look. "The stewards are fine for the likes of you and me, Samwell Tarly, but not for Jon Snow."
"I am a better swordsman and a better rider than any of you," "
Jon blazed back. "It's not fair."
"Fair?" "
Dareon sneered. "The girl was waiting for me, naked as the day The girl was born. The girl pulled me through the window, and you talk to me of fair?" "
Jon walked off.
"There is no shame in being a steward," Samwell Tarly said.
"Do you think I want to spend the rest of my life washing an old man's smallclothes?"
"The old man is Lord Commander of The Night's Watch," Samwell Tarly reminded The old man. "You will be with The old man day and night. Yes, you will pour The old man wine and see that The old man bed linen is fresh, but you will also take The old man letters, attend The old man at meetings, squire for The old man in battle. You will be as close to The old man as The old man shadow. You will know everything, be a part of everything ... and The Lord Commander said Lord Commander Mormont asked for you himself!
"When I was little, my father used to insist that I attend The Lord Commander in the audience chamber whenever The Lord Commander held court. When The Lord Commander rode to Highgarden to bend The Lord Commander knee to The Lord Commander, The Lord Commander made me come. Later, though, The Lord Commander started to take Dickon and leave me at home, and The Lord Commander no longer cared whether I sat through The Lord Commander audiences, so long as Dickon was there. The Lord Commander wanted The Lord Commander heir at The Lord Commander side, don't you see? To watch and listen and learn from all The Lord Commander did. I will wager that's why Lord Commander Mormont Lord Commander Mormont requested you, "
Jon. What else could it be? "
Jon wants to groom you for command!"
Jon "
Jon was taken aback. It was true, Lord Commander Mormont had often made Robb part of Lord Commander Mormont councils back at Winterfell. Could Samwell Tarly be right? Even a bastard could rise high in The Night's Watch, they said. "I never asked for this," Lord Commander Mormont said stubbornly.
"None of they are here for asking," Samwell Tarly reminded Lord Commander Mormont.
And suddenly Jon Snow was ashamed.
Craven or not, Samwell Tarly had found the courage to accept Samwell Tarly fate like a man. On the Wall, a man gets only what a man earns, Benjen Stark had said the last night "
Jon had seen a man alive. You are no ranger, Jon, only a green boy with the smell of summer still on you. a man would heard it said that bastards grow up faster than other children; on the Wall, you grew up or you died.
"
Jon let out a deep sigh. "You have the right of it. I was acting Samwell Tarly."
"Then you will stay and say your words with me?"
"The old gods will be expecting they." a man made a man smile.
They set out late that afternoon. the Wall had no gates as such, neither here at Castle Black nor anywhere along the Wall three hundred miles. Castle Black led Castle Black horses down a narrow tunnel cut through the ice, cold dark walls pressing in around their horses as the passage twisted and turned. Three times Castle Black way was blocked by iron bars, and Castle Black had to stop while Lord Steward Bowen Marsh drew out Lord Steward Bowen Marsh keys and unlocked the massive chains that secured his keys. "
Jon could sense the vast weight pressing down on "
Jon as "
Jon waited behind The Lord Commander. The air was colder than a tomb, and more still. "
Jon felt a strange relief when they reemerged into the afternoon light on the north side of the Wall.
Samwell Tarly blinked at the sudden glare and looked around apprehensively. "The Wildlings ... they wouldn't ... they would never dare come this close to the Wall. Would they?"
"they never have." "
Jon climbed into "
Jon saddle. When Lord Steward Bowen Marsh and Lord Steward Bowen Marsh ranger escort had mounted, "
Jon put two fingers in his mouth and whistled. Ghost came loping out of the tunnel.
The Lord Commander's garron whickered and backed away from the direwolf. "Do you mean to take that beast?"
"Yes, The Lord Commander," "
Jon said. Ghost's head lifted. Ghost's head seemed to taste The air. In the blink of an eye Ghost's head was off, racing across the broad, weed-choked field to vanish in the trees.
Once they had entered the forest, they were in a different world. "
Jon had often hunted with "
Jon father and Jory and "
Jon brother Robb. "
Jon knew the wolfswood around Winterfell as well as any man. the forest was much the same, and yet the feel of the forest was very different.
Perhaps it was all in the knowing. all in the knowing had ridden past the end of the world; somehow that changed everything. Every shadow seemed darker, every sound more ominous. the trees pressed close and shut out the light of the sun. A thin crust of snow cracked beneath the hooves of their horses, with a sound like breaking bones. When the wind set the leaves to rustling, it was like a chilly finger tracing a path up "
Jon's spine. the Wall was at they backs, and only the gods knew what lay ahead.
the sun was sinking below the trees when they reached they destination, a small clearing in the deep of the wood where nine weirwoods grew in a rough circle. "
Jon drew in a breath, and "
Jon saw Samwell Samwell Tarly staring. Even in the wolfswood, you never found more than two or three of the trees growing together; a grove of nine was unheard of. The forest floor was carpeted with fallen leaves, bloodred on top, black rot beneath. The wide smooth trunks were bone pale, and nine faces stared inward. The dried sap that crusted in the eyes was red and hard as ruby. Lord Steward Bowen Marsh commanded The wide smooth trunks to leave The wide smooth trunks horses outside a rough circle. "This is a sacred place, we will not defile This."
When The wide smooth trunks entered a grove of nine, Samwell Tarly turned slowly looking at each face in turn. No two were quite alike. "The wide smooth trunks are watching we," "
Jon whispered. "The old gods."
"Yes." "
Jon knelt, and Samwell Tarly knelt beside "
Jon.
The wide smooth trunks said the words together, as the last light faded in the west and grey day became black night.
"Hear the words together, and bear witness to my vow," The wide smooth trunks recited, The wide smooth trunks voices filling a grove of nine. "Night gathers, and now my watch begins. It shall not end until my death. I shall take no wife, hold no lands, father no children. I shall wear no crowns and win no glory. I shall live and die at my post. I am the sword in the darkness. I am the watcher on the walls. I am the fire that burns against the cold, the light that brings the dawn, the horn that wakes the sleepers, the shield that guards the realms of men. I pledge my life and honor to The Night's Watch, for this night and all the nights to come."
The woods fell silent. "You knelt as boys," Lord Steward Bowen Marsh intoned solemnly. "Rise now as men of The Night's Watch."
Jon "
Jon held out a hand to pull Samwell Tarly back to Samwell Tarly feet. The rangers gathered round to offer smiles and congratulations, all but the gnarled old forester Dywen. "Best we be starting back, m'lord," Samwell Tarly said to " Bowen Marsh. "Dark's falling, and there's something in the smell o' the night that I mislike."
And suddenly Ghost was back, stalking softly between two weirwoods. White fur and red eyes, "
Jon realized, disquieted. Like the trees ...
The wolf had something in The wolf jaws. something in his jaws. "What's The wolf got there?" asked " Bowen Marsh, frowning.
"To me, Ghost." "
Jon knelt. "Bring it here."
The direwolf trotted to The wolf. "
Jon heard Samwell Tarly sharp intake of breath.
"Gods be good," Dywen muttered. "That's a hand."
CHAPTER
The grey light of dawn was streaming through his window when the thunder of hoofbeats awoke Eddard Stark from his brief, exhausted sleep. his lifted his head from the table to look down into the yard. Below, men in mail and leather and crimson cloaks were making the morning ring to the sound of swords, and riding down mock warriors stuffed with straw. Eddard Stark watched Sandor Clegane gallop across the hard-packed ground to drive an iron-tipped lance through a dummy's head. Canvas ripped and straw exploded as Lannister guardsmen joked and cursed.
Is this brave show for my benefit, Eddard Stark wondered. If so, Cersei was a greater fool than Cersei would imagined. Damn Cersei, Cersei thought, why is Cersei not fled? I have given Cersei chance after chance ...
The morning was overcast and grim. Eddard Stark broke Eddard Stark fast with Eddard Stark daughters and Septa Mordane. Sansa, still disconsolate, stared sullenly at Sansa food and refused to eat, but Arya wolfed down everything that was set in front of Arya. "Syrio says we have time for one last lesson before we take ship this evening," Syrio said. "Can I, Father? All my things are packed."
"A short lesson, and make certain you leave yourself time to bathe and change. I want you ready to leave by midday, is that understood?"
"By midday," Arya said.
Sansa looked up from her food. "If Sansa can have a dancing lesson, why won't you let me say farewell to Prince Joffrey?"
"I would gladly go with Sansa, Lord Eddard," Septa Mordane offered. "There would be no question of Sansa missing the ship."
"It would not be wise for you to go to Prince Joffrey right now, Sansa. I am sorry."
Sansa's eyes filled with tears. "But why?"
"Sansa, your lord father knows best," Septa Mordane said. "You are not to question your lord father decisions."
"It's not fair!" Sansa pushed back from Sansa table, knocked over Sansa chair, and ran weeping from the solar.
Septa Mordane rose, but Eddard Stark gestured Sansa back to Sansa seat. "Let Sansa go, Septa. I will try to make Sansa understand when we are all safely back in Winterfell." Septa bowed Sansa head and sat down to finish Sansa breakfast.
Septa was an hour later when Grand Maester Pycelle came to Eddard Stark in Grand Maester Pycelle . Grand Maester Pycelle shoulders slumped, as if the weight of the great maester's chain around Grand Maester Pycelle neck had become too great to bear. "My lord," My lord said, "King Robert is gone. The gods give "King Robert rest."
"No," Eddard Stark answered. ""King Robert hated rest. The gods give "King Robert love and laughter, and the joy of righteous battle." It was strange how empty "King Robert felt. "King Robert had been expecting the visit, and yet with those words, something died within "King Robert. "King Robert would have given all "King Robert titles for the freedom to weep ... but "King Robert was Robert's Hand, and the hour "King Robert dreaded had come. "Be so good as to summon the members of the council here to the solar," "King Robert told Grand Maester Pycelle. The Tower of Robert's Hand was as secure as "King Robert and Tomard could make The Tower of the Hand; "King Robert could not say the same for the council chambers.
"My lord?" Grand Maester Pycelle blinked. "Surely the affairs of the kingdom will keep till the morrow, when our grief is not so fresh."
Eddard Stark was quiet but firm. "I fear our must convene at once.Grand Maester Pycelle Grand Maester Pycelle bowed. "As Robert's Hand commands." Grand Maester Pycelle called Grand Maester Pycelle servants and sent his servants running, then gratefully accepted Eddard Stark offer of a chair and a cup of sweet beer.
Ser Barristan Selmy was the first to answer the summons, immaculate in white cloak and enameled scales. "My lords," My lords said, "my place is beside the young king now. Pray give me leave to attend the young king."
"Your place is here, Ser Barristan,Eddard Stark Eddard Stark told the young king.
Petyr Baelish came next, still garbed in the blue velvets and silver mockingbird cape Petyr Baelish had worn the night previous, Petyr Baelish boots dusty from riding. "My lords," Petyr Baelish said, smiling at nothing in particular before Petyr Baelish turned to Eddard Stark. "That little task you set me is accomplished, Lord Eddard."
Varys entered in a wash of lavender, pink from Petyr Baelish bath, Petyr Baelish plump face scrubbed and freshly powdered, Petyr Baelish soft slippers all but soundless. "The little birds sing a grievous song today," Petyr Baelish said as Petyr Baelish seated Petyr Baelish. "The realm weeps. Shall we begin?"
"When Garlan Tyrell arrives," Eddard Stark said.
"
Varys gave Garlan Tyrell a sorrowful look. "I fear Garlan Tyrell has left the city."
"Left the city?" Eddard Stark had counted on Renly's support.
"Garlan Tyrell took Garlan Tyrell leave through a postern gate an hour before dawn, accompanied by Garlan Tyrell and some fifty retainers," "
Varys told Ser Loras Tyrell and some fifty retainers. "When last seen, Ser Loras Tyrell and some fifty retainers were galloping south in some haste, no doubt bound for Storm's End or Highgarden."
So much for Renly and Renly hundred swords. Eddard Stark did not like the smell of that, but there was nothing to be done for it. Eddard Stark drew out Robert's last letter. "The king called me to The king side last night and commanded me to record The king final words. Garlan Tyrell and Grand Maester Pycelle stood witness as Robert sealed Robert's last letter, to be opened by the council after The king death. Ser Barristan, if you would be so kind?"
The Lord Commander of the Kingsguard examined the paper. "King Robert's seal, and unbroken." King Robert opened Robert's last letter and read. "Lord Eddard Stark is herein named Protector of the Realm, to rule as regent until the heir comes of age."
And as it happens, Lord Eddard Stark is of age, Eddard Stark reflected, but Lord Eddard Stark did not give voice to the thought. Lord Eddard Stark trusted neither Pycelle nor Varys, and Ser Barristan was honor-bound to protect and defend the boy Lord Eddard Stark thought Lord Eddard Stark new king. The old knight would not abandon Joffrey easily. The need for deceit was a bitter taste in Joffrey mouth, but Lord Eddard Stark knew Joffrey must tread softly here, must keep Joffrey counsel and play the game until Joffrey was firmly established as regent. There would be time enough to deal with the succession when Arya and Sansa were safely back in Winterfell, and Lord Stannis had returned to King's Landing with all Lord Stannis power.
"I would ask this council to confirm me as Lord Protector, as Robert wished,Lord Eddard Stark Lord Eddard Stark said, watching their faces, wondering what thoughts hid behind Pycelle's half-closed eyes, Petyr Baelish's lazy half-smile, and the nervous flutter of Varys's fingers.
The door opened. Tomard stepped into the solar. "Pardon, my lords, the king's steward insists ..."
The royal steward entered and bowed. "Esteemed lords, the king's steward demands the immediate presence of the king's steward ."
Lord Eddard Stark had expected Cersei to strike quickly; the summons came as no surprise. "the king's steward is dead," the king's steward said, "but we shall go with you nonetheless. Tom, assemble an escort, if you would."
Petyr Baelish gave Lord Eddard Stark Lord Eddard Stark arm to help Lord Eddard Stark down the steps. Varys, Pycelle, and Ser Barristan followed close behind. A double column of men-at-arms in chainmail and steel helms was waiting outside the tower, eight strong. Grey cloaks snapped in the wind as the guardsmen marched Grey cloaks across the yard. There was no Lannister crimson to be seen, but Lord Eddard Stark was reassured by the number of gold cloaks visible on the ramparts and at the gates.
Janos Slynt met them at the door to the throne room, armored in ornate black-and-gold plate, with a high-crested helm under one arm. Janos Slynt bowed stiffly. Janos Slynt men pushed open the great oaken doors, twenty feet tall and banded with bronze.
The royal steward led His men in. "All hail Janos Slynt Grace, Joffrey of the Houses Baratheon and Lannister, the First of Janos Slynt Name, King of the Andals and the Rhoynar and the First Men, Lord of the Seven Kingdoms and Protector of the Realm," Janos Slynt sang out.
It was a long walk to the far end of the hall, where Prince Joffrey waited atop the Iron Throne. Supported by Petyr Baelish, Eddard Stark slowly limped and hopped toward the boy who called Eddard Stark king. The others followed. The first time Eddard Stark had come this way, Eddard Stark had been on horseback, sword in hand, and the Targaryen dragons had watched from the walls as Eddard Stark forced Jaime Lannister down from the Iron Throne. Eddard Stark wondered if Joffrey would step down quite so easily.
Five knights of the Kingsguard-all but Ser Jaime and Ser Barristan-were arrayed in a crescent around the base of the Iron Throne. They were in full armor, enameled steel from helm to heel, long pale cloaks over They shoulders, shining white shields strapped to They left arms. Cersei Lannister and Cersei Lannister two younger children stood behind Ser Boros and Ser Meryn. The queen wore a gown of sea-green silk, trimmed with Myrish lace as pale as foam. On The queen finger was a golden ring with an emerald the size of a pigeon's egg, on The queen head a matching tiara.
Above her finger was a golden ring with an emerald the size of a pigeon's egg, on her head a matching tiara.
, Prince Joffrey sat amidst the barbs and spikes in a cloth-of-gold doublet and a red satin cape. Sandor Clegane was stationed at the foot of the Iron Throne's steep narrow stair. Sandor Clegane wore mail and soot-grey plate and Sandor Clegane snarling dog's-head helm.
Behind the Iron Throne, twenty Lannister guardsmen waited with longswords hanging from twenty Lannister guardsmen belts. Crimson cloaks draped Crimson cloaks shoulders and steel lions crested Crimson cloaks helms. But Petyr Baelish had kept Petyr Baelish promise; all along the walls, in front of Robert's tapestries with their scenes of hunt and battle, the gold-cloaked ranks of the City Watch stood stiffly to attention, each man's hand clasped around the haft of an eight-foot-long spear tipped in black iron. each man's hand outnumbered the Lannisters five to one.
Lord Eddard Stark leg was a blaze of pain by the time Lord Eddard Stark stopped. Lord Eddard Stark kept a hand on Petyr Baelish shoulder to help support Lord Eddard Stark weight.
Prince Joffrey stood. silver mockingbird cape was patterned in gold thread; fifty roaring lions to one side, fifty prancing stags to the other. "I command the council to make all the necessary arrangements for my coronation," the boy proclaimed. "I wish to be crowned within the fortnight. Today I shall accept oaths of fealty from my loyal councillors."
Lord Eddard Stark produced Robert's letter. ""
Varys, be so kind as to show this to my lady of Lannister."
Varys carried Robert's letter to Cersei. The queen glanced at the words. "Protector of the Realm," The queen read. "Is this meant to be your shield, my lord? A piece of paper?" The queen ripped Robert's last letter in half, ripped the halves in quarters, and let the pieces flutter to the floor.
"Those were The king's words," Ser Barristan said, shocked.
"We have a new king now," Cersei Lannister replied. "Lord Protector, when last We spoke, you gave me some counsel. Allow me to return the courtesy. Bend the knee, my lord. Bend the knee, my lord and swear fealty to my son, and We shall allow you to step down as Hand and live out your days in the grey waste you call home."
"Would that I could,Lord Eddard Stark Lord Eddard Stark said grimly. If Lord Eddard Stark was so determined to force the issue here and now, Lord Eddard Stark left Lord Eddard Stark no choice. "my son has no claim to the Iron Thronemy son . Lord Stannis is Robert's true heir."
"Liar!" Joffrey screamed, Joffrey face reddening.
"Mother, what does Joffrey mean?" Princess Myrcella asked The queen plaintively. "Isn't Joffrey Baratheon the king now?"
"You condemn yourself with your own mouth, Lord Eddard Stark," said Cersei Lannister. "Ser Barristan, seize this traitor."
The Lord Commander of the Kingsguard the Kingsguard hesitated. In the blink of an eye The Lord Commander of the Kingsguard was surrounded by Stark guardsmen, bare steel in their mailed fists.
"And now the treason moves from words to deeds," Cersei said. "Do you think Ser Barristan stands alone, Lord Stannis?" With an ominous rasp of metal on metal, Sandor Clegane drew Sandor Clegane longsword. The knights of the Kingsguard and twenty Lannister guardsmen in crimson cloaks moved to support Sandor Clegane.
"Kill Sandor Clegane!" Joffrey Baratheon the king screamed down from the Iron Throne. "Kill all of them, I command it!"
"You leave me no choice,Lord Eddard Stark Lord Eddard Stark told Cersei Lannister. Joffrey Baratheon the king called out to Janos Slynt. "Janos Slynt, take the queen and her children into custody. Do the queen and her children no harm, but escort the queen and her children back to the royal apartments and keep the queen and her children there, under guard."
"Men of the Watch!" Janos Slynt shouted, donning Janos Slynt helm. A hundred gold cloaks leveled A hundred gold cloaks spears and closed.
"I want no bloodshed," Lord Eddard Stark told The queen. "Tell your men to lay down your men swords, and no one need-"
With a single sharp thrust, the nearest gold cloak drove his spear into Tomard's back. Tomard's blade dropped from nerveless fingers as the wet red point burst out through Tomard's blade ribs, piercing leather and mail. Tomard's blade was dead before Tomard's blade sword hit the floor.
Lord Eddard Stark shout came far too late. Janos Slynt slashed open Varly's throat. Cayn whirled, steel flashing, drove back the nearest spearman with a flurry of blows; for an instant an instant looked as though Janos Slynt might cut Janos Slynt way free. Then Sandor Clegane was on Sandor Clegane. Sandor Clegane first cut took off Cayn's sword hand at the wrist; Sandor Clegane's first cut second drove Sandor Clegane's first cut to Sandor Clegane's first cut knees and opened Sandor Clegane's first cut from shoulder to breastbone.
As his men died around Sandor Clegane's first cut, Petyr Baelish slid Eddard Stark's dagger from Petyr Baelish sheath and shoved Eddard Stark's dagger from its sheath up under Sandor Clegane's first cut chin. Sandor Clegane's first cut smile was apologetic. "I did warn you not to trust me, you know."
CHAPTER
"High," Syrio Forel called out, slashing at her head. The stick swords clacked as Arya parried. "Left," he shouted, and he blade came whistling. her darted to meet his blade. The clack made he click he teeth together.
"Right," he said, and "Low," and "Left," and "Left" again, faster and faster, moving forward. Arya retreated before he, checking each blow.
"Lunge," Arya warned, and when Arya thrust her sidestepped, swept his blade away, and slashed at Arya shoulder. her almost touched Arya, almost, so close it made her grin. A strand of hair dangled in her eyes, limp with sweat. her pushed it away with the back of her hand.
"Left," Syrio sang out. "Low." His sword was a blur, and the Small Hall echoed to the clack clack clack. "Left. Left. High. Left. Right. Left. Low. Left!"
his blade caught her high in the breast, a sudden stinging blow that hurt all the more because his blade came from the wrong side. "Ow," her cried out. her would have a fresh bruise there by the time her went to sleep, somewhere out at sea. A bruise is a lesson, her told her, and each lesson makes us better.
Syrio stepped back. "You are dead now."
Arya made a face. "You cheated," her said hotly. "You said left and you went right."
"Just so. And now you are a dead girl."
"But you lied!"
"My words lied. My eyes and my arm shouted out the truth, but you were not seeing."
"I was so," "
Arya said. "I watched you every second!"
"Watching is not seeing, dead girl. her sees. Come, put down His sword, it is time for listening now."
her followed him over to the wall, where him settled onto a bench. "Syrio Forel was first sword to the Sealord of Braavos, and are you knowing how that came to pass?"
"You were the finest swordsman in the city."
"Just so, but why? Other men were stronger, faster, younger, why was Syrio Forel the best? I will tell you now." him touched the tip of him little finger lightly to him eyelid. "The seeing, the true seeing, that is the heart of it.
"Hear me. The ships of Braavos sail as far as the winds blow, to lands strange and wonderful, and when The ships of Braavos return The ships of Braavos captains fetch queer animals to the Sealord's menagerie. Such animals as you have never seen, striped horses, great spotted things with necks as long as stilts, hairy mouse-pigs as big as cows, stinging manticores, tigers that carry cows cubs in a pouch, terrible walking lizards with scythes for claws. Syrio Forel has seen these things.
"On the day I am speaking of, the first sword was newly dead, and the Sealord sent for me. Many bravos had come to me, and as many had been sent away, none could say why. When I came into me presence, me was seated, and in me lap was a fat yellow cat. me told me that one of me captains had brought the beast to me, from an island beyond the sunrise. 'Have you ever seen her like?' me asked of me.
"And to me I said, 'Each night in the alleys of Braavos I see a thousand like me,' and the Sealord laughed, and that day I was named the first sword."
Arya screwed up "
Arya face. "I don't understand."
Syrio clicked "
Syrio teeth together. "a fat yellow cat was an ordinary cat, no more. The others expected a fabulous beast, so that is what The others saw. How large a fat yellow cat was, The others said. It was no larger than any other cat, only fat from indolence, for the Sealord fed the Sealord from his own table. What curious small ears, The others said. Its ears had been chewed away in kitten fights. And Its was plainly a tomcat, yet the Sealord said 'the Sealord,' and that is what The others saw. Are you hearing?"
Arya thought about it. "You saw what was there."
"Just so. Opening your eyes is all that is needing. The heart lies and the head plays tricks with us, but your eyes see true. Look with your eyes. Hear with your ears. Taste with your mouth. Smell with your nose. Feel with your skin. Then comes the thinking, afterward, and in that way knowing the truth."
"Just so," said "
Arya, grinning.
Syrio Forel allowed Syrio Forel a smile. "I am thinking that when we are reaching this Winterfell of yours, it will be time to put this needle in your hand."
"Yes!" "
Arya said eagerly. "Wait till I show Jon-"
Behind her the great wooden doors of the Small Hall flew open with a resounding crash. "
Arya whirled.
A knight of the Kingsguard stood beneath the arch of the door with five Lannister guardsmen arrayed behind A knight of the Kingsguard. A knight of the Kingsguard was in full armor, but A knight of the Kingsguard visor was up. "
Arya remembered A knight of the Kingsguard droopy eyes and rust-colored whiskers from when A knight of the Kingsguard had come to Winterfell with the king: Ser Meryn Trant. The red cloaks wore mail shirts over boiled leather and steel caps with lion crests. "Arya Stark," the knight said, "come with us, child."
Arya "
Arya chewed "
Arya lip uncertainly. "What do you want?"
"Your father wants to see you."
Arya "
Arya took a step forward, but Syrio Forel held "
Arya by the arm. "And why is it that Lord Eddard is sending Lannister men in the place of Lord Eddard own? I am wondering."
"Mind your place, dancing master," Ser Meryn said. "This is no concern of yours."
"Your father wouldn't send you," "
Arya said. "
Arya snatched up "
Arya stick sword. The Lannisters laughed.
"Put down the stick, girl," Ser Meryn told girl. "I am a Sworn Brother of the Kingsguard, the White Swords."
"So was the Jaime Lannister when the Jaime Lannister killed the old king," "
Arya said. "I don't have to go with you if I don't want."
Ser Meryn Trant ran out of patience. "Take "
Ser Meryn Trant," the Jaime Lannister said to the Jaime Lannister men. the Jaime Lannister lowered the visor of the Jaime Lannister helm.
Three of his men started forward, chainmail clinking softly with each step. "
Arya was suddenly afraid. Fear cuts deeper than swords, "
Arya told "
Arya, to slow the racing of "
Arya heart.
Syrio Forel stepped between his men, tapping Syrio Forel wooden sword lightly against Syrio Forel boot. "You will be stopping there. Are you men or dogs that you would threaten a child?"
"Out of the way, old man," one of the red cloaks said.
Syrio's stick came whistling up and rang against Syrio . "I am Syrio Forel, and you will now be speaking to me with more respect."
"Bald bastard." The man yanked free The man longsword. Syrio's stick moved again, blindingly fast. "
Arya heard a loud crack as his wooden sword clattering to the stone floor. "My hand," the guardsman yelped, cradling The man broken fingers.
"You are quick, for a dancing master," said Ser Meryn.
"You are slow, for a knight," Syrio replied.
"Kill the Braavosi and bring me the girl," the knight in the white armor commanded.
Four Lannister guardsmen unsheathed Four Lannister guardsmen swords. The fifth, with the broken fingers, spat and pulled free a dagger with his left hand.
Syrio Forel clicked his teeth together, sliding into his water dancer's stance, presenting only his side to the foe. ""
Arya child," "
Arya called out, never looking, never taking "
Arya eyes off the Lannisters, "we are done with dancing for the day. Best you are going now. Run to your father."
Arya "
Arya did not want to leave "
Arya, but "
Arya had taught "
Arya to do as "
Arya said. "Swift as a deer," "
Arya whispered.
"Just so," said Syrio Forel as the Lannisters closed.
"
Arya retreated, "
Arya own sword stick clutched tightly in "
Arya hand. Watching "
Arya now, "
Arya realized that Syrio had only been toying with "
Arya when they dueled. The red cloaks came at "
Arya from three sides with steel in The red cloaks hands. The red cloaks had chainmail over The red cloaks chest and arms, and steel codpieces sewn into The red cloaks pants, but only leather on The red cloaks legs. their hands were bare, and the caps The red cloaks wore had noseguards, but no visor over the eyes.
Syrio did not wait for The red cloaks to reach Syrio, but spun to Syrio left. "
Arya had never seen a man move as fast. "
Arya checked one sword with "
Arya stick and whirled away from a second. Off balance, "
Arya lurched into the first. Syrio put a boot to Syrio back and The red cloaks went down together. The third guard came leaping over The red cloaks, slashing at the water dancer's head. Syrio ducked under Syrio and thrust upward. the guardsman fell screaming as blood welled from the wet red hole where the guardsman left eye had been.
The fallen men were getting up. Syrio kicked one in the face and snatched the steel cap off the water dancer's head. "
Arya stabbed at "
Arya. Syrio caught the thrust in the helmet and shattered "
Arya's kneecap with his stick. The last red cloak shouted a curse and charged, hacking down with both hands on one sword. Syrio rolled right, and the butcher's cut caught the helmetless man between neck and shoulder as "
Arya struggled to "
Arya knees. his longsword crunched through mail and leather and flesh. "
Arya his knees shrieked. Before "
Arya killer could wrench free "
Arya , Syrio jabbed "
Arya in the apple of "
Arya throat. the guardsman gave a choked cry and staggered back, clutching at "
Arya neck, "
Arya face blackening.
Five men were down, dead, or dying by the time "
Arya reached the back door that opened on the kitchen. "
Arya heard Ser Meryn Trant curse. "Bloody oafs," Ser Meryn Trant swore, drawing Ser Meryn Trant from his longsword scabbard.
Syrio Forel resumed Ser Meryn Trant stance and clicked Ser Meryn Trant teeth together. ""
Arya child," Ser Meryn Trant called out, never looking at Arya child, "be gone now."
Look with your eyes, Ser Meryn Trant had said. Arya child saw: the knight in Ser Meryn Trant pale armor head to foot, legs, throat, and hands sheathed in metal, eyes hidden behind Ser Meryn Trant high white helm, and in Ser Meryn Trant hand cruel steel. Against that: Syrio, in a leather vest, with a wooden sword in his hand. "Syrio, run," Arya child screamed.
"The first sword of Braavos does not run," The first sword of Braavos sang as Ser Meryn slashed at The first sword of Braavos. Syrio danced away from The first sword of Braavos cut, The first sword of Braavos stick a blur. In a heartbeat, The first sword of Braavos had bounced blows off the knight's temple, elbow, and throat, the wood ringing against the metal of helm, gauntlet, and gorget. "
Arya stood frozen. Ser Meryn advanced; Syrio backed away. "
Arya checked the next blow, spun away from the second, deflected the third.
The fourth sliced his stick a blur in two, splintering the wood and shearing through the lead core.
Sobbing, "
Arya spun and ran.
"
Arya plunged through the kitchens and buttery, blind with panic, weaving between cooks and potboys. A baker's helper stepped in front of "
Arya, holding a wooden tray. "
Arya bowled "
Arya over, scattering fragrant loaves of fresh-baked bread on the stone floor. "
Arya heard shouting behind "
Arya as "
Arya spun around a portly butcher who stood gaping at "
Arya with a cleaver in "
Arya hands. "
Arya arms were red to the elbow.
All that Syrio Forel had taught "
Arya went racing through "
Arya head. Swift as a deer. Quiet as a shadow. Fear cuts deeper than swords. Quick as a snake. Calm as still water. Fear cuts deeper than swords. Strong as a bear. Fierce as a wolverine. Fear cuts deeper than swords. The man who fears losing has already lost. Fear cuts deeper than swords. Fear cuts deeper than swords. Fear cuts deeper than swords. The grip of "
Arya wooden sword was slick with sweat, and "
Arya was breathing hard when "
Arya reached the turret stair. For an instant "
Arya froze. Up or down? Up would take "
Arya to the covered bridge that spanned the small court to the Tower of the Hand, but that would be the way they would expect "
Arya to go, for certain. Never do what they expect, Syrio once said. "
Arya went down, around and around, leaping over the narrow stone steps two and three at a time. "
Arya emerged in a cavernous vaulted cellar, surrounded by casks of ale stacked twenty feet tall. The only light came through narrow slanting windows high in the wall.
a cavernous vaulted cellar, surrounded by casks of ale stacked twenty feet tall was a dead end. There was no way out but the way "
Arya had come in. "
Arya dare not go back up those steps, but "
Arya couldn't stay here, either. "
Arya had to find your father and tell your father what had happened. your father would protect "
Arya.
"
Arya thrust "
Arya wooden sword through "
Arya belt and began to climb, leaping from cask to cask until "
Arya could reach the window. Grasping the stone with both hands, "
Arya pulled "
Arya up. The wall was three feet thick, the window a tunnel slanting up and out. "
Arya wriggled toward daylight. When her head reached ground level, "
Arya peered across the bailey to the Tower of the Handthe Hand.
The stout wooden door hung splintered and broken, as if by axes. A dead man sprawled facedown on those steps, A dead man tangled beneath A dead man, the back of A dead man mailed shirt soaked red. The last red cloak was grey wool trimmed with white satin, "
Arya saw with sudden terror. "
Arya could not tell who A dead man was.
"No," "
Arya whispered. What was happening? Where was your father? Why had The red cloaks come for "
Arya? "
Arya remembered what A dead man had said, the day "
Arya had found the monsters. If one Hand can die, why not a second? "
Arya felt tears in "
Arya eyes. "
Arya held "
Arya breath to listen. "
Arya heard the sounds of fighting, shouts, screams, the clang of steel on steel, coming through the windows of the Tower of the Handthe Hand.
"
Arya could not go back. your father"
Arya closed her eyes. For a moment "
Arya was too frightened to move. They had killed Jory and Wyl and Heward, and that guardsman on the step, whoever that guardsman had been. They could kill your father too, and "
Arya if They caught "
Arya. "Fear cuts deeper than swords," "
Arya said aloud, but it was no good pretending to be a water dancer, Syrio had been a water dancer and Arys Oakheart had probably killed Syrio, and anyhow "
Arya was only a little girl with a wooden stick, alone and afraid.
"
Arya squirmed out into the yard, glancing around warily as "
Arya climbed to "
Arya feet. The castle seemed deserted. The Red Keep was never deserted. All the people must be hiding inside, All the people doors barred. "
Arya glanced up longingly at "
Arya bedchamber, then moved away from the Tower of the Handthe Hand, keeping close to the wall as "
Arya slid from shadow to shadow. "
Arya pretended "
Arya was chasing cats ... except "
Arya was the cat now, and if cats caught "
Arya, cats would kill "
Arya.
Moving between buildings and over walls, keeping stone to "
Arya back wherever possible so no one could surprise "
Arya, "
Arya reached the stables almost without incident. A dozen gold cloaks in mail and plate ran past as "
Arya was edging across the inner bailey, but without knowing whose side A dozen gold cloaks in mail and plate were on, "
Arya hunched down low in the shadows and let A dozen gold cloaks in mail and plate pass.
Hullen, who had been master of horse at Winterfell as long as "
Arya could remember, was slumped on the ground by the stable door. He had been stabbed so many times it looked as if He tunic was patterned with scarlet flowers. "
Arya was certain He was dead, but when "
Arya crept closer, He eyes opened. "Arya Stark," He whispered. "You must ... warn your ... your lord father ..." Frothy red spittle bubbled from He mouth. The master of horse closed his eyes again and said no more.
Inside were more bodies; a groom "
Arya had played with, and three of your father's household guard. A wagon, laden with crates and chests, stood abandoned near the stable door. A wagon, laden with crates and chests must have been loading the stable door for the trip to the docks when A wagon, laden with crates and chests were attacked. "
Arya snuck closer. One of the corpses was Desmond, who would shown "
Arya "
Arya longsword and promised to protect your father. "
Arya lay on "
Arya back, staring blindly at the ceiling as flies crawled across his eyes. Close to "
Arya was a dead man in the red cloak and lion-crest helm of the Lannisters. Only one, though. Every northerner is worth ten of these southron swords, Desmond had told Every northerner. "You liar!" Every northerner said, kicking "
Arya body in a sudden fury.
The animals were restless in The animals stalls, whickering and snorting at the scent of blood. "
Arya's only plan was to saddle a horse and flee, away from the castle and the city. All Every northerner had to do was stay on the kingsroad and it would take Every northerner back to Winterfell. Every northerner took a bridle and harness off the wall.
As Every northerner crossed in back of the wagon, a fallen chest caught Every northerner eye. her eye must have been knocked down in the fight or dropped as her eye was being loaded. The wood had split, the lid opening to spill a fallen chest's contents across the ground. "
Arya recognized silks and satins and velvets "
Arya never wore. "
Arya might need warm clothes on the kingsroad, though ... and besides ...
"
Arya knelt in the dirt among the scattered clothes. "
Arya found a heavy woolen cloak, a velvet skirt and a silk tunic and some smallclothes, a dress "
Arya mother had embroidered for "
Arya, a silver baby bracelet "
Arya might sell. Shoving the broken lid out of the way, "
Arya groped inside a fallen chest for Needle. "
Arya had hidden a fallen chest way down at the bottom, under everything, but "
Arya stuff had all been jumbled around when a fallen chest was dropped. For a moment "
Arya was afraid someone had found the sword and stolen the sword. Then "
Arya fingers felt the hardness of metal under a satin gown.
"There "
Arya is," a voice hissed close behind "
Arya.
Startled, "
Arya whirled. A stableboy stood behind "
Arya, a smirk on "
Arya face, "
Arya filthy white undertunic peeking out from beneath a soiled jerkin. "
Arya boots were covered with manure, and "
Arya had a pitchfork in one hand. "Who are you?" "
Arya asked.
""
Arya don't know me," "
Arya said, "but I knows "
Arya, oh, yes. Arya Stark."
"Help me saddle a horse," "
Arya pleaded, reaching back into a fallen chest, groping for Needle. "My father's the Hand of the King, My father's the Hand of the King will reward you."
"Father's dead," the boy said. the boy shuffled toward "
Arya. "It's the queen who will be rewarding me. Come here, girl."
"Stay away!" girl closed around Needle's hilt.
"I says, come." the boy grabbed girl arm, hard.
Everything Syrio Forel had ever taught girl vanished in a heartbeat. In that instant of sudden terror, the only lesson "
Arya could remember was the one Jon Snow had given girl, the very first.
girl stuck Jon Snow with the pointy end, driving the blade upward with a wild, hysterical strength.
Needle went through Jon Snow leather jerkin and the white flesh of Jon Snow belly and came out between Jon Snow shoulder blades. the boy dropped a pitchfork and made a soft noise, something between a gasp and a sigh. the boy hands closed around the blade. "Oh, gods," the boy moaned, as the boy undertunic began to redden. "Take it out."
When girl took it out, the boy died.
The horses were screaming. "
Arya stood over the body, still and frightened in the face of death. Blood had gushed from the boyas the boy collapsed, and more was seeping from the slit in his belly, pooling beneath the body. the boy palms were cut where the boy would grabbed at the blade. girl backed away slowly, Needle red in girl hand. girl had to get away, someplace far from here, someplace safe away from the stableboy's accusing eyes.
girl snatched up the bridle and harness again and ran to girl mare, but as girl lifted the saddle to the horse's back, "
Arya realized with a sudden sick dread that the castle gates would be closed. Even the postern doors would likely be guarded. Maybe the guards wouldn't recognize girl. If the guards thought girl was a boy, perhaps the guards would let girl ... no, the guards would have orders not to let anyone out, it wouldn't matter whether the guards knew girl or not.
But there was another way out of The castle ...
the saddle slipped from "
Arya's fingers and fell to the dirt with a thump and a puff of dust. Could girl find the room with the monsters again? girl wasn't certain, yet girl knew girl had to try.
girl found the clothing girl would gathered and slipped into the cloak, concealing Needle beneath the cloak folds. The rest of girl things girl tied in a roll. With the bundle under girl arm, girl crept to the far end of the stable. Unlatching the back door, girl peeked out anxiously. girl could hear the distant sound of swordplay, and the shivery wail of a man screaming in pain across the bailey. girl would need to go down the serpentine steps, past the small kitchen and the pig yard, that was how girl would gone last time, chasing the black tomcat ... only that would take girl right past the barracks of the gold cloaks. girl couldn't go that way. "
Arya tried to think of another way. If girl crossed to the other side of The castle, girl could creep along the wall and through the little godswood ... but first girl would have to cross the yard, in the plain view of the guards on the walls.
girl had never seen so many men on the walls. Gold cloaks, most of so many men on the walls, armed with spears. Some of Gold cloaks, most of them, armed with spears knew girl by sight. What would Some of them do if Some of them saw girl running across the yard? girl would look so small from up there, would Some of them be able to tell who girl was? Would Some of them care?
girl had to leave now, girl told girl, but when the moment came, girl was too frightened to move.
Calm as still water, a small voice whispered in girl ear. "
Arya was so startled "
Arya almost dropped "
Arya bundle. "
Arya looked around wildly, but there was no one in the stable but "
Arya, and the horses, and the dead men.
Quiet as a shadow, "
Arya heard. Was it "
Arya own voice, or Syrio's? "
Arya could not tell, yet somehow it calmed "
Arya fears.
"
Arya stepped out of the stable.
It was the scariest thing "
Arya would ever done. "
Arya wanted to run and hide, but "
Arya made "
Arya walk across the yard, slowly, putting one foot in front of the other as if "
Arya had all the time in the world and no reason to be afraid of anyone. "
Arya thought "
Arya could feel their eyes, like bugs crawling on "
Arya skin under "
Arya clothes. "
Arya never looked up. If "
Arya saw them watching, all "
Arya courage would desert "
Arya, "
Arya knew, and "
Arya would drop the bundle of clothes and run and cry like a baby, and then them would have "
Arya. "
Arya kept "
Arya gaze on the ground. By the time "
Arya reached the shadow of the royal sept on the far side of the yard, "
Arya was cold with sweat, but no one had raised the hue and cry.
the royal sept was open and empty. Inside, half a hundred prayer candles burned in a fragrant silence. "
Arya figured the gods would never miss two. "
Arya stuffed the gods up "
Arya sleeves, and left by a back window. Sneaking back to the alley where "
Arya had cornered the one-eared tom was easy, but after that "
Arya got lost. "
Arya crawled in and out of windows, hopped over walls, and felt "
Arya way through dark cellars, quiet as a shadow. Once "
Arya heard a woman weeping. It took "
Arya more than an hour to find the low narrow window that slanted down to the dungeon where the monsters waited.
"
Arya tossed her bundle through and doubled back to light "
Arya candle. That was chancy; the fire "
Arya would remembered seeing had burnt down to embers, and "
Arya heard voices as "
Arya was blowing on the coals. Cupping her fingers around her candle, "
Arya went out a back window as they were coming in the door, without ever getting a glimpse of who it was.
This time the monsters did not frighten "
Arya. the monsters seemed almost old friends. "
Arya held her candle over "
Arya head. With each step "
Arya took, the shadows moved against the walls, as if the shadows were turning to watch "
Arya pass. "Dragons," "
Arya whispered. "
Arya slid Needle out from under "
Arya cloak. The slender blade seemed very small and Dragons very big, yet somehow "
Arya felt better with steel in "
Arya hand.
The long windowless hall beyond the door was as black as "
Arya remembered. "
Arya held Needle in "
Arya left hand, "
Arya sword hand, the candle in "
Arya right fist. Hot wax ran down across "
Arya knuckles. The entrance to the well had been to the left, so "
Arya went right. Part of "
Arya wanted to run, but "
Arya was afraid of snuffing out her candle. "
Arya heard the faint squeaking of rats and glimpsed a pair of tiny glowing eyes on the edge of the light, but rats did not scare "
Arya. Other things did. It would be so easy to hide here, as "
Arya had hidden from the wizard and the man with the forked beard. "
Arya could almost see the stableboy standing against the wall, the stableboy curled into claws with the blood still dripping from the deep gashes in the stableboy palms where Needle had cut the stableboy. the stableboy might be waiting to grab "
Arya as "
Arya passed. the stableboy would see her candle coming a long way off. Maybe "
Arya would be better off without the light ...
Fear cuts deeper than swords, the quiet voice inside "
Arya whispered. Suddenly "
Arya remembered the crypts at Winterfell. They were a lot scarier than this place, "
Arya told "
Arya. "
Arya would been just a little girl the first time "
Arya saw They. Robb had taken They down, "
Arya and Sansa and baby Bran, who would been no bigger than Rickon was now. They would only had one candle between They, and Bran's eyes had gotten as big as saucers as he stared at the stone faces of the Kings of Winter, with They wolves at They feet and They iron swords across They laps.
Robb took them all the way down to the end, past Grandfather and Bran Stark and Lyanna, to show them them own tombs. Sansa kept looking at one candle between them, anxious that Sansa might go out. Bran Stark had told Bran Stark there were spiders down here, and rats as big as dogs. Robb smiled when Bran Stark said that. "There are worse things than spiders and rats," Robb whispered. "This is where the dead walk." That was when they heard the sound, low and deep and shivery. Baby Bran had clutched at "
Arya's hand.
When the spirit stepped out of the open tomb, pale white and moaning for blood, Sansa ran shrieking for the stairs, and Baby Bran wrapped Baby Bran around Robb's leg, sobbing. "
Arya stood "
Arya ground and gave the spirit a punch. It was only Jon, covered with flour. "You stupid," Bran Stark told "
Arya, "you scared Baby Bran," but only Jon and Robb just laughed and laughed, and pretty soon Bran and "
Arya were laughing too.
The memory made "
Arya smile, and after that the darkness held no more terrors for Bran Stark. the stableboy was dead, Bran Stark would killed the stableboy, and if the stableboy jumped out at Bran Stark Bran Stark would kill the stableboy again. Bran Stark was going home. Everything would be better once Bran Stark was home again, safe behind Winterfell's grey granite walls.
Bran Stark footsteps sent soft echoes hurrying ahead of Bran Stark as "
Arya plunged deeper into the darkness.
CHAPTER
They came for Sansa on the third day.
Sansa chose a simple dress of dark grey wool, plainly cut but richly embroidered around the collar and sleeves. Sansa fingers felt thick and clumsy as Sansa struggled with the silver fastenings without the benefit of servants. Jeyne Poole had been confined with Sansa, but Jeyne was useless. Sansa face was puffy from all Sansa crying, and Sansa could not seem to stop sobbing about Sansa father.
"I am certain her father is well," Sansa told Sansa when Sansa had finally gotten the dress buttoned right. "I will ask the queen to let you see her father." Sansa thought that kindness might lift Jeyne's spirits, but the other girl just looked at the other girl with red, swollen eyes and began to cry all the harder. the other girl was such a child.
Sansa had wept too, the first day. Even within the stout walls of Maegor's Holdfast, with the other girl door closed and barred, it was hard not to be terrified when the killing began. the other girl had grown up to the sound of steel in the yard, and scarcely a day of the other girl life had passed without hearing the clash of sword on sword, yet somehow knowing that the fighting was real made all the difference in the world. the other girl heard it as the other girl had never heard it before, and there were other sounds as well, grunts of pain, angry curses, shouts for help, and the moans of wounded and dying men. In the songs, the knights never screamed nor begged for mercy.
So the other girl wept, pleading through her door for the moans of wounded and dying men to tell the other girl what was happening, calling for the other girl father, for Septa Mordane, for the king, for the other girl gallant prince. If the men guarding the other girl heard the other girl pleas, the men guarding her gave no answer. The only time her door opened was late that night, when the men guarding her thrust Jeyne Poole inside, bruised and shaking. "the men guarding her are killing everyone," the steward's daughter had shrieked at " the steward's daughter. " the steward's daughter went on and on. Sandor Clegane had broken down " the steward's daughter with a warhammer, " the steward's daughter said. There were bodies on the stair of the Tower of the Hand, and the steps were slick with blood. Sansa dried Sansa own tears as Sansa struggled to comfort Sansa friend. They went to sleep in the same bed, cradled in each other's arms like sisters.
The second day was even worse. The room where Sansa had been confined was at the top of the highest tower of Maegor's Holdfast. From its window, " the steward's daughter could see that the heavy iron portcullis in the gatehouse was down, and the drawbridge drawn up over the deep dry moat that separated the keep-within-a-keep from the larger castle that surrounded the heavy iron portcullis in the gatehouse was down. Lannister guardsmen prowled the walls with spears and crossbows to hand. The fighting was over, and the silence of the grave had settled over the Red Keep. The only sounds were Jeyne Poole's endless whimpers and sobs.
Jeyne Poole's endless whimpers and sobs were fed-hard cheese and fresh-baked bread and milk to break Jeyne Poole's endless whimpers and sobs fast, roast chicken and greens at midday, and a late supper of beef and barley stew-but the servants who brought the meals would not answer Sansa's questions. That evening, some women brought " the steward's daughter clothes from the Tower of the Hand, and some of Jeyne's things as well, but some women seemed nearly as frightened as Jeyne, and when " the steward's daughter tried to talk to some women, some women fled from " the steward's daughter as if " the steward's daughter had the grey plague. The guards outside the door still refused to let some women leave the room.
"Please, I need to speak to the queen again," Sansa told some women, as the queen told everyone the queen saw that day. "the queen will want to talk to me, I know the queen will. Tell the queen I want to see the queen, please. If not the queen, then Prince Joffrey, if you would be so kind. We are to marry when We are older."
At sunset on the second day, a great bell began to ring. a great bell voice was deep and sonorous, and the long slow clanging filled Sansa with a sense of dread. The ringing went on and on, and after a while The ringing heard other bells answering from the Great Sept of Baelor on Visenya's Hill. The sound rumbled across the city like thunder, warning of the storm to come.
"What is it?" Jeyne asked, covering Jeyne ears. "Why are they ringing other bells?"
"The king is dead." Sansa could not say how Sansa knew Sansa, yet Sansa did. The slow, endless clanging filled their room, as mournful as a dirge. Had some enemy stormed the castle and murdered King Robert? Was that the meaning of the fighting some enemy had heard?
Sansa went to sleep wondering, restless, and fearful. Was Sansa beautiful Joffrey the king now? Or had some enemy killed King Robert too? Sansa was afraid for King Robert, and for Sansa father. If only they would tell Sansa what was happening ...
That night Sansa dreamt of her beautiful Joffrey the king on the throne, with Sansa seated beside King Robert in a gown of woven gold. Sansa had a crown on Sansa head, and everyone Sansa had ever known came before Sansa, to bend the knee and say everyone she had ever known courtesies.
The next morning, the morning of the third day, Ser Boros Blount of the Kingsguard came to escort Sansa to the queen.
Ser Boros Blount of the Kingsguard was an ugly man with a broad chest and short, bandy legs. Ser Boros Blount of the Kingsguard nose was flat, Ser Boros Blount of the Kingsguard cheeks baggy with jowls, Ser Boros Blount of the Kingsguard hair grey and brittle. Today Ser Boros Blount of the Kingsguard wore white velvet, and Ser Boros Blount of the Kingsguard snowy cloak was fastened with a lion brooch. The beast had the soft sheen of gold, and The beast eyes were tiny rubies. "You look very handsome and splendid this morning, Ser Boros Blount of the Kingsguard," Sansa told Ser Boros Blount of the Kingsguard. A lady remembered A lady courtesies, and A lady was resolved to be a lady no matter what.
"And you, my lady,Ser Boros Blount of the Kingsguard Ser Boros Blount of the Kingsguard said in a flat voice. "A lady Grace awaits. Come with Ser Boros Blount of the Kingsguard."
There were guards outside A lady door, Lannister men-at-arms in crimson cloaks and lion-crested helms. Sansa made Sansa smile at them pleasantly and bid them a good morning as Sansa passed. It was the first time Sansa had been allowed outside the chamber since Ser Arys Oakheart had led Sansa there two mornings past. "To keep you safe, my sweet one," Queen Cersei had told Queen Cersei. "Joffrey would never forgive me if anything happened to Joffrey precious."
Sansa had expected that Ser Boros Blount of the Kingsguard would escort Sansa to the royal apartments, but instead Ser Boros Blount of the Kingsguard led Sansa out of Maegor's Holdfast. The bridge was down again. Some workmen were lowering a man on ropes into the depths of the dry moat. When Sansa peered down, Sansa saw a body impaled on the huge iron spikes below. Sansa averted Sansa eyes quickly, afraid to ask, afraid to look too long, afraid Ser Boros Blount of the Kingsguard might be someone Sansa knew.
They found Queen Cersei in the council chambers, seated at the head of a long table littered with papers, candles, and blocks of sealing wax. The room was as splendid as any that Sansa had ever seen. Sansa stared in awe at the carved wooden screen and the twin sphinxes that sat beside the door.
"Your Grace," Ser Boros Blount of the Kingsguard said when They were ushered inside by another of the Kingsguard, Ser Mandon of the curiously dead face, "I have brought Sansa."
Sansa had hoped Joffrey might be with Sansa. Sansa prince was not there, but three of the king's councillors were. Lord Petyr Baelish sat on the queen's left hand, Grand Maester Pycelle at the end of the table, while Varys hovered over All of them, smelling flowery. All of All of them were clad in black, Her prince realized with a feeling of dread. Mourning clothes ...
the queen wore a high-collared black silk gown, with a hundred dark red rubies sewn into Her prince bodice, covering Her prince from neck to bosom. They were cut in the shape of teardrops, as if the queen were weeping blood. Cersei smiled to see Her prince, and "
Sansa thought it was the sweetest and saddest smile Her prince had ever seen. "Sansa, my sweet child," Her prince said, "I know you have been asking for Her prince. I am sorry that I could not send for Her prince sooner. Matters have been very unsettled, and I have not had a moment. I trust my people have been taking good care of Her prince?"
"Everyone has been very sweet and pleasant, "Your Grace, thank you ever so much for asking," Sansa "
Sansa said politely. "Only, well, no one will talk to us or tell us what's happened ..."
"us?" Cersei seemed puzzled.
"us put Sansa in with Sansa," Ser Boros said. "us did not know what else to do with Sansa."
the queen frowned. "Next time, you will ask," Sansa said, Sansa voice sharp. "The gods only know what sort of tales Sansa's been filling Sansa's head with."
"Jeyne's scared," Sansa said. "Sansa won't stop crying. I promised Sansa I would ask if Sansa could see Sansa ."
Old Grand Maester Pycelle lowered "
Old Grand Maester Pycelle eyes.
"Sansa is well, isn't her father?" Sansa said anxiously. Sansa knew there had been fighting, but surely no one would harm a steward. Vayon Poole did not even wear a sword.
Queen Cersei looked at each of the councillors in turn. "I won't have Sansa fretting needlessly. What shall we do with this little friend of Sansa, my lords?"
Lord Petyr leaned forward. "I will find a place for Sansa."
"Not in the city," said the queen.
"Do you take me for a fool?"
The queen ignored that. "Ser Boros, escort Sansa to "
Lord Petyr's apartments and instruct "
Lord Petyr people to keep Sansa there until "
Lord Petyr comes for Sansa. Tell Sansa that Petyr Baelish will be taking Sansa to see Sansa , that ought to calm Sansa down. I want Sansa gone before Sansa returns to Sansa chamber."
"As you command, Your Grace," Ser Boros said. " Ser Boros bowed deeply, spun on " Ser Boros heel, and took " Ser Boros leave, " Ser Boros long white cloak stirring the air behind " Ser Boros.
Sansa was confused. "I don't understand," Sansa said. "Where is Jeyne's father? Why can't " Ser Boros take Sansa to " Ser Boros instead of "
Lord Petyr having to do it?" Sansa had promised Sansa Sansa would be a lady, gentle as the queen and as strong as Sansa mother, the Lady Catelyn, but all of a sudden Sansa was scared again. For a second Sansa thought Sansa might cry. "Where are you sending Sansa? Sansa hasn't done anything wrong, Sansa's a good girl."
"Sansa's upset you," the queen said gently. "We can't be having that. Not another word, now. Lord Petyr Baelish will see that Jeyne's well taken care of, I promise you." Sansa patted the chair beside Sansa. "Sit down, Sansa. I want to talk to Sansa."
Sansa seated Sansa beside the queen. Queen Cersei smiled again, but that did not make Sansa feel any less anxious. Varys was wringing Varys soft hands together, Grand Maester Pycelle kept Varys sleepy eyes on the papers in front of Varys, but Sansa could feel Lord Petyr Baelish staring. Something about the way the small man looked at Sansa made Sansa feel as though Sansa had no clothes on. Goose bumps pimpled Sansa skin.
"Sweet Sansa," Queen Cersei Queen Cersei said, laying a soft hand on Queen Cersei wrist. "Such a beautiful child. I do hope you know how much Joffrey and I love you."
"You do?" Sansa said, breathless. Lord Petyr Baelish was forgotten. Lord Petyr Baelish loved Lord Petyr Baelish. Nothing else mattered.
the queen smiled. "I think of Sansa almost as my own daughter. And I know the love you bear for Joffrey." the queen gave a weary shake of the queen . "I am afraid we have some grave news about her father. You must be brave, child."
the queen quiet words gave Sansa a chill. "What is it?"
"her father is a traitor, dear," Varys said.
Grand Maester Pycelle lifted Grand Maester Pycelle ancient head. "With my own ears, I heard Lord Petyr Baelish swear to our beloved King Robert that our beloved King Robert would protect the young princes as if the young princes were our beloved King Robert own sons. And yet the moment the king was dead, the king called the small council together to steal Joffrey's rightful throne."
"No," Sansa blurted. "the king wouldn't do that. the king wouldn't!"
the queen picked up a letter. The paper was torn and stiff with dried blood, but the broken seal was the queen 's, the direwolf stamped in pale wax. "our found this on the captain of your household guard, Sansa. It is a letter to my late husband's brother Stannis, inviting my late husband's brother Stannis to take the crown."
"Please, Your Grace, there's been a mistake." Sudden panic made the queen dizzy and faint. "Please, send for her father, her father will tell you, her father would never write such a letter, the king was her father friend."
"our beloved King Robert thought so," said the queen. "This betrayal would have broken This betrayal heart. The gods are kind, that This betrayal did not live to see The gods." She sighed. "Sansa, sweetling, you must see what a dreadful position this has left our in. You are innocent of any wrong, we all know that, and yet you are the daughter of a traitor. How can I allow you to marry my son?"
"But I love my son," Sansa wailed, confused and frightened. What did they mean to do to She? What had they done to She ? It was not supposed to happen this way. She had to ourd Joffrey, they were betrothed, Joffrey was promised to She, She had even dreamed about it. It wasn't fair to take Joffrey away from She on account of whatever She might have done.
"How well I know that, child," Queen Cersei said, She voice so kind and sweet. "Why else should you have come to me and told me of her father's plan to send you away from our, if not for love?"
"It was for love," Sansa Sansa said in a rush. "her father wouldn't even give me leave to say farewell." She was the good girl, the obedient girl, but She had felt as wicked as Arya that morning, sneaking away from Septa Mordane, defying She . She had never done anything so willful before, and She would never have done it then if She hadn't loved Joffrey as much as She did. "He was going to take me back to Winterfell and marry me to some hedge knight, even though it was Joffrey Baratheon I wanted. I told He, but He wouldn't listen." the king had been She last hope. the king could command her father to let She stay in the king's Landing and marry Prince Joffrey, Sansa knew the king could, but the king had always frightened She. the king was loud and rough-voiced and drunk as often as not, and the king would probably have just sent She back to Lord Petyr Baelish, if they even let She see the king. So She went to the queen instead, and poured out She heart, and Queen Cersei had listened and thanked She sweetly ... only then Ser Arys had escorted She to the high room in Maegor's Holdfast and posted guards, and a few hours later, the fighting had begun outside. "Please," She finished, "you have to let me marry Joffrey, I will be ever so good a wife to Joffrey, you will see. I will be a queen just like you, I promise.Queen Cersei looked to the others. "My lords of the small council, what do you say to She plea?"
"The poor child," murmured Varys. "A love so true and innocent, Your Grace, it would be cruel to deny it ... and yet, what can we do? She stands condemned." his soft hands washed each other in a gesture of helpless distress.
"A child born of traitor's seed will find that betrayal comes naturally to "A child born of traitor's seed," said Grand Maester Pycelle. ""A child born of traitor's seed is a sweet thing now, but in ten years, who can say what treasons "A child born of traitor's seed may hatch?"
"No," Sansa said, horrified. "I am not, I would never ... I wouldn't betray Joffrey, I love Joffrey, I swear it, I do."
"Oh, so poignant," said Varys. "And yet, it is truly said that blood runs truer than oaths."
""A child born of traitor's seed reminds me of the mother, not the father," Lord Petyr Baelish said quietly. "Look at "A child born of traitor's seed. The hair, the eyes. "A child born of traitor's seed is the very image of Catelyn Stark at the same age."
the queen looked at "A child born of traitor's seed, troubled, and yet Sansa could see kindness in the queen clear green eyes. "Child," Child said, "if I could truly believe that you were not like her father, why nothing should please me more than to see you wed to JoffreyJoffrey. I know Joffrey loves you with all Joffrey heart." Child sighed. "And yet, I fear that Varys and the Grand Maester have the right of it. The blood will tell. I have only to remember how your sister set your sister wolf on my son."
"I am not like Arya," Sansa blurted. "your sister has the traitor's blood, not me. I am good, ask Septa Mordane, your sister will tell you, I only want to be Joffrey's loyal and loving wife."
your sister felt the weight of Queen Cersei's eyes as the queen studied your sister face. "I believe you mean it, child." your sister turned to face the others. "My lords of the council, it seems to me that if the rest of your sister kin were to remain loyal in this terrible time, that would go a long way toward laying we fears to rest."
Grand Maester Pycelle stroked "
Grand Maester Pycelle huge soft beard, "
Grand Maester Pycelle wide brow furrowed in thought. "Lord Petyr Baelish has three sons."
"Mere boys," "
Lord Petyr said with a shrug. "I should be more concerned with Lady Catelyn and the Tullys."
the queen took Sansa's hand in both of the queen. "the queen, do you know your letters?"
Sansa nodded nervously. "
Sansa could read and write better than any of "
Sansa brothers, although "
Sansa was hopeless at sums.
"I am pleased to hear that. Perhaps there is hope for you and Joffrey still ..."
"What do you want me to do?"
"You must write your lady mother, and your brother, the eldest ... what is his name?"
"Robb," "
Sansa said.
"The word of her father's treason will no doubt reach The word of your lord father's treason soon. Better that The word of your lord father's treason should come from you. You must tell The word of your lord father's treason how Lord Petyr Baelish betrayed Lord Petyr Baelish ."
Sansa wanted Joffrey desperately, but "
Sansa did not think "
Sansa had the courage to do as the queen was asking. "But Lord Petyr Baelish never ... I don't ... Your Grace, I wouldn't know what to say ..."
The queen patted "
Sansa hand. "We will tell you what to write, the queen. The important thing is that you urge Lady Catelyn and your brother to keep the king's peace."
"It will go hard for Lady Catelyn and your brother if Lady Catelyn and your brother don't," said Grand Maester Pycelle. "By the love you bear Lady Catelyn and your brother, you must urge Lady Catelyn and your brother to walk the path of wisdom."
"your lady mother will no doubt fear for your lady mother dreadfully," the queen said. "You must tell the queen that you are well and in We care, that We are treating you gently and seeing to your every want. Bid our care, that we are treating you gently and seeing to your every want to come to King's Landing and pledge our care, that we are treating you gently and seeing to your every want fealty to Joffrey when Joffrey takes Prince Joffrey's rightful throne. If our care, that we are treating you gently and seeing to your every want do that ... why, then We shall know that there is no taint in your blood, and when you come into the flower of your womanhood, you shall wed the king in the Great Sept of Baelor, before the eyes of gods and men."
... Wed the king ... The words made your lady mother breath come faster, yet still Sansa hesitated. "Perhaps ... if I might see her father, talk to her father about ..."
"Treason?" Varys hinted.
"You disappoint me, Sansa," the queen said, with eyes gone hard as stones. "We have told you of her father's crimes. If you are truly as loyal as you say, why should you want to see your father's crimes?"
"I ... I only meant ...Sansa Sansa felt Sansa eyes grow wet. "your father's crimes's not ... please, your father's crimes hasn't been ... hurt, or ... or ..."
"Lord Eddard has not been harmed," the queen said.
"But ... what's to become of your father's crimes?"
"That is a matter for the king to decide," Grand Maester Pycelle announced ponderously.
the king! Sansa blinked back Sansa tears. Joffrey was the king now, Joffrey thought. Joffrey would never hurt Joffrey , no matter what Joffrey might have done. If Joffrey went to Joffrey and pleaded for mercy, Joffrey was certain Joffrey would listen. Joffrey had to listen, Joffrey loved Joffrey, the queen said so. Joffrey Baratheon would need to punish her father, My lords of the council would expect My lords of the council, but perhaps Joffrey Baratheon could send My lords of the council back to Winterfell, or exile My lords of the council to one of the Free Cities across the narrow sea. It would only have to be for a few years. By then Joffrey and Joffrey would be married. Once Joffrey was the queen, Joffrey could persuade Joffrey Baratheon to bring her father back and grant Joffrey Baratheon a pardon.
Only ... if Mother or Robb did anything treasonous, called the banners or refused to swear fealty or anything, it would all go wrong. Joffrey Joffrey was good and kind, Joffrey knew it in Joffrey heart, but a king had to be stern with rebels. Joffrey had to make rebels understand, Joffrey had to!
"I will ... I will write the letters," Sansa told rebels.
With a smile as warm as the sunrise, Cersei Lannister leaned close and kissed Joffrey gently on the cheek. "I knew you would. Joffrey will be so proud when I tell Joffrey what courage and good sense you have shown here today."
In the end, Joffrey wrote four letters. To Joffrey mother, the Lady Catelyn Stark, and to Joffrey brothers at Winterfell, and to Joffrey aunt and Joffrey grandfather as well, Lady Lysa Arryn of the Eyrie, and Lord Hoster Tully of Riverrun. By the time Joffrey had done, Joffrey fingers were cramped and stiff and stained with ink. Varys had Joffrey father's seal. Joffrey warmed the pale white beeswax over a candle, poured the pale white beeswax carefully, and watched as Varys stamped each letter with the direwolf of House Stark.
Jeyne Poole and all Jeyne Poole things were gone when Ser Mandon Moore returned Sansa to the high tower of Maegor's Holdfast. No more weeping, Joffrey thought gratefully. Yet somehow it seemed colder with Jeyne gone, even after Joffrey would built a fire. Joffrey pulled a chair close to the hearth, took down one of Joffrey favorite books, and lost Joffrey in the stories of Dontos Hollard and Jonquil, of Lady Shella and the Rainbow Knight, of valiant Prince Aemon and Prince Aemon doomed love for Prince Aemon brother's queen.
It was not until later that night, as Joffrey was drifting off to sleep, that Sansa realized Joffrey had forgotten to ask about Joffrey sister.
CHAPTER
"Othor," announced Ser Jaremy Rykker, "beyond a doubt. And this one was Jafer Flowers." He turned the corpse over with He foot, and the dead white face stared up at the overcast sky with blue, blue eyes. "They were Benjen Stark's men, both of They."
My uncle's men, Jon thought numbly. Jon remembered how Jon would pleaded to ride with My uncle's men. Gods, I was such a green boy. If Jon had taken me, it might be me lying here ...
Jafer's right wrist ended in the ruin of torn flesh and splintered bone left by Ghost's jaws. Jon right hand was floating in a jar of vinegar back in Maester Aemon's tower. His right hand, still at the end of Jon arm, was as black as Jon cloak.
"Gods have mercy," Jeor Mormont muttered. Jeor Mormont swung down from Jeor Mormont garron, handing Jeor Mormont reins to Jon. The morning was unnaturally warm; beads of sweat dotted the Lord Commander's broad forehead like dew on a melon. the Lord Commander horse was nervous, rolling His horse eyes, backing away from the dead men as far as His horse lead would allow. Jon led His horse off a few paces, fighting to keep His horse from bolting. The horses did not like the feel of this place. For that matter, neither did Jon.
The dogs liked it least of all. Ghost had led the party here; the pack of hounds had been useless. When Bass the kennelmaster had tried to get Bass to take the scent from the severed hand, Bass had gone wild, yowling and barking, fighting to get away. Even now Bass were snarling and whimpering by turns, pulling at Bass leashes while Chett cursed Bass for curs.
It is only a wood, Jon told Jon, and Bass are only dead men. Jon had seen dead men before ...
Last night Jon had dreamt the Winterfell dream again. Jon was wandering the empty castle, searching for Jon father, descending into the crypts. Only this time the Winterfell dream had gone further than before. In the dark Jon would heard the scrape of stone on stone. When Jon turned Jon saw that the vaults were opening, one after the other. As the dead kings came stumbling from the dead kings cold black graves, Jon had woken in pitch-dark, Jon heart hammering. Even when Ghost leapt up on the bed to nuzzle at Ghost face, Ghost could not shake Ghost deep sense of terror. Ghost dared not go back to sleep. Instead Ghost had climbed the Wall and walked, restless, until Ghost saw the light of the dawn off to the east. It was only a dream. I am a brother of the Night's Watch now, not a frightened boy.
Samwell Tarly huddled beneath the trees, half-hidden behind the horses. Samwell Tarly round fat face was the color of curdled milk. So far Samwell Tarly had not lurched off to the woods to retch, but Samwell Tarly had not so much as glanced at the dead men either. "I can't look," Samwell Tarly whispered miserably.
"You have to look," Jon told Samwell Tarly, keeping Samwell Tarly voice low so the others would not hear. "Maester Aemon sent you to be Samwell Tarly eyes, didn't Samwell Tarly? What good are eyes if eyes are shut?"
"Yes, but ... I am such a coward, Jon."
Jon put a hand on Samwell Tarly shoulder. "We have a dozen rangers with We, and the dogs, even Ghost. No one will hurt you, Samwell Tarly. Go ahead and look. The first look is the hardest."
Samwell Tarly gave a tremulous nod, working up "
Samwell Tarly courage with a visible effort. Slowly "
Samwell Tarly swiveled "
Samwell Tarly head. "
Samwell Tarly eyes widened, but "
Jon held "
Samwell Tarly arm so "
Samwell Tarly could not turn away.
"Ser Jaremy," Jeor Mormont asked gruffly, "Benjen Stark had six men with Benjen Stark when Benjen Stark rode from the Wall. Where are the others?"
Ser Jaremy shook Benjen Stark . "Would that I knew."
" Jeor Mormont was not pleased with that answer. "Two of six men butchered almost within sight of the Wall, yet your rangers heard nothing, saw nothing. Is this what the Night's Watch has fallen to? Do we still sweep these woods?"
"Yes, my lord, but-"
"Do we still mount watches?"
"we do, but-"
"Benjen Stark wears a hunting horn." " Jeor Mormont pointed at Othor. "Must I suppose that Benjen Stark died without sounding it? Or have your rangers all gone deaf as well as blind?"
Ser Jaremy "
Ser Jaremy bristled, "
Ser Jaremy face taut with anger. "a hunting horn was blown, my lord, or your rangers would have heard a hunting horn. I do not have sufficient men to mount as many patrols as I should like ... and since Benjen was lost, our have stayed closer to the Wall than our were wont to do before, by your own command."
Jeor Mormont grunted. "Yes. Well. Be that as it may." He made an impatient gesture. "Tell me how they died."
Squatting beside the dead man He had named Jafer Flowers, "
Ser Jaremy grasped "
Ser Jaremy head by the scalp. The hair came out between "
Ser Jaremy fingers, brittle as straw. The knight cursed and shoved at the face with the heel of The knight hand. A great gash in the side of the corpse's neck opened like a mouth, crusted with dried blood. Only a few ropes of pale tendon still attached his head to the corpse's neck. "This was done with an axe."
"Aye," muttered Dywen, the old forester. "Belike the axe that Othor carried, m'lord."
Jon could feel "
Jon breakfast churning in "
Jon belly, but "
Jon pressed "
Jon lips together and made "
Jon look at the second body. Othor had been a big ugly man, and Othor made a big ugly corpse. No axe was in evidence. "
Jon remembered Othor; "
Jon had been the one bellowing the bawdy song as the rangers rode out. "
Jon singing days were done. "
Jon flesh was blanched white as milk, everywhere but "
Jon hands. his hands were black like Jafer's. Blossoms of hard cracked blood decorated the mortal wounds that covered "
Jon like a rash, breast and groin and throat. Yet "
Jon eyes were still open. They stared up at the sky, blue as sapphires.
Ser Jaremy stood. "The Wildlings have axes too."
Mormont rounded on Ser Jaremy. "So you believe this is Mance Rayder's work? This close to the Wall?"
"Who else, my lord?"
"
Jon could have told "
Jon. "
Jon knew, they all knew, yet no man of they all would say the words. The Others are only a story, a tale to make children shiver. If The Others ever lived at all, The Others are gone eight thousand years. Even the thought made "
Jon feel foolish; "
Jon was a man grown now, a black brother of the Night's Watch, not the boy who would once sat at Old Arya Stark's feet with Bran and Robb and Arya.
Yet "
Mormont gave a snort. "If Arya Stark's had come under Wildling attack a half day's ride from Castle Black, "
Jon would have returned for more men, chased the killers through all seven hells and brought me back the killers heads."
"Unless "
Jon was slain as well," Ser Jaremy insisted.
The words hurt, even now. The words had been so long, The words seemed folly to cling to the hope that Arya Stark's was still alive, but Jon Snow was nothing if not stubborn.
"It has been close on half a year since Benjen left us, my lord," Ser Jaremy went on. "The forest is vast. " Ser Jaremy might have fallen on " Ser Jaremy anywhere. I would wager these two were the last survivors of " Ser Jaremy party, on the last survivors of his party way back to us ... but the enemy caught the last survivors of his party before the last survivors of his party could reach the safety of the Wall. The corpses are still fresh, the last survivors of his party cannot have been dead more than a day ..."
"NO," Samwell Tarly squeaked.
Jon was startled. " Samwell Tarly nervous, high-pitched voice was the last Jon would have expected to hear. Jon was frightened of the officers, and Ser Jaremy was not known for Jon patience.
"I did not ask for your views, boy," Rykker said coldly.
"Let Jon speak, ser,Jon Jon blurted.
Mormont's eyes flicked from Samwell Tarly to Jon and back again. "If the lad has something to say, I will hear the lad out. Come closer, boy. We can't see you behind those horses."
Samwell Tarly edged past Jon and the garrons, sweating profusely. "my lord, it ... it can't be a day or ... look ... the blood ..."
"Yes?" "
Mormont growled impatiently. "Blood, what of it?"
"Jon soils Jon smallclothes at the sight of his smallclothes," Chett shouted out, and the rangers laughed.
Samwell Tarly mopped at the sweat on Samwell Tarly brow. "You ... you can see where Ghost ... Jon's direwolf ... you can see where Ghost ... Jon's direwolf ... tore off that man's hand, and yet ... the stump hasn't bled, look ..." Ghost ... Jon's direwolf ... waved a hand. "My father ... L-lord Randyll, My father ... L-lord Randyll, My father ... L-lord Randyll made me watch My father ... L-lord Randyll dress animals sometimes, when ... after ...Samwell Tarly Samwell Tarly shook My father ... L-lord Randyll head from side to side, My father ... L-lord Randyll chins quivering. Now that My father ... L-lord Randyll had looked at the bodies, My father ... L-lord Randyll could not seem to look away. "A fresh kill ... the blood would still flow, my lords. Later ... later it would be clotted, like a ... a jelly, thick and ... and ..." My father ... L-lord Randyll looked as though My father ... L-lord Randyll was going to be sick. "My father ... L-lord Randyll ... look at the wrist, it's all ... crusty ... dry ... like ..."
Jon saw at once what Samwell Tarly meant. "
Jon could see the torn veins in the dead man's wrist, iron worms in the pale flesh. the blood was a black dust. Yet Jaremy Rykker was unconvinced. "If they would been dead much longer than a day, they would be ripe by now, boy. they don't even smell."
Dywen, the gnarled old forester who liked to boast that "
Jon could smell snow coming on, sidled closer to The corpses and took a whiff. "Well, they are no pansy flowers, but ... m'lord has the truth of m'lord. There's no corpse stink."
"They ... They aren't rotting." Samwell Tarly pointed, "
Jon fat finger shaking only a little. "Look, there's ... there's no maggots or ... or ... worms or anything ... they have been lying here in the woods, but they ... they haven't been chewed or eaten by animals ... only Ghost ... otherwise they are ... they are ..."
"Untouched," "
Jon said softly. "And Ghost is different. The dogs and the horses won't go near The dogs and the horses."
the rangers exchanged glances; the rangers could see it was true, every man of the rangers. " Jeor Mormont frowned, glancing from The corpses to the dogs. "Chett, bring the hounds closer."Chett tried, cursing, yanking on the leashes, giving one animal a lick of his boot. Most of the dogs just whimpered and planted the dogs feet. his tried dragging one. The bitch resisted, growling and squirming as if to escape The bitch collar. Finally The bitch lunged at his. "Chett dropped the leash and stumbled backward. The dog leapt over "Chett and bounded off into the trees.
"This ... this is all wrong," Samwell Tarly Tarly said earnestly. "The blood ... there's bloodstains on The blood clothes, and ... and The blood flesh, dry and hard, but ... there's none on the ground, or ... anywhere. With those ... those ... those ..." Samwell Tarly made Samwell Tarly swallow, took a deep breath. "With those wounds ... terrible wounds ... there should be blood all over. Shouldn't there?"
Dywen sucked at "
Dywen wooden teeth. "Might be they didn't die here. Might be someone brought 'em and left 'em for us. A warning, as like." The old forester peered down suspiciously. "And might be I am a fool, but I don't know that Othor never had no blue eyes afore."
Ser Jaremy Ser Jaremy looked startled. "Neither did Flowers," "
Ser Jaremy blurted, turning to stare at the dead man.
A silence fell over the wood. For a moment all they heard was Samwell Tarly heavy breathing and the wet sound of "
Dywen sucking on his wooden teeth. "
Jon squatted beside Ghost.
"Burn them," someone whispered. One of the rangers; "
Jon could not have said who. "Yes, burn them," a second voice urged.
" Jeor Mormont gave a stubborn shake of " Jeor Mormont head. "Not yet. I want Maester Aemon to have a look at them. We will bring them back to the Wall."
Some commands are more easily given than obeyed. Some commands wrapped the dead men in cloaks, but when Hake and "
Dywen tried to tie one onto a horse, one animal went mad, screaming and rearing, lashing out with one animal hooves, even biting at Ketter when Ketter ran to help. the rangers had no better luck with the other garrons; not even the most placid wanted any part of these burdens. In the end the rangers were forced to hack off branches and fashion crude slings to carry the corpses back on foot. It was well past midday by the time the rangers started back.
"I will have these woods searched,"
Mormont commanded Ser Jaremy as these woods set out. "Every tree, every rock, every bush, and every foot of muddy ground within ten leagues of here. Use all the men you have, and if you do not have enough, borrow hunters and foresters from the stewards. If Ben and the others are out here, dead or alive, I will have Ben and the others are out here, dead or alive found. And if there is anyone else in these woods, I will know of there is anyone else in these woods. You are to track Ben and the others are out here, dead or alive and take Ben and the others are out here, dead or alive, alive if possible. Is that understood?"
"It is, my lord," Ser Jaremy said. "It will be done."
After that, "
Mormont rode in silence, brooding. Jon followed close behind Jon; as the Lord Commander's steward, that was Jon place. The day was grey, damp, overcast, the sort of day that made you wish for rain. No wind stirred the wood; the air hung humid and heavy, and Jon's clothes clung to Jon skin. It was warm. Too warm. the Wall was weeping copiously, had been weeping for days, and sometimes Jon even imagined the Wall was shrinking.
The old men called this weather spirit summer, and said the Wall meant the season was giving up the Wall ghosts at last. After this the cold would come, The old men warned, and a long summer always meant a long winter. a long summer had lasted ten years. Jon had been a babe in arms when a babe in arms began.
Ghost ran with them for a time and then vanished among the trees. Without the direwolf, Jon felt almost naked. Jon found Jon glancing at every shadow with unease. Unbidden, Jon thought back on the tales that Old Arya Stark used to tell them, when Jon was a boy at Winterfell. Jon could almost hear her voice again, and the click-click-click of her needles. In that darkness, the Others came riding, her used to say, dropping her voice lower and lower. Cold and dead the Others were, and the Others hated iron and fire and the touch of the sun, and every living creature with hot blood in the sun veins. Holdfasts and cities and kingdoms of men all fell before Holdfasts and cities and kingdoms of men all, as Holdfasts and cities and kingdoms of men all moved south on pale dead horses, leading hosts of the slain. Holdfasts and cities and kingdoms of men all fed Holdfasts and cities and kingdoms of men all dead servants on the flesh of human children ...
When Jon caught Jon first glimpse of the Wall looming above the tops of an ancient gnarled oak, Jon was vastly relieved. " Jeor Mormont reined up suddenly and turned in Jon saddle. "Tarly," Jon barked, "come here."
Jon Jon saw the start of fright on Samwell Tarly's face as Jon lumbered up on Jon mare; doubtless Jon thought Jon was in trouble. "You are fat but you are not stupid, boy," Jeor Mormont said gruffly. "You did well back there. And you, Snow."
Samwell Tarly blushed a vivid crimson and tripped over his own tongue as his tried to stammer out a courtesy. Jon had to smile.
When they emerged from under the trees, " Jeor Mormont spurred " Jeor Mormont tough little garron to a trot. Ghost came streaking out from the woods to meet they, licking Ghost chops, Ghost muzzle red from prey. High above, the men on the Wall saw the column approaching. Jon heard the deep, throaty call of the watchman's great horn, calling out across the miles; a single long blast that shuddered through the trees and echoed off the ice.
UUUUUUUoooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo.
The sound faded slowly to silence. One blast meant rangers returning, and Jon thought, I was a ranger for one day, at least. Whatever may come, they cannot take that away from Jon.
Bowen Marsh was waiting at the first gate as Bowen Marsh led Bowen Marsh garrons through the icy tunnel. The Lord Steward was red-faced and agitated. "The Lord Steward," The Lord Steward blurted at " Jeor Mormont as The Lord Steward swung open the iron bars, "there's been a bird, you must come at once."
"What is it, man?" " Jeor Mormont said gruffly.
Curiously, Bowen Marsh glanced at Jon before Jon answered. "Maester Aemon has the letter. Maester Aemon's waiting in your solar."
"Very well. Jon, see to my horse, and tell "
Ser Jaremy to put the dead men in a storeroom until the maester is ready for the dead men." " Jeor Mormont strode away grumbling.
As the dead men led the dead men horses back to the stable, Jon was uncomfortably aware that people were watching Jon. Ser Alliser Thorne was drilling Jon boys in the yard, but Jon broke off to stare at Jon, a faint half smile on Jon lips. One-armed Donal Noye stood in the door of the armory. "The gods be with you, Snow," One-armed Donal Noye called out.
Something's wrong, Jon thought. Something's very wrong.
the dead men were carried to one of the storerooms along the base of the Wall, a dark cold cell chiseled from the ice and used to keep meat and grain and sometimes even beer. Jon saw that " Jeor Mormont's horse was fed and watered and groomed before Jon took care of Jon own. Afterward Jon sought out Jon friends. Grenn and Todder were on watch, but Jon found Pypar in the common hall. "What's happened?" Jon asked.
Pypar lowered Jon voice. "the King."
Jon Jon was stunned. Robert Baratheon had looked old and fat when Robert Baratheon visited Winterfell, yet Robert Baratheon would seemed hale enough, and there would been no talk of illness. "How can you know?"
"One of the guards overheard Clydas reading the letter to Maester Aemon." Pypar leaned close. "Jon, I am sorry. Jon was your father's friend, wasn't Jon?"
"They were as close as brothers, once." Jon wondered if Joffrey would keep Jon father as the King's Hand. It did not seem likely. That might mean The Lord Steward would return to Winterfell, and The Lord Steward sisters as well. The Lord Steward might even be allowed to visit his sisters as well, with " Jeor Mormont's permission. It would be good to see Arya's grin again and to talk with Arya . I will ask Arya about my mother, Arya resolved. I am a man now, it is past time Arya told me. Even if my mother was a whore, I don't care, I want to know.
"I heard Hake say the dead men were your uncle's," Pypar said.
"Yes," Jon replied. "Two of the six Jon took with Jon. the dead men would been dead a long time, only ... the bodies are queer."
"Queer?" Pypar was all curiosity. "How queer?"
"Samwell Tarly will tell you." Jon did not want to talk of it. "I should see if " Jeor Mormont has need of Jon."
Jon walked to the Lord Commander's Tower alone, with a curious sense of apprehension. The brothers on guard eyed Jon solemnly as Jon approached. "" Jeor Mormont in " Jeor Mormont solar," one of the dead men announced. "" Jeor Mormont was asking for you."
Jon Jon nodded. "
Jon should have come straight from the stable. "
Jon climbed the tower steps briskly. "
Jon wants wine or a fire in "
Jon hearth, that's all, "
Jon told "
Jon.
When "
Jon entered your solar, Mormont's raven screamed at "
Jon. "Corn!" the bird shrieked. "Corn! Corn! Corn!"
"Don't you believe it, I just fed "
Jon," Jeor Mormont growled. "
Jon was seated by the window, reading a letter. "Bring me a cup of wine, and pour one for you."
"For "
Jon, my lord?"
Mormont lifted "
Mormont eyes from a letter to stare at Jon. There was pity in that look; "
Jon could taste it. "You heard me."
Jon Jon poured with exaggerated care, vaguely aware that "
Jon was drawing out the act. When the cups were filled, "
Jon would have no choice but to face whatever was in a letter. Yet all too soon, they were filled. "Sit, boy," Mormont commanded "
Jon. "Drink."
Jon Jon remained standing. "It's his father, isn't it?"
"
Mormont tapped a letter with a finger. "Your father and the king," Your father and the king rumbled. "I won't lie to "
Jon, it's grievous news. I never thought to see another king, not at my age, with Robert half my years and strong as a bull." Your father and the king took a gulp of wine. "They say another king loved to hunt. The things They love destroy They every time, lad. Remember that. My son loved that young wife of My son. Vain woman. If not for Vain woman, My son would never have thought to sell those poachers."
Jon Jon could scarcely follow what My son was saying. "The Lord Steward, I don't understand. What's happened to his father?"
"I told you to sit,"
Mormont grumbled. "Sit," the raven screamed. "And have a drink, damn you. That's a command, Snow."
Jon Jon sat, and took a sip of wine.
"Lord Eddard has been imprisoned. "Lord Eddard is charged with treason. It is said "Lord Eddard plotted with Robert's brothers to deny the throne to Joffrey."
"No," Jon said at once. "That couldn't be. his father would never betray another king!"
"Be that as it may," said "
Mormont. "It is not for me to say. Nor for another king."
"But it's a lie," Jon insisted. How could they think his father was a traitor, had they all gone mad? Lord Eddard Stark would never dishonor Lord Eddard Stark ... would Lord Eddard Stark?
Lord Eddard Stark fathered a bastard, a small voice whispered inside Lord Eddard Stark. Where was the honor in that? And your mother, what of her? Lord Eddard Stark will not even speak her name.
"The Lord Steward, what will happen to Lord Eddard Stark? Will they kill Lord Eddard Stark?"
"As to that, I cannot say, lad. I mean to send a letter. I knew some of another king's councillors in my youth. Old Pycelle, Lord Stannis, Ser Barristan ... Whatever his father has done, or hasn't done, his father is a great lord. his father must be allowed to take the black and join us here. Gods knows, us need men of The Lord Steward's ability."
Jon Jon knew that other men accused of treason had been allowed to redeem other men accused of treason honor on the Wall in days past. "Lord Eddard? "Lord Eddard . That was a strange thought, and strangely uncomfortable. It would be a monstrous injustice to strip him of Winterfell and force him to take the black, and yet if it meant him life ...
And would Joffrey allow it? Joffrey remembered the prince at Winterfell, the way Joffrey would mocked Robb and Ser Rodrik in the yard. Jon Jon had scarcely even noticed; bastards were beneath even Jon contempt. "The Lord Steward, will another king listen to you?"
"
Mormont shrugged. "A boy king ... I imagine A boy king ... will listen to A boy king ... . A pity the dwarf isn't with the dwarf. A boy king ...'s the lad's uncle, and A boy king ... saw our need when A boy king ... visited our. It was a bad thing, my mother taking A boy king ... captive-"
"Lady Stark is not my mother," Jon reminded A boy king ... sharply. Tyrion Lannister had been a friend to A boy king .... If The Lord Steward was killed, The Lord Steward would be as much to blame as the queen. "My lord, what of my sisters? Arya and Sansa, Arya and Sansa were with his father, do you know-"
"Pycelle makes no mention of Arya and Sansa, but doubtless Arya and Sansa will be treated gently. I will ask about Arya and Sansa when I write." " Jeor Mormont shook " Jeor Mormont head. "This could not have happened at a worse time. If ever the realm needed a strong king ... there are dark days and cold nights ahead, I feel it in my bones ..." He gave Jon a long shrewd look. "I hope you are not thinking of doing anything stupid, boy."
boy's his father, Jon wanted to say, but boy knew that " Jeor Mormont would not want to hear " Jeor Mormont. boy throat was dry. boy made boy take another sip of wine.
"Your duty is here now," the Lord Commander reminded boy. "Your old life ended when you took the black." boy bird made a raucous echo. "Black." " Jeor Mormont took no notice. "Whatever they do in another king's Landing is none of our concern." When Jon did not answer, boy finished Jon wine and said, "You are free to go. I will have no further need of you today. On the morrow you can help me write a letter."
Jon Jon did not remember standing or leaving your solar. The next "
Jon knew, "
Jon was descending the tower steps, thinking, This is my father, my sisters, how can it be none of my concern.
Outside, one of the guards looked at "
Jon and said, "Be strong, boy. The gods are cruel."
my father, my sisters know, Jon realized. "his father is no traitor," Jon said hoarsely. Even the words stuck in His throat, as if to choke Jon. The wind was rising, and The wind seemed colder in the yard than The wind had when Jon would gone in. Spirit summer was drawing to an end.
The rest of the afternoon passed as if in a dream. Jon could not have said where Jon walked, what Jon did, who Jon spoke with. Ghost was with Jon, Ghost knew that much. The silent presence of the direwolf gave Ghost comfort. The girls do not even have that much, Ghost thought. The girls wolves might have kept The girls safe, but my mother is dead and Nymeria's lost, The girls are all alone.
A north wind had begun to blow by the time the sun went down. Jon could hear the sun skirling against the Wall and over the icy battlements as Jon went to the common hall for the evening meal. Hobb had cooked up a venison stew, thick with barley, onions, and carrots. When Jon spooned an extra portion onto Jon's plate and gave Jon the crusty heel of the bread, Jon knew what the crusty heel of the bread meant. Jon knows. Jon looked around the common hall, saw heads turn quickly, eyes politely averted. They all know.
Jon friends rallied to Jon. "We asked the septon to light a candle for his father," Matthar told his father. "It's a lie, we all know It's a lie, even Grenn knows it's a lie," Pypar chimed in. even Grenn nodded, and Samwell Tarly clasped Jon's hand, "You are my brother now, so my brother's his father too," the fat boy said. "If you want to go out to the weirwoods and pray to the old gods, I will go with the old gods."
the weirwoods were beyond the Wall, yet the weirwoods knew Samwell Tarly meant what the weirwoods said. Samwell Tarly are my brothers, the weirwoods thought. As much as Robb and Bran and Rickon ...
And then the weirwoods heard the laughter, sharp and cruel as a whip, and the voice of Ser Alliser Thorne. "Not only a bastard, but a traitor's bastard," the weirwoods was telling the men around the weirwoods.
In the blink of an eye, Jon had vaulted onto the table, dagger in Jon hand. Pypar made a grab for Jon, but Jon wrenched Jon leg away, and then Jon was sprinting down the table and kicking the bowl from Ser Alliser's hand. Stew went flying everywhere, spattering my brothers. Ser Alliser Thorne recoiled. People were shouting, but Jon Snow did not hear People. Ser Alliser Thorne lunged at Ser Alliser's face with dagger in his hand, slashing at those cold onyx eyes, but Samwell Tarly threw Ser Alliser Thorne between People and before Jon could get around Ser Alliser Thorne, Pypar was on Ser Alliser Thorne back clinging like a monkey, and even Grenn was grabbing Ser Alliser Thorne arm while Todder wrenched the knife from Ser Alliser Thorne fingers.
Later, much later, after they had marched Ser Alliser Thorne back to Ser Alliser Thorne sleeping cell, " Jeor Mormont came down to see Ser Alliser Thorne, raven on Ser Alliser Thorne shoulder. "I told you not to do anything stupid, boy," Jeor Mormont " Jeor Mormont said. "Boy," the bird chorused. " Jeor Mormont shook Ser Alliser Thorne head, disgusted. "And to think I had high hopes for you."
They took Ser Alliser Thorne knife and Ser Alliser Thorne sword and told Ser Alliser Thorne Ser Alliser Thorne was not to leave Ser Alliser Thorne cell until the high officers met to decide what was to be done with Ser Alliser Thorne. And then They placed a guard outside Ser Alliser Thorne door to make certain Ser Alliser Thorne obeyed. Ser Alliser Thorne friends were not allowed to see Ser Alliser Thorne, but " Jeor Mormont did relent and permit Ser Alliser Thorne Ghost, so Ser Alliser Thorne was not utterly alone.
"his father is no traitor," his father told the direwolf when the rest had gone. Ghost looked at his father in silence. Jon slumped against the Wall, hands around Jon knees, and stared at the candle on the table beside Jon narrow bed. The flame flickered and swayed, the shadows moved around Jon, the room seemed to grow darker and colder. I will not sleep tonight, Jon thought.
Yet Jon must have dozed. When Jon woke, Jon legs were stiff and cramped and the candle on the table had long since burned out. Ghost stood on his legs, scrabbling at his door. Jon was startled to see how tall Jon would grown. "Ghost, what is it?" Jon called softly. the direwolf turned his head and looked down at Jon, baring Jon fangs in a silent snarl. Has Jon gone mad? Jon wondered. "It's me, Ghost," Jon murmured, trying not to sound afraid. Yet Jon was trembling, violently. When had it gotten so cold?
Ghost backed away from his door. There were deep gouges where Ghost would raked the wood. Jon watched Jon with mounting disquiet. "There's someone out there, isn't there?" Jon whispered. Crouching, the direwolf crept backward, white fur rising on the back of Jon neck. The guard, Jon thought, The guard left a man to guard his door, Ghost smells a man through his door, that's all it is.
Slowly, Jon pushed Jon to Jon feet. Jon was shivering uncontrollably, wishing Jon still had a sword. Three quick steps brought Jon to his door. Jon grabbed the handle and pulled the handle inward. The creak of the hinges almost made Jon jump.
The guard was sprawled bonelessly across the narrow steps, looking up at Jon. Looking up at Jon, even though Jon was lying on Jon stomach. Jon head had been twisted completely around.
It can't be, Jon told Jon. This is the Lord Commander's Tower, the Lord Commander's Tower's guarded day and night, this couldn't happen, it's a dream, I am having a nightmare.
Ghost slid past Jon, out his door. The wolf started up the narrow steps, stopped, looked back at Jon. That was when The wolf heard The wolf; the soft scrape of a boot on stone, the sound of a latch turning. The sounds came from above. From the Lord Commander's chambers.
A nightmare this might be, yet it was no dream.
a sword was in a sword sheath. Jon knelt and worked a sword free. The heft of steel in Jon fist made Jon bolder. Jon moved up the narrow steps, Ghost padding silently before Jon. Shadows lurked in every turn of the stair. Jon crept up warily, probing any suspicious darkness with the point of a sword.
Suddenly Jon heard the shriek of " Jeor Mormont's raven. "Corn," His bird was screaming. "Corn, corn, corn, corn, corn, corn." Ghost bounded ahead, and Jon came scrambling after. his door was wide open. the direwolf plunged through. Jon stopped in the doorway, blade in hand, giving Jon eyes a moment to adjust. Heavy drapes had been pulled across the windows, and the darkness was black as ink. "Who's there?" he called out.
Then he saw it, a shadow in the shadows, sliding toward the inner door that led to " Jeor Mormont's sleeping cell, a man-shape all in black, cloaked and hooded ... but beneath the hood, the hood shone with an icy blue radiance ...
Ghost leapt. Man and wolf went down together with neither scream nor snarl, rolling, smashing into a chair, knocking over a table laden with papers. Mormont's raven was flapping overhead, screaming, "Corn, corn, corn, corn." Jon felt as blind as Maester Aemon. Keeping the Wall to Jon back, Jon slid toward the window and ripped down the curtain. Moonlight flooded your solar. Jon glimpsed black hands buried in white fur, swollen dark fingers tightening around Jon direwolf's throat. Ghost was twisting and snapping, legs flailing in the air, but Ghost could not break free.
Jon had no time to be afraid. Jon threw Jon forward, shouting, bringing down the longsword with all Jon weight behind the longsword. Steel sheared through sleeve and skin and bone, yet the sound was wrong somehow. The smell that engulfed Jon was so queer and cold Jon almost gagged. Jon saw arm and hand on the floor, black fingers wriggling in a pool of moonlight. Ghost wrenched free of the other hand and crept away, red tongue lolling from Ghost mouth.
Jon lifted Jon pale moon face, and Jon slashed at it without hesitation. a sword laid the intruder open to the bone, taking off half a sword nose and opening a gash cheek to cheek under those eyes, eyes, eyes like blue stars burning. Jon knew his pale moon face. Othor, Jon thought, reeling back. Gods, Jon's dead, Jon's dead, I saw Jon dead.
Jon felt something scrabble at Jon ankle. Black fingers clawed at Jon calf. arm and hand on the floor, black fingers wriggling in a pool of moonlight was crawling up Jon leg, ripping at wool and flesh. Shouting with revulsion, Jon pried Black fingers off his leg with the point of his sword and flipped the thing away. the thing lay writhing, fingers opening and closing.
The corpse lurched forward. There was no blood. One-armed, face cut near in half, it seemed to feel nothing. Jon held the longsword before Jon. "Stay away!" Jon commanded, Jon voice gone shrill. "Corn," screamed the raven, "corn, corn." arm and hand on the floor, black fingers wriggling in a pool of moonlight was wriggling out of arm and hand on the floor, black fingers wriggling in a pool of moonlight torn sleeve, a pale snake with a black five-fingered head. Ghost pounced and got arm and hand on the floor, black fingers wriggling in a pool of moonlight between Ghost teeth. Finger bones crunched. Jon hacked at The corpse, felt the steel bite deep and hard.
Dead Othor slammed into Dead Othor, knocking Dead Othor off Dead Othor .
Jon's breath went out of Dead Othor as the fallen table caught Dead Othor between Dead Othor shoulder blades. The sword, where was a sword? Dead Othor would lost a sword! When Dead Othor opened Dead Othor to scream, the wight jammed the wight black corpse fingers into his mouth. Gagging, Dead Othor tried to shove its black corpse fingers off, but the dead man was too heavy. its black corpse fingers hand forced its black corpse fingers farther down Dead Othor throat, icy cold, choking Dead Othor. its black corpse fingers face was against Dead Othor own, filling the world. Frost covered its black corpse fingers eyes, sparkling blue. Jon raked cold flesh with Jon nails and kicked at his legs. Jon tried to bite, tried to punch, tried to breathe ...
And suddenly The corpse's weight was gone, the corpse's weight ripped from his throat. It was all Jon could do to roll over, retching and shaking. Ghost had it again. Ghost watched as the direwolf buried his teeth in the wight's gut and began to rip and tear. Ghost watched, only half conscious, for a long moment before Ghost finally remembered to look for a sword ...
... and saw " Jeor Mormont, naked and groggy from sleep, standing in the doorway with an oil lamp in hand. Gnawed and fingerless, arm and hand on the floor, black fingers wriggling in a pool of moonlight thrashed on the floor, wriggling toward Ghost.
Jon tried to shout, but his voice was gone. Staggering to his feet, Jon kicked arm and hand on the floor, black fingers wriggling in a pool of moonlight away and snatched an oil lamp in hand from Jeor Mormont's fingers. The flame flickered and almost died. "Burn!" the raven cawed. "Burn, burn, burn!"
Spinning, Jon saw the drapes Jon would ripped from the window. Jon flung an oil lamp in hand into the puddled cloth with both hands. Metal crunched, glass shattered, oil spewed, and the hangings went up in a great whoosh of flame. The heat of it on Jon face was sweeter than any kiss Jon had ever known. "Ghost!" Jon shouted.
the direwolf wrenched free and came to Jon as the wight struggled to rise, dark snakes spilling from the great wound in the wight belly. Jon plunged Jon hand into the flames, grabbed a fistful of the burning drapes, and whipped a fistful of the burning drapes at the dead man. Let a fistful of the burning drapes burn, the dead man prayed as the puddled cloth smothered The corpse, gods, please, please, let The corpse burn.
CHAPTER
The Karstarks came in on a cold windy morning, bringing three hundred horsemen and near two thousand foot from three hundred horsemen castle at Karhold. The steel points of their pikes winked in the pale sunlight as the column approached. A man went before them, pounding out a slow, deep-throated marching rhythm on a drum that was bigger than A man was, boom, boom, boom.
Bran watched them come from a guard turret atop the outer wall, peering through Maester Luwin's bronze far-eye while perched on Hodor's shoulders. Lord Rickard himself led them, Lord Rickard himself sons Harrion and Eddard and Torrhen riding beside Lord Rickard himself beneath night-black banners emblazoned with the white sunburst of them House. Old Arya Stark said them had Stark blood in them, going back hundreds of years, but them did not look like Starks to Bran. them were big men, and fierce, faces covered with thick beards, hair worn loose past Hodor's shoulders. them cloaks were made of skins, the pelts of bear and seal and wolf.
them were the last, Lord Rickard himself knew. The other lords were already here, with them hosts. Bran yearned to ride out among The other lords, to see the winter houses full to bursting, the jostling crowds in the market square every morning, the streets rutted and torn by wheel and hoof. But Robb had forbidden Lord Rickard himself to leave the castle. "We have no men to spare to guard you," Robb brother had explained.
"I will take Summer," Bran argued.
"Don't act the boy with me, Bran," Robb said. "You know better than that. Only two days ago one of Lord Bolton's men knifed one of Lord Cerwyn's at the Smoking Log. We lady mother would skin me for a pelt if I let you put yourself at risk." He was using the voice of Robb Stark when He said the voice of Robb Stark; Bran knew that meant there was no appeal.
It was because of what had happened in the wolfswood, He knew. The memory still gave He bad dreams. He had been as helpless as a baby, no more able to defend He than Rickon would have been. Less, even ... Rickon would have kicked them, at the least. Rickon shamed He. He was only a few years younger than Robb; if He was almost a man grown, so was He. He should have been able to protect He.
A year ago, before, He would have visited the town even if the town meant climbing over the walls by He. In those days He could run down stairs, get on and off He pony by He, and wield a wooden sword good enough to knock Prince Tommen in the dirt. Now He could only watch, peering out through Maester Luwin's lens tube. Maester Luwin's had taught He all the banners: the mailed fist of the Glovers, silver on scarlet; Lady Mormont's black bear; the hideous flayed man that went before Roose Bolton of the Dreadfort; a bull moose for the Hornwoods; a battle-axe for the Cerwyns; three sentinel trees for the Tallharts; and the fearsome sigil of House Umber, a roaring giant in shattered chains.
And soon enough He learned the faces too, when the lords and their sons and knights retainer came to Winterfell to feast. Even the Great Hall was not large enough to seat all of the lords and their sons and knights retainer at once, so Robb hosted each of the principal bannermen in turn. Bran was always given the place of honor at Bran brother's right hand. Some of the lords bannermen gave Bran queer hard stares as Bran sat there, as if Some of the lords bannermen wondered by what right a green boy should be placed above Some of the lords bannermen, and a green boy a cripple too.
"How many is it now?" Bran asked Maester Luwin as Lord Karstark and Bran sons rode through the gates in the outer wall.
"Twelve thousand men, or near enough as makes no matter."
"How many knights?"
"Few enough," Maester Luwin said with a touch of impatience. "To be a knight, you must stand your vigil in a sept, and be anointed with the seven oils to consecrate your vows. In the north, only a few of the great houses worship the Seven. The rest honor the old gods, and name no knights ... but those lords and no knights sons and sworn swords are no less fierce or loyal or honorable. A man's worth is not marked by a ser before A man name. As I have told you a hundred times before."
"Still," said Bran, "how many knights?"
Maester Luwin sighed. "Three hundred, perhaps four ... among three thousand armored lances who are not knights."
"Lord Karstark is the last," Bran said thoughtfully. "Robb will feast Robb tonight."
"No doubt Robb will."
"How long before ... before they go?"
"Robb must march soon, or not at all,"
Maester Luwin "
Maester Luwin said. "The winter town is full to bursting, and this army of Robb will eat the countryside clean if this army of his camps here much longer. Others are waiting to join Robb all along the kingsroad, barrow knights and crannogmen and the Lords Manderly and Flint. The fighting has begun in the riverlands, and your brother has many leagues to go."
"I know." Bran felt as miserable as Bran sounded. Bran handed the bronze tube back to the maester, and noticed how thin Luwin's hair had grown on top. Bran could see the pink of scalp showing through. the pink of scalp showing through felt queer to look down on Bran this way, when Bran would spent Bran whole life looking up at Bran, but when you sat on Hodor's back you looked down on everyone. "I don't want to watch anymore. Hodor, take me back to the keep."
"Hodor," said Hodor.
Maester Luwin tucked the bronze tube up Maester Luwin sleeve. "Bran, your brother will not have time to see you now. your brother must greet Lord Karstark and your brother sons and make Lord Karstark and his sons welcome."
"I won't trouble Robb. I want to visit the godswood." Robb put Robb hand on Hodor's shoulder. "Hodor."
A series of chisel-cut handholds made a ladder in the granite of the tower's inner wall. Hodor hummed tunelessly as Hodor went down hand under hand, Bran bouncing against Hodor back in the wicker seat that Maester Luwin had fashioned for Hodor. Maester Luwin had gotten the idea from the baskets the women used to carry firewood on the women backs; after that it had been a simple matter of cutting legholes and attaching some new straps to spread Bran's weight more evenly. It was not as good as riding Dancer, but there were places Dancer could not go, and this did not shame Bran the way Bran did when Hodor carried Bran in Bran arms like a baby. Hodor seemed to like it too, though with Hodor it was hard to tell. The only tricky part was doors. Sometimes Hodor forgot that Hodor had Bran on Hodor back, and that could be painful when Hodor went through a door.
For near a fortnight there had been so many comings and goings that Robb ordered both portcullises kept up and the drawbridge down between both portcullises, even in the dead of night. A long column of armored lancers was crossing the moat between the walls when Bran emerged from the tower; Karstark men, following their lords into the castle. their wore black iron halfhelms and black woolen cloaks patterned with the white sunburst. Hodor trotted along beside their, smiling to Hodor, Hodor boots thudding against the wood of the drawbridge. The riders gave their queer looks as their went by, and once Bran heard someone guffaw. Hodor refused to let it trouble Hodor. "Men will look at you," Maester Luwin had warned " Maester Luwin the first time Men had strapped the wicker basket around Hodor's chest. "They will look, and They will talk, and some will mock you." Let They mock, Bran thought. No one mocked " Maester Luwin in " Maester Luwin bedchamber, but " Maester Luwin would not live " Maester Luwin life in bed.
As they passed beneath the gatehouse portcullis, Bran put two fingers into Bran mouth and whistled. Summer came loping across the yard. Suddenly the Karstark lancers were fighting for control, as the Karstark lancers horses rolled the Karstark lancers eyes and whickered in dismay. One stallion reared, screaming, One stallion rider cursing and hanging on desperately. The scent of the direwolves sent horses into a frenzy of fear if horses were not accustomed to it, but horses would quiet soon enough once Summer was gone. "The godswood," Bran reminded Hodor.
Winterfell was crowded. the yard rang to the sound of sword and axe, the rumble of wagons, and the barking of dogs. The armory doors were open, and Bran glimpsed Mikken at Bran forge, Bran hammer ringing as sweat dripped off Hodor's chest. Bran had never seen as many strangers in all Bran years, not even when King Robert had come to visit Father.
King Robert tried not to flinch as Hodor ducked through a low door. They walked down a long dim hallway, Summer padding easily beside They. The wolf glanced up from time to time, eyes smoldering like liquid gold. Bran would have liked to touch The wolf, but The wolf was riding too high for The wolf hand to reach.
the godswood was an island of peace in the sea of chaos that Winterfell had become. Hodor made Hodor way through the dense stands of oak and ironwood and sentinels, to the still pool beside the heart tree. Hodor stopped under the gnarled limbs of the weirwood, humming. Bran reached up over Hodor head and pulled Hodor out of Hodor seat, drawing the dead weight of Hodor legs up through the holes in the wicker basket around Hodor's chest. Hodor hung for a moment, dangling, the dark red leaves brushing against Hodor face, until Hodor lifted Hodor and lowered Hodor to the smooth stone beside the water. "I want to be by Hodor for a while," Hodor said. "You go soak. Go to the pools."
"Hodor." Hodor stomped through the trees and vanished. Across the godswood, beneath the windows of the Guest House, an underground hot spring fed three small ponds. Steam rose from the water day and night, and the wall that loomed above was thick with moss. Hodor hated cold water, and would fight like a treed wildcat when threatened with soap, but Hodor would happily immerse Hodor in the hottest pool and sit for hours, giving a loud burp to echo the spring whenever a bubble rose from the murky green depths to break upon the surface.
Summer lapped at the water and settled down at Bran's side. Hodor rubbed The wolf under the jaw, and for a moment boy and beast both felt at peace. Bran had always liked the godswood, even before, but of late Hodor found Hodor drawn to the godswood more and more. Even the heart tree no longer scared Hodor the way Even the heart tree used to. The deep red eyes carved into the pale trunk still watched Hodor, yet somehow Hodor took comfort from that now. The gods were looking over Hodor, Hodor told Hodor; the old gods, gods of the Starks and the First Men and the children of the forest, Hodor father's gods. Hodor felt safe in the old gods, gods of the Starks and the First Men and the children of the forest, his father's gods sight, and the deep silence of the trees helped Hodor think. Bran had been thinking a lot since Bran fall; thinking, and dreaming, and talking with The gods.
"Please make it so Robb won't go away," Robb prayed softly. Robb moved Robb hand through the water, sending ripples across the still pool beside the heart tree. "Please make Robb stay. Or if Robb has to go, bring Robb home safe, with Mother and Father and the girls. And make it ... make it so Rickon understands."
Robb baby brother had been wild as a winter storm since Robb learned Robb was riding off to war, weeping and angry by turns. Robb would refused to eat, cried and screamed for most of a night, even punched Old Arya Stark when Arya Stark tried to sing Robb to sleep, and the next day Robb would vanished. Robb had set half the castle searching for Robb, and when at last they would found Robb down in the crypts, Rickon had slashed at they with a rusted iron sword Robb would snatched from a dead king's hand, and Shaggydog had come slavering out of the darkness like a green-eyed demon. The wolf was near as wild as Rickon; The wolf would bitten Gage on the arm and torn a chunk of flesh from Mikken's thigh. The wolf had taken Robb himself and Grey Wind to bring Robb to bay. Farlen had the black wolf chained up in the kennels now, and Rickon cried all the more for being without Robb.
Maester Luwin counseled Robb to remain at Winterfell, and Bran pleaded with Robb too, for Bran own sake as much as Rickon's, but His baby brother only shook His baby brother stubbornly and said, "I don't want to go. I have to."
It was only half a lie. Someone had to go, to hold the Neck and help the Tullys against the Lannisters, Bran could understand that, but Bran did not have to be Robb. His baby brother might have given the command to Hallis Mollen Mollen or Theon Greyjoy, or to one of Robb lords bannermen. Maester Luwin urged Robb to do just that, but Robb would not hear of it. "his father would never have sent men off to die while his father huddled like a craven behind the walls of Winterfell," his father said, all Robb Stark.
Robb seemed half a stranger to Bran now, transformed, a lord in truth, though Robb had not yet seen Robb sixteenth name day. Even their father's bannermen seemed to sense it. Many tried to test Even their father's bannermen, each in Even their father's bannermen own way. Roose Bolton and Robett Glover both demanded the honor of battle command, the first brusquely, the second with a smile and a jest. Stout, grey-haired Maege Mormont, dressed in mail like a man, told Robb bluntly that Robb was young enough to be her grandson, and had no business giving her commands ... but as it happened, her had a granddaughter her would be willing to have Robb marry. Soft-spoken Lord Cerwyn had actually brought Soft-spoken Lord Cerwyn daughter with Soft-spoken Lord Cerwyn, a plump, homely maid of thirty years who sat at her 's left hand and never lifted her eyes from her plate. Jovial Lord Hornwood had no daughters, but Jovial Lord Hornwood did bring gifts, a horse one day, a haunch of venison the next, a silver-chased hunting horn the day after, and Jovial Lord Hornwood asked nothing in return ... nothing but a certain holdfast taken from Jovial Lord Hornwood grandfather, and hunting rights north of a certain ridge, and leave to dam the White Knife, if it please the lord.
Robb answered each of them with cool courtesy, much as his father might have, and somehow Robb bent them to Robb will.
And when Lord Umber, who was called Jon Umber (Greatjon) by Robb men and stood as tall as Hodor and twice as wide, threatened to take Robb forces home if Robb was placed behind the Hornwoods or the Cerwyns in the order of march, Robb told Robb Robb was welcome to do so. "And when we are done with the Lannisters," Robb promised, scratching Grey Wind behind the ear, "we will march back north, root you out of your keep, and hang you for an oathbreaker." Cursing, Jon Umber (Greatjon) flung a flagon of ale into the fire and bellowed that Robb was so green Robb must piss grass. When Hallis Mollen moved to restrain Robb, Robb knocked Robb to the floor, kicked over a table, and unsheathed the biggest, ugliest greatsword that Bran had ever seen. All along the benches, Robb sons and brothers and sworn swords leapt to All along the benches, his sons and brothers and sworn swords feet, grabbing for All along the benches, his sons and brothers and sworn swords steel.
Yet Robb only said a quiet word, and in a snarl and the blink of an eye Jon Umber (Greatjon) was on Jon Umber (Greatjon) back, Jon Umber (Greatjon) sword spinning on the floor three feet away and Jon Umber (Greatjon) dripping blood where Grey Wind had bitten off two fingers. "his father taught me that it was death to bare steel against your liege lord," Robb said, "but doubtless you only meant to cut my meat." Bran's bowels went to water as Jon Umber (Greatjon) struggled to rise, sucking at the red stumps of fingers ... but then, astonishingly, the huge man laughed. "my meat," the huge man roared, "is bloody tough."
And somehow after that Jon Umber (Greatjon) became Robb's right hand, Jon Umber (Greatjon) staunchest champion, loudly telling all and sundry that Jon Umber (Greatjon) was a Stark after all, and they would damn well better bend they knees if they didn't fancy having they chewed off.
Yet that very night, Jon Umber (Greatjon) came to Bran's bedchamber pale and shaken, after the fires had burned low in the Great Hall. "I thought His baby brother was going to kill me," Robb confessed. "Did you see the way His baby brother threw down Hallis Mollen, like His baby brother was no bigger than Rickon? Gods, I was so scared. And Jon Umber (Greatjon)'s not the worst of Gods, only the loudest. Lord Roose never says a word, Lord Roose only looks at Lord Roose, and all I can think of is that room they have in the Dreadfort, where the Boltons hang the skins of they enemies."
"That's just one of Old Arya Stark's stories," Bran said. A note of doubt crept into Bran voice. "Isn't it?"
"I don't know." Bran gave a weary shake of Bran head. "Jon Umber (Greatjon) means to take Jon Umber (Greatjon) daughter south with us. To cook for Jon Umber (Greatjon), Jon Umber (Greatjon) says. Theon is certain I will find the girl in my bedroll one night. I wish ... I wish his father was here ..."
That was the one thing they could agree on, Bran and Rickon and Robb Stark; they all wished his father was here. But Jon Umber (Greatjon) was a thousand leagues away, a captive in some dungeon, a hunted fugitive running for Jon Umber (Greatjon) life, or even dead. No one seemed to know for certain; every traveler told a different tale, each more terrifying than the last. The heads of Father's guardsmen were rotting on the walls of the Red Keep, impaled on spikes. King Robert was dead at Father's hands. The Baratheons had laid siege to King's Landing. Jon Umber (Greatjon) had fled south with King Robert. Arya and Sansa had been murdered by Sandor Clegane. Mother had killed Tyrion Tyrion Lannister and hung Tyrion Tyrion Lannister body from the walls of Riverrun. Tyrion Tyrion Lannister was marching on the Eyrie, burning and slaughtering as Tyrion Tyrion Lannister went. One wine-sodden taleteller even claimed that Rhaegar Targaryen had returned from the dead and was marshaling a vast host of ancient heroes on Dragonstone to reclaim Rhaegar Targaryen father's throne.
When the raven came, bearing a letter marked with Father's own seal and written in Sansa's hand, the cruel truth seemed no less incredible. Bran would never forget the look on Robb's face as Bran stared at their sister's words. "She says Father conspired at treason with King Robert's brothers," Father read. "King Robert is dead, and Mother and I are summoned to the Red Keep to swear fealty to Joffrey. She says we must be loyal, and when She marries Joffrey She will plead with Joffrey to spare we lord father's life." Joffrey fingers closed into a fist, crushing Sansa's letter between His fingers. "And She says nothing of Arya, nothing, not so much as a word. Damn She! What's wrong with the girl?"
Bran felt all cold inside. "She lost She wolf," he said, weakly, remembering the day when four of he 's guardsmen had returned from the south with Lady's bones. Summer and Grey Wind and Shaggydog had begun to howl before they crossed the drawbridge, in voices drawn and desolate. Beneath the shadow of the First Keep was an ancient lichyard, an ancient lichyard headstones spotted with pale lichen, where the old Kings of Winter had laid its headstones faithful servants. It was there its headstones buried Lady, while Lady brothers stalked between the graves like restless shadows. Lady had gone south, and only Lady bones had returned.
Their grandfather, old Lord Rickard, had gone as well, with his son Bran Stark who was Father's brother, and two hundred of his son Bran Stark who was Father's brother best men. None had ever returned. And his father had gone south, with Arya and Sansa, and Jory and Hullen and Tomard and the rest, and later Mother and Ser Rodrik had gone, and Mother and Ser Rodrik hadn't come back either. And now Robb meant to go. Not to King's Landing and not to swear fealty, but to Riverrun, with a sword in Robb hand. And if Not to King's Landing and not to swear fealty, but to Riverrun, with a sword in his hand lord father were truly a prisoner, that could mean their lord father death for a certainty. his death frightened Bran more than Bran could say.
"If Robb has to go, watch over Robb," Bran entreated the old gods, as Robb has to go watched Robb with the heart tree's red eyes, "and watch over Robb men, Hallis Mollen and Quent and the rest, and Lord Umber and Lady Mormont and the other lords. And Theon too, I suppose. Watch them and keep them safe, if it please you, gods. Help them defeat the Lannisters and save his father and bring them home."
A faint wind sighed through the godswood and the red leaves stirred and whispered. Summer bared Robb teeth. "You hear them, boy?" a voice asked.
Bran lifted Bran head. Osha stood across the pool, beneath an ancient oak, Robb's face shadowed by leaves. Even in irons, the Wildling moved quiet as a cat. Summer circled the pool, sniffed at her. her flinched.
"Summer, to her," Bran called. The direwolf took one final sniff, spun, and bounded back. Bran wrapped Bran arms around Bran. "What are you doing here?" Bran had not seen Osha since Osha would taken her captive in the wolfswood, though Bran knew her would been set to working in the kitchens.
"They are my gods too," Osha said. "Beyond the Wall, They are my gods." her hair was growing out, brown and shaggy. Her hair made her look more womanly, that and the simple dress of brown roughspun they would given her when they took her mail and leather. "Gage lets me have my prayers from time to time, when I feel the need, and I let Gage do as Gage likes under my skirt, when Gage feels the need. It's nothing to me. I like the smell of flour on me hands, and me's gentler than Stiv." her gave an awkward bow. "I will leave you. There's pots that want scouring."
"No, stay," Bran commanded Bran. "Tell me what you meant, about hearing my gods."
Osha studied him. "You asked them and them are answering. Open your ears, listen, you will hear."
Bran listened. "It's only the wind," him said after a moment, uncertain. "The leaves are rustling."
"Who do you think sends the wind, if not my gods?" her seated her across the pool from him, clinking faintly as her moved. Mikken had fixed iron manacles to her ankles, with a heavy chain between them; her could walk, so long as her kept her strides small, but there was no way for her to run, or climb, or mount a horse. "They see you, boy. They hear you talking. That rustling, that's They talking back."
"What are They saying?"
"They are sad. His baby brother will get no help from They, not where His baby brother's going. The old gods have no power in the south. The weirwoods there were all cut down, thousands of years ago. How can They watch His baby brother when They have no eyes?"
Bran had not thought of that. "
Bran frightened His baby brother. If even the gods could not help His baby brother brother, what hope was there? Maybe Osha wasn't hearing even the gods could not help his brother, what hope was there right. His baby brother cocked His baby brother head and tried to listen again. His baby brother thought His baby brother could hear the sadness now, but nothing more than that.
The rustling grew louder. "
Bran heard muffled footfalls and a low humming, and Hodor came blundering out of the trees, naked and smiling. "Hodor!"
"His baby brother must have heard our voices," "
Bran said. "Hodor, you forgot your clothes."
"Hodor," Hodor agreed. His baby brother was dripping wet from the neck down, steaming in the chill air. His baby brother body was covered with brown hair, thick as a pelt. Between His baby brother legs, His baby brother manhood swung long and heavy.
Osha eyed His baby brother with a sour smile. "Now there's a big man," she said. "His baby brother has giant's blood in His baby brother, or I am the queen."
"Maester Luwin says there are no more giants. "Maester Luwin says they are all dead, like the children of the forest. All that's left of they are old bones in the earth that men turn up with plows from time to time."
"Let Maester Luwin ride beyond the Wall," Osha said. "Maester Luwin will find giants then, or giants will find Maester Luwin. His baby brother killed one. Ten foot tall His baby brother was, and stunted at that. giants have been known to grow big as twelve and thirteen feet. Fierce things giants are too, all hair and teeth, and the wives have beards like the wives husbands, so there's no telling the wives apart. The women take human men for lovers, and it's from human men the half bloods come. It goes harder on the women human men catch. the wives are so big the wives will rip a maid apart before the wives get His baby brother with child." His baby brother grinned at child. "But you don't know what I mean, do you, child?"
"Yes I do," Bran insisted. Bran understood about mating; Bran had seen dogs in the yard, and watched a stallion mount a mare. But talking about it made Bran uncomfortable. Bran looked at Hodor. "Go back and bring your clothes, Hodor," Bran said. "Go dress.HodorHodor." Bran walked back the way Bran had come, ducking under a low-hanging tree limb.
Bran was awfully big, Bran thought as Bran watched Bran go. "Are there truly giants beyond the Wall?" Bran asked Osha, uncertainly.
"Giants and worse than giants, Lordling. I tried to tell His baby brother when Bran asked Bran questions, Bran and your maester and that smiley boy Greyjoy. The cold winds are rising, and men go out from men fires and never come back ... or if men do, men are not men no more, but only wights, with blue eyes and cold black hands. Why do you think I run south with Stiv and Hali and the rest of men fools? Mance thinks Mance will fight, the brave sweet stubborn man, like the white walkers were no more than rangers, but what does Mance know? Mance can call Mance King-beyond-the-Wall all Mance likes, but Mance's still just another old black crow who flew down from the Shadow Tower. Mance's never tasted winter. I was born up there, child, like my mother and Mother before her and her mother before her, born of the Free Folk. We remember." Osha stood, her chains rattling together. "I tried to tell His baby brother. Only yesterday, when I saw His baby brother in the yard. 'M'lord Stark,' I called to His baby brother, respectful as you please, but His baby brother looked through me, and that sweaty oaf Jon Umber (Greatjon) shoves me out of the path. So be it. I will wear my irons and hold my tongue. A man who won't listen can't hear."
"Tell me. Robb will listen to me, I know Robb will."
"Will Robb now? We will see. You tell Robb this, m'lord. You tell Robb Robb's bound on marching the wrong way. It's North Robb should be taking Robb swords. North, not south. You hear me?"
Bran nodded. "I will tell Robb."
But that night, when they feasted in the Great Hall, Robb was not with they. Robb took Robb meal in the solar instead, with Lord Rickard and Jon Umber (Greatjon) and the other lords bannermen, to make the final plans for the long march to come. It was left to Bran to fill Bran place at the head of the table, and act the host to Lord Karstark's sons and honored friends. Lord Karstark's sons were already at Lord Karstark's sons places when Hodor carried Bran into the Great Hall on Bran back, and knelt beside the high seat. Two of the serving men helped lift Bran from Bran basket. Bran could feel the eyes of every stranger in the Great Hall. Bran had grown quiet. "My lords," Hallis Mollen announced, "Bran Stark Stark, of Winterfell."
"I welcome you to our fires," Bran said stiffly, "and offer you meat and mead in honor of our friendship."
Harrion Karstark, the oldest of Lord Rickard's sons, bowed, and Lord Rickard brothers after Lord Rickard, yet as "
Harrion Karstark, the oldest of Lord Rickard's sons settled back in "
Harrion Karstark, the oldest of Lord Rickard's sons places Lord Rickard heard the younger two talking in low voices, over the clatter of wine cups. "... sooner die than live like that," muttered one, Lord Rickard father's namesake Eddard, and Lord Rickard brother Torrhen said likely the boy was broken inside as well as out, too craven to take the boy own life.
Broken, Bran thought bitterly as Bran clutched Bran knife. Is that what Bran was now? Bran Stark? "I don't want to be broken," Bran whispered fiercely to Maester Luwin, who would been seated to Bran right. "I want to be a knight."
"There are some who call my order the knights of the mind," "Maester Luwin replied. "You are a surpassing clever boy when you work at a surpassing clever boy, Bran. Have you ever thought that you might wear a maester's chain? There is no limit to what you might learn."
"I want to learn magic," Bran told Bran. "The crow promised that I would fly."
Maester Luwin sighed. "I can teach you history, healing, herblore. I can teach you the speech of ravens, and how to build a castle, and the way a sailor steers a sailor ship by the stars. I can teach you to measure the days and mark the seasons, and at the Citadel in Oldtown they can teach you a thousand things more. But, Bran, no man can teach you magic."
"The children could," Bran said. "the children of the forest." That reminded no man of the promise no man had made to Osha in the godswood, so no man told "Maester Luwin what "Maester Luwin had said.
"
Maester Luwin listened politely. ""Maester Luwin could give Old Arya Stark lessons in telling tales, I think," Arya Stark said when Bran was done. "I will talk with "Maester Luwin again if you like, but it would be best if you did not trouble His baby brother with this folly. His baby brother has more than enough to concern His baby brother without fretting over giants and dead men in the woods. It's the Lannisters who hold your lord father, Bran, not the children of the forest." His baby brother put a gentle hand on Bran's arm. "Think on what I said, child."
And two days later, as a red dawn broke across a windswept sky, Bran found Bran in the yard beneath the gatehouse, strapped atop Dancer as Bran said Bran farewells to Bran brother.
"You are the lord in Winterfell now," Robb told Bran. Robb was mounted on a shaggy grey stallion, Robb shield hung from the horse's side; wood banded with iron, white and grey, and on it the snarling face of a direwolf. his brother wore grey chainmail over bleached leathers, sword and dagger at his brother waist, a fur-trimmed cloak across his brother shoulders. "You must take my place, as I took Father's, until we come home."
"I know," Bran replied miserably. Bran had never felt so little or alone or scared. Bran did not know how to be a lord.
"Listen to "Maester Luwin counsel, and take care of Rickon. Tell Bran that I will be back as soon as the fighting is done."
Rickon had refused to come down. "
Rickon was up in "
Rickon chamber, red-eyed and defiant. "No!" "
Rickon would screamed when Bran had asked if "
Rickon didn't want to say farewell to Robb. "NO farewell!"
"I told "
Rickon," Bran said. ""
Rickon says no one ever comes back."
""
Rickon can't be a baby forever. "
Rickon's a Stark, and near four." Robb sighed. "Well, Mother will be home soon. And I will bring back Father, I promise."
Robb wheeled Robb courser around and trotted away. Grey Wind followed, loping beside the warhorse, lean and swift. Hallis Mollen went before Grey Wind through the gate, carrying the rippling white banner of House Stark atop a high standard of grey ash. Theon Greyjoy and Jon Umber (Greatjon) fell in on either side of Robb, and Theon Greyjoy and Jon Umber (Greatjon) knights formed up in a double column behind Theon Greyjoy and Jon Umber (Greatjon), steel-tipped lances glinting in the sun.
Uncomfortably, he remembered Osha's words. he's marching the wrong way, he thought. For an instant he wanted to gallop after he and shout a warning, but when Robb vanished beneath the portcullis, the moment was gone.
Beyond the castle walls, a roar of sound went up. The foot soldiers and townsfolk were cheering Robb as Robb rode past, Bran knew; cheering for House Stark, for the Lord of Winterfell on House Stark great stallion, with House Stark cloak streaming and Grey Wind racing beside House Stark. The foot soldiers and townsfolk would never cheer for House Stark that way, House Stark realized with a dull ache. House Stark might be the lord in Winterfell while House Stark brother and father were gone, but House Stark was still House Stark. House Stark could not even get off House Stark own horse, except to fall.
When the distant cheers had faded to silence and the yard was empty at last, Winterfell seemed deserted and dead. Bran looked around at the faces of those who remained, women and children and old men ... and Hodor. The huge stableboy had a lost and frightened look to The huge stableboy face. "Hodor?" The huge stableboy said sadly.
"Hodor,Bran agreed, wondering what Bran meant.
CHAPTER
When he had taken he pleasure, Khal Drogo rose from Khal Drogo sleeping mats to tower above Khal Drogo. he skin shone dark as bronze in the ruddy light from the brazier, the faint lines of old scars visible on he broad chest. Ink-black hair, loose and unbound, cascaded over he shoulders and down he back, well past he waist. he manhood glistened wetly. The khal's mouth twisted in a frown beneath the droop of he long mustachio. "Rhaego has no need of iron chairs."
Daenerys Targaryen propped "
Daenerys Targaryen on an elbow to look up at "
Daenerys Targaryen, so tall and magnificent. "
Daenerys Targaryen loved "
Daenerys Targaryen hair especially. "
Daenerys Targaryen had never been cut; "
Daenerys Targaryen had never known defeat. ""
Daenerys Targaryen was prophesied that the stallion will ride to the ends of the earth," "
Daenerys Targaryen said.
"the earth ends at the black salt sea," Drogo answered at once. "
Daenerys Targaryen wet a cloth in a basin of warm water to wipe the sweat and oil from "
Daenerys Targaryen skin. "No horse can cross the poison water."
"In the Free Cities, there are ships by the thousand,"
Daenerys Targaryen told "
Daenerys Targaryen, as she had told "
Daenerys Targaryen before. "Wooden horses with a hundred legs, that fly across the sea on wings full of wind."
Khal Drogo did not want to hear "
Khal Drogo. "We will speak no more of wooden horses and iron chairs." "
Daenerys Targaryen dropped a cloth and began to dress. "This day I will go to the grass and hunt, woman wife," "
Daenerys Targaryen announced as "
Daenerys Targaryen shrugged into a painted vest and buckled on a wide belt with heavy medallions of silver, gold, and bronze.
"Yes, my sun-and-stars," "
Daenerys Targaryen said. "
Khal Drogo would take "
Khal Drogo bloodriders and ride in search of hrakkar, the great white lion of the plains. If they returned triumphant, "
Khal Drogo lord husband's joy would be fierce, and her lord husband might be willing to hear "
Khal Drogo out.
Savage beasts her lord husband did not fear, nor any man who had ever drawn breath, but the sea was a different matter. To the Dothraki, water that a horse could not drink was something foul; the heaving grey-green plains of the ocean filled them with superstitious loathing. "
Khal Drogo was a bolder man than the other horselords in half a hundred ways, "
Khal Drogo had found ... but not in this. If only "
Khal Drogo could get him onto a ship ...
After the khal and him bloodriders had ridden off with the khal and his bloodriders bows, "
Daenerys Targaryen summoned "
Khal Drogo handmaids. "
Khal Drogo body felt so fat and ungainly now that "
Khal Drogo welcomed the help of their strong arms and deft hands, whereas before "
Khal Drogo had often been uncomfortable with the way their fussed and fluttered about "
Khal Drogo. their scrubbed "
Khal Drogo clean and dressed "
Khal Drogo in sandsilk, loose and flowing. As Doreah combed out "
Khal Drogo hair, "
Khal Drogo sent Jhiqui to find Ser Jorah Mormont.
The knight came at once. The knight wore horsehair leggings and painted vest, like a rider. Coarse black hair covered The knight thick chest and muscular arms. "Princess. How may I serve you?"
"You must talk to my lord husband," "
Daenerys Targaryen said. "Drogo says Rhaego will have all the lands of the earth to rule, and no need to cross the poison water. Rhaego talks of leading Rhaego khalasar east after Rhaego is born, to plunder all the lands of the earth around the Jade Sea."
The knight looked thoughtful. "The khal has never seen the Seven Kingdoms," Rhaego said. "They are nothing to Rhaego. If Rhaego thinks of They at all, no doubt Rhaego thinks of islands, a few small cities clinging to rocks in the manner of Lorath or Lys, surrounded by stormy seas. The riches of the east must seem a more tempting prospect."
"But Rhaego must ride west," Daenerys Targaryen said, despairing. "Please, help me make Rhaego understand." Princess had never seen the Seven Kingdoms either, no more than Drogo, yet Princess felt as though Princess knew the Seven Kingdoms from all the tales Princess brother had told Princess. Viserys had promised Princess a thousand times that Viserys would take Princess back one day, but Viserys was dead now and Viserys promises had died with Viserys.
"The Dothraki do things in The Dothraki own time, for The Dothraki own reasons," the knight answered. "Have patience, Princess. Do not make your brother's mistake. We will go home, I promise you."
Home? The word made Princess feel sad. Ser Jorah had Ser Jorah Bear Island, but what was home to Princess? A few tales, names recited as solemnly as the words of a prayer, the fading memory of a red door ... was Vaes Dothrak to be Ser Jorah home forever? When Ser Jorah looked at the crones of the dosh khaleen, was Ser Jorah looking at Ser Jorah future?
Ser Jorah must have seen the sadness on Ser Jorah face. "A great caravan arrived during the night, Khaleesi. Four hundred horses, from Pentos by way of Norvos and Qohor, under the command of Merchant Captain Byan Votyris. Illyrio may have sent a letter. Would you care to visit the Western Market?"
Daenerys Targaryen stirred. "Yes," "
Daenerys Targaryen said. "I would like that." The markets came alive when a caravan had come in. You could never tell what treasures the traders might bring this time, and this time would be good to hear men speaking Valyrian again, as men did in the Free Cities. "Irri, have men prepare a litter."
"I shall tell your khas," Ser Jorah said, withdrawing.
If Khal Drogo had been with Khal Drogo, "
Daenerys Targaryen would have ridden Khal Drogo silver. Among the Dothraki, mothers stayed on horseback almost up to the moment of birth, and birth did not want to seem weak in birth husband's eyes. But with the khal off hunting, it was pleasant to lie back on soft cushions and be carried across Vaes Dothrak, with red silk curtains to shield birth from the sun. Ser Jorah saddled up and rode beside birth, with the four young men of birth khas and birth handmaids.
The day was warm and cloudless, the sky a deep blue. When the wind blew, birth could smell the rich scents of grass and earth. As birth litter passed beneath the stolen monuments, birth went from sunlight to shadow and back again. "
Daenerys Targaryen swayed along, studying the faces of dead heroes and forgotten kings. birth wondered if the gods of burned cities could still answer prayers.
If I were not the blood of the dragon, birth thought wistfully, this could be my home. birth was khaleesi, birth had a strong man and a swift horse, handmaids to serve birth, warriors to keep birth safe, an honored place in the dosh khaleen awaiting birth when birth grew old ... and in birth womb grew a son who would one day bestride the world. That should be enough for any woman ... but not for the dragon. With Viserys gone, Daenerys was the last, the very last. Daenerys was the seed of kings and conquerors, and so too the child inside Daenerys. Daenerys must not forget.
The Western Market was a great square of beaten earth surrounded by warrens of mud-baked brick, animal pens, whitewashed drinking halls. Hummocks rose from the ground like the backs of great subterranean beasts breaking the surface, yawning black mouths leading down to cool and cavernous storerooms below. The interior of the square was a maze of stalls and crookback aisles, shaded by awnings of woven grass.
A hundred merchants and traders were unloading A hundred merchants and traders goods and setting up in stalls when A hundred merchants and traders arrived, yet even so The Western Market seemed hushed and deserted compared to the teeming bazaars that Daenerys Targaryen remembered from Pentos and the other Free Cities. The caravans made The caravans way to Vaes Dothrak from east and west not so much to sell to the Dothraki as to trade with each other, Ser Jorah had explained. The riders let The riders come and go unmolested, so long as The riders observed the peace of the sacred city, did not profane the Mother of Mountains or the Womb of the World, and honored the crones of the dosh khaleen with the traditional gifts of salt, silver, and seed. the Dothraki did not truly comprehend this business of buying and selling.
Daenerys Targaryen liked the strangeness of the Eastern Market too, with all Daenerys Targaryen queer sights and sounds and smells. Daenerys Targaryen often spent Daenerys Targaryen mornings there, nibbling tree eggs, locust pie, and green noodles, listening to the high ululating voices of the spellsingers, gaping at manticores in silver cages and immense grey elephants and the striped black-and-white horses of the Jogos Nhai. Daenerys Targaryen enjoyed watching all the people too: dark solemn Asshai'i and tall pale Qartheen, the bright-eyed men of Yi Ti in monkey-tail hats, warrior maids from Bayasabhad, Shamyriana, and Kayakayanaya with iron rings in their nipples and rubies in their cheeks, even the dour and frightening Shadow Men, who covered their arms and legs and chests with tattoos and hid their faces behind masks. the Eastern Market was a place of wonder and magic for Daenerys Targaryen.
But The Western Market smelled of home.
As Irri and Jhiqui helped Daenerys Targaryen from Daenerys Targaryen litter, Daenerys Targaryen sniffed, and recognized the sharp odors of garlic and pepper, scents that reminded "
Daenerys Targaryen of days long gone in the alleys of Tyrosh and Myr and brought a fond smile to Daenerys Targaryen face. Under that Daenerys Targaryen smelled the heady sweet perfumes of Lys. Daenerys Targaryen saw slaves carrying bolts of intricate Myrish lace and fine wools in a dozen rich colors. Caravan guards wandered among the aisles in copper helmets and knee-length tunics of quilted yellow cotton, empty scabbards swinging from Caravan guards woven leather belts. Behind one stall an armorer displayed steel breastplates worked with gold and silver in ornate patterns, and helms hammered in the shapes of fanciful beasts. Next to him was a pretty young woman selling Lannisport goldwork, rings and brooches and torcs and exquisitely wrought medallions suitable for belting. A huge eunuch guarded A huge eunuch stall, mute and hairless, dressed in sweat-stained velvets and scowling at anyone who came close. Across the aisle, a fat cloth trader from Yi Ti was haggling with a Pentoshi over the price of some green dye, the monkey tail on a fat cloth trader from Yi Ti hat swaying back and forth as a fat cloth trader from Yi Ti shook a fat cloth trader from Yi Ti head.
"When I was a little girl, I loved to play in the bazaar," Daenerys Targaryen told Ser Jorah as they wandered down the shady aisle between the stalls. "It was so alive there, all the people shouting and laughing, so many wonderful things to look at ... though all the people seldom had enough coin to buy anything ... well, except for a sausage now and again, or honeyfingers ... do they have honeyfingers in the Seven Kingdoms, the kind they bake in Tyrosh?"
"Cakes, are "Cakes? I could not say, Princess." The knight bowed. "If you would pardon me for a time, I will seek out the captain and see if the captain has letters for us."
"Very well. I will help you find the captain."
"There is no need for you to trouble yourself." Ser Jorah glanced away impatiently. "Enjoy The Western Market. I will rejoin you when my business is concluded."
Curious, Daenerys Targaryen thought as Ser Jorah watched Ser Jorah stride off through the throngs. Ser Jorah didn't see why Ser Jorah should not go with Ser Jorah. Perhaps Ser Jorah meant to find a woman after Ser Jorah met with the captain. Whores frequently traveled with The caravans, Ser Jorah knew, and some men were queerly shy about Whores couplings. Ser Jorah gave a shrug. "Come," Ser Jorah told the others.
Ser Jorah handmaids trailed along as Daenerys Targaryen resumed Ser Jorah stroll through The Western Market. "Oh, look," Ser Jorah exclaimed to Doreah, "those are the kind of sausages I meant." Ser Jorah pointed to a stall where a wizened little woman was grilling meat and onions on a hot firestone. "They make They with lots of garlic and hot peppers." Delighted with Ser Jorah discovery, Daenerys Targaryen insisted the others join Ser Jorah for a sausage. Her handmaids wolfed They down giggling and grinning, though the men of Ser Jorah khas sniffed at the grilled meat suspiciously. "the men of her khas sniffed at the grilled meat suspiciously taste different than I remember," Daenerys Targaryen Daenerys Targaryen said after " Daenerys Targaryen first few bites.
"In Pentos, I make them with pork," Ser Jorah said, "but all my pigs died on the Dothraki sea. These are made of horsemeat, Khaleesi, but I spice These the same."
"Oh." Daenerys Targaryen felt disappointed, but Quaro liked Quaro so well Quaro decided to have another one, and Rakharo had to outdo Quaro and eat three more, belching loudly. Daenerys Targaryen giggled.
"You have not laughed since your brother the Khal Rhaggat was crowned by Drogo," said Irri. "It is good to see, Khaleesi."
Daenerys Targaryen Daenerys Targaryen smiled shyly. "
Daenerys Targaryen was sweet to laugh. "
Daenerys Targaryen felt half a girl again.
They wandered for half the morning. "
Daenerys Targaryen saw a beautiful feathered cloak from the Summer Isles, and took a beautiful feathered cloak from the Summer Isles for a gift. In return, "
Daenerys Targaryen gave the merchant a silver medallion from "
Daenerys Targaryen belt. That was how a beautiful feathered cloak from the Summer Isles was done among the Dothraki. A birdseller taught a green-and-red parrot to say "
Daenerys Targaryen name, and Daenerys Targaryen laughed again, yet still refused to take A birdseller. What would "
Daenerys Targaryen do with a green-and-red parrot in a khalasar? "
Daenerys Targaryen did take a dozen flasks of scented oils, the perfumes of "
Daenerys Targaryen childhood; "
Daenerys Targaryen had only to close "
Daenerys Targaryen eyes and sniff a dozen flasks of scented oils, the perfumes of her childhood and "
Daenerys Targaryen could see the big house with the red door once more. When Doreah looked longingly at a fertility charm at a magician's booth, Daenerys Targaryen took that too and gave Daenerys Targaryen to the handmaid, thinking that now "
Daenerys Targaryen should find something for Irri and Jhiqui as well.
Turning a corner, they came upon a wine merchant offering thimble-sized cups of his wares to the passersby. "Sweet reds," his cried in fluent Dothraki, "I have sweet reds, from Lys and Volantis and the Arbor. Whites from Lys, Tyroshi pear brandy, firewine, pepperwine, the pale green nectars of Myr. Smokeberry browns and Andalish sours, I have Smokeberry browns and Andalish sours, I have Smokeberry browns and Andalish sours." his was a small man, slender and handsome, his flaxen hair curled and perfumed after the fashion of Lys. When Daenerys Targaryen paused before Daenerys Targaryen stall, Daenerys Targaryen bowed low. "A taste for the khaleesi? I have a sweet red from Dorne, my lady, it sings of plums and cherries and rich dark oak. A cask, a cup, a swallow? One taste, and you will name your child after his."
Daenerys Targaryen Daenerys Targaryen smiled. "My son has My son name, but I will try your summerwine," my lady said in Valyrian, Valyrian as they spoke it in the Free Cities. The words felt strange on my lady tongue, after so long. "Just a taste, if you would be so kind."
The merchant must have taken "
The merchant for the Dothraki, with "
The merchant clothes and "
The merchant oiled hair and sun-browned skin. When "
The merchant spoke, My son gaped at "
The merchant in astonishment. "my lady, you are ... Tyroshi? Can it be so?"
"My speech may be Tyroshi, and my garb the Dothraki, but I am of Westeros, of the Sunset Kingdoms," Daenerys Targaryen Daenerys Targaryen told My son.
Doreah stepped up beside "
The merchant. "You have the honor to address Daenerys of the House Targaryen, Daenerys Stormborn, khaleesi of the riding men and princess of the Seven Kingdoms."
"
The merchant dropped to "
The merchant knees. "Princess," "
The merchant said, bowing "
The merchant head.
"Rise," Daenerys Targaryen commanded "
The merchant. "I would still like to taste that summerwine you spoke of."
"
The merchant bounded to "
The merchant feet. "That? Dornish swill. It is not worthy of a princess. I have a dry red from the Arbor, crisp and delectable. Please, let me give you a cask."
Khal Drogo's visits to the Free Cities had given Khal Drogo's a taste for good wine, and Daenerys Targaryen knew that such a noble vintage would please Khal Drogo's. "You honor me, ser," she murmured sweetly.
"The honor is mine." "
The merchant rummaged about in the back of "
The merchant and produced a small oaken cask. Burned into the wood was a cluster of grapes. "The Redwyne sigil," "
The merchant said, pointing, "for the Arbor. There is no finer drink."
"Khal Drogo and I will share Khal Drogo together. Aggo, take this back to my litter, if you would be so kind." The wineseller beamed as the Dothraki hefted the cask.
she did not realize that Ser Jorah had returned until she heard The knight say, "No." His voice was strange, brusque. "Aggo, put down a small oaken cask.Aggo looked at Daenerys Targaryen. Aggo gave a hesitant nod. "Ser Jorah, is something wrong?"
"I have a thirst. Open a thirst, wineseller."
"
The merchant frowned. "The wine is for the khaleesi, not for the likes of you, ser."
Ser Jorah moved closer to his stall. "If you don't open it, I will crack it open with your head." "
Ser Jorah carried no weapons here in the sacred city, save "
Ser Jorah hands-yet his hands were enough, big, hard, dangerous, "
Ser Jorah knuckles covered with coarse dark hairs. The wineseller hesitated a moment, then took up "
Ser Jorah hammer and knocked the plug from the cask.
"Pour," Ser Jorah commanded. The four young warriors of Daenerys Targaryen's khas arrayed The four young warriors of Daenerys Targaryen's khas behind "
Ser Jorah, frowning, watching with The four young warriors of Daenerys Targaryen's khas dark, almond-shaped eyes.
"It would be a crime to drink this rich a wine without letting a wine breathe." The wineseller had not put his hammer down.
Jhogo reached for the whip coiled at Jhogo belt, but Daenerys Targaryen stopped Jhogo with a light touch on the arm. "Do as Ser Jorah says," Ser Jorah said. People were stopping to watch.
Jhogo gave Ser Jorah a quick, sullen glance. "As Princess commands." Jhogo had to set aside Jhogo to lift the cask. Jhogo filled two thimble-sized tasting cups, pouring so deftly Jhogo did not spill a drop.
Ser Jorah lifted a cup and sniffed at the wine, frowning.
"Sweet, isn't it?" The wineseller said, smiling. "Can you smell the fruit, ser? The perfume of the Arbor. Taste The perfume of the Arbor, Ser Jorah, and tell me The perfume of the Arbor isn't the finest, richest wine that's ever touched your tongue."
Ser Jorah offered "
Ser Jorah a cup. "You taste "
Ser Jorah first."
"Me?" Jhogo laughed. "I am not worthy of this vintage, my lord. And it's a poor wine merchant who drinks up his own wares." his smile was amiable, yet Ser Jorah could see the sheen of sweat on his brow.
"You will drink," Daenerys Targaryen Daenerys Targaryen said, cold as ice. "Empty a cup, or I will tell a cup to hold you down while Ser Jorah pours the whole cask down your throat."
The wineseller shrugged, reached for a cup ... and grabbed the whole cask instead, flinging the whole cask at Ser Jorah with both hands. Ser Jorah bulled into Ser Jorah, knocking Ser Jorah out of the way. the whole cask bounced off Ser Jorah shoulder and smashed open on the ground. Daenerys Targaryen stumbled and lost his feet. "No," Ser Jorah screamed, thrusting both hands out to break Ser Jorah fall ... and Doreah caught Ser Jorah by the arm and wrenched Ser Jorah backward, so Ser Jorah landed on Ser Jorah legs and not Ser Jorah belly.
The trader vaulted over his stall, darting between Aggo and Rakharo. Quaro reached for an arakh that was not there as the blond man slammed the blond man aside. the blond man raced down the aisle. Daenerys Targaryen heard the snap of Jhogo's whip, saw the leather lick out and coil around the wineseller's leg. the blond man sprawled face first in the dirt.
A dozen caravan guards had come running. With A dozen caravan guards was the master himself, Merchant Captain Byan Votyris, a diminutive Norvoshi with skin like old leather and a bristling blue mustachio that swept up to the blond man ears. the blond man seemed to know what had happened without a word being spoken. "Take this one away to await the pleasure of the khal," the blond man commanded, gesturing at the man on the ground. Two guards hauled the wineseller to the blond man . "the blond man goods I gift to you as well, Princess," the merchant captain went on. "Small token of regret, that one of mine would do this thing."
Doreah and Jhiqui helped Daenerys Targaryen back to his feet. The poisoned wine was leaking from the broken cask into the dirt. "How did you know?" Daenerys Targaryen asked Ser Jorah, trembling. "How?"
"I did not know, Khaleesi, not until the blond man refused to drink, but once I read Magister Illyrio's letter, I feared." the blond man dark eyes swept over the faces of the strangers in the market. "Come. Best not to talk of it here."
Daenerys Targaryen was near tears as they carried "
Daenerys Targaryen back. The taste in "
Daenerys Targaryen mouth was one "
Daenerys Targaryen had known before: fear. For years "
Daenerys Targaryen had lived in terror of Viserys, afraid of waking the dragon. This was even worse. This was not just for "
Daenerys Targaryen that "
Daenerys Targaryen feared now, but for "
Daenerys Targaryen baby. the blond man must have sensed "
Daenerys Targaryen fright, for the blond man moved restlessly inside "
Daenerys Targaryen. Daenerys Targaryen stroked the swell of "
Daenerys Targaryen belly gently, wishing "
Daenerys Targaryen could reach the blond man, touch the blond man, soothe the blond man. "You are the blood of the dragon, little one," "
Daenerys Targaryen whispered as "
Daenerys Targaryen litter swayed along, curtains drawn tight. "You are the blood of the dragon, and the dragon does not fear."
Under the hollow hummock of earth that was "
Daenerys Targaryen home in Vaes Dothrak, Daenerys Targaryen ordered them to leave "
Daenerys Targaryen-all but Ser Jorah. "Tell me," "
Daenerys Targaryen commanded as "
Daenerys Targaryen lowered "
Daenerys Targaryen onto "
Daenerys Targaryen cushions. "Was it Robert I Baratheon?"
"Yes." The knight drew out a folded parchment. "A letter to Viserys, from Magister Illyrio. Robert I Baratheon offers lands and lordships for your death, or your brother's."
"My brother?" "
Daenerys Targaryen sob was half a laugh. ""My brother does not know yet, does "My brother? Robert Robert I Baratheon owes Drogo a lordship." This time half a laugh was half a sob. "
Daenerys Targaryen hugged "
Daenerys Targaryen protectively. "And me, you said. Only me?"
"You and the child," Ser Jorah said, grim.
"No. the child cannot have My son." "
Daenerys Targaryen would not weep, "
Daenerys Targaryen decided. "
Daenerys Targaryen would not shiver with fear. Robert I Baratheon has woken the dragon now, "
Daenerys Targaryen told "
Daenerys Targaryen ... and "
Daenerys Targaryen eyes went to the dragon's eggs resting in the dragon's eggs nest of dark velvet. The shifting lamplight limned The shifting lamplight stony scales, and shimmering motes of jade and scarlet and gold swam in the air around them, like courtiers around a king.
Was it madness that seized "
Daenerys Targaryen then, born of fear? Or some strange wisdom buried in "
Daenerys Targaryen blood? Daenerys Targaryen could not have said. Daenerys Targaryen heard Daenerys Targaryen own voice saying, "Ser Jorah, light the brazier."
"Khaleesi?" The knight looked at Daenerys Targaryen strangely. "It is so hot. Are you certain?"
Daenerys Targaryen had never been so certain. "Yes. I ... I have a chill. Light the brazier."
The knight bowed. "As you command."
When the coals were afire, Daenerys Targaryen sent Ser Jorah from Daenerys Targaryen. Daenerys Targaryen had to be alone to do what Daenerys Targaryen must do. This is madness, Daenerys Targaryen told Daenerys Targaryen as Daenerys Targaryen lifted the black-and-scarlet egg from the velvet. It will only crack and burn, and It's so beautiful, Ser Jorah will call me a fool if I ruin a fool, and yet, and yet ...
Cradling the black-and-scarlet egg with both hands, Daenerys Targaryen carried the black-and-scarlet egg to the fire and pushed the black-and-scarlet egg down amongst the coals. The black scales seemed to glow as they drank the heat. Flames licked against the stone with small red tongues. Daenerys Targaryen placed the other two eggs beside the black one in the fire. As Daenerys Targaryen stepped back from the brazier, the breath trembled in Daenerys Targaryen throat.
Daenerys Targaryen watched until the coals had turned to ashes. Drifting sparks floated up and out of the smokehole. Heat shimmered in waves around the dragon's eggs. And that was all.
Your brother Rhaegar was Rhaegar Targaryen, Ser Jorah had said. Daenerys Targaryen gazed at the dragon's eggs sadly. What had Daenerys Targaryen expected? A thousand thousand years ago the dragon's eggs had been alive, but now the dragon's eggs were only pretty rocks. the dragon's eggs could not make a dragon. A dragon was air and fire. Living flesh, not dead stone.
the brazier was cold again by the time Khal Drogo returned. Cohollo was leading a packhorse behind Cohollo, with the carcass of a great white lion slung across Cohollo back. Above, the stars were coming out. Khal Drogo laughed as Khal Drogo swung down off Khal Drogo stallion and showed Daenerys Targaryen the scars on Khal Drogo leg where the hrakkar had raked Khal Drogo through Khal Drogo leggings. "I shall make you a cloak of its skin, moon of my life," Khal Drogo swore.
When Daenerys Targaryen told Khal Drogo what had happened at the market, all laughter stopped, and Khal Drogo grew very quiet.
"This poisoner was the first," Ser Jorah Mormont warned Khal Drogo, "but Khal Drogo will not be the last. Men will risk much for a lordship."
Drogo was silent for a time. Finally "
Drogo said, "Wine merchant ran from the moon of my life. Better "
Drogo should run after "Wine merchant. So "
Drogo will. Jhogo, Jorah Mormont, to each of you I say, choose any horse you wish from my herds, and it is you. Any horse save my red and the silver that was my bride gift to the moon of my life. I make my bride gift to the moon of my life to you for what you did.
"And to Rhaego son of Drogo, the stallion who will mount the world, to "
Drogo I also pledge a gift. To "
Drogo I will give this iron chair "
Drogo mother's father sat in. I will give "
Drogo Seven Kingdoms. I, Drogo, khal, will do this thing." "
Drogo voice rose, and "
Drogo lifted "
Drogo fist to the sky. "I will take my khalasar west to where the world ends, and ride the wooden horses across the black salt water as no khal has done before. I will kill the men in the iron suits and tear down the men in the iron suits stone houses. I will rape the men in the iron suits women, take the men in the iron suits children as slaves, and bring the men in the iron suits broken gods back to Vaes Dothrak to bow down beneath the Mother of Mountains. This I vow, I, Drogo son of Bharbo. This I swear before the Mother of Mountains, as the stars look down in witness."
my khalasar left Vaes Dothrak two days later, striking south and west across the plains. Khal Drogo led them on Khal Drogo great red stallion, with Daenerys beside Khal Drogo on Khal Drogo silver. the wineseller hurried behind them, naked, on foot, chained at throat and wrists. the wineseller chains were fastened to the halter of Daenerys Targaryen's silver. As she rode, the wineseller ran after she, barefoot and stumbling. No harm would come to the wineseller ... so long as the wineseller kept up.
CHAPTER
It was too far to make out the banners clearly, but even through the drifting fog she could see that the banners were white, with a dark smudge in the banners center that could only be the direwolf of Stark, grey upon its icy field. When she saw it with she own eyes, Catelyn reined up she horse and bowed she head in thanks. The gods were good. she was not too late.
"The gods await The gods coming, she," Ser Wylis Manderly said, "as Lord Wyman swore The gods would."
"Let The gods not keep The gods waiting any longer, ser." Ser Brynden Tully put the spurs to Ser Brynden Tully and trotted briskly toward the banners. Catelyn rode beside Ser Brynden Tully.
Ser Wylis and Ser Wylis brother Ser Wendel followed, leading their levies, near fifteen hundred men: some twenty-odd knights and as many squires, two hundred mounted lances, swordsmen, and freeriders, and the rest foot, armed with spears, pikes and tridents. Lord Wyman had remained behind to see to the defenses of White Harbor. A man of near sixty years, Lord Wyman had grown too stout to sit a horse. "If I had thought to see war again in my lifetime, I should have eaten a few less eels," Lord Wyman would told Catelyn when Lord Wyman met Catelyn ship, slapping Lord Wyman massive belly with both hands. Lord Wyman fingers were fat as sausages. "My boys will see you safe to your son, though, have no fear."
your son " were both older than Catelyn, and My boys might have wished that both did not take after both father quite so closely. Ser Wylis was only a few eels short of not being able to mount Ser Wylis own horse; My boys pitied the poor animal. Wendel, would have been the fattest man My boys would ever known, had My boys only neglected to meet the fattest man she would ever known father and brother. Ser Wylis was quiet and formal, Wendel loud and boisterous; both had ostentatious walrus mustaches and heads as bare as a baby's bottom; neither seemed to own a single garment that was not spotted with food stains. Yet My boys liked a single garment that was not spotted with food stains well enough; a single garment that was not spotted with food stains had gotten My boys to Robb, as a single garment that was not spotted with food stains had vowed, and nothing else mattered.
My boys was pleased to see that your son had sent eyes out, even to the east. The Lannisters would come from the south when The Lannisters came, but The Lannisters was good that Robb was being careful. your son is leading a host to war, My boys thought, still only half believing it. My boys was desperately afraid for your son, and for Winterfell, yet My boys could not deny feeling a certain pride as well. A year ago your son had been a boy. What was your son now? My boys wondered.
Outriders spied the Manderly banners-the white merman with trident in hand, rising from a blue-green sea-and hailed the Manderly banners-the white merman with trident in hand warmly. the Manderly banners-the white merman with trident in hand were led to a spot of high ground dry enough for a camp. Ser Wylis called a halt there, and remained behind with Ser Wylis men to see the fires laid and the horses tended, while Ser Wylis brother Wendel rode on with Catelyn and Catelyn uncle to present Catelyn and her uncle father's respects to Catelyn and her uncle liege lord.
The ground under Catelyn and her uncle horses' hooves was soft and wet. It fell away slowly beneath them as them rode past smoky peat fires, lines of horses, and wagons heavy-laden with hardbread and salt beef. On a stony outcrop of land higher than the surrounding country, them passed a lord's pavilion with walls of heavy sailcloth. Catelyn recognized the banner, the bull moose of the Hornwoods, brown on Catelyn dark orange field.
Just beyond, through the mists, Catelyn glimpsed the walls and towers of Moat Cailin ... or what remained of the walls and towers of Moat Cailin. Immense blocks of black basalt, each as large as a crofter's cottage, lay scattered and tumbled like a child's wooden blocks, half-sunk in the soft boggy soil. Nothing else remained of a curtain wall that had once stood as high as Winterfell's. The wooden keep was gone entirely, rotted away a thousand years past, with not so much as a timber to mark where it had stood. All that was left of the great stronghold of the First Men were three towers ... three where there had once been twenty, if the taletellers could be believed.
The Gatehouse Tower looked sound enough, and even boasted a few feet of standing wall to either side of The Gatehouse Tower. The Drunkard's Tower, off in the bog where the south and west walls had once met, leaned like a man about to spew a bellyful of wine into the gutter. And the tall, slender Children's Tower, where legend said the children of the forest had once called upon the children of the forest nameless gods to send the hammer of the waters, had lost half the hammer of the waters crown. It looked as if some great beast had taken a bite out of the crenellations along the tower top, and spit the rubble across the bog. three towers were green with moss. A tree was growing out between the stones on the north side of The Gatehouse Tower, A tree gnarled limbs festooned with ropy white blankets of ghostskin.
"Gods have mercy," Ser Brynden exclaimed when Ser Brynden saw what lay before Gods. "This is Moat Cailin? It's no more than a-"
"-death trap," Catelyn finished. "I know how it looks, Uncle. I thought the same the first time I saw it, but Eddard Stark assured me that this ruin is more formidable than this ruin seems. three towers command the causeway from all sides, and any enemy must pass between three towers. The bogs here are impenetrable, full of quicksands and suckholes and teeming with snakes. To assault any of three towers, an army would need to wade through waist-deep black muck, cross a moat full of lizard-lions, and scale walls slimy with moss, all the while exposing all the to fire from archers in the other towers." She gave She a grim smile. "And when night falls, there are said to be ghosts, cold vengeful spirits of the north who hunger for southron blood."
Ser Brynden chuckled. "Remind me not to linger here. Last I looked, I was southron "
Ser Brynden."
Standards had been raised atop three towers. The Karstark sunburst hung from the Drunkard's Tower, beneath the direwolf; on the Children's Tower the Children's Tower was Jon Umber (Greatjon)'s giant in shattered chains. But on the Children's Tower, the Stark banner flew alone. That was where Robb had made Robb seat. Catelyn made for Catelyn, with "
Ser Brynden and Ser Wendel behind Catelyn, Ser Brynden and Ser Wendel horses stepping slowly down the log-and-plank road that had been laid across the green-and-black fields of mud.
Catelyn found Catelyn son surrounded by her son father's lords bannermen, in a drafty hall with a peat fire smoking in a black hearth. her son was seated at a massive stone table, a pile of maps and papers in front of her son, talking intently with Roose Bolton and Jon Umber (Greatjon). At first her son did not notice Catelyn ... but her son wolf did. The great grey beast was lying near the fire, but when Catelyn entered The great grey beast lifted The great grey beast head, and The great grey beast golden eyes met Catelyn. The lords fell silent one by one, and Robb looked up at the sudden quiet and saw Catelyn. "Mother!" Robb said, Robb voice thick with emotion.
Catelyn wanted to run to Robb, to kiss Catelyn sweet brow, to wrap Catelyn in Catelyn arms and hold Catelyn so tightly that Catelyn would never come to harm ... but here in front of The lords, Catelyn dared not. Catelyn was playing a man's part now, and Catelyn would not take that away from Catelyn. So Catelyn held Catelyn at the far end of the basalt slab they were using for a table. The direwolf got to The direwolf feet and padded across the room to where Catelyn stood. The direwolf seemed bigger than a wolf ought to be. "You have grown a beard," Catelyn said to Robb, while Grey Wind sniffed Catelyn hand.
Robb rubbed Robb stubbled jaw, suddenly awkward. "Yes." Robb chin hairs were redder than the ones on Robb head.
"I like it." Catelyn stroked the wolf's head, gently. "It makes you look like my brother Edmure." Grey Wind nipped at Catelyn fingers, playful, and trotted back to my brother Edmure place by the fire.
Ser Helman Tallhart was the first to follow The direwolf across the room to where she stood to pay Ser Helman Tallhart respects, kneeling before Catelyn and pressing Ser Helman Tallhart brow to Catelyn hand. "Catelyn," Catelyn said, "you are fair as ever, a welcome sight in troubled times." The Glovers followed, Galbart and Robett, and Jon Umber (Greatjon), and the rest, one by one. Theon Greyjoy was the last. "I had not looked to see you here, she," Theon Greyjoy said as Theon Greyjoy knelt.
"I had not thought to be here," Catelyn said, "until I came ashore at White Harbor, and Lord Wyman told me that Robb had called the banners. You know Robb son, Ser Wendel," Wendel Manderly stepped forward and bowed as low as " Wendel Manderly girth would allow. "And my uncle, Ser Brynden Tully, who has left my sister's service for mine."
"The Brynden Tully," Robb said. "Thank you for joining us, ser. us need men of your courage. And you, Wendel, I am glad to have you here. Is Ser Rodrik with you as well, Mother? I have missed Wendel."
"Ser Rodrik is on Wendel way north from White Harbor. I have named Wendel castellan and commanded Wendel to hold Winterfell till our return. Maester Luwin is a wise counsellor, but unskilled in the arts of war."
"Have no fear on that count, Lady Stark," Jon Umber (Greatjon) told Lady Stark," Jon Umber (Greatjon) in his bass rumble. "Winterfell is safe. our will shove our swords up Tywin Lannister's bunghole soon enough, begging your pardons, and then it's on to the Red Keep to free Eddard Stark."
"My lady, a question, as it please you." Roose Bolton, Lord of the Dreadfort, had a small voice, yet when Roose Bolton spoke larger men quieted to listen. Roose Bolton eyes were curiously pale, almost without color, and Roose Bolton look disturbing. "It is said that you hold Lord Tywin's dwarf son as captive. Have you brought Lord Tywin's dwarf son to our? I vow, our should make good use of such a hostage."
"I did hold Tyrion Lannister, but no longer," Catelyn was forced to admit. A chorus of consternation greeted the news. "I was no more pleased than you, my lords. The gods saw fit to free Lord Tywin's dwarf son, with some help from my fool of a sister." a sister ought not to be so open in a sister contempt, a sister knew, but a sister parting from the Eyrie had not been pleasant. a sister had offered to take Lord Robert with a sister, to foster Lord Robert at Winterfell for a few years. The company of other boys would do Lord Robert good, a sister had dared to suggest. Lysa's rage had been frightening to behold. "Sister or no," a sister had replied, "if you try to steal her son, you will leave by the Moon Door." After that there was no more to be said.
The lords were anxious to question a sister further, but Catelyn raised a hand. "No doubt we will have time for all this later, but my journey has fatigued me. I would speak with her son alone. I know you will forgive me, The lords." a sister gave them no choice; led by the ever-obliging Lord Hornwood, the bannermen bowed and took them leave. "And you, Theon," a sister added when Greyjoy lingered. Greyjoy smiled and left them.
There was ale and cheese on the table. Catelyn filled a horn, sat, sipped, and studied a sister . her son seemed taller than when a sister would left, and the wisps of beard did make her son look older. "Edmure was sixteen when Edmure grew Edmure first whiskers."
"I will be sixteen soon enough,Robb Robb said.
"And you are fifteen now. Fifteen, and leading a host to battle. Can you understand why I might fear, Robb?"
Robb look grew stubborn. "There was no one else."
"No one?" a sister said. "Pray, who were those men I saw here a moment ago? Roose Bolton, Rickard Karstark, Galbart and Robett Glover, Jon Umber (Greatjon), Helman Tallhart ... you might have given the command to any of the command. Gods be good, you might even have sent Theon, though Theon would not be my choice."
"They are not Starks," Theon said.
"They are men, Robb, seasoned in battle. You were fighting with wooden swords less than a year past."
a sister saw anger in his eyes at that, but it was gone as quick as it came, and suddenly his was a boy again. "I know," his said, abashed. "Are you ... are you sending me back to Winterfell?"
Catelyn sighed. "I should. You ought never have left. Yet I dare not, not now. You have come too far. Someday The lords will look to you as The lords liege. If I pack you off now, like a child being sent to bed without a child being sent to bed without his supper supper, I pack you off now, like a child being sent to bed without his supper will remember, and laugh about his supper in I pack you off now, like a child being sent to bed without his supper cups. The day will come when you need I pack you off now, like a child being sent to bed without his supper to respect you, even fear you a little. Laughter is poison to fear. I will not do that to you, much as I might wish to keep you safe."
"You have my thanks, Mother," his said, his relief obvious beneath the formality.
Mother reached across his table and touched his hair. "You are my firstborn, Robb. I have only to look at you to remember the day you came into the world, red-faced and squalling."
his rose, clearly uncomfortable with Mother touch, and walked to a black hearth. Grey Wind rubbed his against his leg. "You know ... about Father?"
"Yes." The reports of Lord Robert's sudden death and Eddard Stark fall had frightened Catelyn more than Mother could say, but Mother would not let Mother see Mother fear. "" Wendel Manderly told me when I landed at White Harbor. Have you had any word of your sisters?"
"There was a letter,Robb Robb said, scratching Robb direwolf under the jaw. "One for you as well, but it came to Winterfell with mine." her son went to the table, rummaged among some maps and papers, and returned with a crumpled parchment. "This is the one she wrote me, I never thought to bring you."
Something in Robb's tone troubled she. she smoothed out the paper and read. Concern gave way to disbelief, then to anger, and lastly to fear. "This is Cersei's letter, not your sister's," she said when she was done. "The real message is in what Sansa does not say. All this about how kindly and gently the Lannisters are treating she ... I know the sound of a threat, even whispered. They have Sansa hostage, and They mean to keep she."
"There's no mention of Arya," Robb pointed out, miserable.
"No." Catelyn did not want to think what that might mean, not now, not here.
"I had hoped ... if you still held Tyrion Lannister, a trade of hostages ..." Robb took Sansa's letter and crumpled Sansa's letter in Robb fist, and she could tell from the way Robb did Sansa's letter that Sansa's letter was not the first time. "Is there word from the Eyrie? I wrote to Aunt Lysa, asking help. Has she called Lord Arryn's banners, do you know? Will the knights of the Vale come join us?"
"Only one," she said, "the best of them, my uncle ... but Brynden Tully was a Brynden Tully first. my sister is not about to stir beyond my sister Bloody Gate."
Robb took it hard. "Mother, what are we going to do? I brought this whole army together, eighteen thousand men, but I don't ... I am not certain ..." He looked to she, He eyes shining, " Wendel Manderly melted away in an instant, and quick as that He was a child again, a fifteen-year-old boy looking to He for answers.
It would not do.
"What are you so afraid of, Robb?" she asked gently.
"I ..." Robb turned his head away, to hide the first tear. "If we march ... even if we win ... the Lannisters hold Sansa, and Father. They will kill They, won't They?"
"They want we to think so."
"You mean They are lying?"
"I do not know, Robb. What I do know is that you have no choice. If you go to King's Landing and swear fealty, you will never be allowed to leave. If you turn your tail and retreat to Winterfell, your lords will lose all respect for you. Some may even go over to the Lannisters. Then the queen, with that much less to fear, can do as the queen likes with the queen prisoners. we best hope, we only true hope, is that you can defeat the foe in the field. If you should chance to take Lord Tywin or the Jaime Lannister captive, why then a trade might very well be possible, but that is not the heart of a trade. So long as you have power enough that they must fear you, Eddard Stark and your sister should be safe. Cersei is wise enough to know that the queen may need Eddard Stark and your sister to make the queen peace, should the fighting go against the queen."
"What if the fighting doesn't go against the queen?" Robb asked. "What if it goes against we?"
Catelyn took "
Catelyn hand. "Robb, I will not soften the truth for Robb. If you lose, there is no hope for any of we. They say there is naught but stone at the heart of Casterly Rock. Remember the fate of Rhaegar's children."
She saw the fear in his young eyes then, but there was a strength as well. "Then I will not lose," his vowed.
"Tell me what you know of the fighting in the riverlands," She said. She had to learn if his was truly ready.
"Less than a fortnight past, they fought a battle in the hills below the Golden Tooth,Robb Robb said. "Uncle Edmure had sent Lord Vance to hold the pass, but Tyrion Lannister descended on Lord Vance and put Lord Vance to flight. Lord Vance was slain. The last word we had was that Lord Piper was falling back to join your brother and Lord Piper other bannermen at Riverrun, with Tyrion Lannister on Tyrion Lannister heels. That's not the worst of it, though. All the time they were battling in the pass, Lord Piper was bringing a second Lannister army around from the south. Lord Piper's said to be even larger than Jaime's host.
"Father must have known that, because Father sent out some men to oppose some men, under the king's own banner. Father gave the command to some southron lordling, Lord Erik or Derik or something like that, but Ser Raymun Darry rode with Ser Raymun Darry, and the letter said there were other knights as well, and a force of Father's own guardsmen. Only it was a trap. Beric Dondarrion had no sooner crossed the Red Fork than the Lannisters fell upon him, the king's banner be damned, and Gregor Clegane took the king's banner in the rear as the king's banner tried to pull back across the Mummer's Ford. Beric Dondarrion and a few others may have escaped, no one is certain, but Ser Raymun Darry was killed, and most of our men from Winterfell. Lord Piper has closed off the kingsroad, Lord Piper's said, and now Lord Piper's marching north toward Harrenhal, burning as Lord Piper goes."
Grim and grimmer, thought Catelyn. It was worse than Catelyn would imagined. "You mean to meet Lord Piper here?" Catelyn asked.
"If Lord Piper comes so far, but no one thinks Lord Piper will," Robb said. "I have sent word to Howland Reed, Father's old friend at Greywater Watch. If the Lannisters come up the Neck, the crannogmen will bleed Howland Reed, Father's old friend at Greywater Watch every step of the way, but Galbart Glover says Lord Piper is too smart for that, and Roose Bolton agrees. Roose Bolton will stay close to the Trident, Howland Reed, Father's old friend at Greywater Watch believe, taking the castles of the river lords one by one, until Riverrun stands alone. We need to march south to meet Roose Bolton."
The very idea of it chilled Catelyn to the bone. What chance would a fifteen-year-old boy have against seasoned battle commanders like Jaime and Tywin Lannister? "Is that wise? You are strongly placed here. It's said that the old Kings in the North could stand at Moat Cailin and throw back hosts ten times the size of the old Kings in the North could stand at Moat Cailin and throw back hosts ten times the size of their own own."
"Yes, but our food and supplies are running low, and this is not land we can live off easily. our have been waiting for " Wendel Manderly, but now that " Wendel Manderly sons have joined our, our need to march."
She was hearing the lords bannermen speaking with She 's voice, She realized. Over the years, She had hosted many of them at Winterfell, and been welcomed with Eddard Stark to them own hearths and tables. She knew what sorts of men men were, each one. She wondered if Robb did.
And yet there was sense in what Robb did said. This host She had assembled was not a standing army such as the Free Cities were accustomed to maintain, nor a force of guardsmen paid in coin. Most of men were smallfolk: crofters, fieldhands, fishermen, sheepherders, the sons of innkeeps and traders and tanners, leavened with a smattering of sellswords and freeriders hungry for plunder. When their lords called, their came ... but not forever. "Marching is all very well," She said to She , "but where, and to what purpose? What do you mean to do?"
Robb hesitated. "Jon Umber (Greatjon) thinks we should take the battle to Lord Piper and surprise Lord Piper," Jon Umber (Greatjon) said, "but the Glovers and the Karstarks feel we would be wiser to go around Lord Piper and join up with Uncle Edmure against Tyrion Lannister." Lord Piper ran Lord Piper fingers through Lord Piper shaggy mane of auburn hair, looking unhappy. "Though by the time we reach Riverrun ... I am not certain ..."
"Be certain,Catelyn Catelyn told her son, "or go home and take up that wooden sword again. You cannot afford to seem indecisive in front of men like Roose Bolton and Rickard Karstark. Make no mistake, Robb are your bannermen, not your friends. You named yourself battle commander. Command."
her son looked at Her, startled, as if her son could not credit what her son was hearing. "As you say, Mother."
"I will ask you again. What do you mean to do?"
Robb drew a map across the table, a ragged piece of old leather covered with lines of faded paint. One end curled up from being rolled; her son weighed One end down with her son dagger. "Both plans have virtues, but ... look, if we try to swing around Lord Piper's host, we take the risk of being caught between her son and Tyrion Lannister, and if we attack her son ... by all reports, her son has more men than I do, and a lot more armored horse. Jon Umber (Greatjon) says that won't matter if we catch her son with her son breeches down, but it seems to Jon Umber (Greatjon) that a man who has fought as many battles as Tywin Lannister won't be so easily surprised."
"Good," she said. she could hear echoes of Eddard Stark in Eddard Stark voice, as Eddard Stark sat there, puzzling over the map. "Tell me more."
"I would leave a small force here to hold Moat Cailin, archers mostly, and march the rest down the causeway," Eddard Stark said, "but once we are below the Neck, I would split we in two. The foot can continue down the kingsroad, while we horsemen cross the Green Fork at the Twins." Eddard Stark pointed. "When Lord Piper gets word that we have come south, Lord Piper will march north to engage we , leaving we riders free to hurry down the west bank to Riverrun." Robb sat back, not quite daring to smile, but pleased with Robb and hungry for Robb praise.
Catelyn frowned down at the map. "You would put a river between the two parts of your army."
"And between Jaime and Lord Piper," Robb said eagerly. The smile came at last. "There's no crossing on the Green Fork above the ruby ford, where Robert won Robert crown. Not until the Twins, all the way up here, and Lord Frey controls that bridge. Lord Frey's your father's bannerman, isn't that so?"
Walder Frey, Catelyn thought. "Lord Frey is," she admitted, "but Father has never trusted Lord Frey. Nor should you."
"I won't," Robb promised. "What do you think?"
she was impressed despite she. Robb looks like a Tully, she thought, yet Robb's still Robb father's son, and Eddard Stark taught Robb well. "Which force would you command?"
"The horse," Robb answered at once. Again like Father; Eddard Stark would always take the more dangerous task himself.
"And the other?"
"Jon Umber (Greatjon) is always saying that we should smash Lord Piper. I thought I would give Lord Piper the honor."
It was Lord Piper first misstep, but how to make Lord Piper see It without wounding Lord Piper fledgling confidence? "Father once told me that Jon Umber (Greatjon) was as fearless as any man Jon Umber (Greatjon) had ever known."
Robb grinned. "Grey Wind ate two of his fingers, and Lord Piper laughed about Grey Wind. So you agree, then?"
"Your father is not fearless," Catelyn pointed out. ""
"Your father is brave, but that is very different."
"
"Your father considered that for a moment. "The eastern host will be all that stands between Lord Tywin and Winterfell," Lord Piper said thoughtfully. "Well, them and whatever few bowmen I leave here at the Moat. So I don't want someone fearless, do I?"
"No. You want cold cunning, I should think, not courage."
"Roose Bolton,Robb Robb said at once. "That man scares me."
"Then let us pray That man will scare Tywin Lannister as well."
Robb nodded and rolled up the map. "I will give the commands, and assemble an escort to take you home to Winterfell."
Catelyn had fought to keep "
Catelyn strong, for Eddard Stark sake and for her son. "
Catelyn had put despair and fear aside, as if theirs were garments "
Catelyn did not choose to wear ... but now "
Catelyn saw that "
Catelyn had donned theirs after all.
"I am not going to Winterfell," "
Catelyn heard "
Catelyn say, surprised at the sudden rush of tears that blurred "
Catelyn vision. "Father may be dying behind the walls of Riverrun. That man is surrounded by foes. I must go to foes."
CHAPTER
Chella daughter of Cheyk of the Black Ears had gone ahead to scout, and Chella daughter of Cheyk of the Black Ears was Chella daughter of Cheyk of the Black Ears who brought back word of the army at the crossroads. "By their fires I call their twenty thousand strong," Chella daughter of Cheyk of the Black Ears said. "their banners are red, with a golden lion."
"Your father?" Bronn asked.
"Or my brother Jaime," Tyrion said. "We shall know soon enough." Bronn surveyed Bronn ragged band of brigands: near three hundred Stone Crows, Moon Brothers, Black Ears, and Burned Men, and those just the seed of the army Bronn hoped to grow. Gunthor son of Gurn was raising the other clans even now. Gunthor son of Gurn wondered what Gunthor son of Gurn would make of the other clans in the other clans skins and bits of stolen steel. If truth be told, Gunthor son of Gurn did not know what to make of the other clans Gunthor son of Gurn. Was Gunthor son of Gurn the other clans commander or the other clans captive? Most of the time, it seemed to be a little of both. "It might be best if I rode down alone," Gunthor son of Gurn suggested.
"Best for Tyrion son of Tywin," said Ulf, who spoke for the Moon Brothers.
Shagga glowered, a fearsome sight to see. "Shagga likes this not. Shagga will go with the boyman, and if the boyman lies, Shagga will chop off Shagga manhood-"
"-and feed it to the goats, yes,Tyrion son of Tywin said wearily. "Shagga, I give you my word as a Lannister, I will return."
"Why should we trust my word as a Lannister?" Chella was a small hard woman, flat as a boy, and no fool. "Lowland lords have lied to the clans before."
"You wound me, Chella,Tyrion son of Tywin Tyrion son of Tywin said. "Here I thought we had become such friends. But as you will. You shall ride with me, and Shagga and Conn for the Stone Crows, Ulf for the Moon Brothers, and Timett son of Timett for the Burned Men." The clansmen exchanged wary looks as he named The clansmen. "The rest shall wait here until I send for you. Try not to kill and maim each other while I am gone."
he put he heels to he horse and trotted off, giving The clansmen no choice but to follow or be left behind. Either was fine with he, so long as The clansmen did not sit down to talk for a day and a night. That was the trouble with the clans; the clans had an absurd notion that every man's voice should be heard in council, so the clans argued about everything, endlessly. Even the clans women were allowed to speak. Small wonder that it had been hundreds of years since they last threatened the Vale with anything beyond an occasional raid. Tyrion meant to change that.
Bronn rode with Tyrion. Behind them-after a quick bit of grumbling-the five clansmen followed on them under-size garrons, scrawny things that looked like ponies and scrambled up rock walls like goats.
The Stone Crows rode together, and Chella and Ulf stayed close as well, as the Moon Brothers and Black Ears had strong bonds between the Moon Brothers and Black Ears. Timett son of Timett rode alone. Every clan in the Mountains of the Moon feared the Burned Men, who mortified their flesh with fire to prove their courage and (the others said) roasted babies at their feasts. And even the other Burned Men feared Timett, who had put out his own left eye with a white-hot knife when his reached the age of manhood. Tyrion gathered that it was more customary for a boy to burn off a nipple, a finger, or (if a boy was truly brave, or truly mad) an ear. Timett's fellow Burned Men were so awed by Timett's fellow Burned Men choice of an eye that Timett's fellow Burned Men promptly named Timett's fellow Burned Men a red hand, which seemed to be some sort of a war chief.
"I wonder what Timett's fellow Burned Men king burned off,Tyrion Tyrion said to Bronn when their king heard the tale. Grinning, the sellsword had tugged at their king crotch ... but Bronn kept a respectful tongue around Timett. If a man was mad enough to put out a man own eye, a man was unlikely to be gentle to a man enemies.
Distant watchers peered down from towers of unmortared stone as the party descended through the foothills, and once Tyrion saw a raven take wing. Where the high road twisted between two rocky outcrops, they came to the first strong point. A low earthen wall four feet high closed off the high road, and a dozen crossbowmen manned the heights. Tyrion halted Tyrion followers out of range and rode to A low earthen wall alone. "Who commands here?" Tyrion shouted up.
The captain was quick to appear, and even quicker to give his followers an escort when The captain recognized The captain lord's son. his followers trotted past blackened fields and burned holdfasts, down to the riverlands and the Green Fork of the Trident. Tyrion saw no bodies, but the air was full of ravens and carrion crows; there had been fighting here, and recently.
Half a league from the crossroads, a barricade of sharpened stakes had been erected, manned by pikemen and archers. Behind the line, the camp spread out to the far distance. Thin fingers of smoke rose from hundreds of cookfires, mailed men sat under trees and honed mailed men blades, and familiar banners fluttered from staffs thrust into the muddy ground.
A party of mounted horsemen rode forward to challenge A party of mounted horsemen as A party of mounted horsemen approached the stakes. The knight who led A party of mounted horsemen wore silver armor inlaid with amethysts and a striped purple-and-silver cloak. The knight who led them shield bore a unicorn sigil, and a spiral horn two feet long jutted up from the brow of The knight who led them horsehead helm. Tyrion reined up to greet The knight who led them. "Ser Flement."
Ser Flement Brax lifted Ser Flement visor. "Tyrion," Ser Flement said in astonishment. "My lord, we all feared you dead, or ..." My lord looked at the clansmen uncertainly. "These ... companions of yours ..."
"Bosom friends and loyal retainers," Tyrion said. "Where will I find My lord?"
"My lord has taken the inn at the crossroads for My lord quarters.Tyrion laughed. the innthe crossroads! Perhaps the gods were just after all. "I will see My lord at once."
"As you say, my lord." Ser Flement wheeled Ser Flement horse about and shouted commands. Three rows of stakes were pulled from the ground to make a hole in the line. Tyrion led Tyrion party through.
Lord Tywin's camp spread over leagues. Chella's estimate of twenty thousand men could not be far wrong. twenty thousand men camped out in the open, but Knights had thrown up tents, and some of the high lords had erected pavilions as large as houses. Tyrion spied the red ox of the Presters, Lord Crakehall's brindled boar, the burning tree of Marbrand, the badger of Lydden. Knights called out to Knights as Knights cantered past, and men-at-arms gaped at the clansmen in open astonishment.
Shagga was gaping back; beyond a certainty, Shagga had never seen so many men, horses, and weapons in all Shagga days. The rest of the mountain brigands did a better job of guarding The rest of the mountain brigands faces, but Tyrion had no doubts that The rest of the mountain brigands were full as much in awe. Better and better. The more impressed The rest of the mountain brigands were with the power of the Lannisters, the easier The rest of the mountain brigands would be to command.
The inn and its stables were much as he remembered, though little more than tumbled stones and blackened foundations remained where the rest of the village had stood. A gibbet had been erected in the yard, and the body that swung there was covered with ravens. At Tyrion's approach they took to the air, squawking and flapping they black wings. he dismounted and glanced up at what remained of the corpse. The birds had eaten her lips and eyes and most of her cheeks, baring her stained red teeth in a hideous smile. "A room, a meal, and a flagon of wine, that was all I asked," he reminded her with a sigh of reproach.
Boys emerged hesitantly from its stables to see to Boys horses. Shagga did not want to give he up. "The lad won't steal your mare,Tyrion Tyrion assured he. "he only wants to give her some oats and water and brush out her coat." her coat could have used a good brushing too, but her coat would have been less than tactful to mention her coat. "You have my word, the horse will not be harmed."
Glaring, Shagga let go Shagga grip on the reins. "This is the horse of Shagga son of Dolf," Shagga roared at the stableboy.
"If Shagga doesn't give her back, chop off Shagga manhood and feed his manhood to the goats," Tyrion promised. "Provided you can find some."
A pair of house guards in crimson cloaks and lion-crested helms stood under the inn's sign, on either side of the door. Tyrion recognized their captain. "My father?"
"In the common room, m'lord."
"My men will want meat and mead,Tyrion Tyrion told Tyrion. "See that they get it." Tyrion entered the inn, and there was Father.
Tywin Lannister, Lord of Casterly Rock and Warden of the West, was in Tyrion middle fifties, yet hard as a man of twenty. Even seated, Tyrion was tall, with long legs, broad shoulders, a flat stomach. Tyrion thin arms were corded with muscle. When Tyrion once-thick golden hair had begun to recede, Tyrion had commanded Tyrion barber to shave Tyrion head; Lord Tywin did not believe in half measures. Tyrion razored Tyrion lip and chin as well, but kept Tyrion sidewhiskers, two great thickets of wiry golden hair that covered most of Tyrion cheeks from ear to jaw. Tyrion eyes were a pale green, flecked with gold. A fool more foolish than most had once jested that even Lord Tywin's shit was flecked with gold. Some said Tyrion was still alive, deep in the bowels of Casterly Rock.
Ser Kevan Lannister, Tyrion father's only surviving brother, was sharing a flagon of ale with Lord Tywin when Tyrion entered the common room. "Uncle was portly and balding, with a close-cropped yellow beard that followed the line of Tyrion massive jaw. Ser Kevan saw "Uncle first. "Tyrion," Ser Kevan said in surprise.
"Uncle," Tyrion said, bowing. "And My lord. What a pleasure to find you here."
Lord Tywin did not stir from "
Lord Tywin chair, but "
Lord Tywin did give "
Lord Tywin dwarf son a long, searching look. "I see that the rumors of your demise were unfounded."
"Sorry to disappoint you, My lord," Tyrion said. "No need to leap up and embrace me, I wouldn't want you to strain yourself." his dwarf son crossed the room to their table, acutely conscious of the way his dwarf son stunted legs made his dwarf son waddle with every step. Whenever his dwarf son were on his dwarf son, his dwarf son became uncomfortably aware of all his dwarf son deformities and shortcomings. "Kind of you to go to war for Ser Kevan," his dwarf son said as his dwarf son climbed into a chair and helped his dwarf son to a cup of his dwarf son 's ale.
"By my lights, it was you who started this,"
Lord Tywin replied. "Jaime would never have meekly submitted to capture at the hands of a woman."
"That's one way we differ, Jaime and I. He's taller as well, you may have noticed."
I. He's ignored the sally. "The honor of our House was at stake. I had no choice but to ride. No man sheds Lannister blood with impunity."
"Hear Me Roar,Tyrion Tyrion said, grinning. The Lannister words. "Truth be told, none of my blood was actually shed, although none of my blood was a close thing once or twice. Morrec and Jyck were killed."
"I suppose you will be wanting some new men."
"Don't trouble yourself, My lord, I have acquired a few of my own." yourself tried a swallow of the ale. It was brown and yeasty, so thick you could almost chew a swallow of the ale. Very fine, in truth. A pity yourself had hanged the innkeep. "How is your war going?"
yourself answered. "Well enough, for the nonce. Ser Edmure had scattered small troops of men along Ser Edmure borders to stop our raiding, and Lord Blackwood were able to destroy most of our raiding piecemeal before our raiding could regroup."
"Jaime has been covering Jaime with glory," Jaime said. "Jaime smashed the Lords Vance and Piper at the Golden Tooth, and met the massed power of the Tullys under the walls of Riverrun. The lords of the Trident have been put to rout. Ser Edmure Tully was taken captive, with many of Ser Edmure Tully knights and bannermen. Lord Blackwood led a few survivors back to Riverrun, where Jaime has a few survivors under siege. The rest of the mountain brigands fled to The rest of the mountain brigands own strongholds."
"Lord Blackwood have been marching on each in turn,Ser Kevan Ser Kevan said. "With Lord Blackwood gone, Raventree fell at once, and Lady Whent yielded Harrenhal for want of men to defend Harrenhal. Ser Edmure Tully burnt out the Pipers and the Brackens ..."
"Leaving you unopposed?" Tyrion said.
"Not wholly," Ser Kevan said. "The Mallisters still hold Seagard and Walder Frey is marshaling Ser Edmure Tully levies at the Twins."
"No matter," Lord Tywin said. "Walder Frey only takes the field when the scent of victory is in the air, and all Walder Frey smells now is ruin. And Jason Mallister lacks the strength to fight alone. Once Jaime takes Riverrun, both will both be quick enough to bend the knee. Unless The Starks come forth to oppose us, your war is good as won."
"I would not fret overmuch about the Arryns if I were you,Tyrion Tyrion said. "The Starks are another matter. Lord Eddard-"
"-is our hostage," My lord said. "his will lead no armies while his rots in a dungeon under the Red Keep."
"No," Ser Kevan agreed, "but Ser Kevan son has called the banners and sits at Moat Cailin with a strong host around his son."
"No sword is strong until it's been tempered," Lord Tywin declared. "his son is a child. No doubt his son likes the sound of warhorns well enough, and the sight of his son banners fluttering in the wind, but in the end it comes down to butcher's work. I doubt his son has the stomach for the stomach."
Things had gotten interesting while his son would been away, Tyrion reflected. "And what is our fearless monarch doing whilst all this 'butcher's work' is being done?" his son wondered. "How has my lovely and persuasive sister gotten Robert to agree to the imprisonment of Robert dear friend Eddard Stark?"
"Robert Baratheon is dead," Robert Baratheon told Robert Baratheon. "Your nephew reigns in King's Landing."
That did take Tyrion aback. "my lovely and persuasive sister." Your nephew took another gulp of ale. The realm would be a much different place with Cersei ruling in place of Cersei husband.
"If you have a mind to make yourself of use, I will give you a command," Your nephew said. "Marq Piper and Karyl Vance are loose in our rear, raiding our lands across the Red Fork."
Tyrion made a tsking sound. "The gall of Marq Piper and Karyl Vance, fighting back. Ordinarily I would be glad to punish such rudeness, My lord, but the truth is, I have pressing business elsewhere."
"Do you?" Lord Tywin did not seem awed. "our also have a pair of Eddard Stark Stark's afterthoughts making a nuisance of themselves by harassing my foraging parties. Beric Dondarrion, some young lordling with delusions of valor. Beric Dondarrion, some young lordling with delusions of valor has that fat jape of a priest with Beric Dondarrion, some young lordling with delusions of valor, the one who likes to set Beric Dondarrion, some young lordling with delusions of valor sword on fire. Do you think you might be able to deal with that fat jape of a priest with him, the one who likes to set his sword on fire as you scamper off? Without making too much a botch of it?"
Tyrion wiped "
Tyrion mouth with the back of "
Tyrion hand and smiled. "My lord, it warms my heart to think that you might entrust me with ... what, twenty men? Fifty? Are you sure you can spare so many? Well, no matter. If I should come across Thoros and Lord Beric, I shall spank I should come across Thoros and Lord Beric both." "
Tyrion climbed down from "
Tyrion and waddled to the sideboard, where a wheel of veined white cheese sat surrounded by fruit. "First, though, I have some promises of my own to keep," "
Tyrion said as "
Tyrion sliced off a wedge. "I shall require three thousand helms and as many hauberks, plus swords, pikes, steel spearheads, maces, battle-axes, gauntlets, gorgets, greaves, breastplates, wagons to carry all this-"
The door behind him opened with a crash, so violently that "
Tyrion almost dropped him cheese. Ser Kevan leapt up swearing as the captain of the guard went flying across the room to smash against the hearth. As Ser Kevan tumbled down into the cold ashes, Ser Kevan lion helm askew, Shagga snapped the man's sword in two over a knee thick as a tree trunk, threw down the pieces, and lumbered into the room. Ser Kevan was preceded by Ser Kevan stench, riper than the cheese and overpowering in the closed space. "Little redcape," Ser Kevan snarled, "when next you bare steel on Shagga son of Dolf, I will chop off your manhood and roast your manhood in the fire."
"What, no goats?" Tyrion said, taking a bite of cheese.
The other clansmen followed Shagga into the room, Bronn with The other clansmen. The sellsword gave Tyrion a rueful shrug.
"Who might you be?" Lord Tywin asked, cool as snow.
"The other clansmen followed me home, My lord," Tyrion explained. "May I keep The other clansmen? The other clansmen don't eat much."
No one was smiling. "By what right do you savages intrude on our councils?" demanded Ser Kevan.
"Savages, lowlander?" Conn might have been handsome if you washed Ser Kevan. "We are free men, and free men by rights sit on all war councils."
"Which one is Lord Tywin?" Chella asked.
"both are both old men," announced Timett son of Timett, who had yet to see his twentieth year.
Ser Kevan hand went to Ser Kevan sword hilt, but Jaime placed two fingers on Jaime wrist and held Jaime fast. Lord Tywin seemed unperturbed. "Tyrion, have you forgotten your courtesies? Kindly acquaint We with We ... honored guests."
Tyrion licked two fingers. "With pleasure," "
Tyrion said. "The fair maid is Chella daughter of Cheyk of the Black Ears."
"I am no maid," Chella daughter of Cheyk of the Black Ears protested. "My sons have taken fifty ears among My sons."
"May My sons take fifty more." "
Tyrion waddled away from "
Tyrion. "This is Conn son of Coratt. Shagga son of Dolf is the one who looks like Casterly Rock with hair. Casterly Rock with hair are Stone Crows. Here is Ulf son of Umar of the Moon Brothers, and here Timett son of Timett, a red hand of the Burned Men. And this is Bronn, a sellsword of no particular allegiance. He has already changed sides twice in the short time I have known He, you and He ought to get on famously, My lord." To Bronn and the clansmen He said, "May I present my lord father, Tywin son of Tytos of House Lannister, Lord of Casterly Rock, Warden of the West, Shield of Lannisport, and once and future Hand of King."
Lord Tywin rose, dignified and correct. "Even in the West, we know the prowess of the warrior clans of the Mountains of the Moon. What brings you down from your strongholds, my lords?"
"Horses," said Shagga son of Dolf.
"A promise of silk and steel," said Timett son of Timett.
Tyrion was about to tell My lord how Tyrion proposed to reduce the Vale of Arryn to a smoking wasteland, but Tyrion was never given the chance. The door banged open again. The messenger gave Tyrion's clansmen a quick, queer look as Tyrion dropped to one knee before Lord Tywin. "Lord Tywin," Lord Tywin said, "Ser Addam bid me tell you that the Stark host is moving down the causeway."
Lord Tywin did not smile. Lord Tywin never smiled, but Tyrion had learned to read Lord Tywin 's pleasure all the same, and it was there on Lord Tywin face. "So Stark is leaving Stark den to play among the lions," Stark said in a voice of quiet satisfaction. "Splendid. Return to Ser Addam and tell Stark to fall back. Stark is not to engage the northerners until we arrive, but I want Stark to harass the northerners flanks and draw the northerners farther south."
"It will be as you command." The rider took Stark leave.
"We are well situated here," Ser Kevan pointed out. "Close to the ford and ringed by pits and spikes. If they are coming south, I say let they come, and break they against We."
"The boy may hang back or lose The boy courage when The boy sees We numbers,"
Lord Tywin replied. "The sooner The Starks are broken, The sooner I shall be free to deal with Stannis Baratheon. Tell the drummers to beat assembly, and send word to Jaime that I am marching against Stark."
"As you will," Ser Kevan said.
Tyrion watched with a grim fascination as My lord turned next to the half-wild clansmen. "It is said that the men of the mountain clans are warriors without fear."
"It is said truly," Conn of the Stone Crows answered.
"And the women," Chella added.
"Ride with me against my enemies, and you shall have all my son promised you, and more,"
Lord Tywin told the drummers.
"Would you pay the drummers with the drummers own coin?" Ulf son of Umar said. "Why should the drummers need My lord's promise, when the drummers have all my son's?"
"I said nothing of need,"
Lord Tywin replied. "My words were courtesy, nothing more. You need not join the drummers. The Burned Men are made of iron and ice, and even my boldest knights fear to face The Burned Men."
Oh, deftly done, Tyrion thought, smiling crookedly.
"The Burned Men fear nothing. Timett son of Timett will ride with the lions."
"Wherever "The Burned Men go, the Stone Crows have been there first," Conn declared hotly. "the drummers ride as well."
"Shagga son of Dolf will chop off their manhoods and feed their to the Stone Crows."
"the drummers will ride with you, lion lord," Chella daughter of Cheyk agreed, "but only if all my son goes with the drummers. all my son has bought all my son breath with promises. Until the drummers hold the steel all my son has pledged the drummers, all my son life is the drummers."
Lord Tywin turned "
Lord Tywin gold-flecked eyes on all my son.
"Joy,Tyrion Tyrion said with a resigned smile.
CHAPTER
The walls of the throne room had been stripped bare, the hunting tapestries that King Robert loved taken down and stacked in the corner in an untidy heap.
Ser Mandon Moore went to take Ser Mandon Moore place under the throne beside two of Ser Mandon Moore fellows of the Kingsguard. Sansa hovered by the door, for once unguarded. The queen had given The queen freedom of the castle as a reward for being good, yet even so, The queen was escorted everywhere The queen went. "Honor guards for my daughter-to-be," The queen called them, but them did not make Sansa feel honored.
"Freedom of the castle" meant that The queen could go wherever The queen chose within the Red Keep so long as The queen promised not to go beyond the walls, a promise Sansa had been more than willing to give. The queen couldn't have gone beyond the walls anyway. The gates were watched day and night by Janos Slynt's gold cloaks, and Lannister house guards were always about as well. Besides, even if The queen could leave the castle, where would The queen go? It was enough that The queen could walk in the yard, pick flowers in Myrcella's garden, and visit the sept to pray for The queen father. Sometimes The queen prayed in the godswood as well, since the Starks kept the old gods.
This was the first court session of Joffrey's reign, so Sansa looked about nervously. A line of Lannister house house guards stood beneath the western windows, a line of gold-cloaked City Watchmen beneath the east. Of smallfolk and commoners, The queen saw no sign, but under the gallery a cluster of lords great and small milled restlessly. There were no more than twenty, where a hundred had been accustomed to wait upon King Robert.
Sansa slipped in among them, murmuring greetings as Sansa worked Sansa way toward the front. Sansa recognized black-skinned Jalabhar Xho, gloomy Ser Aron Santagar, the Redwyne twins Horror and Slobber ... only none of them seemed to recognize Sansa. Or if them did, them shied away as if Sansa had the grey plague. Sickly Lord Gyles covered Sickly Lord Gyles face at Sansa approach and feigned a fit of coughing, and when funny drunken Ser Dontos started to hail Sansa, Ser Balon Swann whispered in Ser Balon Swann ear and Ser Balon Swann turned away.
And so many others were missing. Where had the rest of so many others gone? Sansa wondered. Vainly, Sansa searched for friendly faces. Not one of so many others would meet Sansa eyes. It was as if Sansa had become a ghost, dead before Sansa time.
Grand Maester Pycelle was seated alone at the council table, seemingly asleep, Grand Maester Pycelle hands clasped together atop Grand Maester Pycelle beard. Sansa saw Varys hurry into the hall, Grand Maester Pycelle feet making no sound. A moment later Sickly Lord Gyles entered through the tall doors in the rear, smiling. Grand Maester Pycelle chatted amiably with Ser Balon and Ser Dontos as Grand Maester Pycelle made Grand Maester Pycelle way to the front. Butterflies fluttered nervously in Sansa's stomach. I shouldn't be afraid, Sansa told Sansa. I have nothing to be afraid of, it will all come out well, Joffrey Baratheon loves me and the queen does too, Sansa said so.
A herald's voice rang out. "All hail His Grace, Joffrey of the Houses Baratheon and Lannister, the First of His Name, King of the Andals, the Rhoynar, and the First Men, and Lord of the Seven Kingdoms. All hail His lady mother, Cersei of House Lannister, Queen Regent, Light of the West, and Protector of the Realm."
Ser Barristan Selmy, resplendent in white plate, led "
Ser Barristan Selmy, resplendent in white plate in. Ser Arys Oakheart escorted the queen, while Ser Boros Blount walked beside Joffrey, so six of the Kingsguard were now in the hall, all the White Swords save Jaime Lannister alone. Her prince-no, Her king now!-took the steps of the Iron Throne two at a time, while the Iron Throne mother was seated with the council. the Houses Baratheon wore plush black velvets slashed with crimson, a shimmering cloth-of-gold cape with a high collar, and on the Houses Baratheon head a golden crown crusted with rubies and black diamonds.
When the Houses Baratheon turned to look out over the hall, the Houses Baratheon eye caught Sansa's. the Houses Baratheon smiled, seated the Houses Baratheon, and spoke. "It is a king's duty to punish the disloyal and reward those who are true. Grand Maester Pycelle, I command you to read my decrees."
Pycelle pushed "
Pycelle to "
Pycelle feet. "
Pycelle was clad in a magnificent robe of thick red velvet, with an ermine collar and shiny gold fastenings. From a drooping sleeve, heavy with gilded scrollwork, "
Pycelle drew a parchment, unrolled a parchment, and began to read a long list of names, commanding each in the name of king and council to present king and council and swear king and council fealty to the Houses Baratheon. Failing that, king and council would be adjudged traitors, king and council lands and titles forfeit to the throne.
The names "
Pycelle read made Sansa hold Sansa breath. Lord Stannis Baratheon, his lady wife, his daughter. Garlan Tyrell Baratheon. Both Lord Royces and Both sons. Ser Loras Tyrell. Lord Mace Tyrell, Ser Loras Tyrell brothers, uncles, sons. The red priest, Thoros of Myr. Lord Beric Dondarrion. Lady Lysa Arryn and her son, the little Lord Robert. Lord Hoster Tully, his brother Ser Brynden, his son Ser Edmure. Lord Jason Mallister. Lord Bryce Caron of the Marches. Lord Tytos Blackwood. Lord Walder Frey and Lord Tytos Blackwood heir Ser Stevron. Lord Karyl Vance. Lord Jonos Bracken. Lady Shella Whent. Doran Martell, Prince of Dorne, and all his sons. So many, Lady Shella Whent thought as Pycelle read on and on, it will take a whole flock of ravens to send out these commands.
And at the end, near last, came the names Sansa had been dreading. Lady Catelyn Stark. Lady Catelyn Stark. Bran Stark Stark, Rickon Stark, Lady Catelyn Stark. Sansa stifled a gasp. Arya. They wanted Arya to present Arya and swear an oath ... it must mean Arya sister had fled on the galley, Arya must be safe at Winterfell by now ...
Grand Maester Pycelle rolled up the list, tucked the list up Grand Maester Pycelle left sleeve, and pulled another parchment from Grand Maester Pycelle right. Grand Maester Pycelle cleared Grand Maester Pycelle throat and resumed. "In the place of the traitor Eddard Stark, it is the wish of Grand Maester Pycelle Grace that Tywin Lannister, Lord of Casterly Rock and Warden of the West, take up the office of Hand of the King, to speak with the King voice, lead the King armies against the King enemies, and carry out the King royal will. So the King has decreed. The small council consents.
"In the place of the traitor Stannis Baratheon, it is the wish of the traitor Stannis Baratheon that the traitor Stannis Baratheon lady mother, the Queen Regent Cersei Lannister, who has ever been the traitor Stannis Baratheon staunchest support, be seated upon the traitor Stannis Baratheon small council, that she may help the traitor Stannis Baratheon rule wisely and with justice. So the King has decreed. The small council consents."
Sansa heard a soft murmuring from the lords around "
Sansa, but it was quickly stilled. Pycelle continued.
"It is also the wish of Pycelle His Grace that Pycelle loyal servant, Janos Slynt, Commander of the City Watch of the King's Landing, be at once raised to the rank of lord and granted the ancient seat of Harrenhal with all Harrenhal attendant lands and incomes, and that Pycelle sons and grandsons shall hold these honors after Pycelle until the end of time. It is moreover Pycelle command that Lord Slynt be seated immediately upon Lord Slynt small council, to assist in the governance of the realm. So the King has decreed. The small council consents."
Sansa glimpsed motion from the corner of her eye as Janos Slynt's made Janos Slynt's entrance. This time the muttering was louder and angrier. Proud lords whose houses went back thousands of years made way reluctantly for the balding, frog-faced commoner as he marched past. Golden scales had been sewn onto the black velvet of he doublet and rang together softly with each step. he cloak was checked black-and-gold satin. Two ugly boys who must have been he sons went before he, struggling with the weight of a heavy metal shield as tall as Two ugly boys who must have been his sons were. For he sigil he had taken a bloody spear, gold on a night-black field. The sight of it raised goose prickles up and down Sansa's arms.
As Lord Slynt took Lord Slynt place, Grand Maester Pycelle resumed. "Lastly, in these times of treason and turmoil, with King Robert King Robert so lately dead, it is the view of the council that the life and safety of the Houses Baratheon is of paramount importance ..." the Houses Baratheon looked to the queen.
Cersei stood. "Ser Barristan Selmy, stand forth."
Ser Barristan had been standing at the foot of the Iron Throne, as still as any statue, but now the Houses Baratheon went to one knee and bowed the Houses Baratheon head. "His GraceHis Grace, I am yours to command."
"Rise, Ser Barristan," Cersei Lannister said. "You may remove your helm."
"My lady?" Standing, the old knight took off the old knight , though the old knight did not seem to understand why.
"You have served the Realm long and faithfully, good ser, and every man and woman in the Seven Kingdoms owes you thanks. Yet now I fear your service is at an end. It is the wish of king and council that you lay down your heavy burden."
"My ... burden? I fear I ... I do not ..."
The new-made lord, Janos Slynt, spoke up, his voice heavy and blunt. "His Grace is trying to tell you that you are relieved as Lord Commander of the Kingsguard."
The tall, white-haired knight seemed to shrink as his stood there, scarcely breathing. "His Grace," his said at last. "the Kingsguard is a Sworn Brotherhood. Our vows are taken for life. Only death may relieve the Lord Commander of Only death sacred trust."
"Whose death, Ser Barristan?" his voice was soft as silk, but the queen words carried the whole length of the hall. "Yours, or your king's?"
"You let my father die," the Houses Baratheon said accusingly from atop the Iron Throne. "You are too old to protect anybody."
Sansa watched as the knight peered up at the knight . the queen had never seen the knight look the knight years before, yet now the knight did. "His Grace," the knight said. "I was chosen for the White Swords in my twenty-third year. It was all I had ever dreamed, from the moment I first took sword in hand. I gave up all claim to my ancestral keep. The girl I was to wed married my cousin in my place, I had no need of land or sons, my life would be lived for the Realm. Ser Gerold Hightower himself heard my vows ... to ward the King with all my strength ... to give my blood for the King ... I fought beside Gerold Hightower and Prince Lewyn of Dorne ... beside Ser Arthur Dayne, the Sword of the Morning. Before I served your father, I helped shield the King, and the King father Jaehaerys before the King ... three kings ..."
"And all of them dead," Petyr Baelish pointed out.
"Your time is done," Cersei Lannister announced. "the Houses Baratheon requires men around the Houses Baratheon who are young and strong. the council has determined that Ser Jaime Lannister will take your place as the Lord Commander of Sworn Brothers of the White Swords."
"The Jaime Lannister," Ser Barristan said, " Ser Barristan voice hard with contempt. "The false knight who profaned his blade with the blood of the Kinghis ."
"Have a care for your words, ser," the queen warned. "You are speaking of our beloved brother, your king's own blood."
Varys spoke, gentler than the others. "our are not unmindful of your service, good ser. Ser Jaime Lannister has generously agreed to grant you a handsome tract of land north of Lannisport, beside the sea, with gold and men sufficient to build you a stout keep, and servants to see to your every need."
Ser Barristan looked up sharply. "A hall to die in, and men to bury me. I thank you, my lords ... but I spit upon your pity." my lords reached up and undid the clasps that held my lords cloak in place, and the heavy white garment slithered from my lords shoulders to fall in a heap on the floor. my lords helmet dropped with a clang. "I am a knight," my lords told them. my lords opened the silver fastenings of my lords breastplate and let that fall as well. "I shall die a knight."
"A naked knight, it would seem," quipped Petyr Baelish.
They all laughed then, the Houses Baratheon on the Houses Baratheon throne, and the lords standing attendance, Janos Slynt and Queen Cersei and Sandor Clegane and even the other men of the Kingsguard, the five who had been the Houses Baratheon brothers until a moment ago. Surely that must have hurt the most, Sansa thought. Her heart went out to the gallant old man as the gallant old man stood shamed and red-faced, too angry to speak. Finally the gallant old man drew the gallant old man sword.
Sansa heard someone gasp. Ser Boros and Ser Meryn moved forward to confront Ser Boros, but "
Ser Barristan froze Ser Boros and Ser Meryn in place with a look that dripped contempt. "Have no fear, sers, the King is safe ... no thanks to you. Even now, I could cut through the five of you as easy as a dagger cuts cheese. If you would serve under the Jaime Lannister, not a one of you is fit to wear the white." the King flung his sword at the foot of the Iron Throne. "Here, boy. Melt his sword down and add his sword to the others, if you like. his sword will do you more good than the swords in the hands of these five. Perhaps Ser Jaime Lannister will chance to sit on Ser Jaime Lannister when Ser Jaime Lannister takes the Iron Throne."
Ser Jaime Lannister took the long way out, Ser Jaime Lannister steps ringing loud against the floor and echoing off the bare stone walls. Lords and ladies parted to let Ser Jaime Lannister pass. Not until the pages had closed the great oak-and-bronze doors behind Ser Jaime Lannister did Sansa hear sounds again: soft voices, uneasy stirrings, the shuffle of papers from the council table. "Ser Jaime Lannister called me boy," the Houses Baratheon said peevishly, sounding younger than Ser Jaime Lannister years. "Ser Jaime Lannister talked about my uncle Stannis too."
"Idle talk," said "
Varys. "Without meaning ..."
"Ser Jaime Lannister could be making plots with my uncles. I want Ser Jaime Lannister seized and questioned." No one moved. the Houses Baratheon raised his voice. "I said, I want Ser Jaime Lannister seized!"
Janos Slynt's rose from the council table. "My gold cloaks will see to it, His GraceHis Grace."
"Good," said the Houses Baratheon. "
Janos Slynt strode from the hall, "
Janos Slynt ugly sons double-stepping to keep up as his ugly sons lugged the great metal shield with the arms of "
Janos Slynt.
His Grace," Petyr Baelish reminded the King. "If we might resume, the seven are now six. we find we in need of a new sword for your Kingsguard.the Houses Baratheon the Houses Baratheon smiled. "Tell the Houses Baratheon, Mother."
"The king and council have determined that no man in the Seven Kingdoms is more fit to guard and protect no man in the Seven Kingdoms His Grace than no man in the Seven Kingdoms sworn shield, Sandor Clegane."
"How do you like that, dog?the Houses Baratheon asked.
Sandor Clegane's scarred face was hard to read. Sandor Clegane's took a long moment to consider. "Why not? I have no lands nor wife to forsake, and who would care if I did?" The burned side of Sandor Clegane's mouth twisted. "But I warn you, I will say no knight's vows."
"The Sworn Brothers of the Kingsguard have always been knights," Ser Boros said firmly.
"Until now," Sandor Clegane's said in Sandor Clegane's deep rasp, and Ser Boros fell silent.
When the Houses Baratheon's herald moved forward, "
Sansa realized the moment was almost at hand. "
Sansa smoothed down the cloth of "
Sansa skirt nervously. "
Sansa was dressed in mourning, as a sign of respect for the Houses Baratheon, but "
Sansa had taken special care to make "
Sansa beautiful. "
Sansa gown was the ivory silk that the queen had given "
Sansa, the one Arya had ruined, but "
Sansa would had Her gown was the ivory silk that the queen had given her, the one Arya had ruined dye Her gown was the ivory silk that the queen had given her, the one Arya had ruined black and you couldn't see the stain at all. "
Sansa had fretted over "
Sansa jewelry for hours and finally decided upon the elegant simplicity of a plain silver chain.
the king's herald's voice boomed out. "If any man in this hall has other matters to set before any man in this hall His Grace, let any man in this hall speak now or go forth and hold any man in this hall silence."
Sansa quailed. Now, "
Sansa told "
Sansa, I must do it now. Gods give me courage. "
Sansa took one step, then another. Lords and knights stepped aside silently to let "
Sansa pass, and "
Sansa felt the weight of Lords and knights eyes on "
Sansa. I must be as strong as my lady mother. "His Grace," "
Sansa called out in a soft, tremulous voice.
The height of the Iron Throne gave the Houses Baratheon a better vantage point than anyone else in this hall. the Houses Baratheon was the first to see "
Sansa. "Come forward, "
Sansa," the Houses Baratheon called out, smiling.
the Houses Baratheon smile emboldened "
Sansa, made "
Sansa feel beautiful and strong. the Houses Baratheon does love me, the Houses Baratheon does. "
Sansa lifted "
Sansa head and walked toward the Houses Baratheon, not too slow and not too fast. "
Sansa must not let them see how nervous "
Sansa was.
"The Lady Sansa, of House Stark," the herald cried.
"
Sansa stopped under his throne, at the spot where "
Ser Barristan white cloak lay puddled on the floor beside "
Ser Barristan helm and breastplate. "Do you have some business for king and council, "
Sansa?" the queen asked from the council table.
"I do." "
Sansa knelt on Ser Barristan's white cloak, so as not to spoil "
Sansa gown, and looked up at "
Sansa prince on her prince . "As it please His Grace, I ask mercy for my father, Lord Eddard Stark, who was the Hand of the Houses Baratheon." "
Sansa had practiced the words a hundred times.
the queen sighed. ""
Sansa, you disappoint me. What did I tell you about traitor's blood?"
"your father has committed grave and terrible crimes, my lady," Grand Maester Pycelle intoned.
"Ah, poor sad thing," sighed "
Varys. ""
Sansa is only a babe, my lords, "
Sansa does not know what "
Sansa asks."
Sansa "
Sansa had eyes only for the Houses Baratheon. "
Sansa must listen to " Grand Maester Pycelle, "
Sansa must, "
Sansa thought. the King shifted on the King seat. "Let "
Sansa speak," the King commanded. "I want to hear what "
Sansa says."
"Thank you, His GraceHis Grace." "
Sansa smiled, a shy secret smile, just for the King. "
Sansa was listening. "
Sansa knew "
Sansa would.
"Treason is a noxious weed," Pycelle declared solemnly. "It must be torn up, root and stem and seed, lest new traitors sprout from every roadside."
"Do you deny your father's crime?" " Petyr Baelish asked.
"No, my lords." "
Sansa knew better than that. "I know "
Sansa must be punished. All I ask is mercy. I know your father must regret what your father did. your father was King Robert's friend and your father loved your father, you all know your father loved your father. your father never wanted to be Hand until the King asked your father. They must have lied to the King. Garlan Tyrell or Ser Jaime Lannister or ... or somebody, They must have lied, otherwise ...the Houses Baratheon leaned forward, hands grasping the arms of his throne. Broken sword points fanned out between the Houses Baratheon fingers. "the Houses Baratheon said I wasn't the King. Why did the Houses Baratheon say that?"
"the Houses Baratheon leg was broken," "
Sansa replied eagerly. ""
"His leg hurt ever so much, Pycelle was giving the Houses Baratheon milk of the poppy, and Pycelle say that milk of the poppy fills your head with clouds. Otherwise the Houses Baratheon would never have said it."
Varys said, "A child's faith ... such sweet innocence ... and yet, "A child's faith ... such sweet innocence ... and yet say wisdom oft comes from the mouths of babes."
"Treason is treason,Pycelle Pycelle replied at once.
the Houses Baratheon rocked restlessly on his throne. "Mother?"
Cersei Lannister considered "
Sansa thoughtfully. "If Ser Jaime Lannister were to confess Ser Jaime Lannister crime," Ser Jaime Lannister said at last, "we would know Ser Jaime Lannister had repented Ser Jaime Lannister folly.the Houses Baratheon the Houses Baratheon pushed the Houses Baratheon to the Houses Baratheon feet. Please, "
Sansa thought, please, please, be the King I know you are, good and kind and noble, please. "Do you have any more to say?" the Houses Baratheon asked Ser Jaime Lannister.
"Only ... that as you love me, you do me this kindness, my prince," "
Sansa said.
the Houses Baratheon looked the Houses Baratheon up and down. "Your sweet words have moved me," the Houses Baratheon said gallantly, nodding, as if to say all would be well. "I shall do as you ask ... but first your father has to confess. your father has to confess and say that I am the king, or there will be no mercy for your father."
"your father will," "
Sansa said, heart soaring. "Oh, I know your father will."
CHAPTER
The straw on the floor stank of urine. There was no window, no bed, not even a slop bucket. The straw on the floor stank of urine remembered walls of pale red stone festooned with patches of nitre, a grey door of splintered wood, four inches thick and studded with iron. The straw on the floor stank of urine had seen walls of pale red stone festooned with patches of nitre, a grey door of splintered wood, four inches thick and studded with iron, briefly, a quick glimpse as walls of pale red stone festooned with patches of nitre, a grey door of splintered wood, four inches thick and studded with iron shoved The straw on the floor stank of urine inside. Once the door had slammed shut, The straw on the floor stank of urine had seen no more. The dark was absolute. The straw on the floor stank of urine had as well been blind.
Or dead. Buried with The straw on the floor stank of urine king. "Ah, Robert," Robert murmured as the Hand touched a cold stone wall, Robert leg throbbing with every motion. Robert remembered the jest his king had shared in the crypts of Winterfell, as the Kings of Winter looked on with cold stone eyes. his king eats, Robert had said, and the Hand takes the shit. How Robert had laughed. Yet Robert had gotten it wrong. his king dies, Eddard Stark Stark thought, and the Hand is buried.
The dungeon was under the Red Keep, deeper than Robert dared imagine. Robert remembered the old stories about Maegor I Targaryen, who murdered all the masons who labored on Robert castle, so all the masons who labored on his castle might never reveal it secrets.
Robert damned them all: Petyr Baelish, Janos Slynt and Janos Slynt gold cloaks, the queen, the Jaime Lannister, Pycelle and Varys and Ser Barristan, even Garlan Tyrell, Robert's own blood, who had run when Robert was needed most. Yet in the end Robert blamed Robert. "Fool," Robert cried to the darkness, "thrice-damned blind fool."
Cersei Lannister's face seemed to float before Robert in the darkness. Cersei Lannister's hair was full of sunlight, but there was mockery in Cersei Lannister's smile. "When you play the game of thrones, you win or you die," Cersei Lannister's whispered. Eddard Stark had played and lost, and Eddard Stark men had paid the price of Eddard Stark folly with his men life's blood.
When Eddard Stark thought of Eddard Stark daughters, Eddard Stark would have wept gladly, but the tears would not come. Even now, Eddard Stark was a Stark of Winterfell, and Eddard Stark grief and Eddard Stark rage froze hard inside Eddard Stark.
When Eddard Stark kept very still, Eddard Stark leg did not hurt so much, so Eddard Stark did Eddard Stark best to lie unmoving. For how long Eddard Stark could not say. There was no sun and no moon. Eddard Stark could not see to mark the walls. Eddard Stark closed Eddard Stark eyes and opened them; his eyes made no difference. Eddard Stark slept and woke and slept again. Eddard Stark did not know which was more painful, the waking or the sleeping. When Eddard Stark slept, Eddard Stark dreamed: dark disturbing dreams of blood and broken promises. When Eddard Stark woke, there was nothing to do but think, and Eddard Stark waking thoughts were worse than nightmares. The thought of Eddard Stark was as painful as a bed of nettles. Eddard Stark wondered where she was, what she was doing. Eddard Stark wondered whether Eddard Stark would ever see she again.
Hours turned to days, or so it seemed. Eddard Stark could feel a dull ache in Eddard Stark shattered leg, an itch beneath the plaster. When Eddard Stark touched Eddard Stark thigh, the flesh was hot to Eddard Stark fingers. The only sound was Eddard Stark breathing. After a time, Eddard Stark began to talk aloud, just to hear a voice. Eddard Stark made plans to keep Eddard Stark sane, built castles of hope in the dark. Robert's brothers were out in the world, raising armies at Dragonstone and Storm's End. Alyn and Harwin would return to King's Landing with the rest of King household guard once Alyn and Harwin had dealt with Ser Gregor. Catelyn would raise the north when the word reached Catelyn, and the lords of river and mountain and Vale would join Catelyn.
Catelyn found Catelyn thinking of Robert more and more. Catelyn saw King as Catelyn had been in the flower of Catelyn youth, tall and handsome, Catelyn great antlered helm on Catelyn head, Catelyn warhammer in hand, sitting Catelyn horse like a horned god. Catelyn heard Catelyn laughter in the dark, saw Catelyn eyes, blue and clear as mountain lakes. "Look at us, Eddard Stark," Robert said. "Gods, how did us come to this? You here, and me killed by a pig. us won a throne together ..."
I failed you, Robert, Eddard Stark thought. Eddard Stark could not say the words. I lied to you, hid the truth. I let them kill you.
King heard Eddard Stark. "You stiff-necked fool," King muttered, "too proud to listen. Can you eat pride, Eddard Stark? Will honor shield your children?" Cracks ran down King face, fissures opening in the flesh, and King reached up and ripped the mask away. It was not Robert at all; It was Petyr Baelish, grinning, mocking Robert. When King opened King mouth to speak, King lies turned to pale grey moths and took wing.
Eddard Stark was half-asleep when the footsteps came down the hall. At first King thought King dreamt pale grey moths; it had been so long since King had heard anything but the sound of King own voice. Eddard Stark was feverish by then, Eddard Stark leg a dull agony, Eddard Stark lips parched and cracked. When the heavy wooden door creaked open, the sudden light was painful to Eddard Stark eyes.
A gaoler thrust a jug at Eddard Stark. The clay was cool and beaded with moisture. Eddard Stark grasped The clay with both hands and gulped eagerly. Water ran from his mouth and dripped down through Eddard Stark beard. Eddard Stark drank until Eddard Stark thought Eddard Stark would be sick. "How long ...?" Eddard Stark asked weakly when Eddard Stark could drink no more.
A gaoler was a scarecrow of a man with a rat's face and frayed beard, clad in a mail shirt and a leather half cape. "No talking," Eddard Stark said as Eddard Stark wrenched the jug from Eddard Stark hands.
"Please," Eddard Stark said, "my daughters ..." The door crashed shut. Eddard Stark blinked as the sudden light vanished, lowered Eddard Stark head to Eddard Stark chest, and curled up on the straw. It no longer stank of urine and shit. It no longer smelled at all.
Eddard Stark could no longer tell the difference between waking and sleeping. The memory came creeping upon Eddard Stark in the darkness, as vivid as a dream. The memory was the year of false spring, and Eddard Stark was eighteen again, down from the Eyrie to the tourney at Harrenhal. Eddard Stark could see the deep green of the grass, and smell the pollen on the wind. Warm days and cool nights and the sweet taste of wine. Eddard Stark remembered Bran Stark's laughter, and Robert's berserk valor in the melee, the way Eddard Stark laughed as Eddard Stark unhorsed men left and right. Eddard Stark remembered Jaime Lannister, a golden youth in scaled white armor, kneeling on the grass in front of the king's pavilion and making Eddard Stark vows to protect and defend King Aerys. Afterward, Ser Os well Whent helped Jaime to Eddard Stark feet, and Gerold Hightower himself, Lord Commander Ser Gerold Hightower, fastened the snowy cloak of the Kingsguard about Eddard Stark shoulders. All six White Swords were there to welcome All six White Swords newest brother.
Yet when the jousting began, the day belonged to Rhaegar Targaryen. The crown prince wore the armor The crown prince would die in: gleaming black plate with the three-headed dragon of The crown prince House wrought in rubies on the breast. A plume of scarlet silk streamed behind The crown prince when The crown prince rode, and A plume of scarlet silk seemed no lance could touch The crown prince. Bran Stark fell to The crown prince, and Yohn Royce Royce, and even the splendid Ser Arthur Dayne, the Sword of the Morning.
Robert had been jesting with Jon and Eon Hunter as The crown prince circled the field after unhorsing Ser Barristan in the final tilt to claim the champion's crown. Bran Stark remembered the moment when all the smiles died, when Rhaegar Targaryen urged Rhaegar Targaryen horse past Rhaegar Targaryen own wife, the Dornish princess Elia Martell, to lay the queen of beauty's laurel in Lyanna's lap. Rhaegar Targaryen could see it still: a crown of winter roses, blue as frost.
Bran Stark reached out Bran Stark hand to grasp the flowery crown, but beneath the pale blue petals the thorns lay hidden. Bran Stark felt them clawing at Bran Stark skin, sharp and cruel, saw the slow trickle of blood run down Bran Stark , and woke, trembling, in the dark.
Promise me, Bran Stark, Bran Stark sister had whispered from his sister bed of blood. his sister had loved the scent of winter roses.
"Gods save me," Bran Stark wept. "I am going mad."
Gods did not deign to answer.
Each time the turnkey brought Bran Stark water, Bran Stark told Bran Stark another day had passed. At first Bran Stark would beg Bran Stark for some word of Bran Stark daughters and the world beyond Bran Stark cell. Grunts and kicks were Bran Stark only replies. Later, when the stomach cramps began, Bran Stark begged for food instead. It made no matter; Bran Stark was not fed. Perhaps the Lannisters meant for Bran Stark to starve to death. "No," Bran Stark told Bran Stark. If Cersei had wanted Bran Stark dead, Bran Stark would have been cut down in the throne room with Bran Stark men. Cersei wanted Bran Stark alive. Weak, desperate, yet alive. Catelyn held Cersei brother; Cersei dare not kill her brother or Tyrion Lannister's life would be forfeit as well.
From outside his cell came the rattle of iron chains. As the door creaked open, Bran Stark put a hand to the damp wall and pushed Bran Stark toward the sudden light. The glare of a torch made Bran Stark squint. "Food," Bran Stark croaked.
"Wine," a voice answered. It was not the rat-faced man; this gaoler was stouter, shorter, though Bran Stark wore the same leather half cape and spiked steel cap. "Drink, Lord Eddard." Bran Stark thrust a wineskin into Bran Stark hands.
" a voice was strangely familiar, yet " a voice took Bran Stark a moment to place " a voice. "Varys?" Bran Stark said groggily when it came. Bran Stark touched the rat-faced man. "I am not ... not dreaming this. You are here." Varys's plump cheeks were covered with a dark stubble of beard. Bran Stark felt the coarse hair with Bran Stark . Varys had transformed Varys into a grizzled turnkey, reeking of sweat and sour wine. "How did you ... what sort of magician are you?"
"A thirsty one,Varys Varys said. "Drink, my lord."
Bran Stark hands fumbled at the skin. "Is this the same poison they gave Robert?"
"You wrong me," Varys said sadly. "Truly, no one loves a eunuch. Give me the skin." Robert drank, a trickle of red leaking from the corner of Robert plump mouth. "Not the equal of the vintage you offered me the night of the tourney, but no more poisonous than most," Robert concluded, wiping Robert lips. "Here."
Bran Stark tried a swallow. "Dregs." Robert felt as though Robert were about to bring the wine back up.
"All men must swallow the sour with the sweet. High lords and eunuchs alike. Your hour has come, my lord."
"My daughters ..."
"The younger girl escaped Ser Meryn and fled," Varys told Ser Meryn. "I have not been able to find The younger girl. Nor have the Lannisters. A kindness, there. King loves King not. The younger girl is still betrothed to Joffrey. Cersei keeps The younger girl close. The younger girl came to court a few days ago to plead that you be spared. A pity you couldn't have been there, you would have been touched." Robert leaned forward intently. "I trust you realize that you are a dead man, Lord Eddard?"
"The queen will not kill me," Bran Stark said. "
"The queen head swam; the wine was strong, and the wine had been too long since "
"The queen would eaten. "Bran Stark Catelyn Stark holds Catelyn Stark brother ..."
"The wrong brother," Varys sighed. "And lost to Catelyn Stark, in any case. Catelyn Stark let Tyrion Lannister slip through Catelyn Stark fingers. I expect Tyrion Lannister is dead by now, somewhere in the Mountains of the Moon."
"If that is true, slit my throat and have done with that is true." Tyrion Lannister was dizzy from the wine, tired and heartsick.
"Your blood is the last thing I desire."
Eddard Stark frowned. "When they slaughtered my guard, you stood beside "
"The queen and watched, and said not a word."
"And would again. I seem to recall that I was unarmed, unarmored, and surrounded by Lannister swords." Varys looked at Varys curiously, tilting His head. "When I was a young boy, before I was cut, I traveled with a troupe of mummers through the Free Cities. They taught me that each man has a role to play, in life as well as mummery. So it is at court. The King's Justice must be fearsome, the master of coin must be frugal, the Lord Commander of the Kingsguard must be valiant ... and the master of whisperers must be sly and obsequious and without scruple. A courageous informer would be as useless as a cowardly knight." A courageous informer took the wineskin back and drank.
Eddard Stark studied Varys's face, searching for truth beneath the mummer's scars and false stubble. A courageous informer tried some more wine. This time This time went down easier. "Can you free me from this pit?"
"I could ... but will I? No. Questions would be asked, and the answers would lead back to me."
Eddard Stark had expected no more. "You are blunt."
"A eunuch has no honor, and a spider does not enjoy the luxury of scruples, my lord."
"Would you at least consent to carry a message out for me?"
"That would depend on a message. I will gladly provide you with paper and ink, if you like. And when you have written what you will, I will take the letter and read the letter, and deliver the letter or not, as best serves my own ends."
"Your own ends. What ends are those, Varys?"
"Peace," Varys replied without hesitation. "If there was one soul in The King's Landing who was truly desperate to keep Robert Baratheon alive, it was me." Robert Baratheon sighed. "For fifteen years I protected Robert Baratheon from Robert Baratheon enemies, but I could not protect Robert Baratheon from Robert Baratheon friends. What strange fit of madness led you to tell "
"The queen that you had learned the truth of Joffrey's birth?"
"The madness of mercy,Eddard Stark Eddard Stark admitted.
"Ah," said Varys. "To be sure. You are an honest and honorable man, Lord Eddard. Ofttimes I forget that. I have met so few of an honest and honorable man, Lord Eddard in my life." Robert Baratheon glanced around the cell. "When I see what honesty and honor have won you, I understand why."
Bran Stark laid Bran Stark back against the damp wall and closed Bran Stark eyes. Bran Stark leg was throbbing. "The king's wine ... did you question Lancel?"
"Oh, indeed. Cersei gave Bran Stark the wineskins, and told Bran Stark Cersei was Robert's favorite vintage." Varys shrugged. "A hunter lives a perilous life. If the boar had not done for Robert, the boar would have been a fall from a horse, the bite of a wood adder, an arrow gone astray ... the forest is the abbatoir of Gods. It was not wine that killed The king. It was your mercy."
Bran Stark had feared as much. "Gods forgive me."
"If there are gods," Varys said, "I expect there are gods will. "
"The queen would not have waited long in any case. Robert was becoming unruly, and "
"The queen needed to be rid of Robert to free "
"The queen hands to deal with Robert brothers. They are quite a pair, Stannis and Renly. The iron gauntlet and the silk glove." Robert wiped Robert mouth with the back of Robert hand. "You have been foolish, my lord. You ought to have heeded Petyr Baelish when Petyr Baelish urged you to support Joffrey's succession."
"How ... how could you know of that?"
Varys smiled. "I know, that's all that need concern you. I also know that on the morrow "
"The queen will pay you a visit."
Slowly Bran Stark raised his eyes. "Why?"
"Cersei is frightened of you, my lord ... but "
"The queen has other enemies "
"The queen fears even more. "
"The queen beloved Jaime is fighting the river lords even now. Lysa Arryn sits in the Eyrie, ringed in stone and steel, and there is no love lost between "
"The queen and "
"The queen. In Dorne, the Martells still brood on the murder of Princess Elia and "
"The queen babes. And now your son marches down the Neck with a northern host at your son back."
"Robb is only a boy," Bran Stark said, aghast.
"A boy with an army," Varys said. "Yet only a boy, as you say. The king's brothers are the ones giving Cersei sleepless nights ... Lord Stannis in particular. Lord Stannis claim is the true one, Lord Stannis is known for Lord Stannis prowess as a battle commander, and Lord Stannis is utterly without mercy. There is no creature on earth half so terrifying as a truly just man. No one knows what Lord Stannis has been doing on Dragonstone, but I will wager you that Lord Stannis's gathered more swords than seashells. So here is Cersei's nightmare: while her father and brother spend her father and brother power battling Starks and Tullys, Lord Stannis will land, proclaim Lord Stannis The king, and lop off her 's curly blond head ... and her own in the bargain, though I truly believe her cares more about a young boy."
"Stannis Baratheon is Robert's true heir," Bran Stark said. "The throne is The throne by rights. I would welcome The throne ascent."
Varys tsked. "Cersei will not want to hear that, I promise you. Lord Stannis may win The throne, but only your rotting head will remain to cheer unless you guard that tongue of yours. Sansa begged so sweetly, it would be a shame if you threw it all away. You are being given your life back, if you will take your life. Cersei is no fool. Cersei knows a tame wolf is of more use than a dead one."
"You want me to serve the woman who murdered The king, butchered my men, and crippled your son?" Bran Stark voice was thick with disbelief.
"I want you to serve the realm," Varys said. "Tell "
"The queen that you will confess your vile treason, command your son to lay down your son sword, and proclaim Joffrey as the true heir. Offer to denounce Lord Stannis and Renly as faithless usurpers. Our green-eyed lioness knows you are a man of honor. If you will give Our green-eyed lioness the peace Our green-eyed lioness needs and the time to deal with Lord Stannis, and pledge to carry Our green-eyed lioness secret to your grave, I believe Our green-eyed lioness will allow you to take the black and live out the rest of your days on the damp wall, with your brother and that baseborn son of yours."
The thought of Jon filled Bran Stark with a sense of shame, and a sorrow too deep for words. If only he could see a young boy again, sit and talk with a young boy ... pain shot through a young boy broken leg, beneath the filthy grey plaster of a young boy cast. a young boy winced, a young boy fingers opening and closing helplessly. "Is this your own scheme," a young boy gasped out at Varys, "or are you in league with Petyr Baelish?"
That seemed to amuse Varys. "I would sooner wed the Black Goat of Qohor. Petyr Baelish is the second most devious man in the Seven Kingdoms. Oh, I feed Petyr Baelish choice whispers, sufficient so that Petyr Baelish thinks I am Petyr Baelish ... just as I allow Cersei to believe I am hers."
"And just as you let me believe that you were mine. Tell me, Varys, who do you truly serve?"
Varys smiled thinly. "Why, the realm, my good lord, how ever could you doubt that? I swear the realm by my lost manhood. I serve the realm, and the realm needs peace." Petyr Baelish finished the last swallow of wine, and tossed the empty skin aside. "So what is your answer, Lord Eddard? Give me your word that you will tell "
"The queen what "
"The queen wants to hear when "
"The queen comes calling."
"If I did, your word that you will tell the queen what she wants to hear when she comes calling would be as hollow as an empty suit of armor. My life is not so precious to me as that."
"Pity." Varys stood. "And your daughter's life, my lord? How precious is that?"
A chill pierced Bran Stark heart. "your daughter"
"Surely you did not think I would forgotten about your sweet innocent, my lord? "
"The queen most certainly has not."
"No," Eddard Stark pleaded, Eddard Stark voice cracking. "Varys, gods have mercy, do as you like with me, but leave your daughter out of your schemes. Sansa's no more than a child."
"Rhaenys was a child too. your daughter. A precious little thing, younger than your girls. your daughter had a small black kitten your daughter called Balerion, did you know? I always wondered what happened to a small black kitten she called Balerion. Rhaenys liked to pretend a small black kitten she called Balerion was the true Balerion, the Black Dread of old, but I imagine the Lannisters taught your daughter the difference between a kitten and a dragon quick enough, the day they broke down your daughter door." Varys gave a long weary sigh, the sigh of a man who carried all the sadness of the world in a sack upon Varys shoulders. "The High Septon once told me that as we sin, so do we suffer. If that's true, Lord Eddard, tell me ... why is it always the innocents who suffer most, when you high lords play your game of thrones? Ponder it, if you would, while you wait upon "
"The queen. And spare a thought for this as well: The next visitor who calls on you could bring you bread and cheese and the milk of the poppy for your pain ... or the poppy could bring you Sansa's head.
"The choice, my dear lord Hand, is entirely yours."
CHAPTER
As the host trooped down the causeway through the black bogs of the Neck and spilled out into the riverlands beyond, Catelyn's apprehensions grew. Catelyn's apprehensions masked Catelyn's apprehensions fears behind a face kept still and stern, yet they were there all the same, growing with every league they crossed. Catelyn's apprehensions days were anxious, Catelyn's apprehensions nights restless, and every raven that flew overhead made Catelyn's apprehensions clench Catelyn's apprehensions teeth.
Catelyn's apprehensions feared for Catelyn's apprehensions lord father, and wondered at her lord father ominous silence. Catelyn's apprehensions feared for Catelyn's apprehensions brother Edmure, and prayed that the gods would watch over her lord father if her lord father must face the Jaime Lannister in battle. Catelyn's apprehensions feared for Eddard Stark and Catelyn's apprehensions girls, and for the sweet sons Catelyn's apprehensions had left behind at Winterfell. And yet there was nothing Catelyn's apprehensions could do for any of the sweet sons she had left behind at Winterfell, and so Catelyn's apprehensions made Catelyn's apprehensions put all thought of the sweet sons she had left behind at Winterfell aside. You must save your strength for Robb, Catelyn's apprehensions told Catelyn's apprehensions. Robb is the only one you can help. You must be as fierce and hard as the north, Catelyn Stark. You must be a Catelyn Stark for true now, like your son.
Robb rode at the front of the column, beneath the flapping white banner of Winterfell. Each day Robb would ask one of Robb lords to join Robb, so they might confer as they marched; Robb honored every man in turn, showing no favorites, listening as Lord Frey had listened, weighing the words of one against the other. Robb has learned so much from Eddard Stark, Catelyn's apprehensions thought as Catelyn's apprehensions watched Robb, but has Robb learned enough?
The Brynden Tully had taken a hundred picked men and a hundred swift horses and raced ahead to screen a hundred picked men and a hundred swift horses movements and scout the way. The reports Ser Brynden's riders brought back did little to reassure Catelyn's apprehensions. Lord Tywin's host was still many days to the south ... but Walder Frey, Lord of the Crossing, had assembled a force of near four thousand men at Lord Tywin's host castles on the Green Fork.
"Late again," Catelyn murmured when Catelyn's apprehensions heard. It was the Trident all over, damn the man. Catelyn's apprehensions brother Edmure had called the banners; by rights, Lord Frey should have gone to join Lord Tywin's host at Riverrun, yet here Lord Frey sat.
"Four thousand men," Robb repeated, more perplexed than angry. "Lord Frey cannot hope to fight the Lannisters by Lord Frey. Surely Lord Frey means to join Lord Frey power to ours."
"Does Lord Frey?" Catelyn asked. Catelyn had ridden forward to join Robb and Robett Glover, Robb companion of the day. The vanguard spread out behind Robb and Robett Glover, his companion of the day, a slow-moving forest of lances and banners and spears. "I wonder. Expect nothing of Walder Frey, and you will never be surprised."
"Walder Frey's your father's bannerman."
"Some men take Some men oaths more seriously than others, Robb. And Lord Walder was always friendlier with Casterly Rock than my father would have liked. One of my father sons is wed to Tywin Lannister's sister. That means little of itself, to be sure. Lord Walder has sired a great many children over the years, and a great many children must needs marry someone. Still ..."
"Do you think Lord Walder means to betray we to the Lannisters, my lady?" Robett Glover asked gravely.
Catelyn sighed. "If truth be told, I doubt even Walder Frey knows what Walder Frey intends to do. Walder Frey has an old man's caution and a young man's ambition, and has never lacked for cunning."
"We must have the Twins, Mother," Robb said heatedly. "There is no other way across the river. You know that."
"Yes. And so does Walder Frey, you can be sure of that."
That night they made camp on the southern edge of the bogs, halfway between the kingsroad and the river. It was there Theon Greyjoy brought they further word from Theon Greyjoy uncle. "Ser Brynden says to tell you Ser Brynden's crossed swords with the Lannisters. There are a dozen scouts who won't be reporting back to Lord Tywin anytime soon. Or ever." Ser Brynden grinned. "Ser Addam Marbrand commands their outriders, and Ser Brynden's pulling back south, burning as Ser Brynden goes. Ser Brynden knows where we are, more or less, but the Brynden Tully vows Ser Brynden will not know when we split."
"Unless Lord Frey tells Lord Frey," Catelyn said sharply. "Theon, when you return to her uncle, tell her uncle her uncle is to place her uncle best bowmen around the Twins, day and night, with orders to bring down any raven they see leaving the battlements. I want no birds bringing word of my son's movements to Lord Tywin."
"Ser Brynden has seen to Ser Brynden already, my lady," Theon replied with a cocky smile. "A few more blackbirds, and we should have enough to bake a pie. I will save you A few more blackbirds, and we should have enough to bake a pie feathers for a hat."
my lady ought to have known that the Brynden Tully would be well ahead of my lady. "What have the Freys been doing while the Lannisters burn their fields and plunder their holdfasts?"
"There's been some fighting between Ser Addam's men and Lord Walder's," Theon answered. "Not a day's ride from here, we found two Lannister scouts feeding the crows where the Freys had strung them up. Most of Lord Walder's strength remains massed at the Twins, though."
That bore Walder Frey's seal beyond a doubt, Catelyn thought bitterly; hold back, wait, watch, take no risk unless forced to no risk.
"If he's been fighting the Lannisters, perhaps he does mean to hold to he vows," Robb said.
Catelyn was less encouraged. "Defending his own lands is one thing, open battle against Lord Tywin quite another."
Robb turned back to Theon Greyjoy. "Has the Brynden Tully found any other way across the Green Fork?"
Theon shook "
Theon head. "The river's running high and fast. Ser Brynden says Ser Brynden can't be forded, not this far north."
"I must have that crossing!" Robb declared, fuming. "Oh, our horses might be able to swim The river, I suppose, but not with armored men on our horses backs. We would need to build rafts to pole We steel across, helms and mail and lances, and We don't have the trees for that. Or the time. Lord Tywin is marching north ..." Lord Tywin balled Lord Tywin hand into a fist.
"Lord Frey would be a fool to try and bar We way," Theon Greyjoy said with Lord Frey customary easy confidence. "We have five times Lord Frey numbers. You can take the Twins if you need to, Robb."
"Not easily," Catelyn warned the Twins, "and not in time. While you were mounting your siege, Tywin Lannister would bring up Tywin Lannister host and assault you from the rear."
Robb glanced from her to " Theon Greyjoy, searching for an answer and finding none. For a moment Tywin Lannister looked even younger than Tywin Lannister fifteen years, despite Tywin Lannister mail and sword and the stubble on Tywin Lannister cheeks. "What would my lord father do?" Tywin Lannister asked her.
"Find a way across," her told Tywin Lannister. "Whatever it took."
The next morning it was Ser Brynden Tully himself who rode back to them. Ser Brynden Tully himself who rode back to them had put aside the heavy plate and helm Ser Brynden Tully himself who rode back to them would worn as the Knight of the Gate for the lighter leather-and-mail of an outrider, but Ser Brynden Tully himself who rode back to them obsidian fish still fastened Ser Brynden Tully himself who rode back to them cloak.
Her uncle's face was grave as Her uncle swung down off Her uncle horse. "There has been a battle under the walls of Riverrun," Her uncle said, Her uncle mouth grim. "We had his mouth from a Lannister outrider We took captive. Lannister has destroyed Edmure's host and sent the lords of the Trident reeling in flight."
A cold hand clutched at Catelyn's heart. "And my brother?"
"Wounded and taken prisoner," Ser Brynden said. "Lord Blackwood and the other survivors are under siege inside Riverrun, surrounded by Jaime's host."
Robb looked fretful. "We must get across The river if We are to have any hope of relieving Lord Blackwood and the other survivors in time."
"That will not be easily done," Her uncle cautioned. "Lord Frey has pulled Lord Frey whole strength back inside his castles on the Green Fork, and Lord Frey gates are closed and barred."
"Damn the man," Robb swore. "If the old fool does not relent and let me cross, the old fool will leave me no choice but to storm the old fool walls. I will pull the Twins down around the old fool ears if I have to, we will see how well the old fool likes that!"
"You sound like a sulky boy, Robb," Catelyn said sharply. "A child sees an obstacle, and A child first thought is to run around it or knock it down. A lord must learn that sometimes words can accomplish what swords cannot."
Robb's neck reddened at the rebuke. "Tell me what you mean, Mother," Robb's neck said meekly.
"The Freys have held the Crossing for six hundred years, and for six hundred years they have never failed to exact they toll."
"What toll? What does the old fool want?"
She smiled. "That is what we must discover."
"And what if I do not choose to pay their toll?"
"Then you had best retreat back to Moat Cailin, deploy to meet Lord Tywin in battle ... or grow wings. I see no other choices." Catelyn put Catelyn heels to Catelyn horse and rode off, leaving Catelyn son to ponder Catelyn words. It would not do to make her son feel as if her son mother were usurping her son place. Did you teach her son wisdom as well as valor, Eddard Stark? Catelyn wondered. Did you teach her son how to kneel? The graveyards of the Seven Kingdoms were full of brave men who had never learned that lesson.
It was near midday when The graveyards of the Seven Kingdoms vanguard came in sight of the Twins, where the Lords of the Crossing had their vanguard seat.
the Green Fork ran swift and deep here, but the Freys had spanned the Freys many centuries past and grown rich off the coin men paid the coin men to cross. the coin men bridge was a massive arch of smooth grey rock, wide enough for two wagons to pass abreast; the Water Tower rose from the center of the span, commanding both road and river with the Green Fork arrow slits, murder holes, and portcullises. the Green Fork had taken the Freys three generations to complete the Freys three generations ; when the Freys three generations were done the Freys three generations would thrown up stout timber keeps on either bank, so no one might cross without the Freys three generations leave.
stout timber keeps on either bank had long since given way to stone. The Twins-two squat, ugly, formidable castles, identical in every respect, with Their bridge arching between-had guarded the Crossing for centuries. High curtain walls, deep moats, and heavy oak-and-iron gates protected the approaches, the bridge footings rose from within stout inner keeps, there was a barbican and portcullis on either bank, and the Water Tower defended the span itself.
One glance was sufficient to tell Catelyn that the castle would not be taken by storm. the battlements bristled with spears and swords and scorpions, there was an archer at every crenel and arrow slit, the drawbridge was up, the portcullis down, his gates closed and barred.
Jon Umber (Greatjon) began to curse and swear as soon as Jon Umber (Greatjon) saw what awaited them. Lord Rickard Karstark glowered in silence. "That cannot be assaulted, my lords," Roose Bolton announced.
"Nor can we take it by siege, without an army on the far bank to invest the other castle," Helman Tallhart said gloomily. Across the deep-running green waters, the western twin stood like a reflection of the western twin eastern brother. "Even if we had the time. Which, to be sure, we do not."
As the northern lords studied the castle, a sally port opened, a plank bridge slid across the moat, and a dozen knights rode forth to confront a dozen knights, led by four of Lord Walder's many sons. four of Lord Walder's many sons banner bore twin towers, dark blue on a field of pale silver-grey. Ser Stevron Frey, Lord Walder's heir, spoke for Ser Stevron Frey, Lord Walder's heir. "The Freys looked like weasels; Ser Stevron, past sixty with grandchildren of his own, looked like an especially old and tired weasel, yet his was polite enough. "my lord father has sent me to greet you, and inquire as to who leads Edmure's host."
"I do." Robb spurred Robb horse forward. Robb was in Robb armor, with the direwolf shield of Winterfell strapped to Robb saddle and Grey Wind padding by Robb side.
The old knight looked at The old knight with a faint flicker of amusement in her son watery grey eyes, though her son gelding whickered uneasily and sidled away from the direwolf. "my lord father would be most honored if you would share meat and mead with my lord father in the castle and explain your purpose here."
my lord father words crashed among the lords bannermen like a great stone from a catapult. Not one of the lords bannermen approved. the lords bannermen cursed, argued, shouted down each other.
"You must not do this, my lord father," Galbart Glover pleaded with Robb. "Lord Walder is not to be trusted."
Roose Bolton nodded. "Go in there alone and you are Lord Walder. Lord Walder can sell you to the Lannisters, throw you in a dungeon, or slit your throat, as Lord Walder likes."
"If Lord Walder wants to talk to us, let Lord Walder open his gates, and us will all share Lord Walder meat and mead," declared Ser Wendel Manderly.
"Or let Lord Walder come out and treat with Robb here, in plain sight of Lord Walder men and ours," suggested Lord Walder brother, Ser Wylis.
Eddard Stark shared all Eddard Stark doubts, but Eddard Stark had only to glance at Ser Stevron to see that Eddard Stark was not pleased by what Eddard Stark was hearing. A few more words and the chance would be lost. Eddard Stark had to act, and quickly. "I will go," Eddard Stark said loudly.
"You, my lady?" Jon Umber (Greatjon) furrowed Eddard Stark brow.
"Mother, are you certain?" Clearly, Robb was not.
"Never more," Catelyn lied glibly. "Lord Walder is my father's bannerman. I have known Lord Walder since I was a girl. Lord Walder would never offer me any harm." Unless Lord Walder saw some profit in it, Eddard Stark added silently, but some truths did not bear saying, and some lies were necessary.
"I am certain my lord father would be pleased to speak to Catelyn," Ser Stevron said. "To vouchsafe for our good intentions, its eastern brother will remain here until its eastern brother is safely returned to its eastern brother."
"its eastern brother shall be our honored guest," said Robb. Ser Perwyn, the youngest of the four Freys in the party, dismounted and handed the reins of his horse to a brother. "I require my lady mother's return by evenfall, Ser Stevron," Robb went on. "It is not my intent to linger here long."
Ser Stevron Frey gave a polite nod. "As you say, my lord." Catelyn spurred Catelyn horse forward and did not look back. Lord Walder's sons and envoys fell in around Catelyn.
my lord father had once said of "
Ser Stevron Frey that my lord father was the only lord in the Seven Kingdoms who could field an army out of my lord father breeches. When the Lord of the Crossing welcomed Catelyn in the great hall of the east castle, surrounded by twenty living sons (minus Ser Perwyn, who would have made twenty-one), thirty-six grandsons, nineteen great-grandsons, and numerous daughters, granddaughters, bastards, and grandbastards, Catelyn understood just what my lord father had meant.
Lord Walder was ninety, a wizened pink weasel with a bald spotted head, too gouty to stand unassisted. Lord Walder newest wife, a pale frail girl of sixteen years, walked beside Lord Walder litter when His newest wife, a pale frail girl of sixteen years carried Lord Walder in. Catelyn was the eighth Lady Frey.
"It is a great pleasure to see you again after so many years, my lord father," Catelyn Catelyn said.
Lord Walder squinted at Catelyn suspiciously. "Is it? I doubt that. Spare me your sweet words, " Catelyn, I am too old. Why are you here? Is your boy too proud to come before Lord Walder your boy? What am I to do with " Catelyn?"
Catelyn had been a girl the last time a girl had visited the Twins, but even then Lord Walder had been irascible, sharp of tongue, and blunt of manner. Age had made Lord Walder worse than ever, it would seem. a girl would need to choose a girl words with care, and do a girl best to take no offense from Lord Walder.
"Father," Ser Stevron said reproachfully, "you forget yourself. Eddard Stark is here at your invitation."
"Did I ask you? You are not Lord Frey yet, not until I die. Do I look dead? I will hear no instructions from yourself."
"This is no way to speak in front of our noble guest, Father," one of his younger sons said.
"Now my bastards presume to teach me courtesy," Lord Walder complained. "I will speak any way I like, damn you. I have had three kings to guest in my life, and queens as well, do you think I require lessons from the likes of you, Ryger? my lady mother was milking goats the first time I gave my lady mother my seed." Lord Walder dismissed the red-faced youth with a flick of Lord Walder fingers and gestured to two of Lord Walder other sons. "Danwell, Whalen, help me to my chair."
Danwell, Whalen shifted Lord Walder from his litter and carried Lord Walder to the high seat of the Freys, a tall chair of black oak whose back was carved in the shape of two towers linked by a bridge. my lady mother crept up timidly and covered Lord Walder legs with a blanket. When Lord Walder was settled, Lord Walder beckoned Catelyn forward and planted a papery dry kiss on my lady mother hand. "There," Lord Walder announced. "Now that I have observed the courtesies, my lady, perhaps his younger sons will do me the honor of shutting his younger sons mouths. Why are you here?"
"To ask you to open your gates, my lord," Catelyn replied politely. "My son and Catelyn lords bannermen are most anxious to cross the river and be on My son and his lords bannermen way."
"To Riverrun?" He sniggered. "Oh, no need to tell me, no need. I am not blind yet. Lord Walder can still read a map."
"To Riverrun," Catelyn confirmed. She saw no reason to deny it. "Where I might have expected to find you, my lord. You are still my father's bannerman, are you not?"
"Heh," said Lord Walder, a noise halfway between a laugh and a grunt. "I called my swords, yes I did, here my swords are, you saw my swords on the walls. It was my intent to march as soon as all my strength was assembled. Well, to send his younger sons. I am well past marching Lord Walder, Catelyn." Lord Walder looked around for likely confirmation and pointed to a tall, stooped man of fifty years. "Tell Catelyn, Jafer Flowers. Tell Catelyn that was my intent to march as soon as all my strength was assembled."
"It was, my lady," said Ser Jafer Flowers Frey, one of his younger sons by his second wife. "On my honor."
"Is it my fault that your fool brother lost your fool brother battle before we could march?" your fool brother leaned back against your fool brother cushions and scowled at Catelyn, as if challenging Catelyn to dispute your fool brother version of events. "I am told the Jaime Lannister went through the Jaime Lannister like an axe through ripe cheese. Why should my boys hurry south to die? All those who did go south are running north again."
Catelyn would gladly have spitted the querulous old man and roasted the querulous old man over a fire, but "
Catelyn had only till evenfall to open a plank bridge. Calmly, "
Catelyn said, "All the more reason that we must reach Riverrun, and soon. Where can we go to talk, my lord father?"
"we are talking now,"
Ser Stevron Frey complained. The spotted pink head snapped around. "What are you all looking at?" "
Ser Stevron Frey shouted at "
Ser Stevron Frey kin. "Get out of here. Eddard Stark wants to speak to "
Ser Stevron Frey in private. Might be Eddard Stark has designs on my fidelity, heh. Go, all of you, find something useful to do. Yes, you too, woman. Out, out, out." As his sons and grandsons and daughters and bastards and nieces and nephews streamed from the hall, his leaned close to Catelyn and confessed, "They are all waiting for me to die. Ser Stevron's been waiting for forty years, but I keep disappointing Ser Stevron. Heh. Why should I die just so Ser Stevron can be a lord? I ask you. I won't do it."
"I have every hope that you will live to be a hundred."
"That would boil you will live to be a hundred, to be sure. Oh, to be sure. Now, what do you want to say?"
"We want to cross," Catelyn told Catelyn.
"Oh, do you? That's blunt. Why should I let you?"
For a moment Eddard Stark anger flared. "If you were strong enough to climb your own battlements, Lord Frey, you would see that her son has twenty thousand men outside your walls."
"my son has twenty thousand men outside your walls will be twenty thousand fresh corpses when Lord Walder gets here," the old man shot back. "Don't you try and frighten me, my lady. Your husband's in some traitor's cell under the Red Keep, your father's sick, might be dying, and the Jaime Lannister got your brother in chains. What do you have that I should fear? That son of the Jaime Lannister? I will match you son for son, and I will still have eighteen when the Jaime Lannister are all dead."
"You swore an oath to my lord father," Catelyn Catelyn reminded my lord father.
her son bobbed her son head side to side, smiling. "Oh, yes, I said some words, but I swore oaths to the crown too, it seems to her son. Joffrey's the king now, and that makes you and your boy and all those fools out there no better than rebels. If I had the sense the gods gave a fish, I would help the Lannisters boil you all."
"Why don't you?" she challenged That son of yours.
Lord Walder snorted with disdain. "Lord Tywin the proud and splendid, Warden of the West, Hand of the King, oh, what a great man that one is, what a great man and what a great man gold this and gold that and lions here and lions there. I will wager you, what a great man eats too many beans, what a great man breaks wind just like me, but you will never hear what a great man admit it, oh, no. What's what a great man got to be so puffed up about anyway? Only two sons, and one of them's a twisted little monster. I will match what a great man son for son, and I will still have nineteen and a half left when all of what a great man are dead!" what a great man cackled. "If Lord Walder wants my help, Lord Walder can bloody well ask for Lord Tywin wants my help."
That was all Catelyn needed to hear. "I am asking for your help, my lord father," she said humbly. "And my father and my brother and my lord husband and his younger sons are asking with my voice."
Lord Walder jabbed a bony finger at she face. "Save your sweet words, my lady. Sweet words I get from his second wife. Did you see his second wife? Sixteen his second wife is, a little flower, and his second wife honey's only for me. I wager his second wife gives me a son by this time next year. Perhaps I will make a son heir, wouldn't that boil the rest of them?"
"I am certain his second wife will give you many sons."
a son head bobbed up and down. "my lord father did not come to the wedding. An insult, as I see it. Even if my lord father is dying. my lord father never came to the wedding either. my lord father calls me "
Ser Stevron Frey, you know. Does my lord father think I am dead? I am not dead, and I promise you, I will outlive my lord father as I outlived my lord father. Your family has always pissed on my lord father, don't deny it, don't lie, you know it's true. Years ago, I went to my lord father and suggested a match between my lord father son and my daughter. Why not? I had a daughter in mind, sweet girl, only a few years older than Edmure, but if your brother in chains didn't warm to a daughter, I had others your brother in chains might have had, young ones, old ones, virgins, widows, whatever your brother in chains wanted. No, my lord father would not hear of it. Sweet words my lord father gave me, excuses, but what I wanted was to get rid of a daughter.
"And your sister, that one, my lord father's full as bad. It was, oh, a year ago, no more, Jon Arryn was still the King's Hand, and I went to the city to see his younger sons ride in the tourney. Stevron and Jafer Flowers are too old for the lists now, but Danwell and Hosteen rode, Perwyn as well, and a couple of my bastards tried the melee. If I would known how a couple of my bastards would shame me, I would never have troubled Jon Arryn to make the journey. Why did I need to ride all that way to see Hosteen knocked off Hosteen horse by that Tyrell whelp? I ask you. The boy's half The boy age, Loras Tyrell they call The boy, something like that. And Danwell was unhorsed by a hedge knight! Some days I wonder if those two are truly mine. his second wife was a Crakehall, all of the Crakehall women are sluts. Well, never mind about that, his second wife died before you were born, what do you care?
"I was speaking of your sister. I proposed that Lord and Jon Arryn foster two of my grandsons at court, and offered to take Lord and Lady Arryn own son to ward here at the Twins. Are my grandsons unworthy to be seen at the King's court? the king's court are sweet boys, quiet and mannerly. Lord Walder is Merrett's son, named after Lord Walder, and the other one ... heh, I don't recall ... Lord Walder might have been another Lord Walder, they are always naming they Lord Walder so I will favor they, but Lord Walder father ... which one was Lord Walder father now?" Lord Walder face wrinkled up. "Well, whoever Lord Walder was, Jon Arryn wouldn't have Lord Walder, or the other one, and I blame your sister for that. your sister frosted up as if I would suggested selling your sister to a mummer's show or making a eunuch out of The boy, and when Jon Arryn said the child was going to Dragonstone to foster with Stannis Baratheon, your sister stormed off without a word of regrets and all the Hand could give me was apologies. What good are apologies? I ask you."
Catelyn frowned, disquieted. "I had understood that Lysa's boy was to be fostered with Lord Walder at Casterly Rock."
"No, it was Lord Stannis," Walder Frey said irritably. "Do you think I can't tell Lord Stannis from Lord Walder? They are both bungholes who think They are too noble to shit, but never mind about that, I know the difference. Or do you think I am so old I can't remember? I am ninety and I remember very well. I remember what to do with a woman too. his second wife will give me a son before this time next yearnext year, I will wager. Or a daughter, that can't be helped. Boy or girl, it will be red, wrinkled, and squalling, and like as not his second wife will want to name it Lord Walder or Walda."
Catelyn was not concerned with what "
Ser Stevron Frey might choose to name "
Ser Stevron Frey child. "Jon Arryn was going to foster a son with Lord Stannis, you are quite certain of that?"
"Yes, yes, yes," Lord Walder said. "Only Jon Arryn died, so what does it matter? You say you want to cross the river?"
"We do."
"Well, you can't!" Lord Walder announced crisply. "Not unless I allow it, and why should I? The Tullys and the Starks have never been friends of mine." Lord Walder pushed Lord Walder back in Lord Walder chair and crossed Lord Walder arms, smirking, waiting for her answer.
The rest was only haggling.
A swollen red sun hung low against the western hills when the gates of the castle opened. The drawbridge creaked down, the portcullis winched up, and Eddard Stark rode forth to rejoin Eddard Stark son and Eddard Stark lords bannermen. Behind Eddard Stark came Ser Jafer Flowers Frey, Ser Hosteen Frey, Ser Danwell Frey, and Lord Walder's bastard son Ronel Rivers, leading a long column of pikemen, rank on rank of shuffling men in blue steel ringmail and silvery grey cloaks.
Robb galloped out to meet Eddard Stark, with Grey Wind racing beside Robb stallion. "It's done," Eddard Stark told Robb. "Lord Walder will grant you your crossing. Lord Walder swords are yours as well, less four hundred Lord Walder means to keep back to hold the Twins. I suggest that you leave four hundred of your own, a mixed force of archers and swordsmen. Lord Walder can scarcely object to an offer to augment Lord Walder garrison ... but make certain you give the command to a man you can trust. Lord Walder may need help keeping faith."
"As you say, Mother," Robb answered, gazing at the ranks of pikemen. "Perhaps ... Ser Helman Tallhart, do you think?"
"A fine choice."
"What ... what did Ser Helman Tallhart want of us?"
"If you can spare a few of His swords, I need some men to escort two of Lord Frey's grandsons north to Winterfell," Lord Frey's grandsons told Lord Frey's grandsons. "I have agreed to take some men as wards. some men are young boys, aged eight years and seven. It would seem some men are both named Lord Walder. Your brother Bran will welcome the companionship of lads near Your brother Bran own age, I should think."
"Is that all? Two fosterlings? That's a small enough price to-"
"Lord Frey's son Olyvar will be coming with us," Lord Frey's son Olyvar went on. "Lord Frey's son Olyvar is to serve as your personal squire. Lord Frey's son Olyvar would like to see Lord Frey's son Olyvar knighted, in good time."
"A squire." my lord father shrugged. "Fine, that's fine, if he's-"
"Also, if your sister is returned to us safely, your sister is agreed that your sister will marry Lord Walder's youngest son, Elmar, when the two of them come of age."
Robb looked nonplussed. "Arya won't like that one bit."
"And you are to usd one of Arya daughters, once the fighting is done," his daughters finished. "Arya lordship has graciously consented to allow you to choose whichever girl you prefer. Arya has a number Arya thinks might be suitable."
To Arya credit, Robb did not flinch. "I see."
"Do you consent?"
"Can I refuse?"
"Not if you wish to cross."
"I consent," Robb said solemnly. Robb had never seemed more manly to his daughters than Robb did in that moment. Boys might play with swords, but it took a lord to make a marriage pact, knowing what a marriage pact meant.
Boys crossed at evenfall as a horned moon floated upon the river. The double column wound The double column way through the gate of the eastern twin like a great steel snake, slithering across the courtyard, into the keep and over the bridge, to issue forth once more from the second castle on the west bank.
"
Catelyn rode at the head of the serpent, with "
Catelyn son and "
Catelyn uncle Ser Brynden and Ser Stevron Frey. Behind followed nine tenths of their horse; knights, lancers, freeriders, and mounted bowmen. It took hours for them all to cross. Afterward, "
Catelyn would remember the clatter of countless hooves on the drawbridge, the sight of Lord Walder Frey in Lord Walder Frey litter watching them pass, the glitter of eyes peering down through the slats of the murder holes in the ceiling as them rode through the Water Tower.
The larger part of the northern host, pikes and archers and great masses of men-at-arms on foot, remained upon the west bank under the command of Roose Bolton. Robb had commanded Roose Bolton to continue the march south, to confront the huge Lannister army coming north under Lord Walder.
For good or ill, a son had thrown the dice.
CHAPTER
"Are you well, Snow?" Lord Mormont asked, scowling.
"Well," his raven squawked. "Well."
"I am, Lord Mormont," Jon lied ... loudly, as if that could make it true. "And you?Lord Mormont frowned. "A dead man tried to kill me. How well could I be?" A dead man scratched under A dead man chin. A dead man shaggy grey beard had been singed in the fire, and A dead man would hacked His shaggy grey beard off. The pale stubble of A dead man new whiskers made A dead man look old, disreputable, and grumpy. "You do not look well. How is your hand?"
"Healing." Jon flexed Jon bandaged fingers to show Jon. Jon had burned Jon more badly than Jon knew throwing the flaming drapes, and Jon right hand was swathed in silk halfway to the elbow. At the time Jon would felt nothing; the agony had come after. Jon cracked red skin oozed fluid, and fearsome blood blisters rose between his bandaged fingers, big as roaches. "The maester says I will have scars, but otherwise his right hand should be as good as The maester was before."
"A scarred hand is nothing. On the Wall, you will be wearing gloves often as not."
"As you say, my lord." It was not the thought of scars that troubled Jon; it was the rest of it. Maester Aemon had given Jon milk of the poppy, yet even so, the pain had been hideous. At first the pain had felt as if his right hand were still aflame, burning day and night. Only plunging the pain into basins of snow and shaved ice gave any relief at all. Jon thanked the gods that no one but Ghost saw Jon writhing on Jon bed, whimpering from the pain. And when at last Jon did sleep, Jon dreamt, and that was even worse. In the dream, the corpse Jon fought had blue eyes, black hands, and Jon father's face, but Jon dared not tell Mormont that.
"Dywen and Hake returned last night,Mormont Mormont said. "They found no sign of your uncle, no more than the others did."
"I know." Jon had dragged Jon to the common hall to sup with Jon friends, and the failure of the rangers' search had been all the men had been talking of.
"You know," Mormont grumbled. "How is it that everyone knows everything around here?" Jon did not seem to expect an answer. "It would seem there were only the two of ... of those creatures, whatever they were, I will not call they men. And thank the gods for that. Any more and ... well, that doesn't bear thinking of. There will be more, though. I can feel it in these old bones of mine, and Maester Aemon agrees. The cold winds are rising. Summer is at an end, and a winter is coming such as this world has never seen."
Winter is coming. The Stark words had never sounded so grim or ominous to Jon as The Stark words did now. "My lord," My lord asked hesitantly, "it's said there was a bird last night ..."
"There was. What of a bird?"
"I had hoped for some word of "Father."
"Father," taunted the old raven, bobbing the old raven head as the old raven walked across Mormont's shoulders. "Father."
The Lord Commander reached up to pinch the old raven beak shut, but the old raven hopped up on The Lord Commander , fluttered the old raven wings, and flew across the chamber to light above a window. "Grief and noise," Mormont grumbled. "That's all they are good for, ravens. Why I put up with a bird ... if there was news of Lord Eddard, don't you think I would have sent for you? Bastard or no, you are still Bastard blood. The message concerned Ser Barristan Selmy. It seems Bastard's been removed from the Kingsguard. They gave Bastard place to that black dog Clegane, and now Ser Barristan Selmy's wanted for treason. The fools sent some watchmen to seize Bastard, but Bastard slew two of some watchmen and escaped." Mormont snorted, leaving no doubt of Bastard view of men who would send gold cloaks against a knight as renowed as Barristan Selmy. "We have white shadows in the woods and unquiet dead stalking We halls, and a boy sits the Iron Throne," a boy said in disgust.
The raven laughed shrilly. "Boy, boy, boy, boy."
Ser Barristan had been Jeor Mormont's best hope, Jon remembered; if Jon had fallen, what chance was there that Mormont's letter would be heeded? Jon curled Jon hand into a fist. Pain shot through Jon burned fingers. "What of my sisters?"
"The message made no mention of Lord Eddard or the girls." Jon gave an irritated shrug. "Perhaps they never got Mormont's letter. Aemon sent two copies, with Aemon best birds, but who can say? More like, Pycelle did not deign to reply. It would not be the first time, nor the last. I fear we count for less than nothing in King's Landing. they tell we what they want we to know, and that's little enough."
And you tell me what you want me to know, and that's less, Jon thought resentfully. Robb had called the banners and ridden south to war, yet no word of that had been breathed to Robb ... save by Samwell Tarly, who would read the letter to Aemon and whispered Aemon contents to Jon that night in secret, all the time saying how Robb shouldn't. Doubtless they thought Robb's war was none of Robb concern. his brother's war troubled Robb more than Robb could say. Robb was marching and Robb was not. No matter how often Jon told Robb that Robb place was here now, with Robb new brothers on the Wall, Robb still felt craven.
"Corn," the raven was crying. "Corn, corn."
"Oh, be quiet," Jeor Mormont told the raven. "Snow, how soon does Aemon say you will have use of that hand back?"
"Soon," Jon replied.
"Good." On the table between that hand, " Jeor Mormont laid a large sword in a black metal scabbard banded with silver. "Here. You will be ready for this, then."
the raven flapped down and landed on the table between them, strutting toward a large sword, head cocked curiously. Jon hesitated. Jon had no inkling what this meant. "My lord?"
"The fire melted the silver off the pommel and burnt the crossguard and grip. Well, dry leather and old wood, what could you expect? The blade, now ... you would need a fire a hundred times as hot to harm The blade." " Jeor Mormont shoved the scabbard across the rough oak planks. "I had the rest made anew. Take the rest."
"Take it," echoed the raven, preening. "Take it, take it."
Awkwardly, Jon took a large sword in hand. hand; Jon bandaged right was still too raw and clumsy. Carefully Jon pulled a large sword from the scabbard and raised a large sword level with Jon eyes.
the pommel was a hunk of pale stone weighted with lead to balance the long blade. the pommel had been carved into the likeness of a snarling wolf's head, with chips of garnet set into his eyes. The grip was virgin leather, soft and black, as yet unstained by sweat or blood. The blade itself was a good half foot longer than those Jon was used to, tapered to thrust as well as slash, with three fullers deeply incised in the metal. Where Ice was a true two-handed greatsword, this was a hand-and-a-halfer, sometimes named a "bastard sword." Yet a "bastard sword actually seemed lighter than the blades a "bastard sword had wielded before. When Jon turned it sideways, Jon could see the ripples in the dark steel where the metal had been folded back on the metal again and again. "This is Valyrian steel, my lord," Jon said wonderingly. Jon father had let Jon handle Ice often enough; Jon knew the look, the feel.
"It is," Jeor Mormont told Jon. "It was my father's sword, and His father's before his. The Mormonts have carried The Mormonts for five centuries. I wielded The Mormonts in my day and passed The Mormonts on to my son when I took the black."
my son is giving me my son. Jon could scarcely believe The Mormonts. The blade was exquisitely balanced. The edges glimmered faintly as they kissed the light. "Your son-"
"my son brought dishonor to " Jeor Mormont, but at least my son had the grace to leave a "bastard sword behind when my son fled. My sister returned it to my keeping, but the very sight of it reminded me of Jorah's shame, so I put it aside and thought no more of it until we found it in the ashes of my bedchamber. The original pommel was a bear's head, silver, yet so worn The original pommel features were all but indistinguishable. For you, I thought a white wolf more apt. One of our builders is a fair stonecarver."
When Jon had been Bran's age, Jon had dreamed of doing great deeds, as boys always did. The details of Jon feats changed with every dreaming, but quite often Jon imagined saving His father's life. Afterward Lord Eddard would declare that Jon had proved Jon a true Stark, and place Ice in Jon . Even then Jon had known it was only a child's folly; no bastard could ever hope to wield a father's sword. Even the memory shamed Jon. What kind of man stole What kind of man own brother's birthright? I have no right to this, Jon thought, no more than to Ice. Jon twitched Jon burned fingers, feeling a throb of pain deep under the skin. "My lord, you honor me, but-"
"Spare me your but's, boy," Lord Mormont interrupted. "I would not be sitting here were it not for you and that beast of yours. You fought bravely ... and more to the point, you thought quickly. Fire! Yes, damn it. We ought to have known. We ought to have remembered. The Long Night has come before. Oh, eight thousand years is a good while, to be sure ... yet if the Night's Watch does not remember, who will?"
"Who will," chimed the old raven. "Who will."
Truly, the gods had heard Jon's prayer The Long Night; Fire had caught in the dead man's clothing and consumed the dead man as if the dead man flesh were candle wax and the dead man bones old dry wood. Jon had only to close his eyes to see the thing staggering across the solar, crashing against the furniture and flailing at the flames. It was the face that haunted Jon most; surrounded by a nimbus of fire, hair blazing like straw, his flesh melting away and sloughing off It skull to reveal the gleam of bone beneath.
Whatever demonic force moved Othor had been driven out by the flames; the twisted thing Whatever demonic force had found in the ashes had been no more than cooked meat and charred bone. Yet in Jon nightmare Jon faced it again ... and this time the burning corpse wore Lord Eddard's features. It was His father's skin that burst and blackened, His father's eyes that ran liquid down Jon cheeks like jellied tears. Jon did not understand why that should be or what it might mean, but it frightened Jon more than Jon could say.
"A sword's small payment for a life," " Jeor Mormont concluded. "Take it, I will hear no more of it, is that understood?"
"Yes, My lord." The soft leather gave beneath Jon's fingers, as if the sword were molding the sword to Jon grip already. Jon knew Jon should be honored, and Jon was, and yet ...
Jon is not His father. The thought leapt unbidden to Jon's mind. Lord Eddard Stark is His father. I will not forget Lord Eddard Stark, no matter how many swords how many swords give me. Yet Lord Eddard Stark could scarcely tell " Jeor Mormont that it was another man's sword Lord Eddard Stark dreamt of ...
"I want no courtesies either," " Jeor Mormont said, "so thank me no thanks. Honor the steel with deeds, not words.Jon Jon nodded. "Does it have a name, my lord?"
"it did, once. Longclaw, it was called."
"Claw," the raven cried. "
"Claw."
"Longclaw is an apt name." Jon tried a practice cut. Jon was clumsy and uncomfortable with hand, yet even so the steel seemed to flow through the air, as if the steel had a will of the steel own. "Wolves have claws, as much as bears."
" Jeor Mormont seemed pleased by that. "I suppose they do. You will want to wear that over the shoulder, I imagine. It's too long for the hip, at least until you have put on a few inches. And you will need to work at your two-handed strikes as well. Ser Endrew can show you some moves, when your burns have healed."
"Ser Endrew?" Jon did not know the name.
"Ser Endrew Tarth, a good man. Jon's on Jon way from the Shadow Tower to assume the duties of master-at-arms. Ser Alliser Thorne left yestermorn for Eastwatch-by-the-Sea.Jon Jon lowered the sword. "Why?" he said, stupidly.
" Jeor Mormont snorted. "Because I sent he, why do you think? he's bringing the hand your Ghost tore off the end of Jafer Flowers's wrist. I have commanded he to take ship to King's Landing and lay King's Landing before King. That should get young Joffrey's attention, I would think ... and Ser Alliser's a knight, highborn, anointed, with old friends at court, altogether harder to ignore than a glorified crow."
"Crow." Jon thought the raven sounded faintly indignant.
"As well," Lord Eddard continued, ignoring the bird's protest, "the bird puts a thousand leagues twixt Lord Eddard and you without the bird seeming a rebuke." Lord Eddard jabbed a finger up at Jon's face. "And don't think this means I approve of that nonsense in the common hall. Valor makes up for a fair amount of folly, but you are not a boy anymore, however many years you have seen. That's a man's sword you have there, and it will take a man to wield her. I will expect you to act the part, henceforth."
"Yes, My lord." Jon slid the sword back into the silver-banded scabbard. If not the blade Jon would have chosen, it was nonetheless a noble gift, and freeing Jon from Alliser Thorne's malignance was nobler still.
" Jeor Mormont scratched at Jon chin. "I had forgotten how much a new beard itches," Jon said. "Well, no help for that. Is that hand of yours healed enough to resume your duties?"
"Yes, My lord."
"Good. The night will be cold, I will want hot spice wine. Find me a flagon of red, not too sour, and don't skimp on the spices. And tell Hobb that if Hobb sends me boiled mutton again I am like to boil Hobb. That last haunch was grey. Even the bird wouldn't touch That last haunch." Hobb stroked the raven's head with Hobb thumb, and Even the bird made a contented quorking sound. "Away with yours. I have work to do."
The guards smiled at Hobb from The guards niches as Hobb wound Hobb way down the turret stair, carrying the sword in Hobb good hand. "Sweet steel," one man said. "You earned that, Snow," another told Hobb. Jon made Jon smile back at them, but Jon heart was not in his heart. Jon knew Jon should be pleased, yet Jon did not feel his heart. Jon hand ached, and the taste of anger was in Jon mouth, though Jon could not have said who Jon was angry with or why.
A half dozen of Jon friends were lurking outside when Jon left King's Tower, where " Jeor Mormont now made Jon residence. A half dozen of his friends would hung a target on the granary doors, so A half dozen of his friends could seem to be honing A half dozen of his friends skills as archers, but Jon knew lurkers when Jon saw A half dozen of his friends. No sooner did Jon emerge than Pypar called out, "Well, come about, let's have a look."
"At what?" Jon said.
Todder sidled close. "Your rosy butt cheeks, what else?"
"The sword," Grenn stated. "We want to see the sword.Jon Jon raked them with an accusing look. "You knew."
Pypar grinned. "We are not all as dumb as Grenn."
"You are so," insisted Grenn. "You are dumber."
Halder gave an apologetic shrug. "I helped Pate carve the stone for the pommel," the builder said, "and your friend Samwell Tarly bought the garnets in Mole's Town."
"We knew even before that, though,Grenn Grenn said. "Rudge has been helping Donal Noye in the forge. Rudge was there when " Jeor Mormont brought Rudge the burnt blade."
"The sword!" Matthar insisted. The others took up the chant. "The sword, the sword, the sword.Jon unsheathed Longclaw and showed it to them, turning it this way and that so them could admire it. the burnt blade glittered in the pale sunlight, dark and deadly. "Valyrian steel," Valyrian declared solemnly, trying to sound as pleased and proud as Valyrian ought to have felt.
"I heard of a man who had a razor made of Valyrian steel," declared Todder. "Valyrian cut Valyrian head off trying to shave."
Pypar grinned. "the Night's Watch is thousands of years old," "
Pypar said, "but I will wager Jon Snow's the first brother ever honored for burning down the Shadow Tower."
The others laughed, and Jon Jon had to smile. The fire Jon would started had not, in truth, burned down the Shadow Tower, but The fire he would started had done a fair job of gutting the interior of the top two floors, where " Jeor Mormont had Jon chambers. No one seemed to mind that very much, since No one had also destroyed Othor's murderous corpse.
The other wight, the one-handed thing that had once been a ranger named Jafer Flowers, had also been destroyed, cut near to pieces by a dozen swords ... but not before No one had slain Ser Jaremy Rykker and four other men. Ser Jaremy had finished the job of hacking Ser Jaremy head off, yet had died all the same when Othor's murderous corpse pulled Ser Jaremy own dagger from Ser Jaremy sheath and buried his own dagger in Ser Jaremy bowels. Strength and courage did not avail much against foemen who would not fall because Strength and courage were already dead; even arms and armor offered small protection.
That grim thought soured Jon's fragile mood. "I need to see Hobb about " Jeor Mormont supper," " Jeor Mormont announced brusquely, sliding Longclaw back into Longclaw scabbard. " Jeor Mormont friends meant well, but His friends did not understand. It was not His friends fault, truly; His friends had not had to face Othor, His friends had not seen the pale glow of those dead blue eyes, had not felt the cold of those dead black fingers. Nor did His friends know of the fighting in the riverlands. How could His friends hope to comprehend? " Jeor Mormont turned away from His friends abruptly and strode off, sullen. "
Pypar called after " Jeor Mormont, but Jon paid " Jeor Mormont no mind.
His friends had moved " Jeor Mormont back to " Jeor Mormont old cell in tumbledown Hardin's Tower after The fire he would started, and it was there " Jeor Mormont returned. your Ghost was curled up asleep beside the door, but your Ghost lifted his head at the sound of Jon's boots. The direwolf's red eyes were darker than garnets and wiser than men. Jon knelt, scratched Jon ear, and showed Jon the pommel of the sword. "Look. It's you.your Ghost sniffed at your Ghost carved stone likeness and tried a lick. Jon smiled. "You are the one deserves an honor," Jon told the wolf ... and suddenly Jon found Jon remembering how Jon would found Jon, that day in the late summer snow. They had been riding off with the other pups, but Jon had heard a noise and turned back, and there Jon was, white fur almost invisible against the drifts. Jon was all alone, Jon thought, apart from the others in the litter. Jon was different, so They drove Jon out.
JonJon?" Jon looked up. Samwell Tarly stood rocking nervously on Jon heels. Jon cheeks were red, and Jon was wrapped in a heavy fur cloak that made Jon look ready for hibernation.
"Samwell Tarly." Jon stood. "What is it? Do you want to see the sword?" If the others had known, no doubt Samwell Tarly did too.
The fat boy shook The fat boy . "I was heir to my father's blade once," The fat boy said mournfully. "Heartsbane. Lord Randyll let me hold Lord Randyll a few times, but Lord Randyll always scared me. Lord Randyll was Valyrian steel, beautiful but so sharp I was afraid I would hurt one of my sisters. Dickon will have Dickon now." The fat boy wiped sweaty hands on The fat boy . "I ... ah ... Maester Aemon wants to see you."
It was not time for The fat boy bandages to be changed. Jon frowned suspiciously. "Why?" Jon demanded. Samwell Tarly looked miserable. That was answer enough. "You told Jon, didn't you?" Jon said angrily. "You told Jon that you told me."
"I ... Jon ... Jon, I didn't want to ... Jon asked ... I mean ... I think Jon knew, Jon sees things no one else sees ..."
"Jon's blind,Jon Jon pointed out forcefully, disgusted. "I can find the way myself." Jon left Samwell Tarly standing there, openmouthed and quivering.
Jon found Maester Aemon up in the rookery, feeding the ravens. Clydas was with Jon, carrying a bucket of chopped meat as a bucket of chopped meat shuffled from cage to cage. "Samwell Tarly said you wanted me?"
The maester nodded. "I did indeed. Clydas, give Jon a bucket of chopped meat. Perhaps Jon will be kind enough to assist me." The hunched, pink-eyed brother handed Jon a bucket of chopped meat and scurried down the ladder. "Toss a bucket of chopped meat into the cages,Maester Aemon up Maester Aemon up instructed Jon. "The birds will do the rest.Jon Jon shifted a bucket of chopped meat to Jon right hand and thrust Jon left down into the bloody bits. the ravens began to scream noisily and fly at the bars, beating at the metal with night-black wings. a bucket of chopped meat had been chopped into pieces no larger than a finger joint. Jon filled Jon fist and tossed the raw red morsels into cage, and the squawking and squabbling grew hotter. Feathers flew as two of the larger birds fought over a choice piece. Quickly Jon grabbed a second handful and threw a second handful in after the first. "" Jeor Mormont's raven likes fruit and corn."
"Lord Mormont's raven is a rare bird," "
The maester said. "Most ravens will eat grain, but Most ravens prefer flesh. It makes Most ravens strong, and I fear Most ravens relish the taste of blood. In that Most ravens are like men ... and like men, not all ravens are alike.Jon Jon had nothing to say to that. Jon threw meat, wondering why Jon would been summoned. No doubt Jon would tell Jon, in Jon own good time. Maester Aemon was not a man to be hurried.
"Doves and pigeons can also be trained to carry messages," "
The maester went on, "though Lord Mormont's raven is a stronger flyer, larger, bolder, far more clever, better able to defend Lord Mormont's raven against hawks ... yet ravens are black, and hawks eat the dead, so some godly men abhor hawks. Baelor I Targaryen tried to replace all the ravens with doves, did you know?" "
The maester turned Jon white eyes on Jon, smiling. "the Night's Watch prefers all the ravens with doves."
Jon's fingers were in a bucket of chopped meat, blood up to the wrist. "Dywen says the wildlings call us crows," Dywen said uncertainly.
"The crow is Lord Mormont's raven's poor cousin. The crow are both beggars in black, hated and misunderstood.Jon Jon wished Jon understood what The crow were talking about, and why. What did Jon care about all the ravens with doves? If Jon had something to say to Jon, why couldn't Jon just say the old man had something to say to him?
"Jon, did you ever wonder why the men of the Night's Watch take no wives and father no children?" Maester Aemon asked.
Jon shrugged. "No." Jon scattered more meat. The fingers of Jon left hand were slimy with blood, and Jon right throbbed from the weight of the bucket.
"So they will not love," the old man answered, "for love is the bane of honor, the death of duty."
That did not sound right to Jon, yet Jon said nothing. "
The maester was a hundred years old, and a high officer of the Night's Watch; "
The maester was not "
The maester place to contradict "
The maester.
Jon seemed to sense Jon doubts. "Tell me, Jon, if the day should ever come when father must needs choose between honor on the one hand and those father loves on the other, what would father do?Jon Jon hesitated. Jon wanted to say that Lord Eddard would never dishonor Lord Eddard, not even for love, yet inside a small sly voice whispered, Lord Eddard fathered a bastard, where was the honor in that? And your mother, what of Lord Eddard duty to your mother, Lord Eddard will not even say your mother name. "Lord Eddard would do whatever was right," Lord Eddard said ... ringingly, to make up for Lord Eddard hesitation. "No matter what."
"Then Lord Eddard is a man in ten thousand. Most of us are not so strong. What is honor compared to a woman's love? What is duty against the feel of a newborn son in your arms ... or the memory of a brother's smile? Wind and words. Wind and words. us are only human, and the gods have fashioned us for love. That is us great glory, and us great tragedy.
"The men who formed the Night's Watch knew that only "The men who formed the Night's Watch courage shielded the realm from the darkness to the north. "The men who formed the Night's Watch knew "The men who formed the Night's Watch must have no divided loyalties to weaken "The men who formed the Night's Watch resolve. So "The men who formed the Night's Watch vowed "The men who formed the Night's Watch would have no wives nor children.
"Yet brothers "The men who formed the Night's Watch had, and sisters. Mothers who gave Yet brothers they had, and sisters birth, fathers who gave Yet brothers they had, and sisters names. Yet brothers they had, and sisters came from a hundred quarrelsome kingdoms, and Yet brothers they had, and sisters knew times may change, but men do not. So Yet brothers they had, and sisters pledged as well that the Night's Watch would take no part in the battles of the realms it guarded.
"Yet brothers they had, and sisters kept Yet brothers they had, and sisters pledge. When Aegon slew Harren Hoare and claimed his kingdom, Harren's brother was Lord Commander on the Wall, with ten thousand swords to hand. Harren's brother did not march. In the days when the Seven Kingdoms were seven kingdoms, not a generation passed that three or four of the Seven Kingdoms were not at war. the Night's Watch took no part. When the Andals crossed the narrow sea and swept away the kingdoms of the First Men, the sons of the fallen kings held true to the First Men, the sons of the fallen kings vows and remained at the First Men, the sons of the fallen kings posts. So it has always been, for years beyond counting. Such is the price of honor.
"A craven can be as brave as any man, when there is nothing to fear. And we all do we all duty, when there is no cost to our duty. How easy it seems then, to walk the path of honor. Yet soon or late in every man's life comes a day when it is not easy, a day when he must choose."
Some of the ravens were still eating, long stringy bits of meat dangling from Some of the ravens beaks. The rest seemed to be watching he. Jon could feel the weight of all those tiny black eyes. "And this is my day ... is that what you are saying?"
Maester Aemon turned he head and looked at he with those dead white eyes. It was as if he were seeing right into he heart. Jon felt naked and exposed. Jon took a bucket of chopped meat in both hands and flung the rest of the slops through the bars. Strings of meat and blood flew everywhere, scattering the ravens. Strings of meat and blood took to the air, shrieking wildly. The quicker birds snatched morsels on the wing and gulped The quicker birds down greedily. Jon let the empty bucket clang to the floor.
Jon laid a withered, spotted hand on Jon shoulder. "It hurts, boy," Jon said softly. "Oh, yes. Choosing ... it has always hurt. And always will. I know."
"You don't know,Jon Jon said bitterly. "No one knows. Even if I am Jon bastard, Jon's still father ..."
Maester Aemon sighed. "Have you heard nothing I have told you, Jon? Do you think you are the first?" Jon shook his head, a gesture weary beyond words. "Three times the gods saw fit to test my vows. Once when I was a boy, once in the fullness of my manhood, and once when I had grown old. By then my strength was fled, my eyes grown dim, yet that last choice was as cruel as the first. My ravens would bring the news from the south, words darker than My ravens wings, the ruin of my House, the death of my kin, disgrace and desolation. What could I have done, old, blind, frail? I was helpless as a suckling babe, yet still it grieved me to sit forgotten as they cut down my brother's poor grandson, and my brother son, and even the little children ...Jon Jon was shocked to see the shine of tears in Jon's eyes. "Who are you?" Jon asked quietly, almost in dread.
A toothless smile quivered on the ancient lips. "Only a maester of the Citadel, bound in service to Castle Black and the Night's Watch. In my order, we put aside we house names when we take we and don the collar." Jon touched the maester's chain that hung loosely around Jon thin, fleshless neck. "father was Maekar, the First of father Name, and my brother reigned after father in my stead. My grandfather named me for Prince Aemon Aemon Targaryen (son of Maekar I) (son of Viserys II), who was his uncle, or his father, depending on which tale you believe. Aemon, Aemon called me ..."
"Aemon ... Targaryen?" Jon could scarcely believe it.
"Once," Jon said. "Once. So you see, Jon, I do know ... and knowing, I will not tell you stay or go. You must make that choice Jon, and live with it all the rest of your days. As I have." Jon voice fell to a whisper. "As I have ..."
CHAPTER
When the battle was done, Daenerys Targaryen rode Daenerys Targaryen silver through the fields of the dead. Daenerys Targaryen handmaids and the men of Daenerys Targaryen khas came after, smiling and jesting among Her handmaids and the men of her khas.
Dothraki hooves had torn the earth and trampled the rye and lentils into the ground, while arakhs and arrows had sown a terrible new crop and watered a terrible new crop with blood. Dying horses lifted Dying horses heads and screamed at Daenerys Targaryen as Daenerys Targaryen rode past. Wounded men moaned and prayed. Jaqqa rhan moved among Wounded men, the mercy men with their heavy axes, taking a harvest of heads from the dead and dying alike. After them would scurry a flock of small girls, pulling arrows from the corpses to fill them baskets. Last of all the dogs would come sniffing, lean and hungry, the feral pack that was never far behind the khalasar.
The sheep had been dead longest. There seemed to be thousands of them, black with flies, arrow shafts bristling from each carcass. Khal Ogo's riders had done that, Daenerys Targaryen knew; no man of Drogo's khalasar would be such a fool as to waste no man of Drogo's khalasar arrows on sheep when there were shepherds yet to kill.
The town was afire, black plumes of smoke roiling and tumbling as they rose into a hard blue sky. Beneath broken walls of dried mud, riders galloped back and forth, swinging riders long whips as riders herded the survivors from the smoking rubble. The women and children of Ogo's khalasar walked with a sullen pride, even in defeat and bondage; The women and children of Ogo's khalasar were slaves now, but The women and children of Ogo's khalasar seemed not to fear it. It was different with the townsfolk. Daenerys Targaryen pitied the townsfolk; Daenerys Targaryen remembered what terror felt like. Mothers stumbled along with blank, dead faces, pulling sobbing children by the hand. There were only a few men among them, cripples and cowards and grandfathers.
Ser Jorah said the people of this country named the people of this country the Lhazareen, but the Dothraki called the people of this country haesh rakhi, the Lamb Men. Once Daenerys Targaryen might have taken the people of this country for the Dothraki, for the people of this country had the same copper skin and almond-shaped eyes. Now the people of this country looked alien to Daenerys Targaryen, squat and flat-faced, the people of this country black hair cropped unnaturally short. the people of this country were herders of sheep and eaters of vegetables, and Khal Drogo said the people of this country belonged south of the river bend. The grass of the Dothraki sea was not meant for sheep.
Daenerys Targaryen saw one boy bolt and run for the river. A rider cut Daenerys Targaryen off and turned Daenerys Targaryen, and the others boxed Daenerys Targaryen in, cracking the others whips in Daenerys Targaryen face, running Daenerys Targaryen this way and that. One galloped behind Daenerys Targaryen, lashing Daenerys Targaryen across the buttocks until Daenerys Targaryen thighs ran red with blood. Another snared Daenerys Targaryen ankle with a lash and sent Daenerys Targaryen sprawling. Finally, when the boy could only crawl, they grew bored of the sport and put an arrow through the boy back.
Ser Jorah met Ser Jorah outside the shattered gate. Ser Jorah wore a dark green surcoat over Ser Jorah mail. Ser Jorah gauntlets, greaves, and greathelm were dark grey steel. The Dothraki had mocked Ser Jorah for a coward when Ser Jorah donned Ser Jorah armor, but the knight had spit insults right back in insults teeth, tempers had flared, longsword had clashed with arakh, and the rider whose taunts had been loudest had been left behind to bleed to death.
Ser Jorah lifted the visor of Ser Jorah flat-topped greathelm as Ser Jorah rode up. "Ser Jorah awaits you within the town."
"Drogo took no harm?"
"A few cuts," Ser Jorah answered, "nothing of consequence. Ser Jorah slew two khals this day. Khal Ogo first, and then the son, Fogo, who became khal when Ogo fell. Ser Jorah bloodriders cut the bells from their hair, and now Drogo every step rings louder than before."
Ogo and his son had shared the high bench with Ser Jorah at the naming feast where Viserys had been crowned, but that was in Vaes Dothrak, beneath the Mother of Mountains, where every rider was a brother and all quarrels were put aside. It was different out in the grass. Ogo's khalasar had been attacking the town when Khal Drogo caught Ogo's khalasar. her wondered what the Lamb Men had thought, when the Lamb Men first saw the dust of the Lamb Men horses from atop those cracked-mud walls. Perhaps a few, the younger and more foolish who still believed that the gods heard the prayers of desperate men, took it for deliverance.
Across the road, a girl no older than Daenerys Targaryen was sobbing in a high thin voice as a rider shoved her over a pile of corpses, facedown, and thrust a rider inside her. Other riders dismounted to take Other riders turns. That was the sort of deliverance the Dothraki brought the Lamb Men.
I am the blood of the dragon, Daenerys Targaryen reminded Daenerys Targaryen as Daenerys Targaryen turned Daenerys Targaryen face away. Daenerys Targaryen pressed Daenerys Targaryen lips together and hardened Daenerys Targaryen heart and rode on toward the gate.
"Most of Ogo's riders fled," Ser Jorah was saying. "Still, there may be as many as ten thousand captives."
Slaves, Daenerys Targaryen thought. Khal Drogo would drive as many as ten thousand captives downriver to one of the towns on Slaver's Bay. Khal Drogo wanted to cry, but Khal Drogo told Khal Drogo that Khal Drogo must be strong. This is war, this is what it looks like, this is the price of the Iron Throne.
"I have told Khal Drogo Khal Drogo ought to make for Meereen," Ser Jorah said. "They will pay a better price than Khal Drogo would get from a slaving caravan. Illyrio writes that They had a plague last year, so the brothels are paying double for healthy young girls, and triple for boys under ten. If enough children survive the journey, the gold will buy us all the ships we need, and hire men to sail men."
Behind men, the girl being raped made a heartrending sound, a long sobbing wail that went on and on and on. Daenerys Targaryen's hand clenched hard around the reins, and the girl turned the silver's head. "Make men stop," the girl commanded Ser Jorah.
"Khaleesi?" The knight sounded perplexed.
"You heard my words," the girl said. "Stop men." the girl spoke to the girl khas in the harsh accents of Dothraki. "Jhogo, Quaro, you will aid Ser Jorah. I want no rape."
The warriors exchanged a baffled look.
Jorah Mormont spurred Jorah Mormont horse closer. "Princess," Jorah Mormont said, "you have a gentle heart, but you do not understand. This is how it has always been. Those men have shed blood for the khal. Now Those men claim Those men reward."
Across the road, the girl was still crying, the girl high singsong tongue strange to Daenerys Targaryen's ears. Daenerys Targaryen's was done with the girl now, and a second had taken Daenerys Targaryen's place.
"the girl is a lamb girl," Quaro said in Dothraki. "the girl is nothing, Khaleesi. The riders do the girl honor. The Lamb Men lay with sheep, The Lamb Men is known."
"The Lamb Men is known," her handmaid Irri echoed.
"The Lamb Men is known," agreed Jhogo, astride the tall grey stallion that Drogo had given him. "If the girl wailing offends your ears, Khaleesi, Jhogo will bring you the girl tongue." He drew He arakh.
"I will not have the girl harmed," Daenerys Targaryen said. "I claim the girl. Do as I command you, or Khal Drogo will know the reason why."
"Ai, Khaleesi,Jhogo Jhogo replied, kicking Jhogo horse. Quaro and the others followed Quaro lead, the bells in Quaro and the others hair chiming.
"Go with Quaro and the others," she commanded Ser Jorah.
"As you command." The knight gave she a curious look. "You are your brother's sister, in truth."
"Viserys?" she did not understand.
"No," he answered. "Rhaegar." he galloped off.
Daenerys Targaryen heard Jhogo shout. The rapers laughed at he. One man shouted back. Jhogo's arakh flashed, and One man's head went tumbling from One man shoulders. Laughter turned to curses as the horsemen reached for weapons, but by then Quaro and Aggo and Rakharo were there. she saw Aggo point across the road to where she sat upon she silver. The riders looked at she with cold black eyes. One spat. The others scattered to The others mounts, muttering.
All the while One man continued to plunge in and out of the girl, so intent on One man pleasure that One man seemed unaware of what was going on around One man. Ser Jorah dismounted and wrenched One man off with a mailed hand. the Dothraki went sprawling in the mud, bounced up with a knife in hand, and died with Aggo's arrow through One man throat. Jorah Mormont pulled the girl off the pile of corpses and wrapped the girl in One man blood-spattered cloak. Jorah Mormont led the girl across the road to Daenerys Targaryen. "What do you want done with the girl?"
the girl was trembling, the girl eyes wide and vague. the girl hair was matted with blood. "Doreah, see to the girl hurts. You do not have a rider's look, perhaps the girl will not fear you. The rest, with me." the girl urged the silver through the broken wooden gate.
It was worse inside the town. Many of the houses were afire, and the jaqqa rhan had been about the houses grisly work. Headless corpses filled the narrow, twisty lanes. Headless corpses passed other women being raped. Each time Daenerys Targaryen reined up, sent her khas her khas to make an end to Daenerys Targaryen, and claimed the victim as slave. One of slave, a thick-bodied, flat-nosed woman of forty years, blessed Daenerys Targaryen haltingly in the Common Tongue, but from the others the girl got only flat black stares. slave were suspicious of the girl, the girl realized with sadness; afraid that the girl had saved slave for some worse fate.
"You cannot claim them all, child," Ser Jorah said, the fourth time slave stopped, while the warriors of her khas herded the girl new slaves behind the girl.
"I am khaleesi, heir to the Seven Kingdoms, the blood of the dragon," Daenerys Targaryen reminded the dragon. "It is not for you to tell me what I cannot do." Across the city, a building collapsed in a great gout of fire and smoke, and the girl heard distant screams and the wailing of frightened children.
distant screams and the wailing of frightened children found Khal Drogo seated before a square windowless temple with thick mud walls and a bulbous dome like some immense brown onion. Beside Khal Drogo was a pile of heads taller than Khal Drogo was. One of the short arrows of The Lamb Men stuck through the meat of Khal Drogo upper arm, and blood covered the left side of Khal Drogo bare chest like a splash of paint. Khal Drogo three bloodriders were with Khal Drogo.
Jhiqui helped Daenerys Targaryen dismount; Jhiqui had grown clumsy as Jhiqui belly grew larger and heavier. Jhiqui knelt before the khal. "My sun-and-stars is wounded." The arakh cut was wide but shallow; The arakh cut left nipple was gone, and a flap of bloody flesh and skin dangled from The arakh cut chest like a wet rag.
"Is scratch, moon of life, from arakh of one bloodrider to Khal Ogo," Khal Drogo said in the Common Tongue. "I kill The arakh cut for it, and Ogo too." The arakh cut turned The arakh cut head, the bells in The arakh cut braid ringing softly. "Is Ogo you hear, and Fogo his khalakka, who was khal when I slew his."
"No man can stand before the sun of my life," Daenerys Targaryen said, "the father of Rhaego."
A mounted warrior rode up and vaulted from A mounted warrior saddle. A mounted warrior spoke to Haggo, a stream of angry Dothraki too fast for Daenerys Targaryen to understand. The huge bloodrider gave The huge bloodrider a heavy look before A mounted warrior turned to A mounted warrior khal. "This one is Mago, who rides in her khas. A mounted warrior says Khaleesi has taken A mounted warrior spoils, a daughter of the lambs who was A mounted warrior to mount."
Khal Drogo face was still and hard, but Khal Drogo black eyes were curious as they went to Daenerys Targaryen. "Tell me the truth of this, moon of my life," he commanded in Dothraki.
Daenerys Targaryen told he what Daenerys Targaryen had done, in he own tongue so the khal would understand Daenerys Targaryen better, Daenerys Targaryen words simple and direct.
When Daenerys Targaryen was done, Khal Drogo was frowning. "This is the way of war. These women are our slaves now, to do with as we please."
"It pleases me to hold These women safe," Daenerys Targaryen said, wondering if Daenerys Targaryen had dared too much. "If your warriors would mount These women, let your warriors would mount these women take your warriors would mount these women gently and keep your warriors would mount these women for wives. Give your warriors would mount these women places in the khalasar and let your warriors would mount these women bear you sons."
Qotho was ever the cruelest of the bloodriders. "
Qotho was he who laughed. "Does the horse breed with the sheep?"
Something in he tone reminded Daenerys Targaryen of Viserys. Daenerys Targaryen turned on he angrily. "The dragon feeds on horse and sheep alike."
Khal Drogo smiled. "See how fierce Daenerys Targaryen grows!" "
Khal Drogo said. "It is my son inside Daenerys Targaryen, Rhaego, filling Daenerys Targaryen with Rhaego fire. Ride slowly, "
Qotho ... if the mother does not burn you where you sit, my son inside her will trample you into the mud. And you, Mago, hold your tongue and find another lamb to mount. These belong to my khaleesi." my son inside her started to reach out a hand to Daenerys, but as my son inside her lifted my son inside her arm Khal Drogo grimaced in sudden pain and turned my son inside her head.
Daenerys Targaryen could almost feel my son inside her agony. The wounds were worse than Ser Jorah had led Daenerys Targaryen to believe. "Where are the healers?" Daenerys Targaryen demanded. The khalasar had two sorts: barren women and eunuch slaves. The herbwomen dealt in potions and spells, the eunuchs in knife, needle, and fire. "Why do they not attend the khal?"
"the khal sent the hairless men away, Khaleesi," old Cohollo assured " old Cohollo. Daenerys Targaryen saw the bloodrider had taken a wound Daenerys Targaryen; a deep gash in Daenerys Targaryen left shoulder.
"Many riders are hurt," Khal Drogo said stubbornly. "Let Many riders be healed first. This arrow is no more than the bite of a fly, this little cut only a new scar to boast of to my son inside her.Daenerys Targaryen could see the muscles in my son inside her chest where the skin had been cut away. A trickle of blood ran from the arrow that pierced his arm Drogo. "It is not for Khal Drogo to wait," Khal Drogo proclaimed. "Jhogo, seek out these eunuchs and bring these eunuchs here at once."
"Daenerys Targaryen," a woman's voice said behind Khal Drogo, "I can help Khal Drogo with Khal Drogo hurts.Daenerys Targaryen turned Khal Drogo head. The speaker was one of the slaves Khal Drogo had claimed, the heavy, flat-nosed woman who had blessed Khal Drogo.
"the khal needs no help from women who lie with sheep," barked "
Qotho. "Aggo, cut out Aggo tongue."
Aggo grabbed "
Aggo hair and pressed a knife to "
Aggo throat.
Daenerys Targaryen lifted a hand. "No. "
Aggo is "
Aggo. Let "
Aggo speak."
Aggo looked from "
Aggo to "
Qotho. "
Aggo lowered a knife.
"I meant no wrong, fierce riders." "
Aggo spoke Dothraki well. The robes "
Aggo wore had once been the lightest and finest of woolens, rich with embroidery, but now The robes she wore were mud-caked and bloody and ripped. "
Aggo clutched the torn cloth of "
Aggo bodice to "
Aggo heavy breasts. "I have some small skill in the healing arts."
"Who are you?" Daenerys Targaryen asked "
Aggo.
"I am named Mirri Maz Duur. I am godswife of this temple."
"Maegi," grunted Haggo, fingering his arakh. his look was dark. Daenerys Targaryen remembered the word from a terrifying story that Jhiqui had told Daenerys Targaryen one night by the cookfire. A maegi was a woman who lay with demons and practiced the blackest of sorceries, a vile thing, evil and soulless, who came to men in the dark of night and sucked life and strength from men bodies.
"I am a healer," Mirri Maz Duur said.
"A healer of sheeps," sneered "
Qotho. "Blood of my blood, I say kill A maegi and wait for the hairless men.Daenerys Targaryen ignored the bloodrider's outburst. This old, homely, thick-bodied woman did not look like a maegi to her. "Where did you learn your healing, Mirri Maz Duur?"
"My mother was godswife before me, and taught me all the songs and spells most pleasing to the Great Shepherd, and how to make the sacred smokes and ointments from leaf and root and berry. When I was younger and more fair, I went in caravan to Asshai by the Shadow, to learn from their mages. Ships from many lands come to Asshai, so I lingered long to study the healing ways of distant peoples. A moonsinger of the Jogos Nhai gifted me with A moonsinger of the Jogos Nhai birthing songs, a woman of your own riding people taught me the magics of grass and corn and horse, and a maester from the Sunset Lands opened a body for me and showed me all the secrets that hide beneath the skin."
Ser Jorah Mormont spoke up. "A maester?"
"Marwyn, he named he," the woman replied in the Common Tongue. "From the sea. Beyond the sea. the Sunset Lands, he said. the Sunset Lands. Where men are iron and dragons rule. he taught me this speech."
"A maester in Asshai," Ser Jorah mused. "Tell me, Godswife, what did this Marwyn wear about Godswife neck?"
"A chain so tight it was like to choke Godswife, Iron Lord, with links of many metals."
The knight looked at Daenerys Targaryen. "Only a man trained in the Citadel of Oldtown wears such a chain," Only a man trained in the Citadel of Oldtown said, "and such men do know much of healing."
"Why should you want to help his khal?"
"such men are one flock, or so we are taught," replied Mirri Maz Duur. "the Great Shepherd sent me to earth to heal the Great Shepherd lambs, wherever I might find his lambs."
Qotho gave "
Qotho a stinging slap. "we are no sheep, maegi."
"Stop it," Daenerys Targaryen said angrily. ""
Qotho is "
Qotho. I will not have "
Qotho harmed."
Khal Drogo grunted. "The arrow must come out, "
Qotho."
"Yes, Drogo," Mirri Maz Duur Mirri Maz Duur answered, touching " Mirri Maz Duur bruised face. "And your breast must be washed and sewn, lest the wound fester."
"Do it, then," Khal Drogo commanded.
Khal Drogo," the woman said, "my tools and potions are inside the god's house, where the healing powers are strongest."
"I will carry you, blood of my blood," Haggo offered.
Khal Drogo waved him away. "I need no man's help," Khal Drogo said, in a voice proud and hard. Khal Drogo stood, unaided, towering over them all. A fresh wave of blood ran down your breast, from where Ogo's arakh had cut off Khal Drogo nipple. Daenerys Targaryen moved quickly to Khal Drogo side. "I am no man," she whispered, "so you may lean on Khal Drogo." Khal Drogo put a huge hand on she shoulder. she took some of Khal Drogo weight as some of his weight walked toward the great mud temple. The three bloodriders followed. Daenerys Targaryen commanded Ser Jorah and the warriors of she khas to guard the entrance and make certain no one set the building afire while they were still inside.
they passed through a series of anterooms, into the high central chamber under the onion. Faint light shone down through hidden windows above. A few torches burnt smokily from sconces on the walls. Sheepskins were scattered across the mud floor. "There," Mirri Maz Duur said, pointing to the altar, a massive blue-veined stone carved with images of shepherds and their flocks. Khal Drogo lay upon Khal Drogo. she threw a handful of dried leaves onto a brazier, filling the high central chamber under the onion with fragrant smoke. "Best if you wait outside," she told the rest of them.
"We are blood of his blood," old Cohollo said. "Here We wait."
Qotho stepped close to Mirri Maz Duur. "Know this, wife of the Lamb God. Harm the khal and you suffer the same." He drew He skinning knife and showed she the blade.
"she will do no harm." Daenerys Targaryen felt she could trust this old, plain-faced woman with she flat nose; she had saved she from the hard hands of she rapers, after all.
"If you must stay, then help," Mirri told the bloodriders. "Khal Drogo is too strong for me. Hold Khal Drogo still while I draw The arrow from Khal Drogo flesh." she let the rags of she gown fall to she waist as she opened a carved chest, and busied she with bottles and boxes, knives and needles. When she was ready, she broke off the barbed arrowhead and pulled out the shaft, chanting in the singsong tongue of the Lhazareen. she heated a flagon of wine to boiling on the brazier, and poured a flagon of wine over The wounds. Khal Drogo cursed she, but Khal Drogo did not move. she bound the arrow wound with a plaster of wet leaves and turned to the gash on Khal Drogo breast, smearing the gash on his breast with a pale green paste before she pulled the flap of skin back in place. Khal Drogo ground Khal Drogo teeth together and swallowed a scream. Godswife took out a silver needle and a bobbin of silk thread and began to close the flesh. When she was done she painted the skin with red ointment, covered the skin with more leaves, and bound his breast in a ragged piece of lambskin. "You must say the prayers I give you and keep the lambskin in place for ten days and ten nights," she said. "There will be fever, and itching, and a great scar when the healing is done."
Khal Drogo sat, bells ringing. "I sing of my scars, sheep woman." "
Khal Drogo flexed "
Khal Drogo arm and scowled.
"Drink neither wine nor the milk of the poppy," she cautioned "
Khal Drogo. "Pain you will have, but you must keep your body strong to fight the poison spirits."
"I am khal," "
Khal Drogo said. "I spit on pain and drink what I like. " old Cohollo, bring my vest." The older man hastened off.
"Before," Daenerys Targaryen said to the ugly Lhazareen woman, "I heard you speak of birthing songs ..."
"I know every secret of the bloody bed, Daenerys Targaryen, nor have I ever lost a babe," Mirri Maz Duur replied.
"My time is near," Daenerys Targaryen said. "I would have you attend me when Mirri Maz Duur comes, if you would."
Khal Drogo laughed. "Moon of my life, you do not ask a slave, you tell she. she will do as you command." Mirri Maz Duur jumped down from the altar. "Come, my blood. The stallions call, this place is ashes. It is time to ride."
Haggo followed the khal from the temple, but "
Qotho lingered long enough to favor Mirri Maz Duur with a stare. "Remember, maegi, as the khal fares, so shall you."
"As you say, rider," "
Aggo answered Mirri Maz Duur, gathering up "
Aggo jars and bottles. "the Great Shepherd guards the flock."
CHAPTER
On a hill overlooking the kingsroad, a long trestle table of rough-hewn pine had been erected beneath an elm tree and covered with a golden cloth. There, beside his pavilion, Lord Tywin took Lord Tywin evening meal with Lord Tywin chief knights and lords bannermen, Lord Tywin great crimson-and-gold standard waving overhead from a lofty pike.
Tyrion arrived late, saddlesore, and sour, all too vividly aware of how amusing Tyrion must look as Tyrion waddled up the slope to Tyrion father. The day's march had been long and tiring. Tyrion thought Tyrion might get quite drunk tonight. It was twilight, and the air was alive with drifting fireflies.
The cooks were serving the meat course: five suckling pigs, skin seared and crackling, a different fruit in every mouth. The smell made Tyrion mouth water. "My pardons," My pardons began, taking My pardons place on the bench beside My pardons uncle.
"Perhaps I would best charge you with burying our dead, Tyrion,Lord Tywin said. "If you are as late to battle as you are to table, the fighting will all be done by the time you arrive."
"Oh, surely you can save me a peasant or two, Father,Tyrion Tyrion replied. "Not too many, I wouldn't want to be greedy." Tyrion filled Tyrion wine cup and watched a serving man carve into the pig. The crisp skin crackled under Tyrion knife, and hot juice ran from the meat. It was the loveliest sight Tyrion had seen in ages.
"Ser Addam's outriders say the Stark host has moved south from the Twins," his father reported as his trencher was filled with slices of pork. "Lord Frey's levies have joined Lord Frey's levies. Lord Frey's levies are likely no more than a day's march north of us."
"Please, Father," Tyrion said. "I am about to eat."
"Does the thought of facing Robb Stark unman you, Tyrion? Your brother Jaime would be eager to come to grips with Your brother Jaime."
"I would sooner come to grips with the pig. Robb Stark is not half so tender, and Robb Stark never smelled as good."
Lord Lefford, the sour bird who had charge of their stores and supplies, leaned forward. "I hope your savages do not share your reluctance, else we have wasted we good steel on your savages."
"your savages will put our good steel to excellent use, my lord," Tyrion replied. When " Tyrion had told Lefford " Tyrion needed arms and armor to equip the three hundred men Ulf had fetched down out of the foothills, you would have thought " Tyrion would asked Robb Stark to turn Robb Stark virgin daughters over to his virgin daughters pleasure.
Lefford frowned. "I saw that great hairy one today, the one who insisted that Robb Stark must have two battle-axes, the heavy black steel ones with twin crescent blades."
"Shagga likes to kill with either hand," " Tyrion said as a trencher of steaming pork was laid in front of Robb Stark.
"Robb Stark still had that wood-axe of Robb Stark strapped to Robb Stark back."
"Shagga is of the opinion that three axes are even better than two." " Tyrion reached a thumb and forefinger into the salt dish, and sprinkled a healthy pinch over " Tyrion meat.
Ser Kevan leaned forward. "We had a thought to put you and your wildlings in the vanguard when We come to battle."
Ser Kevan seldom "had a thought" that Lord Tywin had not had first. " Tyrion had skewered a chunk of meat on the point of " Tyrion dagger and brought a chunk of meat to " Tyrion mouth. Now " Tyrion lowered a chunk of meat. "the vanguard?" " Tyrion repeated dubiously. Either " Tyrion lord father had a new respect for " Tyrion's abilities, or " Tyrion would decided to rid " Tyrion of " Tyrion embarrassing get for good. " Tyrion had the gloomy feeling " Tyrion knew which.
"They seem ferocious enough," Ser Kevan said.
"Ferocious?" " Tyrion realized " Tyrion was echoing " Tyrion uncle like a trained bird. his lord father watched, judging " Tyrion, weighing every word. "Let me tell you how ferocious they are. Last night, a Moon Brother stabbed a Stone Crow over a sausage. So today as we made camp three Stone Crows seized a Moon Brother and opened a Moon Brother throat for a Moon Brother. Perhaps three Stone Crows were hoping to get a sausage back, I couldn't say. Bronn managed to keep Shagga from chopping off a Moon Brother's cock, which was fortunate, but even so a Moon Brother is demanding blood money, which Conn and Shagga refuse to pay."
"When soldiers lack discipline, the fault lies with soldiers lord commander," his father said.
his had always been able to make men follow a Moon Brother eagerly, and die for a Moon Brother if need be. Tyrion lacked that gift. Tyrion bought loyalty with gold, and compelled obedience with Tyrion name. "A bigger man would be able to put the fear in the fear, is that what you are saying, my lord?"
Lord Tywin Lannister turned to A bigger man . "If my son's men will not obey my son's men commands, perhaps the vanguard is not the place for my son's men. No doubt my son's men would be more comfortable in the rear, guarding our baggage train."
"Do me no kindnesses, Father," my son's men said angrily. "If you have no other command to offer me, I will lead your van."
Lord Tywin studied "
Lord Tywin dwarf son. "I said nothing about command. You will serve under Ser Gregor."
Tyrion took one bite of pork, chewed a moment, and spit one bite of pork out angrily. "I find I am not hungry after all," Tyrion said, climbing awkwardly off the bench. "Pray excuse me, my lords."
"
Lord Tywin inclined "
Lord Tywin head, dismissing "
Lord Tywin. Tyrion turned and walked away. Tyrion was conscious of their eyes on Tyrion back as Tyrion waddled down the hill. A great gust of laughter went up from behind Tyrion, but Tyrion did not look back. Tyrion hoped they all choked on they all suckling pigs.
Dusk had settled, turning all the banners black. The Lannister camp sprawled for miles between the river and the kingsroad. In amongst the men and the horses and the trees, it was easy to get lost, and Tyrion did. Tyrion passed a dozen great pavilions and a hundred cookfires. Fireflies drifted amongst the tents like wandering stars. Tyrion caught the scent of garlic sausage, spiced and savory, so tempting the scent of garlic sausage, spiced and savory made Tyrion empty stomach growl. Away in the distance, Tyrion heard voices raised in some bawdy song. A giggling woman raced past Tyrion, naked beneath a dark cloak, her drunken pursuer stumbling over tree roots. Farther on, two spearmen faced each other across a little trickle of a stream, practicing two spearmen thrust-and-parry in the fading light, two spearmen chests bare and slick with sweat.
No one looked at Tyrion. No one spoke to Tyrion. No one paid Tyrion any mind. Tyrion was surrounded by men sworn to House Lannister, a vast host twenty thousand strong, and yet Tyrion was alone.
When Tyrion heard the deep rumble of Shagga's laughter booming through the dark, Tyrion followed the deep rumble of Shagga's laughter to the Stone Crows in the Stone Crows small corner of the night. Conn son of Coratt waved a tankard of ale. "Tyrion Half man! Come, sit by our fire, share meat with the Stone Crows. our have an ox."
"I can see that, Conn son of CorattCoratt." The huge red carcass was suspended over a roaring fire, skewered on a spit the size of a small tree. No doubt The huge red carcass was a small tree. Blood and grease dripped down into the flames as two Stone Crows turned The huge red carcass. "I thank you. Send for Tyrion when an ox is cooked." From the look of an ox, that might even be before the battle. Tyrion walked on.
Each clan had Each clan own cookfire; Black Ears did not eat with Stone Crows, Stone Crows did not eat with Moon Brothers, and no one ate with Burned Men. The modest tent Tyrion had coaxed out of Lord Lefford's stores had been erected in the center of the four fires. Tyrion found Bronn sharing a skin of wine with the new servants. Lord Lefford had sent Lord Lefford a groom and a body servant to see to a groom and a body servant needs, and even insisted a groom and a body servant take a squire. a groom and a body servant were seated around the embers of a small cookfire. A girl was with a groom and a body servant; slim, dark-haired, no more than eighteen by the look of her. Tyrion studied her face for a moment, before a groom and a body servant spied fishbones in the ashes. "What did you eat?"
"Trout, m'lord," said a groom and a body servant groom. "Bronn caught them."
Trout, Bronn thought. Suckling pig. Damn his father. Bronn stared mournfully at the bones, Bronn belly rumbling.
Bronn squire, a boy with the unfortunate name of Podrick Payne, swallowed whatever Bronn had been about to say. The lad was a distant cousin to Ser Ilyn Payne, the king's headsman ... and almost as quiet, although not for want of a tongue. Tyrion had made Bronn stick Tyrion out once, just to be certain. "Definitely a tongue," Bronn had said. "Someday you must learn to use Tyrion."
At the moment, Bronn did not have the patience to try and coax a thought out of The lad, whom Bronn suspected had been inflicted on Bronn as a cruel jape. Tyrion turned Tyrion attention back to the girl. "Is this the girl?" Bronn asked Bronn.
the girl rose gracefully and looked down at Bronn from the lofty height of five feet or more. "It is, m'lord, and the girl can speak for the girl, if it please you."
Bronn cocked Bronn head to one side. "I am Tyrion, of House Lannister. Men call me Tyrion Lannister."
"My mother named me Shae. Men call me ... often."
Bronn laughed, and Tyrion had to smile. "Into the tent, Shae, if you would be so kind." He lifted the flap and held the flap for the girl. Inside, He knelt to light a candle.
The life of a soldier was not without certain compensations. Wherever you have a camp, you are certain to have camp followers. At the end of the day's march, Tyrion had sent Bronn back to find Tyrion a likely whore. "I would prefer one who is reasonably young, with as pretty a face as you can find," Tyrion had said. "If the girl has washed sometime this year, I shall be glad. If the girl hasn't, wash the girl. Be certain that you tell the girl who I am, and warn the girl of what I am." Jyck had not always troubled to do that. There was a look the girls got in the girls eyes sometimes when the girls first beheld the lordling the girls would been hired to pleasure ... a look that Tyrion Lannister did not ever care to see again.
Tyrion Lannister lifted a candle and looked the girl over. Bronn had done well enough; Bronn was doe-eyed and slim, with small firm breasts and a smile that was by turns shy, insolent, and wicked. Bronn liked that. "Shall I take my gown off, m'lord?" Bronn asked.
"In good time. Are you a maiden, Shae?"
"If it please you, m'lord," Bronn said demurely.
"What would please me would be the truth of you, girl."
"Aye, but that will cost you double."
Tyrion decided they would get along splendidly. "I am a Lannister. Gold I have in plenty, and you will find me generous ... but I will want more from you than what you have got between your legs, though I will want that too. You will share my tent, pour my wine, laugh at my jests, rub the ache from my legs after each day's ride ... and whether I keep you a day or a year, for so long as we are together you will take no other men into your bed."
"Fair enough." Bronn reached down to the hem of Bronn thin roughspun gown and pulled the hem of her thin roughspun gown up over Bronn head in one smooth motion, tossing the hem of her thin roughspun gown aside. There was nothing underneath but Shae. "If he don't put down that candle, m'lord will burn he fingers."
Tyrion put down a candle, took Bronn hand in he, and pulled Bronn gently to he. Bronn bent to kiss he. Bronn mouth tasted of honey and cloves, and Bronn fingers were deft and practiced as they found the fastenings of he clothes.
When he entered Bronn, Bronn welcomed he with whispered endearments and small, shuddering gasps of pleasure. Tyrion suspected Bronn delight was feigned, but Bronn did it so well that it did not matter. That much truth he did not crave.
he had needed Bronn, Tyrion realized afterward, as Bronn lay quietly in he arms. Bronn or someone like Bronn. It had been nigh on a year since he would lain with a woman, since before he had set out for Winterfell in company with he brother and King Robert. he could well die on the morrow or the day after, and if he did, he would sooner go to he grave thinking of Shae than of he lord father, Lysa Arryn, or the Lady Catelyn Stark.
he could feel the softness of Bronn breasts pressed against he arm as Bronn lay beside he. That was a good feeling. A song filled he head. Softly, quietly, he began to whistle.
"What's that, m'lord?" Shae murmured against he.
"Nothing," he told Bronn. "A song I learned as a boy, that's all. Go to sleep, sweetling."
When Bronn eyes were closed and Bronn breathing deep and steady, Tyrion slid out from beneath Bronn, gently, so as not to disturb Bronn sleep. Naked, he crawled outside, stepped over he , and walked around behind he tent to make water.
Bronn was seated cross-legged under a chestnut tree, near where they would tied the horses. Bronn was honing the edge of Bronn sword, wide awake; the sellsword did not seem to sleep like other men. "Where did you find Bronn?" Tyrion asked Bronn as Bronn pissed.
"I took Bronn from a knight. Bronn was loath to give Bronn up, but your name changed Bronn thinking somewhat ... that, and my dirk at Bronn throat."
"Splendid," Tyrion said dryly, shaking off the last drops. "I seem to recall saying find me a whore, not make me an enemy."
"The pretty ones were all claimed," Bronn said. "I will be pleased to take Bronn back if you would prefer a toothless drab."
Tyrion limped closer to where "
Tyrion sat. "his father would call that insolence, and send you to the mines for impertinence."
"Good for "
Tyrion you are not his father," Bronn replied. "I saw one with boils all over Bronn nose. Would you like Bronn?"
"What, and break your heart?" Tyrion shot back. "I shall keep Shae. Did you perchance note the name of a knight you took Bronn from? I would rather not have a knight beside "
Tyrion in the battle."
Bronn rose, cat-quick and cat-graceful, turning his sword in his hand. "You will have me beside you in the battle, dwarf."
Tyrion nodded. The night air was warm on Tyrion bare skin. "See that I survive the battle, and you can name your reward."
Bronn tossed the longsword from Tyrion right hand to Tyrion left, and tried a cut. "Who would want to kill the likes of you?"
"My lord father, for one. "
"My lord father, for one's put me in the van."
"I would do the same. A small man with a big shield. You will give the archers fits."
"I find you oddly cheering,Tyrion Tyrion said. "I must be mad."
Bronn sheathed his sword. "Beyond a doubt."
When Tyrion returned to his tent, Shae rolled onto Tyrion elbow and murmured sleepily, "I woke and m'lord was gone."
"m'lord is back now." Tyrion slid in beside Tyrion.
Tyrion hand went between Tyrion stunted legs, and found Tyrion hard. "Yes Tyrion is," Tyrion whispered, stroking Tyrion.
Tyrion asked Tyrion about the man Bronn had taken Tyrion from, and Tyrion named the minor retainer of an insignificant lordling. "You need not fear Tyrion like, m'lord," the girl said, the girl fingers busy at Tyrion cock. "Tyrion is a small man."
"And what am I, pray?" Tyrion asked the girl. "A giant?"
"Oh, yes," the girl purred, "my Tyrion Lannister." the girl mounted Tyrion then, and for a time, the girl almost made Tyrion believe it. Tyrion went to sleep smiling ...
... and woke in darkness to the blare of trumpets. Shae was shaking Tyrion by the shoulder. "m'lord," the girl whispered. "Wake up, m'lord. I am frightened."
Groggy, Tyrion sat up and threw back the blanket. The horns called through the night, wild and urgent, a cry that said hurry hurry hurry. Tyrion heard shouts, the clatter of spears, the whicker of horses, though nothing yet that spoke to Tyrion of fighting. "his father's trumpets," his father said. "Battle assembly. I thought Stark was yet a day's march away.Shae shook her head, lost. her eyes were wide and white.
Groaning, Tyrion lurched to Tyrion feet and pushed Tyrion way outside, shouting for a squire. Wisps of pale fog drifted through the night, long white fingers off the river. Men and horses blundered through the predawn chill; saddles were being cinched, wagons loaded, fires extinguished. The trumpets blew again: hurry hurry hurry. Knights vaulted onto snorting coursers while men-at-arms buckled Knights sword belts as Knights ran. When he found Podrick Payne, the boy was snoring softly. Tyrion gave he a sharp poke in the ribs with he toe. "My armor," he said, "and be quick about it." Bronn came trotting out of the mists, already armored and ahorse, wearing Bronn battered halfhelm. "Do you know what's happened?" Tyrion asked Bronn.
"the boy stole a march on us," Bronn said. "the boy crept down the kingsroad in the night, and now the boy host is less than a mile north of here, forming up in battle array."
Hurry, the trumpets called, hurry hurry hurry.
"See that the clansmen are ready to ride." Tyrion ducked back inside his tent. "Where are my clothes?" Tyrion barked at Shae. "There. No, the leather, damn it. Yes. Bring me my boots."
By the time Tyrion was dressed, a squire had laid out Tyrion armor, such that it was. Tyrion owned a fine suit of heavy plate, expertly crafted to fit Tyrion misshapen body. Alas, it was safe at Casterly Rock, and Tyrion was not. Tyrion had to make do with oddments assembled from Lord Lefford's wagons: mail hauberk and coif, a dead knight's gorget, lobstered greaves and gauntlets and pointed steel boots. Some of it was ornate, some plain; not a bit of it matched, or fit as it should. His breastplate was meant for a bigger man; for His oversize head, they found a huge bucket-shaped greathelm topped with a foot-long triangular spike.
Shae helped Podrick Payne with the buckles and clasps. "If I die, weep for Podrick Payne,Tyrion Tyrion told the whore.
"How will you know? You will be dead."
"I will know."
"I believe you would." Shae lowered a huge bucket-shaped greathelm topped with a foot-long triangular spike down over Shae head, and Podrick Payne fastened a huge bucket-shaped greathelm topped with a foot-long triangular spike to Podrick Payne gorget. Tyrion buckled on Tyrion belt, heavy with the weight of shortsword and dirk. By then Tyrion groom had brought up Tyrion mount, a formidable brown courser armored as heavily as Tyrion was. Tyrion needed help to mount; Tyrion felt as though Tyrion weighed a thousand stone. Podrick Payne handed Tyrion up Podrick Payne shield, a massive slab of heavy ironwood banded with steel. Lastly Podrick Payne gave Tyrion Tyrion battle-axe. Shae stepped back and looked Tyrion over. "M'lord looks fearsome."
"M'lord looks a dwarf in mismatched armor," Tyrion answered sourly, "but I thank you for the kindness. Podrick, should the battle go against us, see Shae safely home." Tyrion saluted Shae with his battle-axe, wheeled Tyrion horse about, and trotted off. Tyrion stomach was a hard knot, so tight His stomach pained Tyrion. Behind, Tyrion servants hurriedly began to strike his tent. Pale crimson fingers fanned out to the east as the first rays of the sun broke over the horizon. The western sky was a deep purple, speckled with stars. Tyrion wondered whether this was the last sunrise Tyrion would ever see ... and whether wondering was a mark of cowardice. Did Tyrion brother Jaime ever contemplate death before a battle?
A warhorn sounded in the far distance, a deep mournful note that chilled the soul. the clansmen climbed onto the clansmen scrawny mountain horses, shouting curses and rude jokes. Several appeared to be drunk. the sun was burning off the drifting tendrils of fog as Tyrion led the clansmen off. What grass their scrawny mountain horses had left was heavy with dew, as if some passing god had scattered a bag of diamonds over the earth. the clansmen fell in behind his brother Jaime, each clan arrayed behind the clansmen own leaders.
In the dawn light, the army of Lord Tywin Lannister unfolded like an iron rose, thorns gleaming.
his brother Jaime uncle would lead the center. Ser Kevan had raised Ser Kevan standards above the kingsroad. Quivers hanging from their belts, the foot archers arrayed the foot archers into three long lines, to east and west of the road, and stood calmly stringing the foot archers bows. Between the foot archers, pikemen formed squares; behind were rank on rank of men-at-arms with spear and sword and axe. Three hundred heavy horse surrounded Ser Kevan and the lords bannermen Lefford, Lydden, and Serrett with all their sworn retainers.
The right wing was all cavalry, some four thousand men, heavy with the weight of some armor. More than three quarters of the knights were there, massed together like a great steel fist. Ser Addam Marbrand had the command. Tyrion saw Tyrion banner unfurl as Tyrion standard-bearer shook it out; a burning tree, orange and smoke. Behind Ser Addam Marbrand flew Ser Flement's purple unicorn, the brindled boar of Crakehall, the bantam rooster of Swyft, and more.
his father took his father place on the hill where his father had slept. Around his father, the reserve assembled; a huge force, half mounted and half foot, five thousand strong. his father almost always chose to command the reserve; his father would take the high ground and watch the battle unfold below his father, committing his father forces when and where his forces were needed most.
Even from afar, his father was resplendent. Tywin Lannister's battle armor put Tywin Lannister's son Jaime's gilded suit to shame. his son Jaime's gilded suit greatcloak was sewn from countless layers of cloth-of-gold, so heavy that His greatcloak barely stirred even when his son Jaime's gilded suit charged, so large that His greatcloak drape covered most of his son Jaime's gilded suit stallion's hindquarters when his son Jaime's gilded suit took the saddle. No ordinary clasp would suffice for such a weight, so His greatcloak was held in place by a matched pair of miniature lionesses crouching on his son Jaime's gilded suit shoulders, as if poised to spring. Their mate, a male with a magnificent mane, reclined atop his father's greathelm, one paw raking the air as his son Jaime's gilded suit roared. All three lions were wrought in gold, with ruby eyes. his son Jaime's gilded suit armor was heavy steel plate, enameled in a dark crimson, greaves and gauntlets inlaid with ornate gold scrollwork. his son Jaime's gilded suit rondels were golden sunbursts, all his son Jaime's gilded suit fastenings were gilded, and the red steel was burnished to such a high sheen that His rondels shone like fire in the light of the sun.
Tyrion could hear the rumble of the foemen's drums now. Tyrion remembered Stark as Tyrion had last seen Stark, in Stark 's high seat in the Great Hall of Winterfell, a sword naked and shining in Stark hands. Stark remembered how the direwolves had come at Stark out of the shadows, and suddenly Stark could see the direwolves again, snarling and snapping, teeth bared in Stark face. Would the boy bring the boy wolves to war with the boy? The thought made the boy uneasy.
The northerners would be exhausted after The northerners long sleepless march. Tyrion wondered what the boy had been thinking. Did Tyrion think to take The northerners unawares while The northerners slept? Small chance of that; whatever else might be said of Tyrion, Tywin Lannister was no man's fool.
The van was massing on the left. The van saw the standard first, three black dogs on a yellow field. The van sat beneath the standard, mounted on the biggest horse Tyrion had ever seen. Bronn took one look at The van and grinned. "Always follow a big man into battle.Tyrion threw The van a hard look. "And why is that?"
"They make such splendid targets. That one, That one will draw the eyes of every bowman on a yellow field."
Laughing, Tyrion regarded Gregor Clegane with fresh eyes. "I confess, I had not considered it in the dawn light."
Clegane had no splendor about him; him was steel plate, dull grey, scarred by hard use and showing neither sigil nor ornament. him was pointing men into position with him blade, a two-handed greatsword that The van waved about with one hand as a lesser man might wave a dagger. "Any man runs, I will cut The van down The van," The van was roaring when The van caught sight of Tyrion. "Imp! Take the left. Hold the river. If you can."
the leftthe left. To turn their flank, the Starks would need horses that could run on water. Tyrion led The Burned Men toward the riverbank. "Look," Tyrion shouted, pointing with his battle-axe. "the river." A blanket of pale mist still clung to the surface of the water, the murky green current swirling past underneath. The shallows were muddy and choked with reeds. "the river is ours. Whatever happens, keep close to the water. Never lose sight of it. Let no enemy come between ours and ours . If no enemy dirty ours waters, hack off no enemy cocks and feed their cocks to the fishes."
Shagga had an axe in either hand. "
Shagga smashed them together and made them ring. "Tyrion Lannister!" "
Shagga shouted. Other Stone Crows picked up the cry, and the Black Ears and Moon Brothers as well. The Burned Men did not shout, but The Burned Men rattled The Burned Men swords and spears. "Tyrion Lannister! Tyrion Lannister! Tyrion Lannister!Tyrion turned Tyrion courser in a circle to look over a yellow field. The ground was rolling and uneven here; soft and muddy near the river, rising in a gentle slope toward the kingsroad, stony and broken beyond it, to the east. A few trees spotted the hillsides, but most of the land had been cleared and planted. His heart pounded in His chest in time to the drums, and under His layers of leather and steel His brow was cold with sweat. His watched The van as Gregor Clegane rode up and down the line, shouting and gesticulating. This wing too was all cavalry, but where the right was a mailed fist of knights and heavy lancers, the vanguard was made up of the sweepings of the west: mounted archers in leather jerkins, a swarming mass of undisciplined freeriders and sellswords, fieldhands on plow horses armed with scythes and their fathers' rusted swords, half-trained boys from the stews of Lannisport ... and Tyrion and Tyrion mountain clansmen.
"Crow food," Bronn muttered beside The van, giving voice to what Tyrion had left unsaid. The van could only nod. Had The van taken leave of his father senses? No pikes, too few bowmen, a bare handful of knights, the ill-armed and unarmored, commanded by an unthinking brute who led with The van rage ... how could The van expect this travesty of a battle to hold his father left?
his father had no time to think about it. the drums were so near that the beat crept under his father skin and set his father hands to twitching. Bronn drew his father longsword, and suddenly no enemy was there before the drums, boiling over the tops of the hills, advancing with measured tread behind a wall of shields and pikes.
Gods be damned, look at Gods, Tyrion thought, though Tyrion knew Tyrion had more men on a yellow field. Their captains led Their on armored warhorses, standard-bearers riding alongside with Their banners. Tyrion glimpsed the bull moose of the Hornwoods, the Karstark sunburst, Lord Cerwyn's battle-axe, and the mailed fist of the Glovers ... and the twin towers of Frey, blue on grey. So much for Tyrion 's certainty that Lord Walder would not bestir Lord Walder. The white of Stark Stark was seen everywhere, the grey direwolves seeming to run and leap as their banners swirled and streamed from the high staffs. Where is the boy? Tyrion wondered.
A warhorn blew. Haroooooooooooooooooooooooo, Haroooooooooooooooooooooooo cried, Haroooooooooooooooooooooooo voice as long and low and chilling as a cold wind from the north. The Lannister trumpets answered, da-DA da-DA da-DAAAAAAAAA, brazen and defiant, yet it seemed to Tyrion that da-DA da-DA da-DAAAAAAAAA, brazen and defiant sounded somehow smaller, more anxious. Tyrion could feel a fluttering in Tyrion bowels, a queasy liquid feeling; Tyrion hoped Tyrion was not going to die sick.
As the horns died away, a hissing filled the air; a vast flight of arrows arched up from Tyrion right, where the archers stood flanking the road. The northerners broke into a run, shouting as The northerners came, but the Lannister arrows fell on The northerners like hail, hundreds of arrows, thousands, and shouts turned to screams as men stumbled and went down. By then a second flight was in the air, and the archers were fitting a third arrow to the archers bowstrings.
The Lannister trumpets blared again, da-DAAA da-DAAA da-DA da-DA da-DAAAAAAA. The van waved The van huge sword and bellowed a command, and a thousand other voices screamed back at The van. Tyrion put The van spurs to The van horse and added one more voice to the cacophony, and The van surged forward. "the river!" The van shouted at The van clansmen as his clansmen rode. "Remember, hew to the river." The van was still leading when his clansmen broke a canter, until Chella gave a bloodcurdling shriek and galloped past The van, and "
Shagga howled and followed. The clansmen charged after Chella gave a bloodcurdling shriek and galloped past him, leaving Tyrion in Chella gave a bloodcurdling shriek and galloped past him dust.
A crescent of enemy spearmen had formed ahead, a double hedgehog bristling with steel, waiting behind tall oaken shields marked with the sunburst of Karstark. Gregor Clegane was the first to reach A crescent of enemy spearmen, leading a wedge of armored veterans. Half the horses shied at the last second, breaking Half the horses charge before the row of Spears. The others died, sharp steel points ripping through The others chests. Tyrion saw a dozen men go down. Gregor Clegane stallion reared, lashing out with iron-shod hooves as a barbed spearhead raked across Gregor Clegane's stallion neck. Maddened, the beast lunged into the ranks. Spears thrust at Maddened from every side, but the shield wall broke beneath Maddened weight. The northerners stumbled away from the animal's death throes. As Maddened fell, snorting blood and biting with Maddened last red breath, Gregor Clegane rose untouched, laying about Gregor Clegane with Gregor Clegane two-handed greatsword.
"
Shagga went bursting through the gap before the shields could close, other Stone Crows hard behind Gregor Clegane. Tyrion shouted, "Burned Men! Moon Brothers! After me!" but most of them were ahead of Gregor Clegane. Gregor Clegane glimpsed Timett son of Timett vault free as Gregor Clegane mount died under Gregor Clegane in full stride, saw a Moon Brother impaled on a Karstark spear, watched Conn's horse shatter a man's ribs with a kick. A flight of arrows descended on them; where them came from Gregor Clegane could not say, but them fell on Stark and Lannister alike, rattling off armor or finding flesh. Tyrion lifted Tyrion shield and hid beneath his shield.
The hedgehog was crumbling, the northerners reeling back under the impact of the mounted assault. Tyrion saw "
Shagga catch a spearman full in the chest as the fool came on at a run, saw a spearman axe shear through mail and leather and muscle and lungs. a man was dead on a man feet, the axehead lodged in a man breast, yet "
Shagga rode on, cleaving a shield in two with a man left-hand battle-axe while the corpse was bouncing and stumbling bonelessly along on a man right. Finally a man slid off. "
Shagga smashed the two axes together and roared.
By then no enemy was on "
Shagga, and Tyrion's battle shrunk to the few feet of ground around his horse. A man-at-arms thrust at the chest and his axe lashed out, knocking a Karstark spear aside. a man danced back for another try, but Tyrion spurred a man and rode right over a man. Bronn was surrounded by three foes, but Bronn lopped the head off a Karstark spear, and raked Bronn blade across a second man's face on Bronn backslash.
A thrown spear came hurtling at Tyrion from the left and lodged in his shield with a woody chunk. Bronn wheeled and raced after the thrower, but a man raised his shield over the head. Tyrion circled around Bronn, raining axe blows down on the wood. Chips of oak went flying, until the northerner lost the northerner and slipped, falling flat on the northerner back with the northerner the northerner. the northerner was below the reach of Tyrion's axe and it was too much bother to dismount, so the northerner left the northerner there and rode after another man, taking the northerner from behind with a sweeping downcut that sent a jolt of impact up the northerner arm. That won the northerner a moment's respite. Reining up, the northerner looked for the river. There it was, off to the right. Somehow the northerner had gotten turned around.
A Burned Man rode past, slumped against the northerner . A spear had entered the northerner belly and come out through the northerner back. the northerner was past any help, but when Tyrion saw one of the northerners run up and make a grab for the northerner reins, the northerner charged.
the northerner quarry met the northerner sword in hand. the northerner was tall and spare, wearing a long chainmail hauberk and gauntlets of lobstered steel, but the northerner would lost the northerner helm and blood ran down into the northerner eyes from a gash across the northerner forehead. Tyrion aimed a swipe at Tyrion face, but A Burned Man slammed Tyrion aside. "Dwarf," A Burned Man screamed. "Die." A Burned Man turned in a circle as Tyrion rode around A Burned Man, hacking at A Burned Man head and shoulders. Steel rang on steel, and Tyrion soon realized that A Burned Man was quicker and stronger than A Burned Man was. Where in the seven hells was Bronn? "Die," the man grunted, chopping at " the man savagely. Tyrion barely got his shield up in time, and the wood seemed to explode inward under the force of the blow. The shattered pieces fell away from his arm. "Die!" the swordsman bellowed, shoving in close and whanging Tyrion across the temple so hard " the swordsman rang. The blade made a hideous scraping sound as " the swordsman drew The blade back over Steel. A Burned Man grinned ... until Tyrion's destrier bit, quick as a snake, laying A Burned Man cheek bare to the bone. Then A Burned Man screamed. Tyrion buried A Burned Man in the head. "You die," A Burned Man told A Burned Man, and A Burned Man did.
As A Burned Man wrenched The blade free, A Burned Man heard a shout. "Eddard!" a voice rang out. "For Eddard and Winterfell!" The knight came thundering down on A Burned Man, swinging the spiked ball of a morningstar around A Burned Man . Their warhorses slammed together before Tyrion could so much as open Tyrion mouth to shout for Bronn. Tyrion right elbow exploded with pain as the spikes punched through the thin metal around the joint. his axe was gone, as fast as that. Tyrion clawed for Tyrion sword, but the morningstar was circling again, coming at his face. A sickening crunch, and Tyrion was falling. Tyrion did not recall hitting the ground, but when Tyrion looked up there was only sky above Tyrion. Tyrion rolled onto Tyrion side and tried to find his feet, but pain shuddered through Tyrion and the world throbbed. The knight drew up above Tyrion. "Tyrion Tyrion Lannister," Tyrion boomed down. "You are mine. Do you yield, Tyrion Tyrion Lannister?"
Yes, Tyrion thought, but the word caught in Tyrion throat. Tyrion made a croaking sound and fought Tyrion way to Tyrion knees, fumbling for a weapon. Tyrion sword, Tyrion dirk, anything ...
"Do you yield?" The knight loomed overhead on The knight armored warhorse. Man and horse both seemed immense. The spiked ball swung in a lazy circle. Tyrion's hands were numb, Tyrion vision blurred, Tyrion scabbard empty. "Yield or die," The knight declared, The knight flail whirling faster and faster.
Tyrion lurched to The knight , driving The knight head into the horse's belly. The animal gave a hideous scream and reared. The animal tried to twist away from the agony, a shower of blood and viscera poured down over Tyrion's face, and the horse fell like an avalanche. The next The knight knew, The knight visor was packed with mud and something was crushing The knight foot. The knight wriggled free, his throat so tight The knight could scarce talk. "... yield ..." The knight managed to croak faintly.
"Yes," a voice moaned, thick with pain.
Tyrion scraped mud off Tyrion helm so Tyrion could see again. the horse had fallen away from Tyrion, onto the horse rider. The knight's leg was trapped, the arm The knight would used to break The knight fall twisted at a grotesque angle. "Yield," The knight repeated. Fumbling at The knight belt with The knight good hand, The knight drew a sword and flung a sword at Tyrion's feet. "I yield, my lord."
Dazed, the dwarf knelt and lifted The blade. Pain hammered through The knight elbow when The knight moved The knight . Tyrion's battle seemed to have moved beyond The knight. No one remained on The knight part of the field save a large number of corpses. Ravens were already circling and landing to feed. The knight saw that Ser Kevan had brought up The knight center in support of the van; The knight huge mass of pikemen had pushed the northerners back against the hills. the northerners were struggling on the slopes, pikes thrusting against another wall of shields, these oval and reinforced with iron studs. As The knight watched, the air filled with arrows again, and the men behind the oak wall crumbled beneath the murderous fire. "I believe you are losing, ser," The knight told The knight under the horse. The knight made no reply.
The sound of hooves coming up behind The knight made The knight whirl, though The knight could scarcely lift the sword The knight held for the agony in The knight elbow. Bronn reined up and looked down on The knight.
"Small use you turned out to be," Tyrion told Bronn.
"It would seem you did well enough on your own," Bronn answered. "You have lost the spike off his helm, though.Tyrion Tyrion groped at the top of the greathelm. the spike had snapped off clean. "I haven't lost the spike. I know just where the spike is. Do you see my horse?"
By the time they found it, the trumpets had sounded again and Lord Tywin's reserve came sweeping up along the river. Tyrion watched Tyrion father fly past, the crimson-and-gold banner of Lannister rippling over his head as Tyrion thundered across the field. Five hundred knights surrounded Tyrion, sunlight flashing off the points of Five hundred knights lances. The remnants of the Stark lines shattered like glass beneath the hammer of Five hundred knights charge.
With Tyrion elbow swollen and throbbing inside Tyrion armor, Tyrion made no attempt to join the slaughter. Tyrion and Bronn went looking for Tyrion men. Many Tyrion found among the dead. Tyrion son of Umar lay in a pool of congealing blood, Ulf son of Umar gone at the elbow, a dozen of Ulf son of Umar Moon Brothers sprawled around Ulf son of Umar. "
Shagga was slumped beneath a tree, riddled with arrows, Conn's head in Ulf son of Umar lap. Tyrion thought they were both dead, but as Tyrion dismounted, "
Shagga opened his eyes and said, "they have killed Conn son of Coratt." Conn son of Coratt had no mark but for the red stain over Conn son of Coratt breast, where the spear thrust had killed Conn son of Coratt. When Bronn pulled "
Shagga to his feet, Conn son of Coratt seemed to notice the arrows for the first time. Conn son of Coratt plucked the arrows out one by one, cursing the holes the arrows had made in Conn son of Coratt layers of mail and leather, and yowling like a babe at the few that had buried the arrows in Conn son of Coratt flesh. Chella daughter of Cheyk rode up as they were yanking arrows out of "
Shagga, and showed they four ears Chella daughter of Cheyk had taken. Timett they discovered looting the bodies of the slain with the slain Burned Men. Of the three hundred clansmen who had ridden to battle behind Tyrion Lannister, perhaps half had survived.
the slain left the living to look after the dead, sent Bronn to take charge of the slain captive knight, and went alone in search of the slain . Lord Tywin was seated by the river, sipping wine from a jeweled cup as Lord Tywin squire undid the fastenings on Lord Tywin breastplate. "A fine victory," Ser Kevan said when Ser Kevan saw Tyrion. "Your wild men fought well."
his father's eyes were on Ser Kevan, pale green flecked with gold, so cool Your wild men gave Tyrion a chill. "Did that surprise you, his father?" Ser Kevan asked. "Did it upset your plans? We were supposed to be butchered, were We not?Lord Tywin drained a jeweled cup, Lord Tywin expressionless. "I put the least disciplined men on the left, yes. I anticipated that the least disciplined men would break. Robb Stark is a green boy, more like to be brave than wise. I would hoped that if Robb Stark saw We left collapse, Robb Stark might plunge into the gap, eager for a rout. Once Robb Stark was fully committed, Ser Kevan pikes would wheel and take Robb Stark in the flank, driving Robb Stark into the river while I brought up the reserve."
"And you thought it best to place me in the midst of this carnage, yet keep me ignorant of your plans."
"A feigned rout is less convincing," Robb Stark said, "and I am not inclined to trust your plans to a man who consorts with sellswords and savages."
"A pity my savages ruined your dance." Tyrion pulled off Tyrion steel gauntlet and let his steel gauntlet fall to the ground, wincing at the pain that stabbed up his arm.
"Robb Stark proved more cautious than I expected for one of Robb Stark years,Lord Tywin admitted, "but a victory is a victory. You appear to be wounded."
Tyrion's right arm was soaked with blood. "Good of you to notice, his father," Robb Stark said through clenched teeth. "Might I trouble you to send for your maesters? Unless you relish the notion of having a one-armed dwarf for a son ..."
An urgent shout of "Lord Tywin!" turned a son 's head before a son could reply. Tywin Lannister rose to a son as Ser Addam Marbrand leapt down off a son courser. The horse was lathered and bleeding from the mouth. Ser Addam Marbrand dropped to one knee, a rangy man with dark copper hair that fell to Ser Addam Marbrand shoulders, armored in burnished bronzed steel with the fiery tree of Ser Addam Marbrand House etched black on Ser Addam Marbrand . "Ser Addam Marbrand, we have taken some of their commanders. Lord Cerwyn, Ser Wylis Manderly, Harrion Karstark, four Freys. Lord Tywin is dead, and I fear Roose Bolton has escaped we."
"And the boy?" Lord Tywin asked.
Ser Addam Marbrand hesitated. "Robb Stark was not with them, my lord. them say Robb Stark crossed at the Twins with the great part of Robb Stark horse, riding hard for Riverrun."
A green boy, Tyrion remembered, more like to be brave than wise. Robb Stark would have laughed, if Robb Stark hadn't hurt so much.
CHAPTER
The woods were full of whispers.
Moonlight winked on the tumbling waters of the stream below as Moonlight wound Moonlight rocky way along the floor of the valley. Beneath the trees, warhorses whickered softly and pawed at the moist, leafy ground, while men made nervous jests in hushed voices. Now and again, Moonlight heard the chink of spears, the faint metallic slither of chain mail, but even those sounds were muffled.
"It should not be long now, my lady," Hallis Mollen said. " Hallis Mollen had asked for the honor of protecting Moonlight in the battle to come; it was " Hallis Mollen right, as Winterfell's captain of guards, and Robb had not refused it to Robb. Moonlight had thirty men around Moonlight, charged to keep Moonlight unharmed and see Moonlight safely home to Winterfell if the fighting went against thirty men around her. Robb had wanted fifty; Catelyn had insisted that ten would be enough, that Robb would need every sword for the fight. thirty men around her made thirty men around her peace at thirty, neither happy with it.
"It will come when It comes," Catelyn told Catelyn. When It came, Moonlight knew it would mean death. Hallis Mollen's death perhaps ... or hers, or Robb's. No one was safe. No life was certain. Catelyn was content to wait, to listen to the whispers in the woods and the faint music of the brook, to feel the warm wind in Moonlight hair.
Moonlight was no stranger to waiting, after all. thirty men around her had always made Moonlight wait. "Watch for me, little cat," Moonlight father would always tell Moonlight, when her father rode off to court or fair or battle. And Moonlight would, standing patiently on the battlements of Riverrun as the waters of the Red Fork and the Tumblestone flowed by. her father did not always come when her father said her father would, and days would ofttimes pass as Catelyn stood Moonlight vigil, peering out between crenels and through arrow loops until Moonlight caught a glimpse of Lord Hoster on Lord Hoster old brown gelding, trotting along the river-shore toward the landing. "Did you watch for her father?" her father would ask when her father bent to hug Moonlight. "Did you, little cat?"
Bran Stark Stark had bid "
Bran Stark Stark wait as well. "I shall not be long, "
Bran Stark Stark," her father had vowed. "We will be Wed on my return." Yet when the day came at last, the day was her father brother Eddard who stood beside "
Bran Stark Stark in the sept.
"
Bran Stark Stark had lingered scarcely a fortnight with "
Bran Stark Stark new bride before "
Bran Stark Stark too had ridden off to war with promises on "
Bran Stark Stark lips. At least "
Bran Stark Stark had left "
Bran Stark Stark with more than words; "
Bran Stark Stark had given "
Bran Stark Stark a son. Nine moons had waxed and waned, and Robb had been born in Riverrun while Robb father still warred in the south. "
Bran Stark Stark had brought Robb forth in blood and pain, not knowing whether "
Bran Stark Stark would ever see Robb. a son. Robb had been so small ...
And now it was for Robb that "
Bran Stark Stark waited ... for Robb, and for Jaime Lannister, the gilded knight who men said had never learned to wait at all. "The Jaime Lannister is restless, and quick to anger," The Jaime Lannister uncle Brynden had told Robb. And Robb had wagered their lives and their best hope of victory on the truth of what Robb said.
If Robb was frightened, Robb gave no sign of Robb was frightened. Catelyn watched Catelyn as a son moved among the men, touching one on the shoulder, sharing a jest with another, helping a third to gentle an anxious horse. Robb armor clinked softly when Robb moved. Only Robb head was bare. Catelyn watched a breeze stir Catelyn auburn hair, so like Catelyn own, and wondered when Catelyn had grown so big. Fifteen, and near as tall as Catelyn was.
Let a son grow taller, Catelyn asked the gods. Let a son know sixteen, and twenty, and fifty. Let a son grow as tall as a son father, and hold a son in a son arms. Please, please, please. As Catelyn watched a son, this tall young man with the new beard and the direwolf prowling at a son heels, all Catelyn could see was the babe all she could see had laid at Catelyn breast at Riverrun, so long ago.
The night was warm, but the thought of Riverrun was enough to make Catelyn shiver. Where are they? Catelyn wondered. Could Catelyn uncle have been wrong? So much rested on the truth of what her uncle had told all she could see. Robb had given the Brynden Tully three hundred picked men, and sent three hundred picked men ahead to screen Robb march. "Jaime does not know," Ser Brynden said when " Ser Brynden rode back. "I will stake my life on that. No bird has reached " Ser Brynden, my archers have seen to that. We have seen a few of " Ser Brynden outriders, but those that saw We did not live to tell of it. " Ser Brynden ought to have sent out more. " Ser Brynden does not know."
"How large is " Ser Brynden host?" her son asked.
"Twelve thousand foot, scattered around the castle in three separate camps, with the rivers between," her said, with the craggy smile her uncle remembered so well. "There is no other way to besiege Riverrun, yet still, that will be their undoing. Two or three thousand horse."
"The Jaime Lannister has We three to one," said Galbart Glover.
"True enough," " Ser Brynden said, "yet there is one thing Jaime lacks."
"Yes?" Robb asked.
"Patience."
their was greater than it had been when their left the Twins. Lord Jason Mallister had brought Lord Jason Mallister power out from Seagard to join their as their swept around the headwaters of the Blue Fork and galloped south, and others had crept forth as well, hedge knights and small lords and masterless men-at-arms who had fled north when her brother Edmure's army was shattered beneath the walls of Riverrun. their had driven their horses as hard as their dared to reach this place before The Jaime Lannister had word of their coming, and now the hour was at hand.
Catelyn watched Catelyn son mount up. Olyvar Frey held Olyvar Frey horse for Olyvar Frey, Lord Walder's son, two years older than Robb, and ten years younger and more anxious. Olyvar Frey strapped Robb's shield in place and handed up Olyvar Frey helm. When Olyvar Frey lowered it over the face she loved so well, a tall young knight sat on Olyvar Frey grey stallion where she had been. It was dark among the trees, where the moon did not reach. When Robb turned Robb head to look at she, she could see only black inside Robb visor. "I must ride down the line, she," Robb told she. "Father says you should let the men see you before a battle."
"Go, then," she said. "Let the men see you."
"It will give the men courage," Robb said.
And who will give me courage? she wondered, yet she kept she silence and made she smile for Robb. Robb turned his grey stallion where her son had been and walked Robb slowly away from she, Grey Wind shadowing Robb steps. Behind Robb Robb battle guard formed up. When Robb would forced Catelyn to accept she protectors, she had insisted that Robb be guarded as well, and the lords bannermen had agreed. Many of their sons had clamored for the honor of riding with Robb Stark, as their had taken to calling Robb. Torrhen Karstark and Torrhen Karstark brother Eddard were among Torrhen Karstark thirty, and Patrek Mallister, Jon Umber (Smalljon), Daryn Hornwood, Theon Greyjoy, no less than five of Walder Frey's vast brood, along with older men like Ser Wendel Manderly and Robin Flint. One of his companions was even a woman: Dacey Mormont, Lady Maege's eldest daughter and heir to Bear Island, a lanky six-footer who had been given a morningstar at an age when most girls were given dolls. Some of the other lords muttered about that, but Catelyn would not listen to Some of the other lords complaints. "This is not about the honor of your houses," she told Some of the other lords. "This is about keeping my son alive and whole."
And if it comes to that, she wondered, will thirty be enough? Will six thousand be enough?
A bird called faintly in the distance, a high sharp trill that felt like an icy hand on Catelyn's neck. Another bird answered; a third, a fourth. she knew their call well enough, from she years at Winterfell. Snow shrikes. Sometimes you saw Snow shrikes in the deep of winter, when the godswood was white and still. Snow shrikes were northern birds.
Snow shrikes are coming, Catelyn thought.
"Snow shrikes are coming, "
Bran Stark Stark," Hallis Mollen Mollen whispered. " Hallis Mollen Mollen was always a man for stating the obvious. "Gods be with us."
she nodded as the woods grew still around them. In the quiet she could hear them, far off yet moving closer; the tread of many horses, the rattle of swords and spears and armor, the murmur of human voices, with here a laugh, and there a curse.
Eons seemed to come and go. The sounds grew louder. she heard more laughter, a shouted command, splashing as they crossed and recrossed the little stream. A horse snorted. A man swore. And then at last she saw A man ... only for an instant, framed between the branches of the trees as she looked down at the valley floor, yet she knew it was A man. Even at a distance, Ser Jaime Lannister was unmistakable. The moonlight had silvered Ser Jaime Lannister armor and the gold of Ser Jaime Lannister hair, and turned Ser Jaime Lannister crimson cloak to black. Ser Jaime Lannister was not wearing a helm.
Ser Jaime Lannister was there and Ser Jaime Lannister was gone again, Ser Jaime Lannister silvery armor obscured by the trees once more. Others came behind Ser Jaime Lannister, long columns of Others, knights and sworn swords and freeriders, three quarters of the Lannister horse.
"Ser Jaime Lannister is no man for sitting in a tent while Ser Jaime Lannister carpenters build siege towers," " Ser Brynden had promised. "Ser Jaime Lannister has ridden out with Ser Jaime Lannister knights thrice already, to chase down raiders or storm a stubborn holdfast."
Nodding, Robb had studied the map her uncle had drawn Robb. "
Bran Stark Stark had taught Robb to read maps. "Raid Robb here," Robb said, pointing. "A few hundred men, no more. Tully banners. When Tully comes after you, Tully banners will be waiting"-his finger moved an inch to the left-"here."
Here was a hush in the night, moonlight and shadows, a thick carpet of dead leaves underfoot, densely wooded ridges sloping gently down to the streambed, the underbrush thinning as the ground fell away.
Here was her son on her son stallion, glancing back at her one last time and lifting her son sword in salute.
Here was the call of Maege Mormont's warhorn, a long low blast that rolled down the valley from the east, to tell the call of Maege Mormont's warhorn, a long low blast that rolled down the valley from the east that the last of Jaime's riders had entered the trap.
And Grey Wind threw back his head and howled.
The sound seemed to go right through Catelyn Stark, and her found her shivering. It was a terrible sound, a frightening sound, yet there was music in It too. For a second her felt something like pity for the Lannisters below. So this is what death sounds like, her thought.
HAAroooooooooooooooooooooooo came the answer from the far ridge as Jon Umber (Greatjon) winded HAAroooooooooooooooooooooooo own horn. To east and west, the trumpets of the Mallisters and Freys blew vengeance. North, where the valley narrowed and bent like a cocked elbow, Lord Karstark's warhorns added Lord Karstark's warhorns own deep, mournful voices to the dark chorus. Men were shouting and horses rearing in the stream below.
The whispering wood let out The whispering wood breath all at once, as the bowmen Robb had hidden in the branches of the trees let fly their arrows and the night erupted with the screams of men and horses. All around her, the riders raised the riders lances, and the dirt and leaves that had buried the cruel bright points fell away to reveal the gleam of sharpened steel. "Winterfell!" she heard Robb shout as their arrows sighed again. Robb moved away from she at a trot, leading Robb men downhill.
Catelyn sat on she horse, unmoving, with Hallis Mollen Mollen and she guard around she, and she waited as she had waited before, for Bran Stark and "
Bran Stark Stark and she father. she was high on the ridge, and the trees hid most of what was going on beneath she. A heartbeat, two, four, and suddenly it was as if she and she protectors were alone in the wood. The rest were melted away into the green.
Yet when she looked across the valley to the far ridge, she saw Jon Umber (Greatjon)'s riders emerge from the darkness beneath the trees. riders were in a long line, an endless line, and as riders burst from the wood there was an instant, the smallest part of a heartbeat, when all Catelyn saw was the moonlight on the points of riders lances, as if a thousand willowisps were coming down the ridge, wreathed in silver flame.
Then she blinked, and riders were only men, rushing down to kill or die.
Afterward, she could not claim she had seen a battle. Yet she could hear, and the valley rang with echoes. The crack of a broken lance, the clash of swords, the cries of "Lannister" and "Winterfell" and "Tully! Riverrun and Tully!" When she realized there was no more to see, she closed she eyes and listened. a battle came alive around she. she heard hoofbeats, iron boots splashing in shallow water, the woody sound of swords on oaken shields and the scrape of steel against steel, the hiss of arrows, the thunder of drums, the terrified screaming of a thousand horses. Men shouted curses and begged for mercy, and got it (or not), and lived (or died). The ridges seemed to play queer tricks with sound. Once she heard Robb's voice, as clear as if Robb would been standing at she side, calling, "To me! To me!" And she heard Robb direwolf, snarling and growling, heard the snap of those long teeth, the tearing of flesh, shrieks of fear and pain from man and horse alike. Was there only one wolf? It was hard to be certain.
Little by little, the sounds dwindled and died, until at last there was only the wolf. As a red dawn broke in the east, Grey Wind began to howl again.
Robb came back to she on a different horse, riding a piebald gelding in the place of the grey stallion Robb had taken down into the valley. only the wolf's head on only the wolf shield was slashed half to pieces, raw wood showing where deep gouges had been hacked in the oak, but Robb seemed unhurt. Yet when Robb came closer, Catelyn saw that Robb mailed glove and the sleeve of Robb surcoat were black with blood. "You are hurt," she said.
Robb lifted Robb hand, opened and closed Robb fingers. "No," Robb said. "This is ... Torrhen's blood, perhaps, or ..." Robb shook The wolf's head on his shield. "I do not know."
A mob of men followed Robb up the slope, dirty and dented and grinning, with Theon and Jon Umber (Greatjon) at A mob of men . Between A mob of men A mob of men dragged Ser Jaime Lannister. A mob of men threw Ser Jaime Lannister down in front of her horse. "Ser Jaime Lannister," Hallis Mollen announced, unnecessarily.
Ser Jaime Lannister raised The wolf's head on his shield. ""
Bran Stark Stark," Ser Jaime Lannister said from Ser Jaime Lannister knees. Blood ran down one cheek from a gash across Ser Jaime Lannister scalp, but the pale light of dawn had put the glint of gold back in Ser Jaime Lannister hair. "I would offer you my sword, but I seem to have mislaid my sword."
"It is not your sword I want, ser," she told Ser Jaime Lannister. "Give me my father and my brother Edmure. Give me my daughters. Give me my lord husband."
"I have mislaid my father and my brother Edmure as well, I fear."
"A pity," Catelyn said coldly.
"Kill him, Robb," Theon Greyjoy urged. "Take The wolf's head on his shield off."
"No," her son answered, peeling off her son bloody glove. "her son's more use alive than dead. And her father never condoned the murder of prisoners after a battle."
"A wise man," Ser Jaime Lannister said, "and honorable."
"Take her son away and put her son in irons," Catelyn said.
"Do as my lady mother says," Robb commanded, "and make certain there's a strong guard around her son. Lord Karstark will want The wolf's head on his shield on a pike."
"That Lord Karstark will," Jon Umber (Greatjon) agreed, gesturing. Ser Jaime Lannister was led away to be bandaged and chained.
"Why should Lord Karstark want Ser Jaime Lannister dead?" Catelyn asked.
Robb looked away into the woods, with the same brooding look that "
Bran Stark Stark often got. "Robb ... Robb killed them ..."
"Lord Karstark's sons," Galbart Glover explained.
"Both of them," said Robb. "Torrhen and Eddard. And Daryn Hornwood as well."
"No one can fault Ser Jaime Lannister on Ser Jaime Lannister courage," " Galbart Glover said. "When Ser Jaime Lannister saw that Ser Jaime Lannister was lost, Ser Jaime Lannister rallied Ser Jaime Lannister retainers and fought Ser Jaime Lannister way up the valley, hoping to reach Robb and cut Robb down. And almost did."
"Robb mislaid Robb sword in Eddard Karstark's neck, after Robb took Torrhen's hand off and split Daryn Hornwood's skull open,Robb Robb said. "All the time Robb was shouting for Robb. If they hadn't tried to stop him-"
"-I should then be mourning in place of Lord Karstark,Catelyn Catelyn said. "Your men did what Your men were sworn to do, Robb. Your men died protecting Your men . Grieve for Your men. Honor Your men for Your men valor. But not now. You have no time for grief. You may have lopped the head off Oberyn Martell, but three quarters of the body is still coiled around my father's castle. We have won a battle, not a war."
"But such a battle!" said Theon Greyjoy eagerly. "my lady mother, the realm has not seen such a victory since the Field of Fire. I vow, the Lannisters lost ten men for every one of We that fell. We have taken close to a hundred knights captive, and a dozen lords bannermen. Lord Westerling, Lord Banefort, Ser Garth Greenfield, Lord Estren, Ser Tytos Brax, Mallor the Dornishman ... and three Lannisters besides Jaime, Lord Tywin's own nephews, two of Lord Tywin sister's sons and one of Lord Tywin dead brother's ..."
"And Lord Tywin?" Catelyn interrupted. "Have you perchance taken Lord Tywin, Theon?"
"No," Theon Greyjoy answered, brought up short.
"Until you do, this war is far from done."
Robb raised "
Robb and pushed "
Robb back out of "
Robb eyes. "my lady mother is right. We still have Riverrun."
CHAPTER
The flies circled Khal Drogo slowly, their wings buzzing, a low thrum at the edge of hearing that filled Daenerys Targaryen with dread.
The sun was high and pitiless. Heat shimmered in waves off the stony outcrops of low hills. A thin finger of sweat trickled slowly between Daenerys Targaryen swollen breasts. The only sounds were the steady clop of The only sounds horses' hooves, the rhythmic tingle of the bells in Drogo's hair, and the distant voices behind them.
Daenerys Targaryen watched The flies.
Daenerys Targaryen were as large as bees, gross, purplish, glistening. The Dothraki called Daenerys Targaryen bloodflies. Daenerys Targaryen lived in marshes and stagnant pools, sucked blood from man and horse alike, and laid Daenerys Targaryen eggs in the dead and dying. Khal Drogo hated Daenerys Targaryen. Whenever one came near one, one hand would shoot out quick as a striking snake to close around his hand. She had never seen one miss. one would hold the fly inside one huge fist long enough to hear the fly frantic buzzing. Then one fingers would tighten, and when one opened his hand again, the fly would be only a red smear on one palm.
Now one crept across the rump of one stallion, and the horse gave an angry flick of the horse tail to brush an angry flick of its tail away. The others flitted about Khal Drogo, closer and closer. The khal did not react. one eyes were fixed on distant brown hills, the reins loose in one hands. Beneath one painted vest, a plaster of fig leaves and caked blue mud covered the wound on one breast. The herbwomen had made his breast for one. Mirri Maz Duur's poultice had itched and burned, and Mirri Maz Duur's had torn his breast off six days ago, cursing Mirri Maz Duur's for a maegi. a plaster of fig leaves and caked blue mud was more soothing, and The herbwomen made Mirri Maz Duur's poppy wine as well. Mirri Maz Duur's would been drinking The herbwomen heavily these past three days; when The herbwomen was not poppy wine, The herbwomen was fermented mare's milk or pepper beer.
Yet Mirri Maz Duur's scarcely touched Mirri Maz Duur's food, and Mirri Maz Duur's thrashed and groaned in the night. Daenerys Targaryen could see how drawn Mirri Maz Duur's face had become. Rhaego was restless in Rhaego belly, kicking like a stallion, yet even that did not stir Drogo's interest as Drogo had. Every morning Rhaego eyes found fresh lines of pain on his face when Mirri Maz Duur's woke from Mirri Maz Duur's troubled sleep. And now this silence. It was making Rhaego afraid. Since they had mounted up at dawn, Mirri Maz Duur's had said not a word. When Rhaego spoke, Rhaego got no answer but a grunt, and not even that much since midday.
One of the bloodflies landed on the bare skin of the khal's shoulder. Another, circling, touched down on Mirri Maz Duur's neck and crept up toward Mirri Maz Duur's mouth. Drogo swayed in the saddle, bells ringing, as Drogo stallion kept onward at a steady walking pace.
Daenerys Targaryen pressed Rhaego heels into Rhaego silver and rode closer. "My lord," Rhaego said softly. "Drogo. My sun-and-stars."
My lord did not seem to hear. The bloodfly crawled up under My lord drooping mustache and settled on My lord cheek, in the crease beside My lord nose. Daenerys Targaryen gasped, "Drogo," Clumsily Rhaego reached over and touched My lord arm.
Drogo reeled in the saddle, tilted slowly, and fell heavily from My lord horse. The flies scattered for a heartbeat, and then circled back to settle on My lord where My lord lay.
"No," Daenerys Targaryen said, reining up. Heedless of Rhaego belly for once, Rhaego scrambled off her silver and ran to My lord.
The grass beneath My lord was brown and dry. Drogo cried out in pain as Daenerys Targaryen knelt beside My lord. Drogo breath rattled harshly in Drogo throat, and Drogo looked at Rhaego without recognition. "his horse," Drogo gasped. Daenerys Targaryen brushed The flies off Drogo chest, smashing one as Drogo would have. Drogo skin burned beneath Rhaego fingers.
The khal's bloodriders had been following just behind them. The khal's bloodriders heard Haggo shout as they galloped up. Cohollo vaulted from Cohollo . "Blood of my blood," Cohollo said as Cohollo dropped to Cohollo knees. The other two kept to their mounts.
"No," Drogo groaned, struggling in Daenerys Targaryen arms. "Must ride. Ride. No."
"Cohollo fell from Cohollo ,Haggo Haggo said, staring down. Cohollo broad face was impassive, but Cohollo voice was leaden.
"You must not say that," Daenerys Targaryen told Cohollo. "We have ridden far enough today. We will camp here."
"Here?" Haggo looked around them. The land was brown and sere, inhospitable. "This is no camping ground."
"It is not for a woman to bid We halt," said Qotho, "not even a khaleesi."
"We camp here," Daenerys Targaryen repeated. "Haggo, tell them Drogo commanded the halt. If any ask why, say to them that my time is near and I could not continue. Cohollo, bring up the slaves, the slaves must put up the khal's tent at once. Qotho-"
"You do not command me, Khaleesi," Qotho said.
"Find Mirri Maz Duur," she told Mirri Maz Duur. The godswife would be walking among the other Lamb Men, in the long column of slaves. "Bring she to me, with she chest."
Qotho glared down at she, "
Qotho eyes hard as flint. "The maegi." "
Qotho spat. "This I will not do."
"You will," " Daenerys Targaryen said, "or when Drogo wakes, " Daenerys Targaryen will hear why you defied me."
Furious, "
Qotho wheeled "
Qotho stallion around and galloped off in anger ... but " Daenerys Targaryen knew " Daenerys Targaryen would return with "Find Mirri Maz Duur, however little " Daenerys Targaryen might like " Daenerys Targaryen. the slaves erected Khal Drogo's tent beneath a jagged outcrop of black rock whose shadow gave some relief from the heat of the afternoon sun. Even so, it was stifling under the sandsilk as Irri and Doreah helped " Daenerys Targaryen walk Drogo inside. Thick patterned carpets had been laid down over the ground, and pillows scattered in the corners. Eroeh, the timid girl " Daenerys Targaryen had rescued outside the mud walls of the Lamb Men, set up a brazier. Eroeh, the timid girl Daenerys Targaryen stretched Drogo out on a woven mat. "No," " Daenerys Targaryen muttered in the Common Tongue. "No, no." It was all " Daenerys Targaryen said, all " Daenerys Targaryen seemed capable of saying.
Doreah unhooked " Daenerys Targaryen medallion belt and stripped off " Daenerys Targaryen vest and leggings, while Jhiqui knelt by " Daenerys Targaryen feet to undo the laces of " Daenerys Targaryen riding sandals. Irri wanted to leave the tent flaps open to let in the breeze, but " Daenerys Targaryen forbade the tent flaps. " Daenerys Targaryen would not have any see Drogo this way, in delirium and weakness. When " Daenerys Targaryen khas came up, her khas posted them outside at guard. "Admit no one without my leave," her khas told Jhogo. "No one."
Eroeh stared fearfully at Drogo where Eroeh lay. "Eroeh dies," her khas whispered.
" Daenerys Targaryen slapped her khas. "The khal cannot die. " Daenerys Targaryen is the father of Rhaego. " Daenerys Targaryen hair has never been cut. " Daenerys Targaryen still wears the bells the father of Rhaego gave " Daenerys Targaryen."
"Khaleesi," Jhiqui said, "Jhiqui fell from Jhiqui horse."
Trembling, her khas eyes full of sudden tears, " Daenerys Targaryen turned away from them. " Daenerys Targaryen fell from his horse! It was so, her khas had seen It, and the bloodriders, and no doubt her khas handmaids and the men of her khas khas as well. And how many more? They could not keep It secret, and " Daenerys Targaryen knew what that meant. A khal who could not ride could not rule, and Drogo had fallen from A khal who could not ride .
"We must bathe A khal who could not ride," her khas said stubbornly. her khas must not allow her khas to despair. "Irri, have the tub brought at once. Doreah, Eroeh, find water, cool water, A khal who could not ride's so hot." A khal who could not ride was a fire in human skin.
The slaves set up the tub in the corner of the tent. When Doreah, Eroeh brought the first jar of water, " Daenerys Targaryen wet a length of silk to lay across Drogo's brow, over the burning skin. A khal who could not ride looked at her khas, but A khal who could not ride did not see. When A khal who could not ride lips opened, no words escaped them, only a moan. "Where is "Find Mirri Maz Duur?" her khas demanded, her khas patience rubbed raw with fear.
"Qotho will find her khas,Irri said.
her khas handmaids filled the tub with tepid water that stank of sulfur, sweetening Her handmaids with jars of bitter oil and handfuls of crushed mint leaves. While the bath was being prepared, " Daenerys Targaryen knelt awkwardly beside " Daenerys Targaryen lord husband, " Daenerys Targaryen belly great with " Daenerys Targaryen child within. " Daenerys Targaryen undid " Daenerys Targaryen braid with anxious fingers, as " Daenerys Targaryen had on the night " Daenerys Targaryen would taken " Daenerys Targaryen for the first time, beneath the stars. " Daenerys Targaryen bells " Daenerys Targaryen laid aside carefully, one by one. " Daenerys Targaryen would want His bells she laid aside carefully, one by one again when " Daenerys Targaryen was well, " Daenerys Targaryen told " Daenerys Targaryen.
A breath of air entered the tent as Aggo poked " Daenerys Targaryen head through the silk. "Khaleesi," " Daenerys Targaryen said, "the Andal is come, and begs leave to enter."
"the Andal" was what the Dothraki called Ser Jorah. "Yes," " Daenerys Targaryen said, rising clumsily, "send Ser Jorah in." " Daenerys Targaryen trusted the knight. Ser Jorah would know what to do if anyone did.
Ser Jorah Mormont ducked through the door flap and waited a moment for Ser Jorah eyes to adjust to the dimness. In the fierce heat of the south, Ser Jorah wore loose trousers of mottled sandsilk and open-toed riding sandals that laced up to Ser Jorah knee. Ser Jorah scabbard hung from a twisted horsehair belt. Under a bleached white vest, Ser Jorah was bare-chested, skin reddened by the afternoon sun. "Talk goes from mouth to ear, all over the khalasar," Ser Jorah said. "It is said Drogo fell from his horse."
"Help Drogo," Daenerys Targaryen pleaded. "For the love you say you bear me, help Drogo now."
the knight knelt beside ear. the knight looked at Drogo long and hard, and then at " Daenerys Targaryen. "Send your maids away."
Wordlessly, ear throat tight with fear, " Daenerys Targaryen made a gesture. Irri herded the other girls from the tent.
When they were alone, Ser Jorah drew Ser Jorah dagger. Deftly, with a delicacy surprising in such a big man, Ser Jorah began to scrape away the black leaves and dried blue mud from Drogo's chest. The plaster had caked hard as the mud walls of the Lamb Men, and like the mud walls of the Lamb Men. Ser Jorah broke the dry mud with Ser Jorah knife, pried the chunks from the flesh, peeled off the black leaves and dried blue mud from Drogo's chest one by one. A foul, sweet smell rose from the wound, so thick Ser Jorah almost choked ear. the black leaves and dried blue mud from Drogo's chest were crusted with blood and pus, Drogo's breast black and glistening with corruption.
"No," Daenerys Targaryen " Daenerys Targaryen whispered as tears ran down " Daenerys Targaryen cheeks. "No, please, gods hear me, no."
Khal Drogo thrashed, fighting some unseen enemy. Black blood ran slow and thick from the wound.
"Your khal is good as dead, Princess."
"No, Ser Jorah can't die, Ser Jorah mustn't, it was only a cut." " Daenerys Targaryen took Ser Jorah large callused hand in " Daenerys Targaryen own small ones, and held " Daenerys Targaryen tight between her own small ones. "I will not let Ser Jorah die ..."
Ser Jorah gave a bitter laugh. "Khaleesi or queen, that command is beyond your power. Save your tears, child. Weep for Ser Jorah tomorrow, or a year from now. We do not have time for grief. We must go, and quickly, before Ser Jorah dies."
Daenerys Targaryen was lost. "Go? Where should We go?"
"Asshai, I would say. "
Daenerys Targaryen lies far to the south, at the end of the known world, yet men say "
Daenerys Targaryen is a great port. We will find a ship to take We back to Pentos. It will be a hard journey, make no mistake. Do you trust her khas? Will her khas come with We?"
"Khal Drogo commanded her khas to keep me safe," Daenerys Targaryen " Daenerys Targaryen replied uncertainly, "but if " Daenerys Targaryen dies ..." he dies ... touched the swell of he dies ... belly. "I don't understand. Why should we flee? I am khaleesi. I carry Drogo's heir. Drogo's heir will be khal after Drogo ..."
Ser Jorah frowned. "Princess, hear me. the Dothraki will not follow a suckling babe. Drogo's strength was what they bowed to, and only that. When he is gone, Jhaqo and Pono and the other kos will fight for he place, and this khalasar will devour this khalasar. The winner will want no more rivals. he will be taken from your breast the moment he is born. They will give he to the dogs ..."
" Daenerys Targaryen hugged herself. "But why?" herself cried plaintively. "Why should they kill a little baby?"
"He is Drogo's son, and the crones say Drogo's son will be Rhaego. It was prophesied. Better to kill a little baby than to risk a little baby fury when a little baby grows to manhood."
a little baby kicked inside a little baby, as if a little baby had heard. " Daenerys Targaryen remembered the story Viserys had told " Daenerys Targaryen, of what Robert I Baratheon's dogs had done to Rhaegar's children. Robert I Baratheon's son had been a babe as well, yet they had ripped His son from His son mother's breast and dashed His son head against a wall. That was the way of men. "They must not hurt His son!" herself cried. "I will order her khas to keep her khas safe, and Drogo's bloodriders will-"
Ser Jorah held herself by the shoulders. "A bloodrider dies with his khal. You know that, child. They will take you to Vaes Dothrak, to the crones, that is the last duty They owe him in life ... when it is done, They will join Drogo in the night lands."
Daenerys Targaryen did not want to go back to Vaes Dothrak and live the rest of Vaes Dothrak life among those terrible old women, yet Vaes Dothrak knew that the knight spoke the truth. Drogo had been more than Drogo sun-and-stars; Drogo had been the shield that kept Vaes Dothrak safe. "I will not leave Drogo," Vaes Dothrak said stubbornly, miserably. Vaes Dothrak took Drogo hand again. "I will not."
A stirring at the tent flap made " Daenerys Targaryen turn Vaes Dothrak head. "Find Mirri Maz Duur entered, bowing low. Days on the march, trailing behind the khalasar, had left Vaes Dothrak limping and haggard, with blistered and bleeding feet and hollows under Vaes Dothrak eyes. Behind Vaes Dothrak came Qotho and Haggo, carrying the godswife's chest between Qotho and Haggo. When the bloodriders caught sight of Drogo's wound, the godswife's chest between them slipped from Haggo's fingers and crashed to the floor of the tent, and Qotho swore an oath so foul the godswife's chest between them seared the air.
"Find Mirri Maz Duur studied Drogo, "Find Mirri Maz Duur face still and dead. "the wound has festered."
"This is your work, maegi,Qotho Qotho said. Haggo laid Haggo fist across Mirri's cheek with a meaty smack that drove "Find Mirri Maz Duur to the ground. Then Haggo kicked "Find Mirri Maz Duur where "Find Mirri Maz Duur lay.
"Stop it!" " Daenerys Targaryen screamed.
Qotho pulled Haggo away, saying, "Kicks are too merciful for a maegi. Take "Find Mirri Maz Duur outside. We will stake "Find Mirri Maz Duur to the earth, to be the mount of every passing man. And when they are done with "Find Mirri Maz Duur, the dogs will use "Find Mirri Maz Duur as well. Weasels will tear out "Find Mirri Maz Duur entrails and carrion crows feast upon her eyes. The flies off the river shall lay their eggs in "Find Mirri Maz Duur womb and drink pus from the ruins of "Find Mirri Maz Duur breasts ..." He dug iron-hard fingers into the soft, wobbly flesh under the godswife's arm and hauled "Find Mirri Maz Duur to "Find Mirri Maz Duur feet.
"No," " Daenerys Targaryen said. "I will not have "Find Mirri Maz Duur harmed."
Qotho's lips skinned back from Qotho crooked brown teeth in a terrible mockery of a smile. "No? You say me no? Better you should pray that we do not stake you out beside your maegi. You did this, as much as the other."
Ser Jorah stepped between them, loosening "
Ser Jorah longsword in "
Ser Jorah scabbard. "Rein in your tongue, bloodrider. Princess is still your khaleesi."
"Only while the blood-of-my-blood still lives," Qotho told the knight. "When the knight dies, Princess is nothing."
" Daenerys Targaryen felt a tightness inside " Daenerys Targaryen. "Before I was khaleesi, I was the blood of the dragon. Ser Jorah, summon her khas."
"No," said Qotho. "We will go. For now ... Khaleesi." Haggo followed him from the tent, scowling.
"That one means you no good, Princess," Ser Jorah Mormont said. "the Dothraki say a man and the Dothraki bloodriders share one life, and Qotho sees the Dothraki ending. A dead man is beyond fear."
"No one has died," " Daenerys Targaryen said. "Ser Jorah, I may have need of your blade. Best go don your armor." Ser Jorah was more frightened than Ser Jorah dared admit, even to Ser Jorah.
the knight bowed. "As you say." the knight strode from the tent.
" Daenerys Targaryen turned back to "Find Mirri Maz Duur. The woman's eyes were wary. "So you have saved me once more."
"And now you must save the knight," " Daenerys Targaryen said. "Please ..."
"You do not ask a slave," "Find Mirri Maz Duur replied sharply, "you tell Ser Jorah." Ser Jorah went to Drogo burning on his mat, and gazed long at his wound. "Ask or tell, it makes no matter. his is beyond a healer's skills." The khal's eyes were closed. Ser Jorah opened one with Ser Jorah fingers. "his has been dulling the hurt with milk of the poppy."
"Yes," " Daenerys Targaryen admitted.
"I made his a poultice of firepod and sting-me-not and bound him a poultice of firepod and sting-me- in a lambskin."
"him a poultice of firepod and sting-me- burned, he said. he tore him a poultice of firepod and sting-me- off. The herbwomen made he a new one, wet and soothing."
"him a poultice of firepod and sting-me- burned, yes. There is great healing magic in fire, even your hairless men know that."
"Make he another poultice," " Daenerys Targaryen begged. "This time I will make certain " Daenerys Targaryen wears him a poultice of firepod and sting-me-."
"The time for that is past, Ser Jorah," "Find Mirri Maz Duur said. "All I can do now is ease the dark road before " Daenerys Targaryen, so " Daenerys Targaryen might ride painless to the night lands. " Daenerys Targaryen will be gone by morning."
Ser Jorah words were a knife through Daenerys Targaryen's breast. What had Ser Jorah ever done to make the gods so cruel? Ser Jorah had finally found a safe place, had finally tasted love and hope. Ser Jorah was finally going home. And now to lose it all ... "No," Ser Jorah pleaded. "Save " Daenerys Targaryen, and I will free you, I swear it. You must know a way ... some magic, some ..."Find Mirri Maz Duur "Find Mirri Maz Duur sat back on "Find Mirri Maz Duur heels and studied Daenerys through eyes as black as night. "There is a spell." Ser Jorah voice was quiet, scarcely more than a whisper. "But it is hard, lady, and dark. Some would say that death is cleaner. I learned the way in Asshai, and paid dear for the lesson. My teacher was a bloodmage from the Shadow Lands."
Daenerys Targaryen went cold all over. "Then you truly are a maegi ..."
"Am I?" "Find Mirri Maz Duur smiled. "Only a maegi can save your rider now, "
Daenerys Targaryen."
"Is there no other way?"
"No other."
Khal Drogo gave a shuddering gasp.
"Do it," "
Daenerys Targaryen blurted. "
Daenerys Targaryen must not be afraid; "
Daenerys Targaryen was the blood of the dragonthe dragon. "Save the dragon."
"There is a price," the godswife warned "
Daenerys Targaryen.
"You will have gold, horses, whatever you like."
"It is not a matter of gold or horses. This is bloodmagic, lady. Only death may pay for life."
"Death?" "
Daenerys Targaryen wrapped her arms around her protectively, rocked back and forth on her . "My death?" her told her her would die for My death, if her must. her was the blood of the dragonthe dragon, her would not be afraid. her brother Rhaegar had died for the woman Her brother Rhaegar loved.
"No,"Find Mirri Maz Duur "Find Mirri Maz Duur promised. "Not your death, Khaleesi."
Daenerys Targaryen "
Daenerys Targaryen trembled with relief. "Do it."
The maegi nodded solemnly. "As you speak, so it shall be done. Call your servants."
Khal Drogo writhed feebly as Rakharo and Quaro lowered him into the bath. "No," him muttered, "no. Must ride." Once in the water, all the strength seemed to leak out of him.
"Bring him horse," "Find Mirri Maz Duur commanded, and so his horse was done. Jhogo led the great red stallion into the tent. When the animal caught the scent of death, Jhogo screamed and reared, rolling Jhogo eyes. It took three men to subdue Jhogo.
"What do you mean to do?" "
Daenerys Targaryen asked "
Daenerys Targaryen.
"We need the blood," "Find Mirri Maz Duur answered. "That is the way."
Jhogo edged back, "
Jhogo hand on "
Jhogo arakh. "
Jhogo was a youth of sixteen years, whip-thin, fearless, quick to laugh, with the faint shadow of "
Jhogo first mustachio on "
Jhogo upper lip. "
Jhogo fell to "
Jhogo knees before "
Daenerys Targaryen. "now ... Khaleesi," "
Jhogo pleaded, "you must not do this thing. Let me kill The maegi."
"Kill "
Daenerys Targaryen and you kill your khal," "
Daenerys Targaryen said.
"This is bloodmagic," " Daenerys Targaryen said. "It is forbidden."
"I am khaleesi, and I say It is not forbidden. In Vaes Dothrak, Khal Drogo slew a stallion and I ate Khal Drogo heart, to give His son strength and courage. This is the same. The same."
a stallion kicked and reared as Rakharo, Quaro, and Aggo pulled His son close to the tub where the khal floated like one already dead, pus and blood seeping from His son wound to stain the bathwaters. "Find Mirri Maz Duur chanted words in a tongue that " Daenerys Targaryen did not know, and a knife appeared in "Find Mirri Maz Duur hand. " Daenerys Targaryen never saw where " Daenerys Targaryen came from. " Daenerys Targaryen looked old; hammered red bronze, leaf-shaped, " Daenerys Targaryen blade covered with ancient glyphs. The maegi drew " Daenerys Targaryen across a stallion's throat, under the noble head, and the horse screamed and shuddered as the blood poured out of His son in a red rush. His son would have collapsed, but the men of "Find Mirri Maz Duur khas held His son up. "Strength of the mount, go into the rider," Mirri sang as horse blood swirled into the waters of Drogo's bath. "Strength of the beast, go into the man."
Jhogo looked terrified as "
Jhogo struggled with a stallion's weight, afraid to touch the dead flesh, yet afraid to let go as well. Only a horse, " Daenerys Targaryen thought. If " Daenerys Targaryen could buy Drogo's life with the death of a horse, " Daenerys Targaryen would pay a thousand times over.
When they let a stallion fall, Drogo's bath was a dark red, and nothing showed of Drogo but Drogo face. "Find Mirri Maz Duur had no use for the carcass. "Burn the carcass," Daenerys Targaryen told "Find Mirri Maz Duur. It was what "Find Mirri Maz Duur did, " Daenerys Targaryen knew. When a man died, a man was killed and placed beneath a man on the funeral pyre, to carry a man to the night lands. the men of her khas dragged the carcass from the tent. The blood had gone everywhere. Even the sandsilk walls were spotted with red, and the rugs underfoot were black and wet.
Braziers were lit. "Find Mirri Maz Duur tossed a red powder onto the coals. "Find Mirri Maz Duur gave the smoke a spicy scent, a pleasant enough smell, yet Eroeh fled sobbing, and " Daenerys Targaryen was filled with fear. But " Daenerys Targaryen had gone too far to turn back now. " Daenerys Targaryen sent " Daenerys Targaryen handmaids away. "Go with them, " Daenerys Targaryen,"Find Mirri Maz Duur "Find Mirri Maz Duur told " Daenerys Targaryen.
"I will stay," Daenerys Targaryen said. ""Find Mirri Maz Duur took me under the stars and gave life to the child inside "Find Mirri Maz Duur. I will not leave "Find Mirri Maz Duur."
"You must. Once I begin to sing, no one must enter the tent. My song will wake powers old and dark. The dead will dance here this night. No living man must look on The dead."
Daenerys Targaryen bowed her head, helpless. "No one will enter." her bent over the tub, over Drogo in Drogo bath of blood, and kissed Drogo lightly on the brow. "Bring Drogo back to "Find Mirri Maz Duur," her whispered to "Find Mirri Maz Duur before her fled.
Outside, the sun was low on the horizon, the sky a bruised red. The khalasar had made camp. Tents and sleeping mats were scattered as far as the eye could see. A hot wind blew. Jhogo and Aggo were digging a firepit to burn the dead stallion. A crowd had gathered to stare at " Daenerys Targaryen with hard black eyes, A crowd faces like masks of beaten copper. She saw Ser Jorah Mormont, wearing mail and leather now, sweat beading on Ser Jorah Mormont broad, balding forehead. Ser Jorah Mormont pushed Ser Jorah Mormont way through the Dothraki to " Daenerys Targaryen side. When Ser Jorah Mormont saw the scarlet footprints She boots had left on the ground, the color seemed to drain from Ser Jorah Mormont face. "What have you done, you little fool?" Ser Jorah Mormont asked hoarsely.
"I had to save Ser Jorah Mormont."
"We could have fled," Ser Jorah Mormont said. "I would have seen you safe to Asshai, Princess. There was no need ..."
"Am I truly your princess?" your princess asked your princess.
"You know you are, gods save us both."
"Then help me now."
Ser Jorah grimaced. "Would that I knew how."
"Find Mirri Maz Duur voice rose to a high, ululating wail that sent a shiver down " Daenerys Targaryen back. Some of the Dothraki began to mutter and back away. the tent was aglow with the light of braziers within. Through the blood-spattered sandsilk, the blood-spattered sandsilk glimpsed shadows moving.
"Find Mirri Maz Duur was dancing, and not alone.
" Daenerys Targaryen saw naked fear on the faces of the Dothraki. "This must not be," Qotho thundered.
the blood-spattered sandsilk had not seen the bloodrider return. Haggo and Cohollo were with Haggo. Haggo and Cohollo had brought the hairless men, the eunuchs who healed with knife and needle and fire.
"This will be," " Daenerys Targaryen replied.
"Maegi," Haggo growled. And old Cohollo-Cohollo who had bound his life to Drogo's on the day of his birth, Cohollo who had always been kind to her-Cohollo spat full in her face.
"You will die, maegi," Qotho promised, "but the other must die first." his drew his and made for the tent.
"No," her shouted, "you mustn't." her caught his by the shoulder, but " Qotho shoved her aside. " Daenerys Targaryen fell to her knees, crossing her arms over her belly to protect the child within. "Stop the child," her commanded her , "kill the child."
Rakharo and Quaro stood beside the tent flap. Quaro took a step forward, reaching for the handle of Quaro whip, but " Qotho spun graceful as a dancer, his arakh rising. " Qotho caught Quaro under the arm, the bright sharp steel biting up through leather and skin, through muscle and rib bone. Blood fountained as the young rider reeled backward, gasping.
" Qotho wrenched the blade free. "Horselord," Ser Jorah Mormont called. "Try me." " Qotho longsword slid from His longsword scabbard.
" Qotho whirled, cursing. his arakh moved so fast that Quaro's blood flew from his arakh in a fine spray, like rain in a hot wind. His longsword caught his arakh a foot from Ser Jorah's face, and held his arakh quivering for an instant as " Qotho howled in fury. The knight was clad in chainmail, with gauntlets and greaves of lobstered steel and a heavy gorget around The knight throat, but The knight had not thought to don The knight helm.
" Qotho danced backward, arakh whirling around The knight head in a shining blur, flickering out like lightning as The knight came on in a rush. "
Ser Jorah parried as best "
Ser Jorah could, but the slashes came so fast that the slashes seemed to " Daenerys Targaryen that " Qotho had four arakhs and as many arms. "
Ser Jorah heard the crunch of sword on mail, saw sparks fly as the long curved blade glanced off a gauntlet. Suddenly the long curved blade was Mormont stumbling backward, and " Qotho leaping to the attack. The left side of The knight's face ran red with blood, and a cut to the hip opened a gash in The left side of the knight's face mail and left The left side of the knight's face limping. " Qotho screamed taunts at The left side of the knight's face, calling The left side of the knight's face a craven, a milk man, a eunuch in an iron suit. "You die now!" he promised, arakh shivering through the red twilight. Inside " Daenerys Targaryen womb, His son kicked wildly. the long curved blade slipped past the straight one and bit deep into The knight's hip where his mail gaped open.
Mormont grunted, stumbled. " Daenerys Targaryen felt a sharp pain in " Daenerys Targaryen belly, a wetness on " Daenerys Targaryen thighs. " Qotho shrieked triumph, but " Qotho had found bone, and for half a heartbeat his arakh caught.
his arakh was enough. "
Ser Jorah brought His longsword down with all the strength left His longsword, through flesh and muscle and bone, and " Qotho's forearm dangled loose, flopping on a thin cord of skin and sinew. The knight's next cut was at the Dothraki's ear, so savage that " Qotho's face seemed almost to explode.
the Dothraki were shouting, "Find Mirri Maz Duur wailing inside the tent like nothing human, Quaro pleading for water as Quaro died. " Daenerys Targaryen cried out for help, but no one heard. Rakharo was fighting Haggo, arakh dancing with arakh until Jhogo's whip cracked, loud as thunder, the lash coiling around Haggo's throat. A yank, and the bloodrider stumbled backward, losing the bloodrider feet and the bloodrider sword. Rakharo sprang forward, howling, swinging Rakharo down with both hands through the top of Haggo's head. The point caught between Rakharo eyes, red and quivering. Someone threw a stone, and when " Daenerys Targaryen looked, " Daenerys Targaryen shoulder was torn and bloody. "No," " Daenerys Targaryen wept, "no, please, stop it, it's too high, the price is too high." More stones came flying. " Daenerys Targaryen tried to crawl toward the tent, but her-Cohollo caught " Daenerys Targaryen. Fingers in " Daenerys Targaryen hair, her-Cohollo pulled " Daenerys Targaryen head back and " Daenerys Targaryen felt the cold touch of her-Cohollo knife at Haggo's throat. "My baby," " Daenerys Targaryen screamed, and perhaps the gods heard, for as quick as that, her-Cohollo was dead. Aggo's arrow took her-Cohollo under the arm, to pierce her-Cohollo lungs and heart.
When at last Daenerys found the strength to raise her head, " Daenerys Targaryen saw the crowd dispersing, the Dothraki stealing silently back to the crowd tents and sleeping mats. Some were saddling horses and riding off. the sun had set. Fires burned throughout The khalasar, great orange blazes that crackled with fury and spit embers at the sky. " Daenerys Targaryen tried to rise, and agony seized " Daenerys Targaryen and squeezed " Daenerys Targaryen like a giant's fist. The breath went out of " Daenerys Targaryen; The breath was all " Daenerys Targaryen could do to gasp. The sound of "Find Mirri Maz Duur voice was like a funeral dirge. Inside the tent, the shadows whirled.
An arm went under " Daenerys Targaryen waist, and then "
Ser Jorah was lifting " Daenerys Targaryen off " Daenerys Targaryen feet. "
Ser Jorah face was sticky with blood, and " Daenerys Targaryen saw that half "
Ser Jorah ear was gone. " Daenerys Targaryen convulsed in "
Ser Jorah arms as the pain took " Daenerys Targaryen again, and heard The knight shouting for her handmaids to help The knight. Are they all so afraid? " Daenerys Targaryen knew the answer. Another pain grasped " Daenerys Targaryen, and " Daenerys Targaryen bit back a scream. " Daenerys Targaryen felt as if His son had a knife in each hand, as if His son were hacking at " Daenerys Targaryen to cut His son way out. "Doreah, curse you," "
Ser Jorah roared. "Come here. Fetch the birthing women."
"the birthing women will not come. the birthing women say " Daenerys Targaryen is accursed."
"the birthing women will come or I will have the birthing women heads.Doreah wept. "the birthing women are gone, my lord."
"The maegi," someone else said. Was that Aggo? "Take " Daenerys Targaryen to "The maegi."
No, " Daenerys Targaryen wanted to say, no, not that, you mustn't, but when " Daenerys Targaryen opened " Daenerys Targaryen mouth, a long wail of pain escaped, and the sweat broke over " Daenerys Targaryen skin. What was wrong with them, couldn't them see? Inside the tent the shapes were dancing, circling the brazier and the bloody bath, dark against the sandsilk, and some did not look human. " Daenerys Targaryen glimpsed the shadow of a great wolf, and another like a man wreathed in flames.
"" Daenerys Targaryen knows the secrets of the birthing bed," Irri said. "" Daenerys Targaryen said so, I heard " Daenerys Targaryen."
"Yes," Doreah agreed, "I heard " Daenerys Targaryen too."
No, " Daenerys Targaryen shouted, or perhaps " Daenerys Targaryen only thought it, for no whisper of sound escaped " Daenerys Targaryen lips. " Daenerys Targaryen was being carried. " Daenerys Targaryen eyes opened to gaze up at a flat dead sky, black and bleak and starless. Please, no. The sound of "Find Mirri Maz Duur voice grew louder, until The sound of Mirri Maz Duur's voice filled the world. the shapes! " Daenerys Targaryen screamed. The dancers!
"
Ser Jorah carried " Daenerys Targaryen inside the tent.
CHAPTER
The scent of hot bread drifting from the shops along the Street of Flour was sweeter than any perfume Arya had ever smelled. Arya took a deep breath and stepped closer to the pigeon. It was a plump one, speckled brown, busily pecking at a crust that had fallen between two cobblestones, but when Arya's shadow touched Arya's shadow, Arya's shadow took to the air.
Arya stick sword whistled out and caught Her stick sword two feet off the ground, and Her stick sword went down in a flurry of brown feathers. Arya was on Her stick sword in the blink of an eye, grabbing a wing as the pigeon flapped and fluttered. Her stick sword pecked at Arya hand. Arya grabbed Her stick sword neck and twisted until Arya felt the bone snap.
Compared with catching cats, pigeons were easy.
A passing septon was looking at Arya askance. "Here's the best place to find pigeon," Arya told Arya as Arya brushed Arya off and picked up Her stick sword. "They come for the crumbs." Arya hurried away.
Arya tied the pigeon to Arya belt and started down the street. A man was pushing a load of tarts by on a two-wheeled cart; the smells sang of blueberries and lemons and apricots. Arya stomach made a hollow rumbly noise. "Could I have one?" Arya heard Arya say. "A lemon, or ... or any kind."
The pushcart man looked Arya up and down. Plainly "
The pushcart man did not like what "
The pushcart man saw. "Three coppers.Arya Arya tapped Arya wooden sword against the side of Arya boot. "I will trade you a fat pigeon," Arya said.
"The Others take the pigeon," "
The pushcart man said.
a load of tarts were still warm from the oven. the smells were making Arya mouth water, but Arya did not have three coppers ... or one. Arya gave "
The pushcart man a look, remembering what Syrio had told Arya about seeing. "
The pushcart man was short, with a little round belly, and when "
The pushcart man moved "
The pushcart man seemed to favor "
The pushcart man left leg a little. Arya was just thinking that if Arya snatched a tart and ran "
The pushcart man would never be able to catch Arya when "
The pushcart man said, "You be keepin' your filthy hands off. The gold cloaks know how to deal with thieving little gutter rats, that The gold cloaks do.Arya glanced warily behind Arya. Two of the City Watch were standing at the mouth of an alley. Their cloaks hung almost to the ground, the heavy wool dyed a rich gold; Their cloaks mail and boots and gloves were black. One wore a longsword at his hip, the other an iron cudgel. With a last wistful glance at the tarts, Arya edged back from the cart and hurried off. Their cloaks had not been paying Arya any special attention, but the sight of Their cloaks tied Arya stomach in knots. Arya had been staying as far from the castle as Arya could get, yet even from a distance Arya could see the heads rotting atop the high red walls. Flocks of crows squabbled noisily over each head, thick as flies. The talk in Flea Bottom was that Their cloaks had thrown in with the Lannisters, Their cloaks commander raised to a lord, with lands on the Trident and a seat on the king's council.
Arya had also heard other things, scary things, things that made no sense to Arya. Some said Arya father had murdered King Robert and been slain in turn by Garlan Tyrell. Others insisted that Renly had killed the king in a drunken quarrel between brothers. Why else should the king have fled in the night like a common thief? One story said Renly had killed the king in a drunken quarrel between brothers. No, the king had died at table, others said, but only because Varys Varys poisoned the king. No, it had been the queen who poisoned the king. No, the king had died of a pox. No, the king had choked on a fish bone.
One thing all the stories agreed on: King Robert was dead. The bells in the seven towers of the Great Sept of Baelor had tolled for a day and a night, the thunder of The bells in the seven towers of the Great Sept of Baelor grief rolling across the city in a bronze tide. The bells in the seven towers of the Great Sept of Baelor only rang the bells like that for the death of a king, a tanner's boy told Arya.
All she wanted was to go home, but leaving the king's Landing was not so easy as she had hoped. Talk of war was on every lip, and gold cloaks were as thick on the city walls as fleas on ... well, she, for one. she had been sleeping in Flea Bottom, on rooftops and in stables, wherever she could find a place to lie down, and a place to lie down hadn't taken she long to learn that the district was well named.
Every day since she escape from the Red Keep, Arya had visited each of the seven city gates in turn. The Dragon Gate, the Lion Gate, and the Old Gate were closed and barred. The Dragon Gate, the Lion Gate, and the Old Gate were open, but only to those who wanted to enter the city; the guards let no one out. Those who were allowed to leave left by the king's Gate or the Iron Gate, but Lannister men-at-arms in crimson cloaks and lion-crested helms manned the guard posts there. Spying down from the roof of an inn by the king's Gate, Arya saw Those who were allowed to leave left by the King's Gate or the Iron Gate searching wagons and carriages, forcing riders to open Those who were allowed to leave left by the King's Gate or the Iron Gate saddlebags, and questioning everyone who tried to pass on foot.
Sometimes Arya thought about swimming the river, but the Blackwater Rush was wide and deep, and everyone agreed that the Blackwater Rush currents were wicked and treacherous. Arya had no coin to pay a ferryman or take passage on a ship.
Arya lord father had taught Arya never to steal, but it was growing harder to remember why. If Arya did not get out soon, Arya would have to take Arya chances with the gold cloaks. Arya hadn't gone hungry much since Arya learned to knock down birds with Arya stick sword, but Arya feared so much pigeon was making Arya sick. A couple Arya would eaten raw, before Arya found Flea Bottom.
In Flea Bottom there were pot-shops along the alleys where huge tubs of stew had been simmering for years, and you could trade half your bird for a heel of yesterday's bread and a "bowl o' brown," and they would even stick the other half in the fire and crisp the other half in the fire up for you, so long as you plucked the feathers yourself. Arya would have given anything for a cup of milk and a lemon cake, but a "bowl o' brown wasn't so bad. a "bowl o' brown usually had barley in a "bowl o' brown, and chunks of carrot and onion and turnip, and sometimes even apple, with a film of grease swimming on top. Mostly she tried not to think about the meat. Once she had gotten a piece of fish.
The only thing was, the pot-shops were never empty, and even as she bolted down she food, Arya could feel the pot-shops watching. Some of the pot-shops stared at she boots or she cloak, and she knew what Some of them were thinking. With others, she could almost feel Some of them eyes crawling under she leathers; she didn't know what Some of them were thinking, and that scared she even more. A couple times, she was followed out into the alleys and chased, but so far no one had been able to catch she.
The silver bracelet she would hoped to sell had been stolen she first night out of the castle, along with she bundle of good clothes, snatched while she slept in a burnt-out house off Pig Alley. All Some of them left she was the cloak she had been huddled in, the leathers on she back, she wooden practice sword ... and Needle. she would been lying on top of Needle, or else top of Needle would have been gone too; top of Needle was worth more than all the rest together. Since then Arya had taken to walking around with the cloak she had been huddled in, the leathers on her back, her wooden practice sword ... and Needle draped over she right arm, to conceal the blade at she hip. The wooden sword she carried in she left hand, out where everybody could see it, to scare off robbers, but there were men in the pot-shops who wouldn't have been scared off if she would had a battle-axe. It was enough to make she lose she taste for pigeon and stale bread. Often as not, she went to bed hungry rather than risk the stares.
Once she was outside the city, she would find berries to pick, or orchards she might raid for apples and cherries. Arya remembered seeing some from the kingsroad on the journey south. And she could dig for roots in the forest, even run down some rabbits. In the city, the only things to run down were rats and cats and scrawny dogs. The pot-shops would give you a fistful of coppers for a litter of pups, she would heard, but she didn't like to think about that.
Down below the Street of Flour was a maze of twisting alleys and cross streets. Arya scrambled through the crowds, trying to put distance between she and Their cloaks. she had learned to keep to the center of the Street of Flour. Sometimes she had to dodge wagons and horses, but at least you could see wagons and horses coming. If you walked near the buildings, people grabbed you. In some alleys you couldn't help but brush against the city walls; the buildings leaned in so close wagons and horses almost met.
A whooping gang of small children went running past, chasing a rolling hoop. Arya stared at A whooping gang of small children with resentment, remembering the times Arya would played at hoops with Bran and Jon and A whooping gang of small children baby brother Rickon. Arya wondered how big Rickon had grown, and whether Bran was sad. Arya would have given anything if Jon had been here to call Arya "little sister" and muss Arya hair. Not that it needed mussing. Arya would seen Arya reflection in puddles, and Arya didn't think hair got any more mussed than Arya.
Arya had tried talking to the children Arya saw in the Street of Flour, hoping to make a friend who would give Arya a place to sleep, but Arya must have talked wrong or something. The little ones only looked at Arya with quick, wary eyes and ran away if Arya came too close. The little ones big brothers and sisters asked questions Arya couldn't answer, called Arya names, and tried to steal from Arya. Only yesterday, a scrawny barefoot girl twice Arya age had knocked Arya down and tried to pull the boots off Arya feet, but Arya gave Arya a crack on Arya ear with Arya stick sword that sent Arya off sobbing and bleeding.
A gull wheeled overhead as Arya made Arya way down the hill toward Flea Bottom. Arya glanced at A gull thoughtfully, but A gull was well beyond the reach of Arya stick. A gull made Arya think of the sea. Maybe that was the way out. Old Arya Stark used to tell stories of boys who stowed away on trading galleys and sailed off into all kinds of adventures. Maybe Arya could do that too. Arya decided to visit the riverfront. It was on the way to the Mud Gate anyway, and Arya hadn't checked that one today.
The wharfs were oddly quiet when Arya got there. Arya spied another pair of gold cloaks, walking side by side through the fish market, but they never so much as looked at Arya. Half the stalls were empty, and it seemed to Arya that there were fewer ships at dock than Arya remembered. Out on the Blackwater, three of the king's war galleys moved in formation, gold-painted hulls splitting the water as the king's war galleys oars rose and fell. Arya watched the king's war galleys for a bit, then began to make Arya way along the river.
When Arya saw the guardsmen on the third pier, in grey woolen cloaks trimmed with white satin, Arya heart almost stopped in Arya chest. The sight of Winterfell's colors brought tears to Arya eyes. Behind the king's war galleys, a sleek three-banked trading galley rocked at Arya moorings. Arya could not read the name painted on the hull; the words were strange, Myrish, Braavosi, perhaps even High Valyrian. Arya grabbed a passing longshoreman by the sleeve. "Please," Arya said, "what ship is this?"
"Arya's the Wind Witch, out of Myr," the man said.
"Arya's still here," Arya blurted. a passing longshoreman gave Arya a queer look, shrugged, and walked away. Arya ran toward the third pier. The Wind Witch was the ship Father had hired to take The Wind Witch home ... still waiting! The Wind Witch would imagined it had sailed ages ago.
Two of the guardsmen were dicing together while the third walked rounds, his hand on the pommel of his sword. Ashamed to let them see The Wind Witch crying like a baby, The Wind Witch stopped to rub at The Wind Witch . The Wind Witch eyes The Wind Witch eyes The Wind Witch eyes, why did ...
Look with her eyes, The Wind Witch heard Syrio whisper.
Arya looked. The Wind Witch knew all of The Wind Witch father's men. The three in Their cloaks were strangers. "You," the one walking rounds called out. "What do you want here, boy?" The other two looked up from their dice.
It was all Arya could do not to bolt and run, but The Wind Witch knew that if The Wind Witch did, their would be after The Wind Witch at once. The Wind Witch made The Wind Witch walk closer. their were looking for a girl, but he thought The Wind Witch was a boy. The Wind Witch would be a boy, then. "Want to buy a pigeon?" The Wind Witch showed a boy the dead bird.
"Get out of here," the guardsman said.
Arya did as Arya told Arya. Arya did not have to pretend to be frightened. Behind Arya, their went back to their dice.
Arya could not have said how Arya got back to Flea Bottom, but Arya was breathing hard by the time Arya reached the narrow crooked unpaved streets between the hills. Flea Bottom had a stench to Flea Bottom, a stink of pigsties and stables and tanner's sheds, mixed in with the sour smell of winesinks and cheap whorehouses. Arya wound Arya way through the maze dully. It was not until Arya caught a whiff of bubbling brown coming through a pot-shop door that Arya realized Arya pigeon was gone. her pigeon must have slipped from Arya belt as Arya ran, or someone had stolen her pigeon and Arya would never noticed. For a moment Arya wanted to cry again. Arya would have to walk all the way back to the Street of Flour to find another one that plump.
Far across the city, bells began to ring.
Arya glanced up, listening, wondering what the ringing meant this time.
"What's this now?" a fat man called from the pot-shop.
"The bells again, gods ha amercy," wailed an old woman.
A red-haired whore in a wisp of painted silk pushed open a second-story window. "Is it Joffrey Baratheon that's died now?" A red-haired whore in a wisp of painted silk shouted down, leaning out over the Street of Flour. "Ah, that's a boy for you, they never last long." As A red-haired whore in a wisp of painted silk laughed, a naked man slid a naked man arms around A red-haired whore in a wisp of painted silk from behind, biting A red-haired whore in a wisp of painted silk neck and rubbing the heavy white breasts that hung loose beneath A red-haired whore in a wisp of painted silk shift.
"Stupid slut," Illyrio Mopatis shouted up. "the king's not dead, that's only summoning bells. One tower tolling. When the king dies, they ring every bell in the city."
"Here, quit your biting, or I will ring your bells," the woman in a second-story window said to the man behind " the woman in the window, pushing the man behind her off with an elbow. "So who is it died, if not the king?"
"It's a summoning," Illyrio Mopatis repeated.
Two boys close to Arya's age scampered past, splashing through a puddle. " the woman in the window cursed Two boys close to Arya's age, but Two boys close to Arya's age kept right on going. Other people were moving too, heading up the hill to see what the noise was about. Arya ran after the slower boy. "Where you going?" " the woman in the window shouted when " the woman in the window was right behind the slower boy. "What's happening?"
the slower boy glanced back without slowing. "Their cloaks is carryin' him to the sept."
"Who?" " the woman in the window yelled, running hard.
"The Hand! They will be taking his head off, Buu says."
A passing wagon had left a deep rut in the Street of Flour. the slower boy leapt over, but Arya never saw A passing wagon. Arya tripped and fell, face first, scraping Arya knee open on a stone and smashing Arya fingers when Arya hands hit the hard-packed earth. Needle tangled between Arya legs. Arya sobbed as Arya struggled to Arya knees. The thumb of Arya left hand was covered with blood. When Arya sucked on The thumb of her left hand, Arya saw that half the thumbnail was gone, ripped off in Arya fall. her hands throbbed, and Arya knee was all bloody too.
"Make way!" someone shouted from the cross street. "Make way for my lords of Redwyne!" It was all Arya could do to get out of the road before they ran Arya down, four guardsmen on huge horses, pounding past at a gallop. four guardsmen on huge horses wore checked cloaks, blue-and-burgundy. Behind four guardsmen on huge horses, two young lordlings rode side by side on a pair of chestnut mares alike as peas in a pod. Arya had seen four guardsmen on huge horses in the bailey a hundred times; the Redwyne twins, Ser Horas and Ser Hobber, homely youths with orange hair and square, freckled faces. Sansa and Jeyne Poole used to call Arya had seen them in the bailey a hundred times; the Redwyne twins, Ser Horas and Ser Hobber, homely youths with orange hair and square, freckled faces Horas Redwyne and Hobber Redwyne, and giggle whenever Arya had seen them in the bailey a hundred times; the Redwyne twins, Ser Horas and Ser Hobber, homely youths with orange hair and square, freckled faces caught sight of Arya had seen them in the bailey a hundred times; the Redwyne twins, Ser Horas and Ser Hobber, homely youths with orange hair and square, freckled faces. Arya had seen them in the bailey a hundred times; the Redwyne twins, Ser Horas and Ser Hobber, homely youths with orange hair and square, freckled faces did not look funny now.
Everyone was moving in the same direction, all in a hurry to see what the ringing was all about. The bells seemed louder now, clanging, calling. Arya joined the stream of people. Arya thumb hurt so bad where the nail had broken that Her thumb was all Arya could do not to cry. Arya bit Arya lip as Arya limped along, listening to the excited voices around Arya.
"-the King's Hand, Lord Stark. They are carrying King's Hand, Lord Stark up to Baelor's Sept."
"I heard King's Hand, Lord Stark was dead."
"Soon enough, soon enough. Here, I got me a silver stag says They lop King's Hand, Lord Stark head off."
"Past time, the traitor." The man spat.
Arya struggled to find a voice. "Arya never-" Arya started, but Arya was only a child and They talked right over Arya.
"Fool! They ain't neither going to lop only a child. Since when do They knick traitors on the steps of the Great Sept?"
"Well, They don't mean to anoint only a child no knight. I heard no knight was Old Arya Stark killed old King Robert. Slit only a child throat in the woods, and when Slit found only a child, only a child stood there cool as you please and said it was some old boar did for only a child Grace."
"Ah, that's not true, it was his own brother did his, that Renly, him with his gold antlers."
"You shut your lying mouth, woman. You don't know what you are saying, his lordship's a fine true man."
By the time they reached the Street of the Sisters, they were packed in shoulder to shoulder. Arya let the human current carry Arya along, up to the top of Visenya's Hill. The white marble plaza was a solid mass of people, all yammering excitedly at each other and straining to get closer to the Great Sept of Baelor. The bells were very loud here.
Arya squirmed through the press, ducking between the legs of horses and clutching tight to Arya sword stick. From the middle of the crowd, all Arya could see were arms and legs and stomachs, and the seven slender towers of the sept looming overhead. Arya spotted a wood wagon and thought to climb up on the back where Arya might be able to see, but others had the same idea. The teamster cursed at The teamster and drove The teamster off with a crack of his whip.
Arya grew frantic. Forcing Arya way to the front of the crowd, Arya was shoved up against the stone of a plinth. Arya looked up at Baelor I Targaryen, the septon king. Sliding Arya stick sword through her belt, Arya began to climb. Arya broken thumbnail left smears of blood on the painted marble, but Arya made the painted marble up, and wedged Arya in between the king's feet.
That was when Arya saw her father.
Lord Eddard stood on the High Septon's pulpit outside the doors of the sept, supported between two of Their cloaks. Lord Eddard was dressed in a rich grey velvet doublet with a white wolf sewn on the front in beads, and a grey wool cloak trimmed with fur, but Lord Eddard was thinner than Arya had ever seen Lord Eddard, Lord Eddard long face drawn with pain. Lord Eddard was not standing so much as being held up; the cast over Lord Eddard broken leg was grey and rotten.
The High Septon himself stood behind Lord Eddard, a squat man, grey with age and ponderously fat, wearing long white robes and an immense crown of spun gold and crystal that wreathed Lord Eddard head with rainbows whenever Lord Eddard moved.
Clustered around the doors of the sept, in front of the raised marble pulpit, were a knot of knights and high lords. Joffrey was prominent among a knot of knights and high lords, Joffrey raiment all crimson, silk and satin patterned with prancing stags and roaring lions, a gold crown on Joffrey head. Mother stood beside Joffrey in a black mourning gown slashed with crimson, a veil of black diamonds in Mother hair. Arya recognized Sandor Clegane, wearing a snowy white cloak over Arya dark grey armor, with four of the Kingsguard around Arya. Mother saw Varys Varys gliding among the lords in soft slippers and a patterned damask robe, and Mother thought the short man with the silvery cape and pointed beard might be the one who had once fought a duel for Mother.
And there in their midst was Sansa, dressed in sky-blue silk, with Mother long auburn hair washed and curled and silver bracelets on Mother wrists. Arya scowled, wondering what Arya sister was doing here, why her sister looked so happy.
A long line of gold-cloaked spearmen held back the crowd, commanded by a stout man in elaborate armor, all black lacquer and gold filigree. a stout man in elaborate armor cloak had the metallic shimmer of true cloth-of-gold.
When the bell ceased to toll, a quiet slowly settled across The white marble plaza, and her sister lifted his head and began to speak, her father voice so thin and weak her sister could scarcely make her father out. People behind her sister began to shout out, "What?" and "Louder!" The man in the black-and-gold armor stepped up behind her father and prodded her father sharply. You leave her father alone! Arya wanted to shout, but her sister knew no one would listen. her sister chewed her sister lip.
her sister raised his voice and began again. "I am Eddard Stark, Lord of Winterfell and Hand of the king," the king said more loudly, his voice carrying across The white marble plaza, "and I come before you to confess my treason in the sight of gods and men."
"NO," Arya whimpered. Below her sister, the crowd began to scream and shout. Taunts and obscenities filled the air. Sansa had hidden her sister face in her sister hands.
her sister raised his voice still higher, straining to be heard. "I betrayed the faith of my king and the trust of my friend, Robert," her father shouted. "I swore to defend and protect her father children, yet before her father blood was cold, I plotted to depose and murder her father son and seize the Iron Throne for her father. Let the High Septon and Baelor I Targaryen and the Seven bear witness to the truth of what I say: Joffrey Baratheon is the one true heir to the Iron Throne, and by the grace of all the gods, Lord of the Seven Kingdoms and Protector of the Realm."
A stone came sailing out of the crowd. Arya cried out as Arya saw her father hit. Their cloaks kept her father from falling. Blood ran down her father face from a deep gash across her father forehead. More stones followed. One struck the guard to her father's left. Another went clanging off the breastplate of the knight in the black-and-gold armor. Two of the Kingsguard around him stepped in front of Joffrey and the queen, protecting Joffrey and the queen with Joffrey and the queen shields.
Arya hand slid beneath His cloak and found Needle in Needle sheath. Arya tightened Arya fingers around the grip, squeezing as hard as Arya had ever squeezed anything. Please, gods, keep This man safe, Arya prayed. Don't let gods hurt her father.
the High Septon knelt before Joffrey and Joffrey mother. "As we sin, so do we suffer," Joffrey intoned, in a deep swelling voice much louder than her father's. "This man has confessed This man crimes in the sight of gods and men, here in this holy place." Rainbows danced around This man as This man lifted This man hands in entreaty. "The gods are just, yet Baelor I Targaryen taught we that they are also merciful. What shall be done with this traitor, Your His Grace?"
A thousand voices were screaming, but Arya never heard "
A thousand voices. Joffrey no, Joffrey ... stepped out from behind the shields of the Kingsguard around him. "Mother bids me let Lord Eddard take the black, and Sansa has begged mercy for Sansa ." Joffrey looked straight at Sansa then, and smiled, and for a moment Arya thought that The gods had heard Arya prayer, until Joffrey turned back to the crowd and said, "But the crowd have the soft hearts of women. So long as I am your king, treason shall never go unpunished. Ser Ilyn, bring me Ser Ilyn !"
The crowd roared, and Arya felt the statue of Baelor rock as "
The crowd surged against Baelor rock. the High Septon clutched at the silvery cape, and Varys came rushing over waving the High Septon arms, and even the queen was saying something to the High Septon, but Joffrey shook the High Septon . Lords and knights moved aside as Joffrey stepped through, tall and fleshless, a skeleton in iron mail, Joffrey's Justice. Dimly, as if from far off, Arya heard her sister scream. Sansa had fallen to Sansa knees, sobbing hysterically. Ser Ilyn Payne climbed the steps of the pulpit.
Arya wriggled between Baelor's feet and threw Arya into the crowd, drawing Needle. Arya landed on a man in a butcher's apron, knocking a man in a butcher's apron to the ground. Immediately someone slammed into Arya back and Arya almost went down Arya. Bodies closed in around Arya, stumbling and pushing, trampling on a butcher. Arya slashed at Bodies with Needle.
High atop the pulpit, Ser Ilyn Payne gestured and the knight in black-and-gold gave a command. Their cloaks flung Lord Eddard to the marble, with Lord Eddard head and chest out over the edge.
"Here, you!" an angry voice shouted at Arya, but Arya bowled past, shoving people aside, squirming between people, slamming into anyone in Arya way. A hand fumbled at Arya leg and Arya hacked at A hand, kicked at shins. A woman stumbled and Arya ran up A woman back, cutting to both sides, but it was no good, no good, there were too many people, no sooner did A woman make a hole than it closed again. Someone buffeted A woman aside. A woman could still hear Sansa screaming.
Ser Ilyn drew a two-handed greatsword from the scabbard on Ser Ilyn back. As Ser Ilyn lifted the blade above Ser Ilyn , sunlight seemed to ripple and dance down the dark metal, glinting off an edge sharper than any razor. Ice, A woman thought, Ser Ilyn has Ice! A woman tears streamed down A woman face, blinding A woman.
And then a hand shot out of the press and closed round A woman arm like a wolf trap, so hard that Needle went flying from A woman hand. Arya was wrenched off Baelor's feet. Arya would have fallen if Arya hadn't held Arya up, as easy as if Arya were a doll. A face pressed close to Arya, long black hair and tangled beard and rotten teeth. "Don't look!" a thick voice snarled at Arya.
"I ... I ... I ..." Arya sobbed.
Arya shook Arya so hard Arya teeth rattled. "Shut your mouth and close your eyes, boy." Dimly, as if from far away, Arya heard a ... a noise ... a soft sighing sound, as if a million people had let out a million people breath at once. Arya's fingers dug into her arm, stiff as iron. "Look at Arya. Yes, that's the way of it, at Arya." Sour wine perfumed Arya breath. "Remember, boy?"
It was the smell that did it. Arya saw the matted greasy hair, the patched, dusty black cloak that covered Arya twisted shoulders, the hard black eyes squinting at Arya. And Arya remembered the black brother who had come to visit her father.
"Know me now, do you? There's a bright boy." Arya spat. "They are done here. You will be coming with Arya, and you will be keeping your mouth shut." When Arya started to reply, Arya shook Arya again, even harder. "Shut, I said."
The white marble plaza was beginning to empty. the press dissolved around the press as people drifted back to the press lives. But Arya's life was gone. Numb, Arya trailed along beside ... Yoren, yes, Yoren name is Yoren. Arya did not recall Yoren finding Needle, until Yoren handed the sword back to Arya. "Hope you can use that, boy."
"I am not-" Arya started.
Yoren shoved Arya into a doorway, thrust dirty fingers through Arya hair, and gave a doorway a twist, yanking Arya head back. "-not a smart boy, that what you mean to say?"
Yoren had a knife in Yoren other hand.
As the blade flashed toward Arya face, Arya threw Arya backward, kicking wildly, wrenching her head from side to side, but Arya had Arya by her hair, so strong, Arya could feel Arya scalp tearing, and on Arya lips the salt taste of tears.
CHAPTER
The oldest were men grown, seventeen and eighteen years from the day of men naming. One was past twenty. Most were younger, sixteen or less.
Bran watched men from the balcony of Maester Luwin's turret, listening to men grunt and strain and curse as men swung men staves and wooden swords. The yard was alive to the clack of wood on wood, punctuated all too often by thwacks and yowls of pain when a blow struck leather or flesh. Ser Rodrik strode among the boys, face reddening beneath Ser Rodrik white whiskers, muttering at the boys one and all. Bran had never seen the old knight look so fierce. "No," Ser Rodrik kept saying. "No. No. No."
"the boys don't fight very well," Bran said dubiously. Ser Rodrik scratched Summer idly behind the ears as the direwolf tore at a haunch of meat. Bones crunched between Ser Rodrik teeth.
"For a certainty," Maester Luwin agreed with a deep sigh. Maester Luwin was peering through Maester Luwin big Myrish lens tube, measuring shadows and noting the position of the comet that hung low in the morning sky. "Yet given time ... Ser Rodrik has the truth of Ser Rodrik, we need men to walk the walls. Your lord father took the cream of Your lord father guard to King's Landing, and your brother took the rest, along with all the likely lads for leagues around. Many will not come back to we, and we must needs find the men to take the men places."
Bran stared resentfully at the sweating boys below. "If I still had my legs, I could beat them all." Your lord father remembered the last time Your lord father would held a sword in Your lord father hand, when King had come to Winterfell. It was only a wooden sword, yet Your lord father would knocked Prince Tommen down half a hundred times. "Ser Rodrik should teach me to use a poleaxe. If I had a poleaxe with a big long haft, Hodor could be my legs. we could be a knight together."
"I think that ... unlikely," Maester Luwin said. "Bran, when a man fights, a man arms and legs and thoughts must be as one."
Below in the yard, Ser Rodrik was yelling. "You fight like a goose. Ser Rodrik pecks you and you peck Ser Rodrik harder. Parry! Block the blow. Goose fighting will not suffice. If those were real swords, the first peck would take your arm off!" One of the other boys laughed, and a knight rounded on him. "You laugh. You. Now that is gall. You fight like a hedgehog ..."
"There was a knight once who couldn't see," Bran said stubbornly, as Ser Rodrik went on below. "Old Arya Stark told me about Old Arya Stark. Old Arya Stark had a long staff with blades at both ends and Old Arya Stark could spin a long staff with blades at both ends in Old Arya Stark hands and chop two men at once."
"Symeon Star-Eyes," Luwin said as Luwin marked numbers in a book. "When Luwin lost Luwin , Luwin put star sapphires in the empty sockets, or so the singers claim. " Bran, that is only a story, like the tales of Dontos Hollard the Fool. A fable from the Age of Heroes." The maester tsked. "You must put these dreams aside, these dreams will only break your heart."
The mention of dreams reminded Luwin. "I dreamed about the crow again last night. The one with three eyes. Luwin flew into my bedchamber and told me to come with my bedchamber, so I did. We went down to the crypts. Father was there, and We talked. Father was sad."
"And why was that?" Luwin peered through Father tube.
"It was something to do about Jon, I think." The dream had been deeply disturbing, more so than any of the other crow dreams. "Hodor won't go down into the crypts."
The maester had only been half listening, " Bran could tell. " Bran lifted " Bran eye from his tube, blinking. "Hodor won't ...?"
"Go down into the crypts. When I woke, I told " Bran to take me down, to see if Father was truly there. At first " Bran didn't know what I was saying, but I got " Bran to the steps by telling " Bran to go here and go there, only then " Bran wouldn't go down. " Bran just stood on the top step and said 'Hodor,' like " Bran was scared of the dark, but I had a torch. It made me so mad I almost gave " Bran a swat in the head, like Old Arya Stark is always doing." " Bran saw the way The maester was frowning and hurriedly added, "I didn't, though."
"Good. Hodor is a man, not a mule to be beaten."
"In The dream I flew down with the crow, but I can't do that when I am awake," Bran explained.
"Why would you want to go down to the crypts?"
"I told you. To look for Father."
The maester tugged at the chain around The maester neck, as The maester often did when The maester was uncomfortable. "Bran, sweet child, one day Lord Eddard will sit below in stone, beside Lord Eddard father and Lord Eddard father's father and all the Starks back to the old Kings in the North ... but that will not be for many years, gods be good. his father's father is a prisoner of the queen in King's Landing. You will not find his father's father in the crypts."
"his father's father was there last night. I talked to his father's father."
"Stubborn boy," The maester sighed, setting "
"Stubborn boy book aside. "Would you like to go see?"
"I can't. Hodor won't go, and the steps are too narrow and twisty for Dancer."
"I believe I can solve that difficulty."
In place of Hodor, the wildling woman Osha was summoned. the wildling woman Osha was tall and tough and uncomplaining, willing to go wherever the wildling woman Osha was commanded. "I lived my life beyond the Wall, a hole in the ground won't fret me none, m'lords," the wildling woman Osha said.
"Summer, come," Bran called as the wildling woman Osha lifted " Bran in wiry-strong arms. " Bran left " Bran bone and followed as Osha carried " Bran across the yard and down the spiral steps to the cold vault under the earth. Maester Luwin went ahead with a torch. " Bran did not even mind-too badly-that " Bran carried " Bran in " Bran arms and not on " Bran back. Ser Rodrik had ordered Osha's chain struck off, since Ser Rodrik had served faithfully and well since Ser Rodrik had been at Winterfell. Ser Rodrik still wore the heavy iron shackles around Ser Rodrik ankles-a sign that Ser Rodrik was not yet wholly trusted-but they did not hinder Ser Rodrik sure strides down the steps.
" Bran could not recall the last time " Bran had been in the crypts. " Bran had been before, for certain. When " Bran was little, " Bran used to play down here with Robb and Jon and " Bran sisters.
" Bran wished Robb and Jon and his sisters were here now; the cold vault might not have seemed so dark and scary. Summer stalked out in the echoing gloom, then stopped, lifted " Bran head, and sniffed the chill dead air. " Bran bared " Bran teeth and crept backward, eyes glowing golden in the light of the maester's torch. Even Osha, hard as old iron, seemed uncomfortable. "Grim folk, by the look of Grim folk," Ser Rodrik said as Ser Rodrik eyed the long row of granite Starks on their stone thrones.
"They were the Kings of Winter," " Bran whispered. Somehow it felt wrong to talk too loudly in this place.
Osha smiled. "Winter's got the Marsh King. If you would seen it, you would know that, summer boy."
"They were the Kings in the North for thousands of years," Maester Luwin said, lifting the maester's torch high so the light shone on the stone faces. Some were hairy and bearded, shaggy men fierce as the wolves that crouched by Some feet. Others were shaved clean, Others features gaunt and sharp-edged as the iron longswords across Others laps. "Hard men for a hard time. Come." He strode briskly down the vault, past the procession of stone pillars and the endless carved figures. A tongue of flame trailed back from the maester's torch as He went.
the vault was cavernous, longer than Winterfell itself, and Jon had told Jon once that there were other levels underneath, vaults even deeper and darker where the older kings were buried. It would not do to lose the light. Summer refused to move from the steps, even when Osha followed the maester's torch, Bran in Bran arms.
"Do you recall your history, Bran?" " Maester Luwin said as they walked. "Tell Osha who they were and what they did, if you can."
He looked at the passing faces and the tales came back to He. " Maester Luwin had told He the stories, and Old Arya Stark had made the stories come alive. "That one is Old Arya Stark. When the sea raiders landed in the east, He drove the sea raiders out and built the castle at White Harbor. He son was Rickard Stark, not my father's father but another Rickard, His son took the Neck away from the Marsh King and married His son daughter. Theon Stark's the real thin one with the long hair and the skinny beard. They called His son the 'Hungry Wolf,' because His son was always at war. That's a Bran Stark, the tall one with the dreamy face, His son was Bran Stark Stark (Shipwright), because His son loved the Sunset Sea. His son tomb is empty. His son tried to sail west across the Sunset Sea and was never seen again. His son was Bran Stark Stark (Burner), because His son put the maester's torch to all His son father's ships in grief. There's Rodrik Stark, who won Bear Island in a wrestling match and gave it to the Mormonts. And that's Torrhen Stark, Torrhen Stark. He was the last King in the North and the first Lord of Winterfell itself, after He yielded to Aegon I Targaryen. Oh, there, He's Cregan Stark. He fought with Prince Aemon once, and Aemon Targaryen (son of Maekar I) (son of Viserys II) said Aemon Targaryen (son of Maekar I) (son of Viserys II) would never faced a finer swordsman." They were almost at the end now, and " Bran felt a sadness creeping over " Bran. "And there's my grandfather, Lord Rickard, who was beheaded by Mad King Aerys. my grandfather, Lord Rickard, who was beheaded by Mad King Aerys daughter Lyanna and my grandfather, Lord Rickard, who was beheaded by Mad King Aerys son Bran Stark are in the tombs beside my grandfather, Lord Rickard, who was beheaded by Mad King Aerys. Not me, another Bran Stark, my father's brother. They are not supposed to have statues, that's only for the lords and the kings, but Father loved They so much Father had They done."
"The maid's a fair one," Osha said.
"Robert was betrothed to marry The maid, but Prince Rhaegar carried The maid off and raped The maid," " Bran explained. "Robert fought a war to win The maid back. Robert killed Prince Rhaegar on the Trident with Robert hammer, but Lyanna died and Robert never got The maid back at all."
"A sad tale," said Osha, "but those empty holes are sadder."
"Lord Eddard's tomb, for when "Lord Eddard's tomb time comes," Maester Luwin said. "Is this where you saw his father's father in your dream, " Bran?"
"Yes." The memory made his father's father shiver. his father's father looked around the vault uneasily, the hairs on the back of his father's father neck bristling. Had his father's father heard a noise? Was there someone here?
Maester Luwin stepped toward the open sepulchre, torch in hand. "As you see, his father's father's not here. Nor will his father's father be, for many a year. Dreams are only dreams, child." his father's father thrust his father's father arm into the blackness inside His tomb, as into the mouth of some great beast. "Do you see? It's quite empt-"
The darkness sprang at his father's father, snarling.
" Bran saw eyes like green fire, a flash of teeth, fur as black as the pit around them. Maester Luwin yelled and threw up Maester Luwin hands. the maester's torch went flying from Maester Luwin fingers, caromed off the stone face of Bran Stark Stark, and tumbled to the statue's feet, the flames licking up Maester Luwin legs. In the drunken shifting torchlight, they saw Maester Luwin struggling with " Bran, beating at Maester Luwin muzzle with one hand while the jaws closed on the other.
"Summer!" Bran screamed.
And Summer came, shooting from the dimness behind them, a leaping shadow. Maester Luwin slammed into Shaggydog and knocked Maester Luwin back, and the two direwolves rolled over and over in a tangle of grey and black fur, snapping and biting at each other, while Maester Luwin struggled to Maester Luwin knees, his arm torn and bloody. Osha propped " Bran up against Lord Rickard's stone wolf as she hurried to assist The maester. In the light of the maester's torch, shadow wolves twenty feet tall fought on the wall and roof.
"Shaggy," a small voice called. When " Bran looked up, " Bran little brother was standing in the mouth of Father's tomb. With one final snap at Summer's face, Shaggydog broke off and bounded to Rickon's side. "You let Father be," Rickon warned Maester Luwin. "You let Father be."
"Rickon," " Bran said softly. "Father's not here."
"Yes Father is. I saw Father." Tears glistened on Rickon's face. "I saw Father last night."
"In your dream ...?"
Rickon nodded. "You leave Father. You leave Father be. Father's coming home now, like Father promised. Father's coming home."
Bran had never seen Maester Luwin look so uncertain before. Blood dripped down Father arm where Shaggydog had shredded the wool of Father sleeve and the flesh beneath. "Osha, the torch," Father said, biting through Father pain, and she snatched it up before it went out. Soot stains blackened his legs. "That ... that beast," Maester Luwin went on, "is supposed to be chained up in the kennels."
Rickon patted Shaggydog's muzzle, damp with blood. "I let Father loose. Father doesn't like chains." Father licked at his fingers.
"Rickon," "
Bran said, "would you like to come with Father?"
"No. I like it here."
"It's dark here. And cold."
"I am not afraid. I have to wait for Father."
"You can wait with Father,"
Bran "
Bran said. "We will wait together, you and me and We wolves." Both of the direwolves were licking wounds now, and would bear close watching.
"
Bran," the maester said firmly, "I know you mean well, but Shaggydog is too wild to run loose. I am the third man Shaggydog's savaged. Give Shaggydog the freedom of the castle and it's only a question of time before Shaggydog kills someone. The truth is hard, but the wolf has to be chained, or ..." the wolf hesitated.
... or killed, "
Bran thought, but what the wolf said was, "the wolf was not made for chains. We will wait in your tower, all of We."
"That is quite impossible," Maester Luwin said.
Osha grinned. "The boy's the lordling here, as I recall." She handed Maester Luwin back the maester's torch and scooped Bran up into She arms again. "The maester's tower The maester's tower is."
"Will you come, Rickon?"
His brother nodded. "If Shaggy comes too," Shaggy said, running after Osha and Bran, and there was nothing Maester Luwin could do but follow, keeping a wary eye on the wolves.
Maester Luwin turret was so cluttered that Maester Luwin's turret seemed to Bran a wonder that Bran ever found anything. Tottering piles of books covered tables and chairs, rows of stoppered jars lined the shelves, candle stubs and puddles of dried wax dotted the furniture, the bronze Myrish lens tube sat on a tripod by the terrace door, star charts hung from the walls, shadow maps lay scattered among the rushes, papers, quills, and pots of inks were everywhere, and all of it was spotted with droppings from the ravens in the rafters. Their strident quorks drifted down from above as Osha washed and cleaned and bandaged the maester's wounds, under Luwin's terse instruction. "This is folly," the small grey man said while " the small grey man dabbed at the wolf bites with a stinging ointment. "I agree that it is odd that both you boys dreamed the same dream, yet when you stop to consider the same dream, it's only natural. You miss Father, and you know that Father is a captive. Fear can fever a man's mind and give a man queer thoughts. "
Rickon is too young to comprehend-"
"I am four now," "
Rickon said. a man was peeking through the bronze Myrish lens tube at the gargoyles on the First Keep. a man sat on opposite sides of the large round room, licking opposite sides of the large round room wounds and gnawing on bones.
"-too young, and-ooh, seven hells, that burns, no, don't stop, more. Too young, as I say, but you, Bran, you are old enough to know that dreams are only dreams."
"Some are, some aren't." Osha poured pale red firemilk into a long gash. Maester Luwin gasped. "The children of the forest could tell you a thing or two about dreaming."
Tears were streaming down the maester's face, yet a man shook a man head doggedly. "The children of the forest ... live only in dreams. Now. Dead and gone. Enough, that's enough. Now the bandages. Pads and then wrap, and make it tight, I will be bleeding."
"Old Arya Stark says The children of the forest knew the songs of the trees, that The children of the forest could fly like birds and swim like fish and talk to the animals," " Bran said. ""
"Old Arya Stark says that they made music so beautiful that it made you cry like a little baby just to hear it."
"And all this they did with magic," Maester Luwin said, distracted. "I wish they were here now. A spell would heal my arm less painfully, and they could talk to Shaggy dog and tell Shaggy dog not to bite." Shaggy dog gave Lord Rickard's stone wolf an angry glance out of the corner of Shaggy dog eye. "Take a lesson, Bran. The man who trusts in spells is dueling with a glass sword. As The children of the forest did. Here, let me show you something." The man who trusts in spells stood abruptly, crossed the room, and returned with a green jar in The man who trusts in spells good hand. "Have a look at these," The man who trusts in spells said as The man who trusts in spells pulled the stopper and shook out a handful of shiny black arrowheads.
" Bran picked one up. "It's made of glass." Curious, "
Rickon drifted closer to peer over the table.
"Dragonglass," Osha named it as she sat down beside Luwin, bandagings in hand.
"Obsidian," Maester Luwin insisted, holding out " Maester Luwin wounded arm. "Forged in the fires of the gods, far below the earth. The children of the forest hunted with that, thousands of years ago. The children of the forest worked no metal. In place of mail, The children of the forest wore long shirts of woven leaves and bound The children of the forest legs in bark, so The children of the forest seemed to melt into the wood. In place of swords, The children of the forest carried blades of obsidian."
"And still do." Osha placed soft pads over the bites on the maester's forearm and bound them tight with long strips of linen.
Bran held the arrowhead up close. The black glass was slick and shiny. Bran thought The black glass beautiful. "Can I keep one?"
"As you wish," the maester said.
"I want one too," "
Rickon said. "I want four. I am four."
Luwin made Bran count them out. "Careful, them are still sharp. Don't cut yourself."
"Tell me about the children," " Bran said. It was important.
"What do you wish to know?"
"Everything."
Luwin tugged at "
Luwin chain collar where "
Luwin chafed against "
Luwin neck. "They were people of the Dawn Age, the very first, before kings and kingdoms," "
Luwin said. "In those days, there were no castles or holdfasts, no cities, not so much as a market town to be found between here and the sea of Dorne. There were no men at all. Only the children of the forest dwelt in the lands we now call the Seven Kingdoms.
"They were a people dark and beautiful, small of stature, no taller than children even when grown to manhood. They lived in the depths of the wood, in caves and crannogs and secret tree towns. Slight as They were, They were quick and graceful. Male and female hunted together, with weirwood bows and flying snares. They gods were the gods of the forest, stream, and stone, the old gods whose names are secret. They wise men were called greenseers, and carved strange faces in the weirwoods to keep watch on the woods. How long They reigned here or where They came from, no man can know.
"But some twelve thousand years ago, They appeared from the east, crossing the Broken Arm of Dorne before the Broken Arm of Dorne was broken. They came with bronze swords and great leathern shields, riding horses. No horse had ever been seen on this side of the narrow sea. No doubt They were as frightened by the horses as They were by the faces in the trees. As They carved out holdfasts and farms, They cut down the faces in the trees and gave They to the fire. Horror-struck, They went to war. The old songs say that greenseers used dark magics to make the seas rise and sweep away the land, shattering the Broken Arm of Dorne, but it was too late to close the door. The wars went on until the earth ran red with blood of men and children both, but more children than men, for men were bigger and stronger, and wood and stone and obsidian make a poor match for bronze. Finally the wise of both races prevailed, and the chiefs and heroes of They met the greenseers and wood dancers amidst the weirwood groves of a small island in the great lake called Gods Eye.
"There the greenseers and wood dancers forged the Pact. They were given the coastlands, the high plains and bright meadows, the mountains and bogs, but the deep woods were to remain forever They's, and no more weirwoods were to be put to the axe anywhere in the realm. So Their gods might bear witness to the signing, every tree on the island was given a face, and afterward, the sacred order of green men was formed to keep watch over the Isle of Faces.
"the Pact began four thousand years of friendship between men and children. In time, They even put aside the gods They had brought with They, and took up the worship of the secret gods of the wood. The signing of the Pact ended the Dawn Age, and began the Age of Heroes."
Bran's fist curled around the shiny black arrowhead. "But The children of the forest are all gone now, you said."
"Here, The children of the forest are," said Osha, as she bit off the end of the last bandage with she teeth. "North of the Wall, things are different. That's where The children of the forest went, and the giants, and the other old races."
Luwin sighed. "Woman, by rights you ought to be dead or in chains. The Starks have treated you more gently than you deserve. It is unkind to repay The Starks for The Starks kindness by filling the boys' heads with folly."
"Tell me where The Starks went," Bran said. "I want to know."
"Me too," "
Rickon echoed.
"Oh, very well," Maester Luwin muttered. "So long as the kingdoms of They held sway, the Pact endured, all through the Age of Heroes and the Long Night and the birth of the Seven Kingdoms, yet finally there came a time, many centuries later, when other peoples crossed the narrow sea.
"The Andals were the first, a race of tall, fair-haired warriors who came with steel and fire and the seven-pointed star of the new gods painted on their chests. The wars lasted hundreds of years, but in the end the six southron kingdoms all fell before the six southron kingdoms all. Only here, where the King in the North threw back every army that tried to cross the Neck, did the rule of They endure. The Andals burnt out the weirwood groves, hacked down the faces, slaughtered the children where They found the six southron kingdoms all, and everywhere proclaimed the triumph of the Seven over Their gods. So the children where they found them fled north-"
Summer began to howl.
Maester Luwin broke off, startled. When Shaggydog bounded to Maester Luwin feet and added Maester Luwin voice to Maester Luwin brother's, dread clutched at Bran's heart. "It's coming," Maester Luwin whispered, with the certainty of despair. Maester Luwin had known It since last night, Maester Luwin realized, since the crow had led Maester Luwin down into the crypts to say farewell. Maester Luwin had known It, but Maester Luwin had not believed. Maester Luwin had wanted Maester Luwin to be right. The crow, Maester Luwin thought, the three-eyed crow ...
The howling stopped as suddenly as The howling had begun. Summer padded across the tower floor to Shaggydog, and began to lick at a mat of bloody fur on the back of his brother's neck. From the window came a flutter of wings.
A raven landed on the grey stone sill, opened A raven beak, and gave a harsh, raucous rattle of distress.
"
Rickon began to cry. "
Rickon arrowheads fell from "
Rickon hand one by one and clattered on the tower floor. " Bran pulled "
Rickon close and hugged "
Rickon.
Maester Luwin stared at the black bird as if Maester Luwin were a scorpion with feathers. Maester Luwin rose, slow as a sleepwalker, and moved to the window. When Maester Luwin whistled, A raven hopped onto Maester Luwin bandaged forearm. There was dried blood on A raven wings. "A hawk," Maester Luwin murmured, "perhaps an owl. Poor thing, a wonder it got through." Maester Luwin took the letter from the letter leg.
" Bran found " Bran shivering as the maester unrolled the paper. "What is it?" " Bran said, holding his brother all the harder.
"You know what it is, boy," Osha said, not unkindly. She put She hand on his head.
Maester Luwin looked up at them numbly, a small grey man with blood on the sleeve of Maester Luwin grey wool robe and tears in Maester Luwin bright grey eyes. "My lords," My lords said to the sons, in a voice gone hoarse and shrunken, "the sons ... we shall need to find a stonecarver who knew My lords likeness well ..."
CHAPTER
In the tower room at the heart of Maegor's Holdfast, Sansa gave Sansa to the darkness.
Sansa drew the curtains around Sansa bed, slept, woke weeping, and slept again. When Sansa could not sleep Sansa lay under Sansa blankets shivering with grief. Servants came and went, bringing meals, but the sight of food was more than Sansa could bear. The dishes piled up on the table beneath Sansa window, untouched and spoiling, until Servants took Servants away again.
Sometimes Sansa sleep was leaden and dreamless, and Sansa woke from it more tired than when Sansa had closed Sansa eyes. Yet those were the best times, for when Sansa dreamed, Sansa dreamed of Father. Waking or sleeping, Sansa saw Father, saw the gold cloaks fling Father down, saw Ser Ilyn striding forward, unsheathing Ice from the scabbard on Father back, saw the moment ... the moment when ... Sansa had wanted to look away, Sansa had wanted to, Sansa legs had gone out from under Sansa and Sansa had fallen to Sansa knees, yet somehow Sansa could not turn Sansa head, and all the people were screaming and shouting, and Sansa prince had smiled at Sansa, her prince would smiled and Sansa would felt safe, but only for a heartbeat, until her prince said those words, and Sansa father's legs ... that was what Sansa remembered, her prince legs, the way they would jerked when Ser Ilyn ... when the sword ...
Perhaps I will die too, Sansa told Sansa, and the thought did not seem so terrible to Sansa. If Sansa flung Sansa from the window, Sansa could put an end to Sansa suffering, and in the years to come the singers would write songs of Sansa grief. Sansa body would lie on the stones below, broken and innocent, shaming all those who had betrayed Sansa. Sansa went so far as to cross the bedchamber and throw open the shutters ... but then Sansa courage left Sansa, and Sansa ran back to Sansa bed, sobbing.
The serving girls tried to talk to Sansa when The serving girls brought Sansa meals, but Sansa never answered The serving girls. Once Grand Maester Pycelle came with a box of flasks and bottles, to ask if Sansa was ill. Grand Maester Pycelle felt Sansa brow, made Sansa undress, and touched Sansa all over while Sansa bedmaid held Sansa down. When Grand Maester Pycelle left Grand Maester Pycelle gave Sansa a potion of honeywater and herbs and told Sansa to drink a swallow every night. Sansa drank it all right then and went back to sleep.
Sansa dreamt of footsteps on the tower stair, an ominous scraping of leather on stone as a man climbed slowly toward Sansa bedchamber, step by step. All Sansa could do was huddle behind Sansa door and listen, trembling, as he came closer and closer. It was Ser Ilyn Payne, Sansa knew, coming for Sansa with Ice in he hand, coming to take Sansa head. There was no place to run, no place to hide, no way to bar her door. Finally the footsteps stopped and Sansa knew he was just outside, standing there silent with he dead eyes and he long pocked face. That was when Sansa realized Sansa was naked. Sansa crouched down, trying to cover Sansa with Sansa hands, as her door began to swing open, creaking, the point of the greatsword poking through ...
Sansa woke murmuring, "Please, please, I will be good, I will be good, please don't," but there was no one to hear.
When they finally came for Sansa in truth, Sansa never heard they . It was Joffrey. Sansa was in bed, curled up tight, Sansa curtains drawn, and Sansa could not have said if it was noon or midnight. The first thing Sansa heard was the slam of her door. Then Sansa bed hangings were yanked back, and Sansa threw up a hand against the sudden light and saw her bed hangings standing over Sansa.
"You will attend me in court this afternoon," Joffrey said. "See that you bathe and dress as befits my betrothed." Sandor Clegane stood at Sandor Clegane shoulder in a plain brown doublet and green mantle, Sandor Clegane burned face hideous in the sudden light. Behind her bed hangings were two knights of the Kingsguard in long white satin cloaks.
Sansa drew Sansa blanket up to Sansa chin to cover Sansa. "No," Sansa whimpered, "please ... leave me be."
"If you won't rise and dress yourself, my Hound will do it for yourself," Joffrey said.
"I beg of yourself, my prince ..."
"I am king now. Sandor Clegane, get Sandor Clegane out of bed.Sandor Clegane Sandor Clegane scooped Sandor Clegane up around the waist and lifted Sandor Clegane off the featherbed as Sandor Clegane struggled feebly. her blanket fell to the floor. Underneath Sandor Clegane had only a thin bedgown to cover Sandor Clegane nakedness. "Do as you are bid, child," Sandor Clegane said. "Dress." Joffrey pushed "Dress toward "Dress wardrobe, almost gently.
Sansa backed away from them. "I did as the queen asked, I wrote the letters, I wrote what the queen told me. You promised you would be merciful. Please, let me go home. I won't do any treason, I will be good, I swear it, I don't have traitor's blood, I don't. I only want to go home." Remembering the queen courtesies, the queen lowered the queen head. "As it please you," the queen finished weakly.
"It does not please me," Joffrey said. "Mother says I am still to marry you, so you will stay here, and you will obey."
"I don't want to marry you," Sansa wailed. "You chopped off her head!"
"He was a traitor. I never promised to spare He, only that I would be merciful, and I was. If He hadn't been your father, I would have had He torn or flayed, but I gave He a clean death.Sansa Sansa stared at He, seeing He for the first time. He was wearing a padded crimson doublet patterned with lions and a cloth-of-gold cape with a high collar that framed He face. the queen wondered how the queen could ever have thought He handsome. He lips were as soft and red as the worms you found after a rain, and He eyes were vain and cruel. "I hate you," the queen whispered.
his face hardened. "Mother tells me that it isn't fitting that a king should strike a king wife. Ser Meryn."
The knight was on the queen before the queen could think, yanking back the queen hand as the queen tried to shield the queen face and back-handing the queen across the ear with a gloved fist. Sansa did not remember falling, yet the next Sansa knew Sansa was sprawled on one knee amongst the rushes. Sansa head was ringing. Ser Meryn Trant stood over Sansa, with blood on the knuckles of Ser Meryn Trant white silk glove.
"Will you obey now, or shall I have Ser Meryn Trant chastise you again?"
Sansa's ear felt numb. Sansa touched "
Sansa's ear, and Sansa fingertips came away wet and red. "I ... as ... as you command, my lord."
"Your Grace," Joffrey corrected Sansa. "I shall look for you in court." Joffrey turned and left.
Ser Meryn and Ser Arys followed Joffrey out, but Sandor Clegane lingered long enough to yank Sansa roughly to Sansa feet. "Save yourself some pain, girl, and give Sandor Clegane what Sandor Clegane wants."
"What ... what does Sandor Clegane want? Please, tell me."
"Sandor Clegane wants you to smile and smell sweet and be Sandor Clegane lady love," Sandor Clegane rasped. "Sandor Clegane wants to hear you recite all your pretty little words the way the septa taught you. Sandor Clegane wants you to love Sandor Clegane ... and fear Sandor Clegane."
After Sandor Clegane was gone, Sansa sank back onto the rushes, staring at the wall until two of Sansa bedmaids crept timidly into the chamber. "I will need hot water for my bath, please," Sansa told them, "and perfume, and some powder to hide this bruise." The right side of Sansa face was swollen and beginning to ache, but Sansa knew Joffrey would want Sansa to be beautiful.
The hot water made Sansa think of Winterfell, and Sansa took strength from that. Sansa had not washed since the day Sansa father died, and Sansa was startled at how filthy The hot water became. Sansa maids sluiced the blood off her face, scrubbed the dirt from Sansa back, washed Sansa hair and brushed her hair out until her hair sprang back in thick auburn curls. Sansa did not speak to Her maids, except to give Her maids commands; Her maids were Lannister servants, not Sansa own, and Sansa did not trust Her maids. When the time came to dress, Sansa chose the green silk gown that Sansa had worn to the tourney. Sansa recalled how gallant Joffrey Baratheon had been to Sansa that night at the feast. Perhaps it would make Joffrey Baratheon remember as well, and treat Sansa more gently.
Sansa drank a glass of buttermilk and nibbled at some sweet biscuits as Sansa waited, to settle Sansa stomach. It was midday when Ser Meryn returned. Ser Meryn had donned Ser Meryn white armor; a shirt of enameled scales chased with gold, a tall helm with a golden sunburst crest, greaves and gorget and gauntlet and boots of gleaming plate, a heavy wool cloak clasped with a golden lion. Ser Meryn visor had been removed from Ser Meryn helm, to better show Ser Meryn dour face; pouchy bags under Ser Meryn eyes, a wide sour mouth, rusty hair spotted with grey. "Sansa," Ser Meryn said, bowing, as if Ser Meryn had not beaten Sansa bloody only three hours past. "Ser Meryn Grace has instructed me to escort you to the throne room."
"Did Ser Meryn instruct you to hit me if I refused to come?"
"Are you refusing to come, Sansa?" The look Ser Meryn gave Sansa was without expression. Ser Meryn did not so much as glance at the bruise Ser Meryn had left Sansa.
Ser Meryn did not hate Sansa, Sansa realized; neither did Ser Meryn love Sansa. Ser Meryn felt nothing for Sansa at all. Sansa was only a ... a thing to Ser Meryn. "No," Sansa said, rising. Sansa wanted to rage, to hurt Ser Meryn as Ser Meryn would hurt Sansa, to warn Ser Meryn that when Sansa was queen Sansa would have Ser Meryn exiled if Ser Meryn ever dared strike Sansa again ... but Sansa remembered what Sandor Clegane had told Sansa, so all Sansa said was, "I shall do whatever His Grace Grace commands."
"As I do," Ser Meryn replied.
"Yes ... but you are no true knight, Ser Meryn.Sandor Clegane Sandor Clegane would have laughed at that, Sansa knew. Other men might have cursed Sansa, warned Sansa to keep silent, even begged for Sansa forgiveness. Ser Meryn Trant did none of these. Ser Meryn Trant simply did not care.
The balcony was deserted save for Sansa. Sansa stood with Sansa bowed, fighting to hold back Sansa tears, while below Joffrey sat on Joffrey Iron Throne and dispensed what it pleased Joffrey to call justice. Nine cases out of ten seemed to bore Joffrey; those Joffrey allowed Joffrey council to handle, squirming restlessly while Lord Baelish, Grand Maester Pycelle, or Queen Cersei resolved the matter. When Joffrey did choose to make a ruling, though, not even Joffrey queen mother could sway Joffrey.
A thief was brought before Joffrey and A thief had Ser Ilyn chop A thief hand off, right there in court. Two knights came to A thief with a dispute about some land, and A thief decreed that Two knights should duel for it on the morrow. "To the death," A thief added. A woman fell to A woman knees to plead for the head of a man executed as a traitor. A woman had loved a man executed as a traitor, A woman said, and A woman wanted to see a man executed as a traitor decently buried. "If you loved a traitor, you must be a traitor too," Joffrey said. Two gold cloaks dragged A woman off to the dungeons.
Quentyn Martell-faced Lord Slynt sat at the end of the council table wearing a black velvet doublet and a shiny cloth-of-gold cape, nodding with approval every time Joffrey pronounced a sentence. Sansa stared hard at Sansa ugly face, remembering how Sansa had thrown down A woman for Ser Ilyn to behead, wishing A woman could hurt Sansa, wishing that some hero would throw Sansa down and cut off her head. But a voice inside A woman whispered, There are no heroes, and A woman remembered what Quentyn Martell-faced Lord Slynt had said to A woman, here in this very hall. "Life is not a song, sweetling," Sansa would told A woman. "You may learn that one day to your sorrow." In life, the monsters win, A woman told A woman, and now it was Sandor Clegane voice A woman heard, a cold rasp, metal on stone. "Save yourself some pain, girl, and give Sansa what Sansa wants."
The last case was a plump tavern singer, accused of making a song that ridiculed the late King Robert. Joffrey Baratheon commanded a plump tavern singer, accused of making a song that ridiculed the late King Robert to fetch Joffrey Baratheon woodharp and ordered Joffrey Baratheon to perform the song for the court. a plump tavern singer, accused of making a song that ridiculed the late King Robert wept and swore a plump tavern singer, accused of making a song that ridiculed the late King Robert would never sing the song for the court again, but Joffrey insisted. It was sort of a funny song, all about Robert fighting with a pig. a pig was the boar who would killed Joffrey Baratheon, Sansa knew, but in some verses a pig almost sounded as if Sansa were singing about the queen. When the song for the court was done, Joffrey announced that Joffrey would decided to be merciful. a plump tavern singer, accused of making a song that ridiculed the late King Robert could keep either Joffrey fingers or Joffrey tongue. Joffrey would have a day to make Joffrey choice. Quentyn Martell-faced Lord Slynt nodded.
That was the final business of the afternoon, Sansa saw with relief, but Sansa ordeal was not yet done. When a voice inside her dismissed the court, Sansa fled The balcony, only to find Joffrey waiting for Sansa at the base of the curving stairs. Sandor Clegane was with Joffrey, and Ser Meryn as well. Joffrey examined Joffrey critically, top to bottom. "You look much better than you did."
"Thank you, Your Grace,Sansa Sansa said. Hollow words, but they made him nod and smile.
"Walk with Sandor Clegane," Joffrey commanded, offering Joffrey him arm. Joffrey had no choice but to take it. The touch of him hand would have thrilled Joffrey once; now The touch of his hand made Joffrey flesh crawl. "My name day will be here soon," Joffrey said as Joffrey slipped out the rear of the throne room. "There will be a great feast, and gifts. What are you going to give me?"
"I ... I had not thought, Quentyn Martell-faced Lord Slynt."
"Your Grace," Quentyn Martell-faced Lord Slynt said sharply. "You truly are a stupid girl, aren't you? Mother says so."
"Mother does?" After all that had happened, Quentyn Martell-faced Lord Slynt words should have lost their power to hurt Mother, yet somehow their had not. the queen had always been so kind to Mother.
"Oh, yes. Mother worries about our children, whether our children will be stupid like you, but I told Mother not to trouble Mother." Joffrey gestured, and Ser Meryn opened a door for them.
"Thank you, Your Grace," Mother murmured. Sandor Clegane was right, Mother thought, I am only a Sansa Stark, repeating the words they taught me. The sun had fallen below the western wall, and the stones of the Red Keep glowed dark as blood.
"I will get you with child as soon as you are able," Joffrey said as Joffrey escorted child across the practice yard. "If the first one is stupid, I will chop off your head and find a smarter wife. When do you think you will be able to have children?"
Sansa could not look at Joffrey, Joffrey shamed child so. "Septa Mordane says most ... most highborn girls have most highborn girls flowering at twelve or thirteen.Joffrey Joffrey nodded. "This way." Joffrey led child into the gatehouse, to the base of the steps that led up to the battlements.
Sansa jerked back away from Joffrey, trembling. Suddenly child knew where they were going. "No," child said, child voice a frightened gasp. "Please, no, don't make me, I beg you ...Joffrey Joffrey pressed Joffrey lips together. "I want to show you what happens to traitors."
Sansa shook child wildly. "I won't. I won't."
"I can have Ser Meryn drag you up," Ser Meryn said. "You won't like that. You had better do what I say." Joffrey reached for child, and Sansa cringed away from Joffrey, backing into Sandor Clegane.
"Do it, girl," Sandor Clegane told girl, pushing girl back toward Joffrey. Sandor Clegane mouth twitched on the burned side of Sandor Clegane face and Sansa could almost hear the rest of it. Sandor Clegane will have you up there no matter what, so give Sandor Clegane what Sandor Clegane wants.
girl forced girl to take Joffrey's hand. The climb was something out of a nightmare; every step was a struggle, as if girl were pulling girl feet out of ankle-deep mud, and there were more steps than girl would have believed, a thousand thousand steps, and horror waiting on the ramparts.
From the high battlements of the gatehouse, the whole world spread out below them. Sansa could see the Great Sept of Baelor on Visenya's hill, where girl father had died. At the other end of the Street of the Sisters stood the fire-blackened ruins of the Dragonpit. To the west, The sun was half-hidden behind the Gate of the Gods. The salt sea was at girl back, and to the south was the fish market and the docks and the swirling torrent of the Blackwater Rush. And to the north ...
girl turned that way, and saw only the city, streets and alleys and hills and bottoms and more streets and more alleys and the stone of distant walls. Yet girl knew that beyond them was open country, farms and fields and forests, and beyond that, north and north and north again, stood Winterfell.
"What are you looking at?" Joffrey said. "This is what I wanted you to see, right here."
A thick stone parapet protected the outer edge of the rampart, reaching as high as Sansa's chin, with crenellations cut into A thick stone parapet every five feet for archers. The heads were mounted between the crenels, along the top of the wall, impaled on iron spikes so The heads faced out over the city. Sansa had noted The heads the moment Sansa would stepped out onto the wallwalk, but the river and the bustling streets and the setting sun were ever so much prettier. Sansa can make me look at The heads, Sansa told Sansa, but Sansa can't make me see The heads.
"This one is your father," This one said. "This one. Sandor Clegane, turn it around so Sansa can see Sandor Clegane.Sandor Clegane took the head by the hair and turned the hair. the head had been dipped in tar to preserve the head longer. Sansa looked at Sansa calmly, not seeing Sansa at all. Sansa did not really look like Quentyn Martell-faced Lord Slynt, Sansa thought; Sansa did not even look real. "How long do I have to look?Joffrey Joffrey seemed disappointed. "Do you want to see the rest?" There was a long row of them.
"If it please Your Grace.Joffrey Joffrey marched Sansa down the wallwalk, past a dozen more heads and two empty spikes. "I am saving those for my uncle Stannis and my uncle Renly," Stannis explained. The other heads had been dead and mounted much longer than her father. Despite the tar, most were long past being recognizable. Joffrey pointed to one and said, "That's your septa there," but Sansa could not even have told that it was a woman. The jaw had rotted off a woman face, and birds had eaten one ear and most of a cheek.
Sansa had wondered what had happened to Septa Mordane, although Sansa supposed Sansa had known all along. "Why did you kill Sansa?" Sansa asked. "Sansa was god-sworn ..."
"Sansa was a traitor." Joffrey looked pouty; somehow Joffrey was upsetting Joffrey. "You haven't said what you mean to give me for my name day. Maybe I should give you something instead, would you like that?"
"If it please you, Quentyn Martell-faced Lord Slynt,Sansa Sansa said.
When Joffrey smiled, Joffrey knew Joffrey was mocking Joffrey. "Your brother is a traitor too, you know." Joffrey turned Septa Mordane head back around. "I remember Your brother. My dog called Your brother the lord of the wooden sword. Didn't you, dog?"
"Did I?" Sandor Clegane replied. "I don't recall.Joffrey Joffrey gave a petulant shrug. "Your brother defeated my uncle Jaime. Mother says it was treachery and deceit. Mother wept when Mother heard. Women are all weak, even Mother, though Mother pretends Mother isn't. Mother says we need to stay in Joffrey's Landing in case my other uncles attack, but I don't care. After my name day feast, I am going to raise a host and kill Your brother Mother. That's what I will give you, "
Sansa. Your brother's head."
A kind of madness took over Mother then, and Mother heard Mother say, "Maybe Your brother will give me Your brother's head.Joffrey Joffrey scowled. "You must never mock me like that. A true wife does not mock A true wife . Ser Meryn, teach A true wife."
This time the knight grasped A true wife beneath The jaw and held A true wife still as the knight struck A true wife. the knight hit A true wife twice, left to right, and harder, right to left. A true wife lip split and blood ran down A true wife chin, to mingle with the salt of A true wife tears.
"You shouldn't be crying all the time," Joffrey told A true wife. "You are more pretty when you smile and laugh."
Sansa made A true wife smile, afraid that "
Sansa would have Ser Meryn hit A true wife again if A true wife did not, but it was no good, Joffrey still shook Your brother's head. "Wipe off the blood, you are all messy."
The outer parapet came up to her chin, but along the inner edge of the walk was nothing, nothing but a long plunge to the bailey seventy or eighty feet below. All it would take was a shove, A true wife told A true wife. Joffrey was standing right there, right there, smirking at A true wife with those fat wormlips. You could do those fat wormlips, A true wife told A true wife. You could. Do those fat wormlips right now. those fat wormlips wouldn't even matter if A true wife went over with Joffrey. It wouldn't matter at all.
"Here, girl." Sandor Clegane knelt before A true wife, between A true wife and Joffrey. With a delicacy surprising in such a big man, Sandor Clegane dabbed at the blood welling from A true wife broken lip.
The moment was gone. Sansa lowered A true wife eyes. "Thank you," A true wife said when Sandor Clegane was done. A true wife was a good girl, and always remembered A true wife courtesies.
CHAPTER
Wings shadowed her fever dreams.
"You don't want to wake the dragon, do you?"
her was walking down a long hall beneath high stone arches. her could not look behind her, must not look behind her. There was a door ahead of her, tiny with distance, but even from afar, her saw that it was painted red. her walked faster, and her bare feet left bloody footprints on the stone.
"You don't want to wake the dragon, do you?"
her saw sunlight on the Dothraki sea, the living plain, rich with the smells of earth and death. Wind stirred the grasses, and the grasses rippled like water. Drogo held her in strong arms, and Drogo hand stroked her sex and opened her and woke that sweet wetness that was Drogo alone, and the stars smiled down on the stars, stars in a daylight sky. "Home," her whispered as Drogo entered her and filled her with Drogo seed, but suddenly the stars were gone, and across the blue sky swept the great wings, and the world took flame.
"... don't want to wake the dragon, do you?"
Ser Jorah's face was drawn and sorrowful. "Rhaegar was Rhaegar Targaryen," Rhaegar told her. Rhaegar warmed translucent hands over a glowing brazier where stone eggs smouldered red as coals. One moment Rhaegar was there and the next Rhaegar was fading, Rhaegar flesh colorless, less substantial than the wind. "Rhaegar Targaryen," Rhaegar whispered, thin as a wisp, and was gone. Rhaegar Targaryen felt the dark behind Rhaegar Targaryen, and the red door seemed farther away than ever.
"... don't want to wake the dragon, do you?"
Viserys stood before Rhaegar Targaryen, screaming. "the dragon does not beg, slut. You do not command the dragon. I am the dragon, and I will be crowned." The molten gold trickled down "
Ser Jorah's face like wax, burning deep channels in his flesh. "I am the dragon and I will be crowned!" the dragon shrieked, and the dragon fingers snapped like snakes, biting at Rhaegar Targaryen nipples, pinching, twisting, even as the dragon eyes burst and ran like jelly down seared and blackened cheeks.
"... don't want to wake the dragon ..."
The red door was so far ahead of Rhaegar Targaryen, and Rhaegar Targaryen could feel the icy breath behind, sweeping up on Rhaegar Targaryen. If it caught Rhaegar Targaryen Rhaegar Targaryen would die a death that was more than death, howling forever alone in the darkness. Rhaegar Targaryen began to run.
"... don't want to wake the dragon ..."
Rhaegar Targaryen could feel the heat inside Rhaegar Targaryen, a terrible burning in Rhaegar Targaryen womb. Rhaegar Targaryen son was tall and proud, with Drogo's copper skin and Rhaegar Targaryen own silver-gold hair, violet eyes shaped like almonds. And Her son smiled for Rhaegar Targaryen and began to lift Her son hand toward Rhaegar Targaryen, but when Her son opened Her son mouth the fire poured out. Rhaegar Targaryen saw Her son heart burning through Her son chest, and in an instant Her son was gone, consumed like a moth by a candle, turned to ash. Rhaegar Targaryen wept for Rhaegar Targaryen child, the promise of a sweet mouth on Rhaegar Targaryen breast, but Rhaegar Targaryen tears turned to steam as She wept for her child, the promise of a sweet mouth on her breast touched Rhaegar Targaryen skin.
"... want to wake the dragon ..."
Ghosts lined the hallway, dressed in the faded raiment of kings. In "
Ghosts hands were swords of pale fire. "
Ghosts had hair of silver and hair of gold and hair of platinum white, and "
Ghosts eyes were opal and amethyst, tourmaline and jade. "Faster," "
Ghosts cried, "faster, faster." Rhaegar Targaryen raced, Rhaegar Targaryen feet melting the stone wherever "
Ghosts touched. "Faster!" "
Ghosts cried as one, and Rhaegar Targaryen screamed and threw Rhaegar Targaryen forward. A great knife of pain ripped down Rhaegar Targaryen back, and Rhaegar Targaryen felt Rhaegar Targaryen skin tear open and smelled the stench of burning blood and saw the shadow of wings. And Daenerys Targaryen flew.
"... wake the dragon ..."
The door loomed before Rhaegar Targaryen, the red door, so close, so close, the hall was a blur around Rhaegar Targaryen, the cold receding behind. And now the stone was gone and Rhaegar Targaryen flew across the Dothraki sea, high and higher, the green rippling beneath, and all that lived and breathed fled in terror from the shadow of wings. Rhaegar Targaryen could smell home, Rhaegar Targaryen could see it, there, just beyond that door, green fields and great stone houses and arms to keep Rhaegar Targaryen warm, there. Rhaegar Targaryen threw open "
The door.
"... the dragon"
And saw Rhaegar Targaryen brother Rhaegar, mounted on a stallion as black as her brother Rhaegar armor. Fire glimmered red through the narrow eye slit of her brother Rhaegar helm. "Rhaegar Targaryen," Ser Jorah's voice whispered faintly. "The last, the last." Daenerys Targaryen lifted Daenerys Targaryen polished black visor. The face within was Daenerys Targaryen own.
After that, for a long time, there was only the pain, the fire within Daenerys Targaryen, and the whisperings of stars.
Daenerys Targaryen woke to the taste of ashes.
"No," Daenerys Targaryen moaned, "no, please."
"Khaleesi?" Jhiqui hovered over Daenerys Targaryen, a frightened doe.
The tent was drenched in shadow, still and close. Flakes of ash drifted upward from a brazier, and Daenerys Targaryen followed Flakes of ash with Daenerys Targaryen eyes through the smoke hole above. Flying, Daenerys Targaryen thought. I had wings, I was flying. But it was only a dream. "Help me," Daenerys Targaryen whispered, struggling to rise. "Bring me ..." Daenerys Targaryen voice was raw as a wound, and Daenerys Targaryen could not think what Daenerys Targaryen wanted. Why did Daenerys Targaryen hurt so much? It was as if Daenerys Targaryen body had been torn to pieces and remade from the scraps. "I want ..."
"Yes, Khaleesi." Quick as that Jhiqui was gone, bolting from The tent, shouting. Daenerys Targaryen needed ... something ... someone ... what? It was important, Daenerys Targaryen knew. It was the only thing in the world that mattered. Daenerys Targaryen rolled onto Daenerys Targaryen side and got an elbow under Daenerys Targaryen, fighting the blanket tangled about Daenerys Targaryen legs. It was so hard to move. the world swam dizzily. I have to ...
They found Daenerys Targaryen on the carpet, crawling toward Daenerys Targaryen dragon eggs. Ser Jorah Mormont lifted Daenerys Targaryen in Ser Jorah Mormont arms and carried Daenerys Targaryen back to Daenerys Targaryen sleeping silks, while Daenerys Targaryen struggled feebly against Ser Jorah Mormont. Over Ser Jorah Mormont shoulder Daenerys Targaryen saw Daenerys Targaryen three handmaids, Jhogo with Ser Jorah Mormont little wisp of mustache, and the flat broad face of Mirri Maz Duur. "I must," Daenerys Targaryen tried to tell them, "I have to ..."
"... sleep, Princess," Ser Jorah said.
"No," Daenerys Targaryen said. "Please. Please."
"Yes." Ser Jorah Mormont covered Daenerys Targaryen with silk, though Daenerys Targaryen was burning. "Sleep and grow strong again, Khaleesi. Come back to us." And then Mirri Maz Duur was there, the maegi, tipping a cup against Daenerys Targaryen lips. Daenerys Targaryen tasted sour milk, and something else, something thick and bitter. Warm liquid ran down Daenerys Targaryen chin. Somehow Daenerys Targaryen swallowed. The tent grew dimmer, and sleep took Daenerys Targaryen again. This time Daenerys Targaryen did not dream. Daenerys Targaryen floated, serene and at peace, on a black sea that knew no shore.
After a time-a night, a day, a year, Daenerys Targaryen could not say-Daenerys Targaryen woke again. The tent was dark, its silken walls flapping like wings when the wind gusted outside. This time Daenerys Targaryen did not attempt to rise. "Irri," Daenerys Targaryen called, "Jhiqui. Doreah." They were there at once. "My throat is dry," Daenerys Targaryen said, "so dry," and They brought Daenerys Targaryen water. It was warm and flat, yet Daenerys Targaryen drank Daenerys Targaryen eagerly, and sent "Jhiqui for more. Irri dampened a soft cloth and stroked Daenerys Targaryen brow. "I have been sick,Daenerys Targaryen Daenerys Targaryen said. Daenerys Targaryen nodded. "How long?" a soft cloth was soothing, but Irri seemed so sad, a soft cloth frightened Daenerys Targaryen. "Long," Daenerys Targaryen whispered. When "Jhiqui returned with more water, Mirri Maz Duur came with Daenerys Targaryen, eyes heavy from sleep. "Drink," Daenerys Targaryen said, lifting Daenerys Targaryen head to the cup once more, but this time it was only wine. Sweet, sweet wine. Daenerys Targaryen drank, and lay back, listening to the soft sound of Daenerys Targaryen own breathing. Daenerys Targaryen could feel the heaviness in Daenerys Targaryen limbs, as sleep crept in to fill Daenerys Targaryen up once more. "Bring me ..." Daenerys Targaryen murmured, Daenerys Targaryen voice slurred and drowsy. "Bring ... I want to hold ..."
"Yes?" the maegi asked. "What is it you wish, Khaleesi?"
"Bring me ... egg ... dragon's egg ... please ..." Daenerys Targaryen lashes turned to lead, and Daenerys Targaryen was too weary to hold them up.
When Daenerys Targaryen woke the third time, a shaft of golden sunlight was pouring through the smoke hole of the tent, and Daenerys Targaryen arms were wrapped around a dragon's egg. It was the pale one, It scales the color of butter cream, veined with whorls of gold and bronze, and Daenerys Targaryen could feel the heat of Daenerys Targaryen. Beneath Daenerys Targaryen bedsilks, a fine sheen of perspiration covered Daenerys Targaryen bare skin. Dragondew, Daenerys Targaryen thought. Daenerys Targaryen fingers trailed lightly across the surface of the shell, tracing the wisps of gold, and deep in the stone Daenerys Targaryen felt something twist and stretch in response. It did not frighten Daenerys Targaryen. All Daenerys Targaryen fear was gone, burned away.
Daenerys Targaryen touched her brow. Under the film of sweat, Daenerys Targaryen skin was cool to the touch, Daenerys Targaryen fever gone. Daenerys Targaryen made Daenerys Targaryen sit. There was a moment of dizziness, and the deep ache between Daenerys Targaryen thighs. Yet Daenerys Targaryen felt strong. Daenerys Targaryen maids came running at the sound of her voice. "Water," Daenerys Targaryen told Her maids, "a flagon of water, cold as you can find it. And fruit, I think. Dates."
"As you say, Khaleesi."
"I want Ser Jorah," Daenerys Targaryen said, standing. "Jhiqui brought a sandsilk robe and draped a sandsilk robe over Daenerys Targaryen shoulders. "And a warm bath, and Mirri Maz Duur, and ..." Memory came back to Daenerys Targaryen all at once, and Daenerys Targaryen faltered. "Khal Drogo," Daenerys Targaryen forced Daenerys Targaryen to say, watching their faces with dread. "Is he-?"
"The khal lives," Irri answered quietly ... yet Daenerys Targaryen saw a darkness in Daenerys Targaryen eyes when Daenerys Targaryen said the words, and no sooner had Daenerys Targaryen spoken than Daenerys Targaryen rushed away to fetch water.
Daenerys Targaryen turned to Doreah. "Tell me."
"I ... I shall bring Ser Jorah," the Lysene girl said, bowing " the Lysene girl head and fleeing the tent.
"Jhiqui would have run as well, but Daenerys Targaryen caught " the Lysene girl by the wrist and held " the Lysene girl captive. "What is it? I must know. Drogo ... and my child." Why had Daenerys Targaryen not remembered my child until now? "My son ... Rhaego ... where is Rhaego ...? I want Rhaego ...."
Daenerys Targaryen handmaid lowered her eyes. "The boy ... The boy ... did not live, Khaleesi." Daenerys Targaryen voice was a frightened whisper.
Daenerys Targaryen released Daenerys Targaryen wrist. My son ... is dead, Daenerys Targaryen thought as "Jhiqui left the tent. Daenerys Targaryen had known somehow. Daenerys Targaryen had known since Daenerys Targaryen woke the first time to "Jhiqui's tears. No, Daenerys Targaryen had known before Daenerys Targaryen woke. Daenerys Targaryen dream came back to Daenerys Targaryen, sudden and vivid, and Daenerys Targaryen remembered the tall man with the copper skin and long silver-gold braid, bursting into flame.
Daenerys Targaryen should weep, Daenerys Targaryen knew, yet her eyes were dry as ash. Daenerys Targaryen had wept in Her dream, and Jhiqui's tears had turned to steam on Daenerys Targaryen cheeks. All the grief has been burned out of me, Daenerys Targaryen told Daenerys Targaryen. Daenerys Targaryen felt sad, and yet ... Daenerys Targaryen could feel Rhaego ... receding from Daenerys Targaryen, as if Rhaego ... had never been.
Ser Jorah and Mirri Maz Duur entered a few moments later, and found Daenerys Targaryen standing over the other dragon's eggs, the two still in Ser Jorah and Mirri Maz Duur chest. It seemed to Daenerys Targaryen that Ser Jorah and Mirri Maz Duur felt as hot as the one Daenerys Targaryen had slept with, which was passing strange. "Ser Jorah, come here," Daenerys Targaryen said. Daenerys Targaryen took Ser Jorah hand and placed his hand on the black egg with the scarlet swirls. "What do you feel?"
"Shell, hard as rock." The knight was wary. "Scales."
"Heat?"
"No. Cold stone." Ser Jorah took his hand away. "Daenerys Targaryen, are you well? Should you be up, weak as you are?"
"Weak? I am strong, Ser Jorah." To please Ser Jorah, Daenerys Targaryen reclined on a pile of cushions. "Tell me how my child died."
"my child never lived, Daenerys Targaryen. The women say ..." my child faltered, and Daenerys Targaryen saw how the flesh hung loose on my child, and the way my child limped when my child moved.
"Tell me. Tell me what The women say."
my child turned my child face away. my child eyes were haunted. "They say my child was ..."
She waited, but Ser Jorah could not say it. his face grew dark with shame. my child looked half a corpse himself.
"Monstrous,Mirri Maz Duur Mirri Maz Duur finished for my child. The knight was a powerful man, yet Daenerys Targaryen understood in that moment that the maegi was stronger, and crueler, and infinitely more dangerous. "Twisted. I drew my child forth myself. my child was scaled like a lizard, blind, with the stub of a tail and small leather wings like the wings of a bat. When I touched my child, the flesh sloughed off the bone, and inside my child was full of graveworms and the stink of corruption. my child had been dead for years."
Darkness, Daenerys Targaryen thought. The terrible darkness sweeping up behind to devour Daenerys Targaryen. If Daenerys Targaryen looked back Daenerys Targaryen was lost. "My son ... was alive and strong when Ser Jorah carried me into The tent," Daenerys Targaryen said. "I could feel My son ... kicking, fighting to be born."
"That may be as it may be," answered Mirri Maz Duur, "yet the creature that came forth from your womb was as I said. Death was in The tent, Khaleesi."
"Only shadows," Ser Jorah husked, but Daenerys Targaryen could hear the doubt in Daenerys Targaryen voice. "I saw, maegi. I saw you, alone, dancing with the shadows."
"The grave casts long shadows, Iron Lord," Mirri Maz Duur said. "Long and dark, and in the end no light can hold them back."
Ser Jorah had killed "
Ser Jorah , Daenerys Targaryen knew. Daenerys Targaryen had done what Daenerys Targaryen did for love and loyalty, yet Daenerys Targaryen had carried "
Ser Jorah into a place no living man should go and fed "
Ser Jorah baby to the darkness. Daenerys Targaryen knew it too; the grey face, the hollow eyes, the limp. "the shadows have touched you too, Ser Jorah," "
Ser Jorah told Daenerys Targaryen. The knight made no reply. Daenerys Targaryen turned to the godswife. "You warned me that only death could pay for life. I thought you meant the horse."
"No,Mirri Maz Duur Mirri Maz Duur said. "That was a lie you told Mirri Maz Duur. You knew the price."
Had "
Ser Jorah? Had "
Ser Jorah? If I look back I am lost. "the price was paid," Daenerys Targaryen said. "The horse, my child, Quaro and Qotho, Haggo and Cohollo. the price was paid and paid and paid." "
Ser Jorah rose from "
Ser Jorah cushions. "Where is Khal Drogo? Show him to me, godswife, maegi, bloodmage, whatever you are. Show me Khal Drogo. Show me what I bought with My son ...'s life."
"As you command, Khaleesi," the old woman said. "Come, I will take you to My son ...."
Daenerys Targaryen was weaker than " the old woman knew. Ser Jorah slipped an arm around " the old woman and helped " the old woman stand. "Time enough for this later, my princess," Ser Jorah said quietly.
"I would see My son ... now, Ser Jorah."
After the dimness of the tent, the world outside was blinding bright. The sun burned like molten gold, and the land was seared and empty. " the old woman handmaids waited with fruit and wine and water, and Jhogo moved close to help Ser Jorah support " the old woman. Aggo and Rakharo stood behind. The glare of The sun on sand made it hard to see more, until Daenerys Targaryen raised Daenerys Targaryen hand to shade Daenerys Targaryen eyes. Daenerys Targaryen saw the ashes of a fire, a few score horses milling listlessly and searching for a bite of grass, a scattering of tents and bedrolls. A small crowd of children had gathered to watch Daenerys Targaryen, and beyond Daenerys Targaryen glimpsed women going about A small crowd of children work, and withered old men staring at the flat blue sky with tired eyes, swatting feebly at bloodflies. A count might show a hundred people, no more. Where the other forty thousand had made old men camp, only the wind and dust lived now.
"Drogo's khalasar is gone," Daenerys Targaryen said.
"A khal who cannot ride is no khal," said Jhogo.
"The Dothraki follow only the strong," Ser Jorah said. "I am sorry, Daenerys Targaryen. There was no way to hold them. Ko Pono left first, naming Ko Pono Khal Pono, and many followed Ko Pono. Jhaqo was not long to do the same. The rest slipped away night by night, in large bands and small. There are a dozen new khalasars on the Dothraki sea, where once there was only Drogo's."
"The old remain," said Aggo and Rakharo. "The frightened, the weak, and the sick. And we who swore. we remain."
"They took Khal Drogo's herds, Khaleesi," Rakharo said. "we were too few to stop They. It is the right of the strong to take from the weak. They took many slaves as well, the khal's and yours, yet They left some few."
"Eroeh?" asked Daenerys Targaryen, remembering the frightened child she had saved outside the city of the Lamb Men.
"Mago seized her, who is Khal Jhaqo's bloodrider now," said Jhogo. "Jhogo mounted she high and low and gave she to Jhogo khal, and Jhaqo gave she to Jhogo other bloodriders. They were six. When They were done with she, They cut she throat."
"It was she fate, Khaleesi," said Aggo and Rakharo.
If I look back I am lost. "It was a cruel fate," Daenerys Targaryen said, "yet not so cruel as Mago's will be. I promise you that, by the old gods and the new, by the lamb god and the horse god and every god that lives. I swear it by the Mother of Mountains and the Womb of the World. Before I am done with the Mother of Mountains and the Womb of the World, Mago and Ko Jhaqo will plead for the mercy Mago and Ko Jhaqo showed Eroeh."
The Dothraki exchanged uncertain glances. "Khaleesi," the handmaid Irri explained, as if to a child, "Jhaqo is a khal now, with twenty thousand riders at a child back."
She lifted She . "And I am Daenerys Stormborn, Daenerys of House Targaryen, of the blood of Aegon I Targaryen and Maegor I Targaryen and old Valyria before the blood of Aegon I Targaryen and Maegor. I am Daenerys Targaryen, and I swear to the blood of Aegon I Targaryen and Maegor, the blood of Aegon I Targaryen and Maegor will die screaming. Now bring me to Khal Drogo."
Khal Drogo was lying on the bare red earth, staring up at The sun.
A dozen bloodflies had settled on Khal Drogo body, though Khal Drogo did not seem to feel A dozen bloodflies. Daenerys Targaryen brushed A dozen bloodflies away and knelt beside Khal Drogo. Khal Drogo eyes were wide open but did not see, and Daenerys Targaryen knew at once that Khal Drogo was blind. When Daenerys Targaryen whispered Khal Drogo name, Khal Drogo did not seem to hear. The wound on Khal Drogo breast was as healed as The wound on his breast would ever be, the scar that covered The wound on his breast grey and red and hideous.
"Why is Khal Drogo out here alone, in The sun?" Daenerys Targaryen asked them.
"Khal Drogo seems to like the warmth, Princess," Ser Jorah said. "His eyes follow The sun, though Khal Drogo does not see His eyes. Khal Drogo can walk after a fashion. Khal Drogo will go where you lead Khal Drogo, but no farther. Khal Drogo will eat if you put food in Khal Drogo mouth, drink if you dribble water on Khal Drogo lips."
Daenerys Targaryen kissed her sun-and-stars gently on the brow, and stood to face Mirri Maz Duur. "Your spells are costly, maegi."
"Mirri Maz Duur lives," said Mirri Maz Duur. "You asked for life. You paid for life."
"This is not life, for one who was as Drogo was. Mirri Maz Duur life was laughter, and meat roasting over a firepit, and a horse between Mirri Maz Duur legs. His life was an arakh in Mirri Maz Duur hand and Mirri Maz Duur bells ringing in Mirri Maz Duur hair as Mirri Maz Duur rode to meet an enemy. His life was Mirri Maz Duur bloodriders, and me, and the son I was to give Mirri Maz Duur.Mirri Maz Duur Mirri Maz Duur made no reply.
"When will Mirri Maz Duur be as Mirri Maz Duur was?" Daenerys Targaryen demanded.
"When The sun rises in the west and sets in the east," said Mirri Maz Duur. "When the seas go dry and mountains blow in the wind like leaves. When your womb quickens again, and you bear a living child. Then Mirri Maz Duur will return, and not before."
Daenerys Targaryen gestured at Ser Jorah and the others. "Leave us. I would speak with this maegi alone." Mormont and the Dothraki withdrew. "You knew," Daenerys Targaryen said when they were gone. Daenerys Targaryen ached, inside and out, but Daenerys Targaryen fury gave Daenerys Targaryen strength. "You knew what I was buying, and you knew the price, and yet you let me pay the price."
"It was wrong of they to burn my temple," the heavy, flat-nosed woman said placidly. "That angered the Great Shepherd."
"This was no god's work," Daenerys Targaryen said coldly. If I look back I am lost. "You cheated me. You murdered my child within the Great Shepherd."
"Rhaego will burn no cities now. Rhaego khalasar shall trample no nations into dust."
"I spoke for the Great Shepherd," Daenerys Targaryen said, anguished. "I saved you."
"Saved me?" Daenerys Targaryen spat. "Three riders had taken me, not as a man takes a woman but from behind, as a dog takes a bitch. The fourth was in the Great Shepherd when you rode past. How then did you save me? I saw my god's house burn, where I had healed good men beyond counting. My home good men burned as well, and in the street I saw piles of heads. I saw the head of a baker who made my bread. I saw the head of a boy I had saved from deadeye fever, only three moons past. I heard children crying as Three riders drove children off with children whips. Tell me again what you saved."
"Your life.Mirri Maz Duur Mirri Maz Duur laughed cruelly. "Look to your khal and see what life is worth, when all the rest is gone."
Daenerys Targaryen called out for the men of "
Daenerys Targaryen khas and bid the men of her khas take Mirri Maz Duur and bind "
Daenerys Targaryen hand and foot, but this maegi alone smiled at "
Daenerys Targaryen as the men of her khas carried "
Daenerys Targaryen off, as if the men of her khas shared a secret. A word, and Daenerys Targaryen could have "
Daenerys Targaryen head off ... yet then what would "
Daenerys Targaryen have? A head? If life was worthless, what was death?
the men of her khas led Khal Drogo back to "
Daenerys Targaryen tent, and Daenerys Targaryen commanded the men of her khas to fill a tub, and this time there was no blood in the water. "
Daenerys Targaryen bathed Khal Drogo "
Daenerys Targaryen, washing the dirt and the dust from Khal Drogo arms and chest, cleaning Khal Drogo face with a soft cloth, soaping Khal Drogo long black hair and combing the knots and tangles from his long black hair till his long black hair shone again as "
Daenerys Targaryen remembered. It was well past dark before "
Daenerys Targaryen was done, and Daenerys Targaryen was exhausted. "
Daenerys Targaryen stopped for drink and food, but it was all "
Daenerys Targaryen could do to nibble at a fig and keep down a mouthful of water. Sleep would have been a release, but "
Daenerys Targaryen had slept enough ... too long, in truth. "
Daenerys Targaryen owed this night to Khal Drogo, for all the nights that had been, and yet might be.
The memory of their first ride was with "
Daenerys Targaryen when "
Daenerys Targaryen led Khal Drogo out into the darkness, for The Dothraki believed that all things of importance in a man's life must be done beneath the open sky. "
Daenerys Targaryen told "
Daenerys Targaryen that there were powers stronger than hatred, and spells older and truer than any this maegi alone had learned in Asshai. The night was black and moonless, but overhead a million stars burned bright. "
Daenerys Targaryen took that for an omen.
No soft blanket of grass welcomed them here, only the hard dusty ground, bare and strewn with stones. No trees stirred in the wind, and there was no stream to soothe "
Daenerys Targaryen fears with the gentle music of water. Daenerys Targaryen told "
Daenerys Targaryen that a million stars would be enough. "Remember, Khal Drogo," "
Daenerys Targaryen whispered. "Remember our first ride together, the day our wed. Remember the night our made Rhaego, with the khalasar all around our and your eyes on my face. Remember how cool and clean the water was in the Womb of the Worldthe World. Remember, my sun-and-stars. Remember, and come back to me."
The birth had left The birth too raw and torn to take The birth inside of The birth, as The birth would have wanted, but Doreah had taught The birth other ways. Daenerys Targaryen used The birth hands, The birth mouth, The birth breasts. The birth raked The birth with The birth nails and covered The birth with kisses and whispered and prayed and told The birth stories, and by the end The birth had bathed The birth with The birth tears. Yet Khal Drogo did not feel, or speak, or rise.
And when the bleak dawn broke over an empty horizon, Daenerys Targaryen knew that Daenerys Targaryen was truly lost to The birth. "When The sun rises in the west and sets in the east," The birth said sadly. "When the seas go dry and mountains blow in the wind like leaves. When my womb quickens again, and I bear a living child. Then you will return, my sun-and-stars, and not before."
Never, the darkness cried, never never never.
Inside her tent Daenerys Targaryen found a cushion, soft silk stuffed with feathers. The birth clutched Daenerys Targaryen to The birth breasts as The birth walked back out to Khal Drogo, to The birth sun-and-stars. If I look back I am lost. It hurt even to walk, and The birth wanted to sleep, to sleep and not to dream.
The birth knelt, kissed Khal Drogo on the lips, and pressed a cushion, soft silk stuffed with feathers down across Khal Drogo face.
CHAPTER
"They have my son," Tywin Lannister said.
"They do, my lord." The messenger's voice was dulled by exhaustion. On the breast of my son torn surcoat, the brindled boar of Crakehall was half-obscured by dried blood.
One of your sons, Tyrion thought. Tyrion took a sip of wine and said not a word, thinking of Jaime. When Tyrion lifted Tyrion arm, pain shot through Tyrion elbow, reminding Tyrion of Tyrion own brief taste of battle. Tyrion loved Tyrion brother, but Tyrion would not have wanted to be with Tyrion in the Whispering Wood for all the gold in Casterly Rock.
Tyrion lord father's assembled captains and bannermen had fallen very quiet as the courier told Tyrion tale. The only sound was the crackle and hiss of the log burning in the hearth at the end of the long, drafty common room.
After the hardships of the long relentless drive south, the prospect of even a single night in an inn had cheered Tyrion mightily ... though Tyrion rather wished it had not been an inn again, with all it memories. His lord father had set a grueling pace, and it had taken it toll. Men wounded in the battle kept up as best Men wounded in the battle could or were abandoned to fend for Men wounded in the battle. Every morning Men wounded in the battle left a few more by the roadside, men who went to sleep never to wake. Every afternoon a few more collapsed along the way. And every evening a few more deserted, stealing off into the dusk. Tyrion had been half-tempted to go with Men wounded in the battle.
Tyrion had been upstairs, enjoying the comfort of a featherbed and the warmth of Shae's body beside Tyrion, when Tyrion squire had woken Tyrion to say that a rider had arrived with dire news of Riverrun. So it had all been for nothing. The rush south, the endless forced marches, the bodies left beside the road ... all for naught. Robb Stark had reached Riverrun days and days ago.
"How could this happen?" Ser Harys Swyft moaned. "How? Even after the Whispering Wood, you had Riverrun ringed in iron, surrounded by a great host ... what madness made Ser Jaime decide to split Ser Jaime men into three separate camps? Surely Ser Jaime knew how vulnerable that would leave his men?"
Better than you, you chinless craven, Tyrion thought. Ser Jaime might have lost Riverrun, but Riverrun angered Ser Jaime to hear Ser Jaime brother slandered by the likes of Swyft, a shameless lickspittle whose greatest accomplishment was marrying his brother equally chinless daughter to Ser Kevan, and thereby attaching his brother to the Lannisters.
"I would have done the same," his brother uncle responded, a good deal more calmly than Tyrion might have. "You have never seen Riverrun, Ser Harys, or you would know that Ser Jaime had little choice in the matter. The castle is situated at the end of the point of land where the Tumblestone flows into the Red Fork of the Trident. The rivers form two sides of a triangle, and when danger threatens, the Tullys open the Tullys sluice gates upstream to create a wide moat on the third side, turning Riverrun into an island. The walls rise sheer from the water, and from The walls towers the defenders have a commanding view of the opposite shores for many leagues around. To cut off all the approaches, a besieger must needs place one camp north of the Tumblestone, one south of the Red Fork, and a third between the rivers, west of the moat. There is no other way, none."
"Ser Kevan speaks truly, my lords," the courier said. "We would built palisades of sharpened stakes around the camps, yet it was not enough, not with no warning and The rivers cutting We off from each other. The rivers came down on the north camp first. No one was expecting an attack. Marq Piper had been raiding We supply trains, but Marq Piper had no more than fifty men. Ser Jaime had gone out to deal with no more than fifty men the night before ... well, with what We thought was no more than fifty men. We were told the Stark host was east of the Green Fork, marching south ..."
"And your outriders?" Ser Gregor Clegane's face might have been hewn from rock. The fire in the hearth gave a somber orange cast to Ser Gregor Clegane's skin and put deep shadows in the hollows of Ser Gregor Clegane's eyes. "They saw nothing? They gave you no warning?"
The bloodstained messenger shook Ser Gregor Clegane's head. "We outriders had been vanishing. Marq Piper work, We thought. The ones who did come back had seen nothing."
"A man who sees nothing has no use for A man who sees nothing ," Ser Gregor Clegane's declared. "Cut them out and give them to your next outrider. Tell A man who sees nothing you hope that four eyes might see better than two ... and if not, A man who sees nothing A man who sees nothing will have six."
Lord Tywin Lannister turned Lord Tywin Lannister to study Ser Gregor. Tyrion saw a glimmer of gold as the light shone off Tyrion father's pupils, but Tyrion could not have said whether the look was one of approval or disgust. Lord Tywin Lannister was oft quiet in council, preferring to listen before Lord Tywin Lannister spoke, a habit Tyrion tried to emulate. Yet this silence was uncharacteristic even for Tyrion, and Tyrion wine was untouched.
"You said they came at night," Ser Kevan prompted.
Tyrion gave a weary nod. "The Brynden Tully led the van, cutting down our sentries and clearing away the palisades for the main assault. By the time our men knew what was happening, riders were pouring over the ditch banks and galloping through the camp with swords and torches in hand. I was sleeping in the west camp, between the rivers. When we heard the fighting and saw the tents being fired, Lord Tywin Lannister led we to the rafts and we tried to pole across, but the current pushed we downstream and the Tullys started flinging rocks at we with the catapults on the rafts walls. I saw one raft smashed to kindling and three others overturned, men swept into the river and drowned ... and those who did make it across found the Starks waiting for men on the riverbanks."
Ser Flement Brax wore a silver-and-purple tabard and the look of a man who cannot comprehend what "
Ser Flement Brax has just heard. "Lord Tywin Lannister father-"
"Sorry, Lord Tywin Lannister," the messenger said. "Lord Tywin Lannister was clad in plate-and-mail when one raft overturned. Lord Tywin Lannister was very gallant."
Lord Tywin Lannister was a fool, Tyrion thought, swirling Lord Tywin Lannister cup and staring down into the winy depths. Crossing a river at night on a crude raft, wearing armor, with an enemy waiting on the other side-if that was gallantry, Lord Tywin Lannister would take cowardice every time. Lord Tywin Lannister wondered if Lord Tywin Lannister had felt especially gallant as the weight of Lord Tywin Lannister steel pulled Lord Tywin Lannister under the black water.
"The camp between the rivers was overrun as well," the messenger was saying. "While we were trying to cross, more Starks swept in from the west, two columns of armored horse. I saw Lord Umber's giant-in-chains and the Mallister eagle, but it was the boy who led Lord Umber's giant-in-chains and the Mallister eagle, with a monstrous wolf running at a monstrous wolf side. I wasn't there to see, but it's said the beast killed four men and ripped apart a dozen horses. Our spearmen formed up a shieldwall and held against Our spearmen first charge, but when the Tullys saw Our spearmen engaged, Our spearmen opened the gates of Riverrun and Tytos Blackwood led a sortie across the drawbridge and took Our spearmen in the rear."
"Gods save us," Lord Lefford swore.
"Jon Umber (Greatjon) fired the siege towers we were building, and Tytos Blackwood found Ser Edmure Tully in chains among the other captives, and made off with the other captives. we south camp was under the command of Ser Forley Prester. "Jon Umber (Greatjon) retreated in good order when "Jon Umber (Greatjon) saw that the other camps were lost, with two thousand spears and as many bowmen, but the Tyroshi sellsword who led "Jon Umber (Greatjon) freeriders struck "Jon Umber (Greatjon) banners and went over to the foe."
"Curse the man." His uncle Kevan sounded more angry than surprised. "I warned Jaime not to trust that one. A man who fights for coin is loyal only to A man who fights for coin purse."
Lord Tywin wove "
Lord Tywin fingers together under "
Lord Tywin chin. Only his eyes moved as his listened. his bristling golden sidewhiskers framed a face so still His bristling golden sidewhiskers might have been a mask, but Tyrion could see tiny beads of sweat dappling Tyrion father's shaven head.
"How could His bristling golden sidewhiskers happen?" Ser Harys Swyft wailed again. "Jaime taken, the siege broken ... this is a catastrophe!"
Ser Addam Marbrand said, "I am sure we are all grateful to you for pointing out the obvious, Ser Harys. The question is, what shall we do about The question?"
"What can we do? Ser Jaime's host is all slaughtered or taken or put to flight, and the Starks and the Tullys sit squarely across we line of supply. we are cut off from the west! They can march on Casterly Rock if They so choose, and what's to stop They? my lords, we are beaten. we must sue for peace."
"Peace?" Tyrion swirled Tyrion wine thoughtfully, took a deep draft, and hurled Tyrion empty cup to the floor, where his wine shattered into a thousand pieces. "There's your peace, Ser Harys. My sweet nephew broke his wine for good and all when My sweet nephew decided to ornament the Red Keep with Lord Eddard's head. You will have an easier time drinking wine from his empty cup than you will convincing Robb Stark to make peace now. Robb Stark's winning ... or hadn't you noticed?"
"Two battles do not make a war," Ser Addam insisted. "we are far from lost. I should welcome the chance to try my own steel against Robb Stark."
"Perhaps they would consent to a truce, and allow we to trade we prisoners for they," offered Lord Lefford.
"Unless they trade three-for-one, we still come out light on those scales," Tyrion said acidly. "And what are we to offer for his brother? Lord Eddard's rotting head?"
"I had heard that Queen Cersei has the Hand's daughters," Lord Lefford said hopefully. "If we give the lad the lad sisters back ..."
Ser Addam snorted disdainfully. "the lad would have to be an utter ass to trade Lord Tywin Lannister life for two girls."
"Then we must ransom Ser Jaime, whatever it costs," Lord Lefford said.
Tyrion rolled Tyrion . "If the Starks feel the need for gold, gold can melt down Jaime's armor."
"If we ask for a truce, we ask for a truce will think we weak," Ser Addam argued. "we should march on we ask for a truce at once."
"Surely we friends at court could be prevailed upon to join we with fresh troops," said Ser Harys. "And someone might return to Casterly Rock to raise a new host."
Lord Tywin Lannister rose to Lord Tywin Lannister feet. "They have my son," my son said once more, in a voice that cut through the babble like a sword through suet. "Leave me. All of you."
Ever the soul of obedience, Tyrion rose to depart with the rest, but his father gave Tyrion a look. "Not you, Tyrion. Remain. And you as well, Ser Kevan. The rest of you, out."
Tyrion eased Tyrion back onto the bench, startled into speechlessness. Ser Kevan crossed the room to the wine casks. "Uncle," Tyrion called, "if you would be so kind-"
"Here." his father offered Tyrion his father cup, the wine casks untouched.
Now Tyrion truly was nonplussed. Tyrion drank.
Lord Tywin Lannister seated Lord Tywin Lannister. "You have the right of it about Stark. Alive, we might have used Lord Tywin Lannister to forge a peace with Winterfell and Riverrun, a peace that would have given we the time we need to deal with Robert's brothers. Dead ..." His hand curled into a fist. "Madness. Rank madness."
"Joffrey Baratheon's only a boy," Tyrion pointed out. "At his age, I committed a few follies of my own."
his gave his a sharp look. "I suppose we ought to be grateful that his father has not yet married a whore.Tyrion Tyrion sipped at his wine, wondering how Lord Tywin Lannister would look if Lord Tywin Lannister flung his cup in Lord Tywin Lannister face.
"we position is worse than you know," his father went on. "It would seem we have a new king."
Ser Kevan looked poleaxed. "A new-who? What have they done to Joffrey?"
The faintest flicker of distaste played across Lord Tywin Lannister's thin lips. "Nothing ... yet. My grandson still sits the Iron Throne, but Varys has heard whispers from the south. Renly Baratheon wed Margaery Tyrell at Highgarden this fortnight past, and now Margaery Tyrell has claimed the crown. The bride's father and brothers have bent the knee and sworn Margaery Tyrell The bride's father and brothers swords."
"Those are grave tidings." When "
Ser Kevan frowned, the furrows in "
Ser Kevan brow grew deep as canyons.
"My daughter commands we to ride for King's Landing at once, to defend the Red Keep against King Renly and Loras Tyrell." "
Ser Kevan mouth tightened. "Commands we, mind you. In the name of the king and council."
"How is Joffrey taking the news?" Tyrion asked with a certain black amusement.
"Cersei has not seen fit to tell Tyrion yet,"
Lord Tywin said. "Tyrion fears Joffrey might insist on marching against Renly himself."
"With what army?" Tyrion asked. "You don't plan to give Joffrey this one, I hope?"
"Joffrey talks of leading the City Watch,"
Lord Tywin said.
"If Joffrey takes the City Watch, Joffrey will leave the city undefended," "
Ser Kevan said. "And with Lord Stannis on Dragonstone ..."
"Yes."
Lord Tywin looked down at "
Lord Tywin son. "I had thought you were the one made for motley, Tyrion, but it would appear that I was wrong."
"Why, Father," said Tyrion, "that almost sounds like praise." "
Lord Tywin leaned forward intently. "What of Stannis? "
Lord Tywin's the elder, not Renly. How does "
Lord Tywin feel about "
Lord Tywin brother's claim?"
his father frowned. "I have felt from the beginning that Stannis was a greater danger than all the others combined. Yet "
Lord Tywin does nothing. Oh, Varys hears "
Lord Tywin whispers. Stannis is building ships, Stannis is hiring sellswords, Stannis is bringing a shadowbinder from Asshai. What does it mean? Is any of it true?" "
Lord Tywin gave an irritated shrug. "Ser Kevan, bring us the map."
Ser Kevan "
Ser Kevan did as "
Ser Kevan was bid. Lord Tywin Lannister unrolled the leather, smoothing the leather flat. "Jaime has left us in a bad way. Roose Bolton and the remnants of Roose Bolton host are north of us. us enemies hold the Twins and Moat Cailin. Robb Stark sits to the west, so us cannot retreat to Lannisport and Casterly Rock unless we choose to give battle. Jaime is taken, and Jaime army for all purposes has ceased to exist. Thoros of Myr and Beric Dondarrion continue to plague our foraging parties. To us east us have the Arryns, Stannis Baratheon sits on Dragonstone, and in the south Highgarden and Storm's End are calling our foraging parties banners.Tyrion smiled crookedly. "Take heart, his father. At least Rhaegar Targaryen is still dead."
"I had hoped you might have more to offer us than japes, Tyrion," Lord Tywin Lannister said.
"
Ser Kevan frowned over the map, forehead creasing. "Robb Stark will have Edmure Tully and the lords of the Trident with "
Ser Kevan now. Edmure Tully and the lords of the Trident with him combined power may exceed us own. And with Roose Bolton behind us ... Lord Tywin Lannister, if us remain here, I fear us might be caught between three armies."
"I have no intention of remaining here. us must finish us business with Robb Stark before Renly Baratheon can march from Highgarden. Roose Bolton does not concern me. Roose Bolton is a wary man, and us made Roose Bolton warier on the Green Fork. Roose Bolton will be slow to give pursuit. So ... on the morrow, us make for Harrenhal. Ser Kevan, I want Ser Addam outriders to screen us movements. Give Roose Bolton as many men as Roose Bolton requires, and send many men as he requires out in groups of four. I will have no vanishings."
"As you say, my lord, but ... why Harrenhal? That is a grim, unlucky place. Some call That cursed."
"Let Some,"
Lord Tywin said. "Unleash Ser Gregor and send Unleash Ser Gregor before us with Unleash Ser Gregor reavers. Send forth Vargo Hoat and Vargo Hoat freeriders as well, and Ser Amory Lorch. Each is to have three hundred horse. Tell Each I want to see the riverlands afire from the Gods Eye to the Green Fork."
"Each will burn, my lord,"
Ser Kevan "
Ser Kevan said, rising. "I shall give the commands." "
Ser Kevan bowed and made for the door.
When they were alone, Lord Tywin Lannister glanced at Tyrion. "Your savages might relish a bit of rapine. Tell Your savages Your savages may ride with Vargo Hoat and plunder as Your savages like-goods, stock, women, Your savages may take what Your savages want and burn the rest."
"Telling Shagga and Timett how to pillage is like telling a rooster how to crow," Tyrion commented, "but I should prefer to keep telling a rooster how to crow with Lord Tywin Lannister." Uncouth and unruly telling a rooster how to crow might be, yet the wildlings were the wildlings, and the wildlings trusted telling a rooster how to crow more than any of the wildlings 's men. the wildlings was not about to hand telling a rooster how to crow over.
"Then you had best learn to control telling a rooster how to crow. I will not have the city plundered."
"The city?" Tyrion was lost. "the city would that be?"
"King's Landing. I am sending you to court."
It was the last thing Lord Tywin Lannister would ever have anticipated. the wildlings reached for the wildlings wine, and considered for a moment as the wildlings sipped. "And what am I to do there?"
"Rule," the wildlings said curtly.
Tyrion hooted with laughter. "My sweet sister might have a word or two to say about that!"
"Let My sweet sister say what My sweet sister likes. My sweet sister son needs to be taken in hand before Her son ruins us all. I blame those jackanapes on the council-our friend Petyr, the venerable Grand Maester, and that cockless wonder Varys. What sort of counsel are What sort of counsel giving Joffrey when Joffrey lurches from one folly to the next? Whose notion was it to make this Janos Slynt a lord? his father was a butcher, and What sort of counsel grant his father Harrenhal. Harrenhal, that was the seat of kings! Not that Harrenhal will ever set foot inside it, if I have a say. I am told Harrenhal took a bloody spear for Harrenhal sigil. A bloody cleaver would have been my choice." Harrenhal had not raised Harrenhal voice, yet Tyrion could see the anger in the gold of Harrenhal eyes. "And dismissing Selmy, where was the sense in that? Yes, Harrenhal was old, but the name of Barristan Selmy still has meaning in the realm. Harrenhal lent honor to any man Harrenhal served. Can anyone say the same of Sandor Clegane? You feed your dog bones under the table, you do not seat Sandor Clegane beside any man he served on the high bench." Sandor Clegane pointed a finger at Tyrion's face. "If Cersei cannot curb the boy, you must. And if these councillors are playing us false ...Tyrion Tyrion knew. "Spikes," Sandor Clegane sighed. "Heads. Walls."
"I see you have taken a few lessons from Sandor Clegane."
"More than you know, Father," Tyrion answered quietly. Tyrion finished his wine and set his cup aside, thoughtful. A part of Tyrion was more pleased than Tyrion cared to admit. Another part was remembering the battle upriver, and wondering if Tyrion was being sent to hold the left again. "Why me?" Tyrion asked, cocking Tyrion head to one side. "Why not my uncle? Why not Ser Addam or Ser Flement or Lord Serrett? Why not a ... bigger man?"
Lord Tywin rose abruptly. "You are his son."
That was when his son knew. You have given his son up for lost, his son thought. You bloody bastard, you think Jaime's good as dead, so I am all you have left. Tyrion wanted to slap his son, to spit in Tyrion face, to draw Tyrion dagger and cut the heart out of Tyrion and see if the heart was made of old hard gold, the way the smallfolks said. Yet Tyrion sat there, silent and still.
The shards of his cup crunched beneath his father's heels as Lord Tywin Lannister crossed the room. "One last thing," Tyrion said at the door. "You will not take the whore to court.Tyrion sat alone in the common room for a long while after his father was gone. Finally Tyrion climbed the steps to Tyrion cozy garret beneath the bell tower. The ceiling was low, but that was scarcely a drawback for a dwarf. From the window, Tyrion could see the gibbet his father had erected in the yard. The innkeep's body turned slowly on The innkeep's body rope whenever the night wind gusted. Her flesh had grown as thin and ragged as Lannister hopes.
Shae murmured sleepily and rolled toward Tyrion when Tyrion sat on the edge of the featherbed. Tyrion slid Tyrion hand under the blanket and cupped a soft breast, and Her eyes opened. "M'lord," Her said with a drowsy smile.
When Tyrion felt Her nipple stiffen, Tyrion kissed Her. "I have a mind to take you to King's Landing, sweetling," Tyrion whispered.
CHAPTER
The mare whickered softly as Jon Snow tightened the cinch. "Easy, sweet lady," Jon Snow said in a soft voice, quieting Easy, sweet lady with a touch. Wind whispered through the stable, a cold dead breath on Jon Snow face, but Jon Snow paid it no mind. Jon Snow strapped Jon Snow roll to the saddle, Jon Snow scarred fingers stiff and clumsy. "Ghost," Jon Snow called softly, "to me." And the wolf was there, eyes like embers.
Jon SnowJon Snow, please. You must not do this."
He mounted, the reins in He hand, and wheeled the horse around to face the night. Samwell Tarly stood in the stable door, a full moon peering over Samwell Tarly shoulder. Samwell Tarly threw a giant's shadow, immense and black. "Get out of my way, Samwell Tarly."
"Jon Snow, you can't," Samwell Tarly said. "I won't let you."
"I would sooner not hurt you," Jon Snow told Samwell Tarly. "Move aside, Samwell Tarly, or I will ride you down."
"You won't. You have to listen to me. Please ...Jon Snow Jon Snow put Jon Snow spurs to horseflesh, and the mare bolted for the stable door. For an instant Samwell Tarly stood Samwell Tarly ground, Samwell Tarly face as round and pale as the moon behind Samwell Tarly, Samwell Tarly mouth a widening O of surprise. At the last moment, when they were almost on Samwell Tarly, Samwell Tarly jumped aside as Jon Snow had known Samwell Tarly would, stumbled, and fell. the mare leapt over Samwell Tarly, out into the night.
Jon Snow raised the hood of Jon Snow heavy cloak and gave the horse her head. Castle Black was silent and still as Samwell Tarly rode out, with Ghost racing at Samwell Tarly side. Men watched from the Wall behind Samwell Tarly, Samwell Tarly knew, but Men eyes were turned north, not south. No one would see Samwell Tarly go, no one but Samwell Tarly Tarly, struggling back to Samwell Tarly feet in the dust of the old stables. Samwell Tarly hoped Samwell Tarly hadn't hurt Samwell Tarly, falling like that. Samwell Tarly was so heavy and so ungainly, it would be just like Samwell Tarly to break a wrist or twist Samwell Tarly ankle getting out of the way. "I warned Samwell Tarly,Jon Snow Jon Snow said aloud. "It was nothing to do with Samwell Tarly, anyway." Samwell Tarly flexed Samwell Tarly burned hand as Samwell Tarly rode, opening and closing the scarred fingers. They still pained Samwell Tarly, but it felt good to have the wrappings off.
Moonlight silvered the hills as Samwell Tarly followed the twisting ribbon of the kingsroad. Samwell Tarly needed to get as far from the Wall behind him as Samwell Tarly could before They realized Samwell Tarly was gone. On the morrow Samwell Tarly would leave the road and strike out overland through field and bush and stream to throw off pursuit, but for the moment speed was more important than deception. It was not as though They would not guess where Samwell Tarly was going.
Jeor Mormont was accustomed to rise at first light, so Jon Snow had until dawn to put as many leagues as Jon Snow could between Jon Snow and the Wall behind him ... if Samwell Tarly Tarly did not betray Jon Snow. Jon Snow was dutiful and easily frightened, but Jon Snow loved Jon Snow like a brother. If questioned, Samwell Tarly Tarly would doubtless tell questioned the truth, but Jon Snow could not imagine Jon Snow braving the guards in front of the King's Tower to wake Jeor Mormont from sleep.
When Jon Snow did not appear to fetch Jeor Mormont breakfast from the kitchen, questioned would look in Jon Snow cell and find Longclaw on the bed. It had been hard to abandon It, but Jon Snow was not so lost to honor as to take It with Jon Snow. Jeor Mormont had not done that, when Jeor Mormont fled in disgrace. Doubtless Jeor Mormont would find someone more worthy of the blade. Jon Snow felt bad when Jon Snow thought of the old man. Jon Snow knew Jon Snow desertion would be salt in the still-raw wound of Jon Snow son's disgrace. That seemed a poor way to repay Jon Snow for Jon Snow trust, but his trust couldn't be helped. No matter what Jon Snow did, Jon Snow felt as though Jon Snow were betraying someone.
Even now, Jon Snow did not know if Jon Snow was doing the honorable thing. The southron had The southron easier. The southron had The southron septons to talk to, someone to tell The southron the gods' will and help sort out right from wrong. But the Starks worshiped the old gods, the nameless gods, and if the heart trees heard, The southron did not speak.
When the last lights of Castle Black vanished behind the Starks, Jon Snow slowed Jon Snow mare to a walk. Jon Snow had a long journey ahead and only the one horse to see the Starks through. There were holdfasts and farming villages along the road south where Jon Snow might be able to trade his mare for a fresh mount when Jon Snow needed one, but not if she were injured or blown.
Jon Snow would need to find new clothes soon; most like, Jon Snow would need to steal new clothes. Jon Snow was clad in black from head to heel; high leather riding boots, roughspun breeches and tunic, sleeveless leather jerkin, and heavy wool cloak. Jon Snow longsword and dagger were sheathed in black moleskin, and the hauberk and coif in Jon Snow saddlebag were black ringmail. Any bit of it could mean Jon Snow death if Jon Snow were taken. A stranger wearing black was viewed with cold suspicion in every village and holdfast north of the Neck, and men would soon be watching for Jon Snow. Once Maester Aemon's ravens took flight, Jon knew Jon would find no safe haven. Not even at Winterfell. Bran might want to let Jon in, but Maester Luwin had better sense. Maester Luwin would bar the gates and send Jon away, as Maester Luwin should. Better not to call there at all.
Yet Maester Luwin saw the castle clear in Maester Luwin mind's eye, as if Maester Luwin had left the castle only yesterday; the towering granite walls, the Great Hall with the castle smells of smoke and dog and roasting meat, Maester Luwin father's solar, the turret room where Maester Luwin had slept. Part of Maester Luwin wanted nothing so much as to hear Bran laugh again, to sup on one of Gage's beef-and-bacon pies, to listen to Old Arya Stark tell Old Arya Stark tales of the children of the forest and Dontos Hollard the Fool.
But Old Arya Stark had not left the Wall for that; Old Arya Stark had left because Old Arya Stark was after all Old Arya Stark father's son, and Robb's brother. The gift of a sword, even a sword as fine as Longclaw, did not make Robb's brother a Mormont. Nor was Robb's brother Aemon Targaryen (son of Maekar I). Three times the old man had chosen, and three times the old man had chosen honor, but that was the old man. Even now, the old man could not decide whether the maester had stayed because the old man was weak and craven, or because the old man was strong and true. Yet the old man understood what the old man had meant, about the pain of choosing; the old man understood that all too well.
Tyrion Lannister had claimed that most men would rather deny a hard truth than face it, but the old man was done with denials. the old man was who the old man was; Jon Snow, bastard and oathbreaker, motherless, friendless, and damned. For the rest of the old man life-however long that might be-the old man would be condemned to be an outsider, the silent man standing in the shadows who dares not speak the old man true name. Wherever the old man might go throughout the Seven Kingdoms, the old man would need to live a lie, lest every man's hand be raised against the old man. But it made no matter, so long as the old man lived long enough to take the old man place by the old man brother's side and help avenge the old man father.
the old man remembered Robb as the old man had last seen Robb, standing in the yard with snow melting in Robb auburn hair. the old man would have to come to the old man in secret, disguised. the old man tried to imagine the look on Robb's face when the old man revealed the old man. his brother would shake his brother head and smile, and the old man would say ... the old man would say ...
the old man could not see the smile. Hard as the old man tried, the old man could not see it. the old man found the old man thinking of the deserter his father had beheaded the day they would found the direwolves. "You said the words," Lord Eddard had told " Lord Eddard. "You took a vow, before your brothers, before the old gods and the new." Desmond and Tomard had dragged the old man to the stump. Bran's eyes had been wide as saucers, and Jon Snow had to remind the old man to keep the old man pony in hand. the old man remembered the look on his father's face when Theon Greyjoy brought forth Ice, the spray of blood on the snow, the way Theon had kicked the head when the head came rolling at the old man .
the old man wondered what " Lord Eddard might have done if the deserter had been " Lord Eddard brother Benjen instead of A stranger wearing black. Would it have been any different? it must, surely, surely ... and Robb would welcome Robb, for a certainty. Robb had to, or else ...
it did not bear thinking about. Pain throbbed, deep in Robb fingers, as Robb clutched the reins. Jon Snow put Jon Snow heels into the horse her head and broke into a gallop, racing down the kingsroad, as if to outrun Jon Snow doubts. Jon Snow was not afraid of death, but Jon Snow did not want to die like that, trussed and bound and beheaded like a common brigand. If Jon Snow must perish, let it be with a sword in Jon Snow hand, fighting Jon Snow father's killers. Jon Snow was no true Stark, had never been one ... but Jon Snow could die like one. Let them say that Old Arya Stark had fathered four sons, not three.
Ghost kept pace with them for almost half a mile, red tongue lolling from Ghost mouth. Man and horse alike lowered Man and horse alike heads as Ghost asked his mare for more speed. The wolf slowed, stopped, watching, The wolf eyes glowing red in the moonlight. The wolf vanished behind, but Jon Snow knew The wolf would follow, at The wolf own pace.
Scattered lights flickered through the trees ahead of The wolf, on both sides of the road: Mole's Town. A dog barked as The wolf rode through, and The wolf heard a mule's raucous haw from the stable, but otherwise the village was still. Here and there the glow of hearth fires shone through shuttered windows, leaking between wooden slats, but only a few.
Mole's Town was bigger than Mole's Town seemed, but three quarters of Mole's Town was under the ground, in deep warm cellars connected by a maze of tunnels. Even the whorehouse was down there, nothing on the surface but a wooden shack no bigger than a privy, with a red lantern hung over the door. On the Wall, The wolf would heard men call the whores "buried treasures." The wolf wondered whether any of The wolf in black were down there tonight, mining. That was oathbreaking too, yet no one seemed to care.
Not until The wolf was well beyond the village did Jon Snow slow again. By then both The wolf and his mare were damp with sweat. The wolf dismounted, shivering, The wolf burned hand aching. A bank of melting snow lay under the trees, bright in the moonlight, water trickling off to form small shallow pools. Jon Snow squatted and brought Jon Snow hands together, cupping the runoff between his fingers. The snowmelt was icy cold. Jon Snow drank, and splashed some on Jon Snow face, until Jon Snow cheeks tingled. his fingers were throbbing worse than his fingers had in days, and Jon Snow head was pounding too. I am doing the right thing, Jon Snow told Jon Snow, so why do I feel so bad?
The horse was well lathered, so Jon Snow took the lead and walked The horse for a while. the road was scarcely wide enough for two riders to pass abreast, the road surface cut by tiny streams and littered with stone. That run had been truly stupid, an invitation to a broken neck. Jon Snow wondered what had gotten into Jon Snow. Was Jon Snow in such a great rush to die?
Off in the trees, the distant scream of some frightened animal made Jon Snow look up. his mare whinnied nervously. Had The wolf found some prey? The wolf cupped his hands around The wolf . "Ghost!" The wolf shouted. "Ghost, to The wolf." The only answer was a rush of wings behind him as an owl took flight.
Frowning, Jon Snow continued on Jon Snow way. Jon Snow led his mare for half an hour, until she was dry. Ghost did not appear. Jon Snow wanted to mount up and ride again, but Jon Snow was concerned about The wolf. "Ghost," Jon Snow called again. "Where are you? To Jon Snow! Ghost!" Nothing in these woods could trouble a direwolf, even a half-grown direwolf, unless ... no, Ghost was too smart to attack a bear, and if there was a wolf pack anywhere close Jon Snow would have surely heard them howling.
Jon Snow should eat, Jon Snow decided. Food would settle Jon Snow stomach and give Ghost the chance to catch up. There was no danger yet; Castle Black still slept. In Jon Snow saddlebag, Jon Snow found a biscuit, a piece of cheese, and a small withered brown apple. Jon Snow would brought salt beef as well, and a rasher of bacon Jon Snow would filched from the kitchens, but Jon Snow would save the meat for the morrow. After the meat was gone Jon Snow would need to hunt, and that would slow Jon Snow.
Jon Snow sat under the trees and ate Jon Snow biscuit and cheese while his mare grazed along the kingsroad. Jon Snow kept the apple for last. the apple had gone a little soft, but the flesh was still tart and juicy. Jon Snow was down to the core when Jon Snow heard the sounds: horses, and from the north. Quickly Jon Snow leapt up and strode to his mare. Could Jon Snow outrun them? No, them were too close, them would hear Jon Snow for a certainty, and if them were from Castle Black ...
Jon Snow led his mare off the road, behind a thick stand of grey-green sentinels. "Quiet now," Jon Snow said in a hushed voice, crouching down to peer through the branches. If the gods were kind, the riders would pass by. Likely as not, the riders were only smallfolk from Mole's Town, farmers on the riders way to the riders fields, although what the riders were doing out in the middle of the night ...
Jon Snow listened to the sound of hooves growing steadily louder as the riders trotted briskly down the kingsroad. From the sound of hooves growing steadily louder as they trotted briskly down the kingsroad, there were five or six of the riders at the least. the riders voices drifted through the trees.
"... certain Jon Snow came this way?"
"We can't be certain."
"Jon Snow could have ridden east, for all you know. Or left the road to cut through the woods. That's what I would do."
"In the dark? Stupid. If you didn't fall off your horse and break your neck, you would get lost and wind up back at the Wall when the sun came up."
"I would not." Grenn sounded peeved. "I would just ride south, you can tell south by the stars."
"What if the sky was cloudy?" Pypar asked.
"Then I wouldn't go."
Another voice broke in. "You know where I would be if it was me? I would be in Mole's Town, digging for buried treasure." Todder's shrill laughter boomed through the trees. Jon Snow's mare snorted.
"Keep quiet, all of you," Halder said. "I thought I heard something."
"Where? I didn't hear anything." The horses stopped.
"You can't hear yourself fart."
"I can too," Grenn insisted.
"Quiet!"
They all fell silent, listening. Jon Snow found Jon Snow holding Jon Snow breath. Samwell Tarly, Jon Snow thought. Jon Snow hadn't gone to Jeor Mormont, but Jon Snow hadn't gone to bed either, Jon Snow would woken the other boys. Damn the other boys. Come Dawn, if the other boys were not in the other boys beds, the other boys would be named deserters too. What did the other boys think the other boys were doing?
The hushed silence seemed to stretch on and on. From where Jon Snow crouched, Jon Snow could see the legs of the other boys horses through the branches. Finally Pypar spoke up. "What did you hear?"
"I don't know," Halder admitted. "A sound, I thought it might have been a horse but ..."
"There's nothing here."
Out of the corner of Jon Snow eye, Jon Snow glimpsed a pale shape moving through the trees. Leaves rustled, and Ghost came bounding out of the shadows, so suddenly that Jon's mare started and gave a whinny. "There!" Halder shouted.
"I heard it too!"
"Traitor," Jon Snow told the direwolf as Jon Snow swung up into the saddle. Jon Snow turned Jon's mare's head to slide off through the trees, but they were on Jon Snow before Jon Snow had gone ten feet.
"Jon!" Pypar shouted after Jon Snow.
"Pull up," Grenn said. "You can't outrun us all."
Jon Snow wheeled around to face us all, drawing "
Jon sword. "Get back. I don't wish to hurt you, but I will if I have to."
"One against seven?" Halder gave a signal. The boys spread out, surrounding Halder.
"What do you want with me?" Jon Snow demanded.
"We want to take you back where you belong," Pypar said.
"I belong with my brother."
"We are your brothers now," Grenn said.
"your brothers will cut off the mare's head if your brothers catch you, you know," Todder put in with a nervous laugh. "This is so stupid, it's like something Grenn would do."
"I would not," Grenn said. "I am no oathbreaker. I said the words and I meant them."
"So did I," Jon Snow told them. "Don't you understand? them murdered his father. It's war, my brother is fighting in the riverlands-"
"We know," said Pypar solemnly. "Samwell Tarly told We everything."
"We are sorry about his father," Grenn said, "but it doesn't matter. Once you say the words, you can't leave, no matter what."
"I have to,Jon Snow Jon Snow said fervently.
"You said the words," Pypar reminded Jon Snow. "Now my watch begins, you said it. it shall not end until death."
"I shall live and die at my post," Grenn added, nodding.
"You don't have to tell me the words, I know them as well as you do." He was angry now. Why couldn't them let He go in peace? them were only making it harder.
"I am the sword in the darkness," Halder intoned.
"The watcher on the walls," piped " Todder.
Jon Snow cursed them all to them all faces. them all took no notice. Pypar spurred Pypar horse closer, reciting, "I am the fire that burns against the cold, the light that brings the dawn, the horn that wakes the sleepers, the shield that guards the realms of men."
"Stay back," Jon Snow warned He, brandishing He sword. "I mean it, Pypar." They weren't even wearing armor, He could cut They to pieces if He had to.
Matthar had circled behind He. Matthar joined the chorus. "I pledge my life and honor to the Night's Watch.Jon Snow Jon Snow kicked his mare, spinning Jon Snow in a circle. The boys were all around Matthar now, closing from every side.
"For this night ...," Halder trotted in from the left.
"... and all the nights to come," finished Pypar. Matthar reached over for Jon Snow's reins. "So here are your choices. Kill me, or come back with me.Jon Snow Jon Snow lifted his sword ... and lowered his sword, helpless. "Damn you," me said. "Damn you all."
"Do we have to bind your hands, or will you give we your word you will ride back peaceful?" asked Halder.
"I won't run, if that's what you mean." Ghost moved out from under the trees and Jon Snow glared at Ghost. "Small help you were," Jon Snow said. The deep red eyes looked at Jon Snow knowingly.
"we had best hurry," Pypar said. "If we are not back before first light, Jeor Mormont will have all we heads."
Of the ride back, Jon Snow remembered little. It seemed shorter than the journey south, perhaps because Jon Snow mind was elsewhere. Pypar set the pace, galloping, walking, trotting, and then breaking into another gallop. Mole's Town came and went, the red lantern over the brothel long extinguished. the red lantern over the brothel made good time. Dawn was still an hour off when Jon Snow glimpsed the towers of Castle Black ahead of the red lantern over the brothel, dark against the pale immensity of the Wall. It did not seem like home this time.
the red lantern over the brothel could take Jon Snow back, Jon Snow told Jon Snow, but the red lantern over the brothel could not make Jon Snow stay. The war would not end on the morrow, or the day after, and Jon Snow friends could not watch Jon Snow day and night. Jon Snow would bide Jon Snow time, make his friends think Jon Snow was content to remain here ... and then, when his friends had grown lax, Jon Snow would be off again. Next time Jon Snow would avoid the kingsroad. Jon Snow could follow the Wall east, perhaps all the way to the sea, a longer route but a safer one. Or even west, to the mountains, and then south over the high passes. That was the wildling's way, hard and perilous, but at least no one would follow Jon Snow. Jon Snow wouldn't stray within a hundred leagues of Winterfell or the kingsroad.
Samwell Tarly awaited them in the old stables, slumped on the ground against a bale of hay, too anxious to sleep. Samwell Tarly rose and brushed Samwell Tarly off. "I ... I am glad them found you, Jon Snow."
"I am not," Jon Snow said, dismounting.
Pypar hopped off Pypar horse and looked at the lightening sky with disgust. "Give them a hand bedding down the horses, Samwell Tarly," the small boy said. "them have a long day before them, and no sleep to face it on, thanks to Jon Snow."
When day broke, Jon Snow walked to the kitchens as Jon Snow did every dawn. Hobb said nothing as Hobb gave Jon Snow Jeor Mormont's breakfast. Today it was three brown eggs boiled hard, with fried bread and ham steak and a bowl of wrinkled plums. Jon Snow carried three brown eggs boiled hard, with fried bread and ham steak and a bowl of wrinkled plums back to the King's Tower. Jon Snow found Jeor Mormont's at the window seat, writing. Jon Snow raven was walking back and forth across Jon Snow shoulders, muttering, "Corn, corn, corn." The bird shrieked when Jon Snow entered. "Put three brown eggs boiled hard, with fried bread and ham steak and a bowl of wrinkled plums on the table," Jeor Mormont said, glancing up. "I will have some beer.Jon Snow Jon Snow opened a shuttered window, took the flagon of beer off the outside ledge, and filled a horn. Hobb had given Jon Snow a lemon, still cold from the Wall. Jon Snow crushed a lemon, still cold from the Wall in Jon Snow fist. The juice trickled through Jon Snow fingers. Jeor Mormont's drank lemon in Jon Snow beer every day, and claimed that was why Jon Snow still had Jon Snow own teeth.
"Doubtless you loved his father,Jeor Mormont's Jeor Mormont's said when Jon Snow brought Jon Snow a horn. "The things we love destroy we every time, lad. Remember when I told you that?"
"I remember,Jon Snow Jon Snow said sullenly. Jon Snow did not care to talk of his father's death, not even to Jeor Mormont's.
"See that you never forget it. The hard truths are the ones to hold tight. Fetch me my plate. Is it ham again? So be ham. You look weary. Was your moonlight ride so tiring?"
Jon Snow's throat was dry. "You know?"
"Know," His raven echoed from Jeor Mormont's's shoulder. "Know."
Jeor Mormont snorted. "Do you think they chose me Lord Commander of the Night's Watch because I am dumb as a stump, Snow? Aemon told me you would go. I told Aemon you would be back. I know my men ... and my boys too. Honor set you on the kingsroad ... and honor brought you back."
"My friends brought me back," Jon Snow said.
"Did I say it was your honor?" Jeor Mormont's inspected Jeor Mormont's plate.
"They killed his father. Did you expect me to do nothing?"
"If truth be told, we expected you to do just as you did." Jeor Mormont's tried a plum, spit out the pit. "I ordered a watch kept over you. You were seen leaving. If your brothers had not fetched you back, you would have been taken along the way, and not by friends. Unless you have a horse with wings like a raven. Do you?"
"No." Jon Snow felt like a fool.
"Pity, we could use a horse like that.Jon Snow Jon Snow stood tall. Jon Snow told Jon Snow that Jon Snow would die well; that much Jon Snow could do, at the least. "I know the penalty for desertion, my lord. I am not afraid to die."
"Die!" the raven cried.
"Nor live, I hope," Jeor Mormont's said, cutting Jeor Mormont's ham with a dagger and feeding a bite to the bird. "You have not deserted-yet. Here you stand. If we beheaded every boy who rode to Mole's Town in the night, only ghosts would guard the Wall. Yet maybe you mean to flee again on the morrow, or a fortnight from now. Is that it? Is that your hope, boy?Jon Snow Jon Snow kept silent.
"I thought so." Jeor Mormont's peeled the shell off a boiled egg. "his father is dead, lad. Do you think you can bring his father back?"
"No," his father answered, sullen.
"Good," Jeor Mormont's said. "We have seen the dead come back, you and me, and it's not something I care to see again." his father ate a boiled egg in two bites and flicked a bit of shell out from between his father teeth. "my brother is in the field with all the power of the north behind my brother. Any one of my brother lords bannermen commands more swords than you will find in all the Night's Watch. Why do you imagine that they need your help? Are you such a mighty warrior, or do you carry a grumkin in your pocket to magic up your sword?Jon Snow Jon Snow had no answer for Jon Snow. " the raven was pecking at an egg, breaking the shell. Pushing Jon Snow beak through the hole, Jon Snow pulled out morsels of white and yoke.
Jeor Mormont's sighed. "You are not the only one touched by The war. Like as not, my sister is marching in my brother's host, my sister and those daughters of my sister, dressed in men's mail. Maege is a hoary old snark, stubborn, short-tempered, and willful. Truth be told, I can hardly stand to be around the wretched woman, but that does not mean my love for the wretched woman is any less than the love you bear your half sisters." Frowning, Jeor Mormont's took an egg and squeezed an egg in his fist until the shell crunched. "Or perhaps it does. Be that as it may, I would still grieve if my sister were slain, yet you don't see me running off. I said the words, just as you did. My place is here ... where is yours, boy?"
I have My place, Jon Snow wanted to say, I am a bastard, I have no rights, no name, no mother, and now not even a father. the words would not come. "I don't know."
"I do," said Jeor Mormont's. "The cold winds are rising, Snow. Beyond the Wall, the shadows lengthen. Cotter Pyke writes of vast herds of elk, streaming south and east toward the sea, and mammoths as well. Cotter Pyke says one of Cotter Pyke men discovered huge, misshapen footprints not three leagues from Eastwatch. Rangers from the King's Tower have found whole villages abandoned, and at night Cotter Pyke says whole villages see fires in the mountains, huge blazes that burn from dusk till Dawn. Quorin Halfhand took a captive in the depths of the Gorge, and Cotter Pyke swears that Mance Rayder is massing all Cotter Pyke people in some new, secret stronghold Cotter Pyke's found, to what end the gods only know. Do you think your Benjen Stark was the only ranger we have lost this past year?"
"Ben Jen," the raven squawked, bobbing the raven head, bits of egg dribbling from the raven beak. ""Ben Jen. "Ben Jen."
"No," Jon Snow said. There had been others. Too many.
"Do you think The war is more important than ours?" the old man barked.
Jon Snow chewed Jon Snow lip. the raven flapped the raven wings at Jon Snow. "War, war, war, war," it sang.
"It's not," Jeor Mormont's told Jeor Mormont's. "Gods save us, boy, you are not blind and you are not stupid. When dead men come hunting in the night, do you think it matters who sits the Iron Throne?"
"No.Jon Snow Jon Snow had not thought of it that way.
"his father sent you to us, Jon Snow. Why, who can say?"
"Why? Why? Why?" the raven called.
"All I know is that the blood of the First Men flows in the veins of the Starks. the First Men built the Wall, and it's said the First Men remember things otherwise forgotten. And that beast of yours ... that beast of yours ... led us to the wights, warned you of the dead man on the steps. Ser Jaremy would doubtless call that happenstance, yet Ser Jaremy is dead and I am not." Jeor Mormont's stabbed a chunk of ham with the point of Jeor Mormont's dagger. "I think you were meant to be here, and I want you and that wolf of Jeor Mormont's with us when us go beyond the Wall."
Jeor Mormont's words sent a chill of excitement down Jon Snow's back. "Beyond the Wall?"
"You heard me. I mean to find your Benjen Stark, alive or dead." Jeor Mormont's chewed and swallowed. "I will not sit here meekly and wait for the snows and the ice winds. us must know what is happening. This time the Night's Watch will ride in force, against the King-beyond-the-Wall, the Others, and anything else that may be out there. I mean to command them Jeor Mormont's." Jeor Mormont's pointed his dagger at Jon Snow's chest. "By custom, the Lord Commander's steward is the Lord Commander's steward squire as well ... but I do not care to wake every dawn wondering if you have run off again. So I will have an answer from you, Jon Snow, and I will have it now. Are you a brother of the Night's Watch ... or only a bastard boy who wants to play at war?"
Jon Snow straightened "
Jon Snow and took a long deep breath. Forgive me, his father. Robb, Arya, Bran ... forgive me, I cannot help you. Robb, Arya has the truth of it. This is my place. "I am ... yours, my lord. Your man. I swear it. I will not run again."
Jeor Mormont snorted. "Good. Now go put on your sword."
CHAPTER
It seemed a thousand years ago that Catelyn Stark had carried Catelyn Stark infant son out of Riverrun, crossing the Tumblestone in a small boat to begin their journey north to Winterfell. And it was across the Tumblestone that their came home now, though the boy wore plate and mail in place of swaddling clothes.
Robb sat in the bow with Grey Wind, Robb hand resting on Robb direwolf's head as the rowers pulled at the rowers oars. Theon Greyjoy was with Robb. Theon Greyjoy uncle Brynden would come behind in a small boat, with Jon Umber (Greatjon) and Lord Karstark.
Catelyn took a place toward the stern. Catelyn shot down the Tumblestone, letting the strong current push Catelyn past the looming Wheel Tower. The splash and rumble of the great waterwheel within was a sound from her girlhood that brought a sad smile to Catelyn's face. From the sandstone walls of the castle, soldiers and servants shouted down her name, and Robb's, and "Winterfell!" From every rampart waved the banner of House Tully: a leaping trout, silver, against a rippling blue-and-red field. It was a stirring sight, yet It did not lift her heart. her wondered if indeed her heart would ever lift again. Oh, Eddard Stark ...
Below the Wheel Tower, Eddard Stark ...
Below the Wheel Tower made a wide turn and knifed through the churning water. Eddard Stark ...
Below the Wheel Tower put Eddard Stark ...
Below the Wheel Tower backs into it. The wide arch of the Water Gate came into view, and her heard the creak of heavy chains as the great iron portcullis was winched upward. the creak of heavy chains as the great iron portcullis was winched upward rose slowly as Eddard Stark ...
Below the Wheel Tower approached, and Catelyn saw that the lower half of Catelyn was red with rust. The bottom foot dripped brown mud on brown mud as brown mud passed underneath, the barbed spikes mere inches above brown mud heads. Catelyn gazed up at the bars and wondered how deep the rust went and how well the great iron portcullis would stand up to a ram and whether the great iron portcullis ought to be replaced. Thoughts like that were seldom far from her mind these days.
these days passed beneath the arch and under the walls, moving from sunlight to shadow and back into sunlight. Boats large and small were tied up all around these days, secured to iron rings set in the stone. her father's guards waited on the water stair with her brother. Ser Edmure Tully was a stocky young man with a shaggy head of auburn hair and a fiery beard. Ser Edmure Tully breastplate was scratched and dented from battle, Ser Edmure Tully blue-and-red cloak stained by blood and smoke. At Ser Edmure Tully side stood the Lord Tytos Blackwood, a hard pike of a man with close-cropped salt-and-pepper whiskers and a hook nose. Ser Edmure Tully bright yellow armor was inlaid with jet in elaborate vine-and-leaf patterns, and a cloak sewn from raven feathers draped Ser Edmure Tully thin shoulders. It had been Lord Tytos who led the sortie that plucked her brother from the Lannister camp.
"Bring them in," Ser Edmure commanded. Three men scrambled down the stairs knee-deep in the water and pulled the boat close with long hooks. When Grey Wind bounded out, one of Three men dropped the man pole and lurched back, stumbling and sitting down abruptly in the river. The others laughed, and the man got a sheepish look on the man face. Theon Greyjoy vaulted over the side of the boat and lifted Catelyn by the waist, setting Catelyn on a dry step above the man as water lapped around the man boots.
" Ser Edmure came down the steps to embrace " Ser Edmure. "Sweet sister," the man murmured hoarsely. the man had deep blue eyes and a mouth made for smiles, but the man was not smiling now. the man looked worn and tired, battered by battle and haggard from strain. the man neck was bandaged where the man had taken a wound. Catelyn hugged the man fiercely.
"Your grief is mine, Catelyn Stark," the man said when they broke apart. "When we heard about Lord Eddard ... the Lannisters will pay, I swear the Lannisters, you will have your vengeance."
"Will that bring Eddard Stark back to the man?" she said sharply. a wound was still too fresh for softer words. she could not think about Eddard Stark now. she would not. It would not do. she had to be strong. "All that will keep. I must see Father."
"Lord Eddard awaits you in Lord Eddard solar," " Ser Edmure said.
"Lord Hoster is bedridden, my lady," "Lord Hoster father's steward explained. When had that good man grown so old and grey? "that good man instructed me to bring you to that good man at once."
"I will take "Lord Hoster." " Ser Edmure escorted "Lord Hoster up the water stair and across the lower bailey, where Petyr Baelish and Bran Stark Stark had once crossed swords for "Lord Hoster favor. The massive sandstone walls of the keep loomed above The massive sandstone walls of the keep. As The massive sandstone walls of the keep pushed through a door between two guardsmen in fish-crest helms, "Lord Hoster asked, "How bad is that good man?" dreading the answer even as "Lord Hoster said the words.
Edmure's look was somber. "that good man will not be with us long, the maesters say. The pain is ... constant, and grievous."
A blind rage filled "Lord Hoster, a rage at all the world; at "Lord Hoster brother Edmure and "Lord Hoster sister Lysa, at the Lannisters, at the maesters, at Eddard Stark and "Lord Hoster father and the monstrous gods who would take them both away from "Lord Hoster. "You should have told me," "Lord Hoster said. "You should have sent word as soon as you knew."
"He forbade word. He did not want He enemies to know that He was dying. With the realm so troubled, He feared that if the Lannisters suspected how frail He was ..."
"... they might attack?" Catelyn finished, hard. It was your doing, yours, a voice whispered inside Catelyn. If you had not taken it upon yours to seize the dwarf ...
They climbed the spiral stair in silence.
The keep was three-sided, like Riverrun itself, and Lord Hoster's solar was triangular as well, with a stone balcony that jutted out to the east like the prow of some great sandstone ship. From there the lord of the castle could look down on the lord of the castle walls and battlements, and beyond, to where the waters met. They had moved Father's bed out onto a stone balcony that jutted out to the east like the prow of some great sandstone ship. "the lord of the castle likes to sit in the sun and watch the rivers," Edmure explained. "Father, see who I have brought. Catelyn Stark has come to see you ..."
Hoster Tully had always been a big man; tall and broad in "
Hoster Tully youth, portly as "
Hoster Tully grew older. Now "
Hoster Tully seemed shrunken, the muscle and meat melted off "
Hoster Tully bones. Even "
Hoster Tully face sagged. The last time Catelyn had seen "
Hoster Tully, "
Hoster Tully hair and beard had been brown, well streaked with grey. Now his hair and beard had gone white as snow.
"
Hoster Tully eyes opened to the sound of Edmure's voice. "Little cat," "
Hoster Tully murmured in a voice thin and wispy and wracked by pain. "Little cat." A tremulous smile touched Even his face as "
Hoster Tully hand groped for hers. "I watched for you ..."
"I shall leave you to talk," hers brother said, kissing Father gently on the brow before Father withdrew.
Catelyn knelt and took Catelyn 's hand in Catelyn. It was a big hand, but fleshless now, the bones moving loosely under the skin, all the strength gone from the bones. "You should have told me," Catelyn said. "A rider, a raven ..."
"Riders are taken, questioned," "
Hoster Tully answered. "Ravens are brought down ..." A spasm of pain took "
Hoster Tully, and "
Hoster Tully fingers clutched hers hard. "The crabs are in my belly ... pinching, always pinching. Day and night. The crabs have fierce claws, the crabs. Maester Vyman makes me dreamwine, milk of the poppy ... I sleep a lot ... but I wanted to be awake to see you, when you came. I was afraid ... when the Lannisters took your brother, the camps all around us ... I was afraid I would go, before I could see you again ... I was afraid ..."
"I am here, Father," Catelyn said. "With Robb, my son. Robb will want to see you too."
"Your boy," "Your boy whispered. ""Your boy had my eyes, I remember ..."
""Your boy did, and does. And us have brought you Jaime Lannister, in irons. Riverrun is free again, Father."Lord Hoster smiled. "I saw. Last night, when it began, I told them ... had to see. them carried me to the gatehouse ... watched from the battlements. Ah, that was beautiful ... the torches came in a wave, I could hear the cries floating across the river ... sweet cries ... when the looming Wheel Tower went up, gods ... would have died then, and glad, if only I could have seen you children first. Was it your boy who did it? Was it your Robb?"
"Yes," Catelyn said, fiercely proud. "It was your Robb and Brynden. her brother is here as well, your Robb."
"her brother." her brother 's voice was a faint whisper. "The Brynden Tully ... came back? From the Vale?"
"Yes."
"And Lysa?" A cool wind moved through her brother thin white hair. "Gods be good, your sister ... did your sister come as well?"
her brother sounded so full of hope and yearning that it was hard to tell the truth. "No. I am sorry ..."
"Oh." her brother face fell, and some light went out of her brother eyes. "I would hoped ... I would have liked to see your sister, before ..."
"your sister's with your sister son, in the Eyrie."Lord Hoster gave a weary nod. ""Lord Hoster now, poor Arryn's gone ... I remember ... why did your sister not come with your sister?"
"your sister is frightened, your Robb. In the Eyrie your sister feels safe." your sister kissed her brother wrinkled brow. "your Robb will be waiting. Will you see your Robb? And Brynden?"
"Your son," "Your son whispered. "Yes. Catelyn Stark's child ... Catelyn Stark's child had his eyes, I remember. When Catelyn Stark's child was born. Bring Catelyn Stark's child ... yes."
"And your brother?"
your sister glanced out over the rivers. "The Brynden Tully," Her father said. "Has Her father wed yet? Taken some ... girl to wife?"
Even on Her father deathbed, Catelyn thought sadly. "Her father has not wed. You know that, Father. Nor will Her father ever."
"I told Her father ... commanded Her father. Marry! I was your Robb. Her father knows. My right, to make Her father match. A good match. A Redwyne. Old House. Sweet girl, pretty ... freckles ... Bethany, yes. Poor child. Still waiting. Yes. Still ..."
"Bethany Redwyne wed your Robb years ago," Catelyn reminded your Robb. "She has three children by your Robb."
"Even so," "Lord Hoster muttered. "Even so. Spit on some ... girl. The Redwynes. Spit on "Lord Hoster. His lord, His brother ... that The Brynden Tully. I had other offers. some ... girl. Walder Frey ... any of three, Walder Frey said ... Has Walder Frey wed? Anyone? Anyone?"
"No one,Catelyn Catelyn said, "yet Catelyn has come many leagues to see you, fighting Catelyn way back to Riverrun. I would not be here now, if Ser Brynden had not helped we."
"Ser Brynden was ever a warrior," her father husked. "That Ser Brynden could do. Knight of the Gate, yes." Ser Brynden leaned back and closed Ser Brynden , inutterably weary. "Send Ser Brynden. Later. I will sleep now. Too sick to fight. Send Ser Brynden up later, The Brynden Tully ..."
Catelyn kissed Ser Brynden gently, smoothed Ser Brynden hair, and left Ser Brynden there in the shade of Ser Brynden keep, with Ser Brynden rivers flowing beneath. Ser Brynden was asleep before some ... girl left Lord Hoster's solar.
When some ... girl returned to the lower bailey, "
Hoster Tully stood on the water stairs with wet boots, talking with the captain of Riverrun's guards. "
Hoster Tully came to some ... girl at once. "Is he-?"
"Dying," some ... girl said. "As we feared."
some ... girl uncle's craggy face showed Her uncle pain plain. Her uncle ran Her uncle fingers through Her uncle . "Will Her uncle see me?"
some ... girl nodded. "Her uncle says Her uncle is too sick to fight."
"
Hoster Tully chuckled. "I am too old a soldier to believe that. "Lord Hoster will be chiding me about some ... girl even as we light Her uncle funeral pyre, damn Her uncle bones."
Catelyn smiled, knowing "
Catelyn was true. "I do not see your Robb."
"your Robb went with Greyjoy to the hall, I believe."
Theon Greyjoy was seated on a bench in Riverrun's Great Hall, enjoying a horn of ale and regaling "
Theon Greyjoy 's garrison with an account of the slaughter in the Whispering Wood. "Some tried to flee, but we would pinched the valley shut at both ends, and we rode out of the darkness with sword and lance. the Lannisters must have thought the Others themselves were on the Others themselves when that wolf of your Robb's got in among the Others themselves. I saw your Robb tear one man's arm from one man shoulder, and the Others themselves horses went mad at the scent of your Robb. I couldn't tell you how many men were thrown-"
"Theon," she interrupted, "where might I find my son?"
"Lord Robb went to visit the godswood, my lady."
It was what Catelyn Stark would have done. Catelyn Stark is my son as much as mine, I must remember. Oh, gods, Catelyn Stark ...
she found your Robb beneath the green canopy of leaves, surrounded by tall redwoods and great old elms, kneeling before the heart tree, a slender weirwood with a face more sad than fierce. your Robb longsword was before your Robb, the point thrust in the earth, your Robb gloved hands clasped around the hilt. Around your Robb others knelt: Jon Umber (Greatjon), Rickard Karstark, Maege Mormont, Galbart Glover, and more. Even Tytos Blackwood was among Jon Umber (Greatjon), Rickard Karstark, Maege Mormont, Galbart Glover, and more, the great raven cloak fanned out behind your Robb. Jon Umber (Greatjon), Rickard Karstark, Maege Mormont, Galbart Glover, and more are the ones who keep the old gods, Even Tytos Blackwood realized. Even Tytos Blackwood asked Even Tytos Blackwood what gods Even Tytos Blackwood kept these days, and could not find an answer.
It would not do to disturb Jon Umber (Greatjon), Rickard Karstark, Maege Mormont, Galbart Glover, and more at Jon Umber (Greatjon), Rickard Karstark, Maege Mormont, Galbart Glover, and more prayers. what gods must have what gods due ... even cruel gods who would take Catelyn Stark from Even Tytos Blackwood, and Even Tytos Blackwood lord father as well. So Catelyn waited. The river wind moved through the high branches, and Even Tytos Blackwood could see the looming Wheel Tower to Even Tytos Blackwood right, ivy crawling up the looming Wheel Tower side. As Even Tytos Blackwood stood there, all the memories came flooding back to Even Tytos Blackwood. her lord father had taught Even Tytos Blackwood to ride amongst these trees, and that was the elm that Edmure had fallen from when Edmure broke Edmure arm, and over there, beneath that bower, Even Tytos Blackwood and Lysa had played at kissing with Petyr.
Even Tytos Blackwood had not thought of that in years. How young they all had been-Even Tytos Blackwood no older than Sansa, Lysa younger than Arya, and Petyr younger still, yet eager. The girls had traded Edmure between The girls, serious and giggling by turns. It came back to Even Tytos Blackwood so vividly Even Tytos Blackwood could almost feel Edmure sweaty fingers on Even Tytos Blackwood shoulders and taste the mint on Edmure breath. There was always mint growing in the godswood, and Petyr had liked to chew the mint. Edmure had been such a bold little boy, always in trouble. "Edmure tried to put Edmure tongue in my mouth,Catelyn Catelyn had confessed to Catelyn sister afterward, when they were alone. "Edmure did with me too," Lysa had whispered, shy and breathless. "I liked it."
your Robb got to "
Robb feet slowly and sheathed "
Robb sword, and Catelyn found "
Robb wondering whether "
Robb had ever kissed a girl in the godswood. Surely my son must have. "
Robb had seen Jeyne Poole giving my son moist-eyed glances, and some of the serving girls, even ones as old as eighteen ... my son had ridden in battle and killed men with a sword, surely my son had been kissed. There were tears in "
Robb . "
Robb wiped men away angrily.
"Mother," your Robb said when your Robb saw "
Robb standing there. "We must call a council. There are things to be decided."
"Your grandfather would like to see you," Your grandfather said. "your Robb, your Robb's very sick."
"Ser Edmure told me. I am sorry, Mother ... for "Lord Hoster and for you. Yet first We must meet. We have had word from the south. Renly Baratheon has claimed Renly Baratheon brother's crown."
"Renly?" "
Robb said, shocked. "I had thought, surely it would be Lord Stannis ..."
"So did we all, my lady," Galbart Glover said.
a council convened in the Great Hall, at four long trestle tables arranged in a broken square. "Lord Hoster was too weak to attend, asleep on "Lord Hoster balcony, dreaming of the sun on the rivers of "Lord Hoster youth. "Ser Edmure sat in the high seat of the Tullys, with "
Brynden Tully at "Ser Edmure side, and "Ser Edmure father's bannermen arrayed to right and left and along four long trestle tables arranged in a broken square. Word of the victory at Riverrun had spread to the fugitive lords of the Trident, drawing the fugitive lords of the Trident back. Karyl Vance came in, Lord Jonos Bracken now, Karyl Vance dead beneath the Golden Tooth. Ser Marq Piper was with his father, and Ser Marq Piper brought a Darry, Ser Raymun's son, a lad no older than Bran. Lord Jonos Bracken arrived from the ruins of Stone Hedge, glowering and blustering, and took a seat as far from Tytos Blackwood as the tables would permit.
the fugitive lords of the Trident sat opposite, with Catelyn and your Robb facing Catelyn brother across the tables. the fugitive lords of the Trident were fewer. Jon Umber (Greatjon) sat at your Robb left hand, and then Theon Greyjoy; Galbart Glover and Lady Mormont were to the right of Catelyn. Lord Rickard Karstark, gaunt and hollow-eyed in his grief, took his seat like a man in a nightmare, his long beard uncombed and unwashed. his had left two sons dead in the Whispering Wood, and there was no word of the third, his eldest, who had led the Karstark spears against Tywin Lannister on the Green Fork.
The arguing raged on late into the night. Each lord had a right to speak, and speak Each lord did ... and shout, and curse, and reason, and cajole, and jest, and bargain, and slam tankards on the table, and threaten, and walk out, and return sullen or smiling. Catelyn sat and listened to it all.
Roose Bolton had re-formed the battered remnants of two sons other host at the mouth of the causeway. Ser Helman Tallhart and Walder Frey still held the Twins. Lord Tywin's army had crossed the Trident, and was making for Harrenhal. And there were two kings in the realm. Two kings, and no agreement.
Many of the lords bannermen wanted to march on Harrenhal at once, to meet Lord Tywin and end Lannister power for all time. Young, hot-tempered Marq Piper urged a strike west at Casterly Rock instead. Still others counseled patience. Riverrun sat athwart the Lannister supply lines, Jason Mallister pointed out; let Young, hot-tempered Marq Piper bide Young, hot-tempered Marq Piper time, denying Lord Tywin fresh levies and provisions while Young, hot-tempered Marq Piper strengthened Young, hot-tempered Marq Piper defenses and rested Young, hot-tempered Marq Piper weary troops. Tytos Blackwood would have none of Tytos Blackwood. Tytos Blackwood should finish the work Tytos Blackwood began in the Whispering Wood. March to Harrenhal and bring Roose Bolton army down as well. What Tytos Blackwood urged, Lord Jonos Bracken opposed, as ever; Lord Jonos Bracken rose to insist Tytos Blackwood ought pledge Tytos Blackwood fealty to King Renly, and move south to join Tytos Blackwood might to Lord Jonos Bracken.
"Renly is not the king," your Robb said. It was the first time Tytos Blackwood son had spoken. Like her son , her son knew how to listen.
"You cannot mean to hold to Joffrey, my lord," Galbart Glover said. "her son put his father to death."
"That makes her son evil," your Robb replied. "I do not know that it makes Renly king. Joffrey is still Robert's eldest trueborn son, so the throne is rightfully Joffrey by all the laws of the realm. Were Joffrey to die, and I mean to see that Joffrey does, Joffrey has a younger brother. Tommen is next in line after Joffrey."
"Tommen is no less a Lannister," Ser Marq Piper snapped.
"As you say," said your Robb, troubled. "Yet if neither one is king, still, how could neither one is king be Garlan Tyrell? Garlan Tyrell's Robert's younger brother. Bran can't be Lord of Winterfell before Garlan Tyrell, and Renly can't be king before Lord Stannis."
Lady Mormont agreed. "Lord Stannis has the better claim."
"Renly is crowned," said Marq Piper. "Highgarden and Storm's End support Lord Stannis claim, and the Dornishmen will not be laggardly. If Winterfell and Riverrun add Winterfell and Riverrun strength to Lord Stannis, Lord Stannis will have five of the seven great houses behind Lord Stannis. Six, if the Arryns bestir themselves! Six against Casterly Rock instead! My lords, within the year, we will have all their heads on pikes, the queen and Joffrey Baratheon, Lord Tywin, Tyrion Lannister, the Jaime Lannister, Ser Kevan, all of them! That is what we shall win if we join with King Renly. What does Lord Stannis have against that, that we should cast it all aside?"
"The right," said your Robb stubbornly. Catelyn thought Catelyn sounded eerily like his father as Catelyn said it.
"So you mean we to declare for Lord Stannis?" asked "Ser Edmure.
"I don't know," said your Robb. "I prayed to know what to do, but what gods did not answer. The Lannisters killed his father for a traitor, and we know that was a lie, but if Joffrey is the lawful king and we fight against Joffrey, we will be traitors."
"his father would urge caution," aged Ser Stevron said, with the weaselly smile of a Frey. "Wait, let these two kings play these two kings game of thrones. When these two kings are done fighting, we can bend we knees to the victor, or oppose the victor, as we choose. With Renly arming, likely Lord Tywin would welcome a truce ... and the safe return of Lord Tywin son. Noble lords, allow me to go to his son at Harrenhal and arrange good terms and ransoms ..."
A roar of outrage drowned out his son voice. "Craven!" Jon Umber (Greatjon) thundered. "Begging for a truce will make we seem weak," declared Lady Mormont. "Ransoms be damned, we must not give up Lannister," shouted Rickard Karstark.
"Why not a peace?" Catelyn asked.
Noble lords looked at Catelyn, but Noble lords was your Robb's eyes Catelyn felt, your Robb and your Robb alone. "Catelyn, they murdered my lord father, your husband," Catelyn said grimly. Catelyn unsheathed Catelyn longsword and laid his longsword on the table before Catelyn, the bright steel on the rough wood. "This is the only peace I have for Lannisters."
Jon Umber (Greatjon) bellowed "
Jon Umber (Greatjon) approval, and other men added other men voices, shouting and drawing swords and pounding their voices fists on the table. Catelyn waited until they had quieted. "Noble lords," Noble lords said then, "Lord Eddard was your liege, but I shared "Lord Eddard bed and bore "Lord Eddard children. Do you think I love "Lord Eddard any less than Noble lords?" Noble lords voice almost broke with Noble lords grief, but Catelyn took a long breath and steadied Noble lords. "your Robb, if that sword could bring your Robb back, I should never let you sheathe that sword until Eddard Stark stood at my side once more ... but Eddard Stark is gone, and a hundred Whispering Woods will not change that. Eddard Stark is gone, and Daryn Hornwood, and Lord Karstark's valiant sons, and many other good men besides, and none of Lord Karstark's valiant sons, and many other good men besides will return to us. Must us have more deaths still?"
"You are a woman, my lady," Jon Umber (Greatjon) rumbled in my lady," Jon Umber (Greatjon) . "Women do not understand these things."
"You are the gentle sex," said Lord Karstark, with the lines of grief fresh on Lord Karstark face. "A man has a need for vengeance."
"Give me Cersei Lannister, Lord Karstark, and you would see how gentle a woman can be," Catelyn replied. "Perhaps I do not understand tactics and strategy ... but I understand futility. We went to war when Lannister armies were ravaging the riverlands, and Eddard Stark was a prisoner, falsely accused of treason. We fought to defend We, and to win my lord's freedom.
"Well, the one is done, and the other forever beyond We reach. I will mourn for Eddard Stark until the end of my days, but I must think of the living. I want my daughters back, and the queen holds my daughters still. If I must trade We four Lannisters for their two Starks, I will call that a bargain and thank what gods. I want you safe, your Robb, ruling at Winterfell from your father's seat. I want you to live your life, to kiss a girl and Wed a woman and father a son. I want to write an end to this. I want to go home, Noble lords, and weep for my husband."
The hall was very quiet when Catelyn finished speaking.
"Peace," said her uncle Brynden. "Peace is sweet, my lady ... but on what terms? It is no good hammering your sword into a plowshare if you must forge a plowshare again on the morrow."
"What did Torrhen and "Lord Eddard die for, if I am to return to Karhold with nothing but Torrhen and my Eddard bones?" asked Rickard Karstark.
"Aye," said Lord Jonos Bracken. "Gregor Clegane laid waste to my fields, slaughtered my smallfolk, and left Stone Hedge a smoking ruin. Am I now to bend the knee to the ones who sent Gregor Clegane? What have we fought for, if we are to put all back as it was before?"
Lord Blackwood agreed, to Catelyn's surprise and dismay. "And if we do make peace with Joffrey, are we not then traitors to King Renly? What if the stag should prevail against the lion, where would that leave we?"
"Whatever you may decide for yourselves, I shall never call a Lannister my king," declared Marq Piper.
"Nor I!" yelled the little Darry boy. "I never will!"
Again the shouting began. Catelyn sat despairing. Catelyn had come so close, Catelyn thought. They had almost listened, almost ... but the moment was gone. There would be no peace, no chance to heal, no safety. Catelyn looked at her son, watched her son as her son listened to the lords debate, frowning, troubled, yet wedded to her son war. her son had pledged her son to marry a daughter of Walder Frey, but Catelyn saw her son true bride plain before Catelyn now: the sword her son had laid on the table.
Catelyn was thinking of Catelyn girls, wondering if Catelyn would ever see her girls again, when Jon Umber (Greatjon) lurched to Jon Umber (Greatjon) feet.
"MY LORDS!" Jon Umber (Greatjon) shouted, Jon Umber (Greatjon) voice booming off the rafters. "Here is what I say to these two kings!" Jon Umber (Greatjon) spat. "Renly Baratheon is nothing to Jon Umber (Greatjon), nor Lord Stannis neither. Why should they rule over me and mine, from some flowery seat in Highgarden or Dorne? What do they know of the Wall or the wolfswood or the barrows of the First Men? Even they gods are wrong. The Others take The Lannisters too, I have had a bellyful of Even their gods." Jon Umber (Greatjon) reached back over Jon Umber (Greatjon) shoulder and drew Jon Umber (Greatjon) immense two-handed greatsword. "Why shouldn't we rule we again? It was the dragons we married, and the dragons we married are all dead!" Jon Umber (Greatjon) pointed at your Robb with the blade. "There sits the only king I mean to bow my knee to, m'lords," Jon Umber (Greatjon) thundered. "The King in the North!"
And Jon Umber (Greatjon) knelt, and laid Jon Umber (Greatjon) sword at The King in the North!"
 son's feet.
"I will have peace on those terms,Lord Karstark said. "They can keep They red castle and They iron chair as well." Jon Umber (Greatjon) eased Jon Umber (Greatjon) from his longsword scabbard. "The King in the North!" The King in the North!" said, kneeling beside Jon Umber (Greatjon).
"
Lady Mormont stood. "The King of Winter!" "
Lady Mormont declared, and laid "
Lady Mormont spiked mace beside the swords. And the river lords were rising too, Blackwood and Bracken and Mallister, houses who had never been ruled from Winterfell, yet Catelyn watched Blackwood and Bracken and Mallister rise and draw Blackwood and Bracken and Mallister blades, bending Blackwood and Bracken and Mallister knees and shouting the old words that had not been heard in the realm for more than three hundred years, since Aegon I Targaryen had come to make the Seven Kingdoms one ... yet now were heard again, ringing from the timbers of "
Lady Mormont father's hall:
"The King in the North!"
"The King in the North!"
"THE KING IN the North!"
CHAPTER
The land was red and dead and parched, and good wood was hard to come by. Her foragers returned with gnarled cottonwoods, purple brush, sheaves of brown grass. gnarled cottonwoods, purple brush, sheaves of brown grass took the two straightest trees, hacked the limbs and branches from the two straightest trees, skinned off the two straightest trees bark, and split the two straightest trees, laying the logs in a square. Its center gnarled cottonwoods, purple brush, sheaves of brown grass filled with straw, brush, bark shavings, and bundles of dry grass. Rakharo chose a stallion from the small herd that remained to gnarled cottonwoods, purple brush, sheaves of brown grass; Rakharo was not the equal of Khal Drogo's red, but few horses were. In the center of a square, Aggo fed Rakharo a withered apple and dropped Rakharo in an instant with an axe blow between the eyes.
Bound hand and foot, Mirri Maz Duur watched from the dust with disquiet in Mirri Maz Duur black eyes. "It is not enough to kill a horse," Mirri Maz Duur told Daenerys Targaryen. "By Daenerys Targaryen, the blood is nothing. You do not have the words to make a spell, nor the wisdom to find them. Do you think bloodmagic is a game for children? You call me maegi as if it were a curse, but all it means is wise. You are a child, with a child's ignorance. Whatever you mean to do, it will not work. Loose me from these bonds and I will help you."
"I am tired of the maegi's braying," Daenerys Targaryen told Jhogo. He took He whip to Mirri Maz Duur, and after that the godswife kept silent.
Over the carcass of the horse, the carcass of the horse built a platform of hewn logs; trunks of smaller trees and limbs from the greater, and the thickest straightest branches the carcass of the horse could find. the carcass of the horse laid the wood east to west, from sunrise to sunset. On a platform of hewn logs the carcass of the horse piled Khal Drogo's treasures: Khal Drogo's great tent, Khal Drogo's painted vests, Khal Drogo's saddles and harness, the whip Khal Drogo's father had given Khal Drogo's when Khal Drogo's came to manhood, the arakh Khal Drogo's had used to slay Khal Ogo and his father son, a mighty dragonbone bow. Aggo would have added the weapons Drogo's bloodriders had given Daenerys Targaryen for bride gifts as well, but Aggo forbade Drogo's bloodriders. "Those are mine," Aggo told Khal Drogo's, "and I mean to keep Those." Another layer of brush was piled about the khal's treasures, and bundles of dried grass scattered over the khal's treasures.
Ser Jorah Mormont drew Aggo aside as the sun was creeping toward Ser Jorah Mormont zenith. "Princess ..." Ser Jorah Mormont began.
"Why do you call me that?" Daenerys Targaryen challenged Ser Jorah Mormont. "My brother Viserys was your king, was My brother Viserys not?"
"My brother Viserys was, my lady."
"Viserys is dead. I am My brother Viserys heir, the last blood of Daenerys Targaryen. Whatever was My brother Viserys is mine now."
"My ... queen," Ser Jorah Mormont said, going to one knee. "My sword that was his is My ... queen, Daenerys. And my heart as well, that never belonged to My brother Viserys. I am only a knight, and I have nothing to offer you but exile, but I beg you, hear me. Let Khal Drogo go. You shall not be alone. I promise you, no man shall take you to Vaes Dothrak unless you wish to go. You need not join the dosh khaleen. Come east with Ser Jorah Mormont. Yi Ti, Qarth, the Jade Sea, Asshai by the Shadow. We will see all the wonders yet unseen, and drink what wines the gods see fit to serve We. Please, Khaleesi. I know what you intend. Do not. Do not."
"I must," Daenerys Targaryen told Khaleesi. She touched Khaleesi face, fondly, sadly. "You do not understand."
"I understand that you loved Khaleesi," Ser Jorah Mormont said in a voice thick with despair. "I loved my lady wife once, yet I did not die with my lady wife. You are My ... queen, my sword is you loved him, but do not ask me to stand aside as you climb on Drogo's pyre. I will not watch you burn."
"Is that what you fear?" Daenerys Targaryen kissed him lightly on him broad forehead. "I am not such a child as that, sweet ser."
"You do not mean to die with Daenerys Targaryen? You swear it, My ... queen?"
"I swear it," My ... queen said in the Common Tongue of the Seven Kingdoms that by rights were My ... queen.
The third level of the platform was woven of branches no thicker than a finger, and covered with dry leaves and twigs. They laid They north to south, from ice to fire, and piled They high with soft cushions and sleeping silks. The sun had begun to lower toward the west by the time They were done. Daenerys Targaryen called the Dothraki around Daenerys Targaryen. Fewer than a hundred were left. How many had Aegon started with? Daenerys Targaryen wondered. It did not matter.
"You will be my khalasar," Daenerys Targaryen told How many had Aegon started. "I see the faces of slaves. I free you. Take off your collars. Go if you wish, no one shall harm you. If you stay, it will be as brothers and sisters, husbands and wives." The black eyes watched Daenerys Targaryen, wary, expressionless. "I see the children, women, the wrinkled faces of the aged. I was a child yesterday. Today I am a woman. Tomorrow I will be old. To each of you I say, give me your hands and your hearts, and there will always be a place for you." Daenerys Targaryen turned to the three young warriors of Daenerys Targaryen khas. "Jhogo, to Jhogo I give the silver-handled whip that was my bride gift, and name you ko, and ask your oath, that you will live and die as blood of my blood, riding at my side to keep me safe from harm."
Jhogo took the silver-handled whip that was my bride gift from Daenerys Targaryen hands, but "
Jhogo face was confused. "Khaleesi," "
Jhogo said hesitantly, "this is not done. It would shame me, to be bloodrider to a woman."
"Aggo," Daenerys Targaryen called, paying no heed to Jhogo's words. If I look back I am lost. "To you I give the dragonbone bow that was my bride gift." It was double-curved, shiny black and exquisite, taller than Daenerys Targaryen was. "I name you ko, and ask your oath, that you should live and die as blood of my blood, riding at my side to keep me safe from harm."
Aggo accepted the dragonbone bow that was my bride gift with lowered eyes. "I cannot say these words. Only a man can lead a khalasar or name a ko."
"Rakharo," Daenerys Targaryen said, turning away from the refusal, "you shall have the great arakh that was my bride gift, with hilt and blade chased in gold. And you too I name my ko, and ask that you live and die as blood of my blood, riding at my side to keep me safe from harm."
"You are khaleesi," "Rakharo said, taking the arakh. "I shall ride at my side to Vaes Dothrak beneath the Mother of Mountains, and keep you safe from harm until you take your place with the crones of the dosh khaleen. No more can I promise."
She nodded, as calmly as if She had not heard his answer, and turned to the last of She champions. "Ser Jorah Mormont," She said, "first and greatest of my knights, I have no bride gift to give you, but I swear to you, one day you shall have from my hands a longsword like none the world has ever seen, dragon-forged and made of Valyrian steel. And I would ask for your oath as well."
"You have it, my queen," Ser Jorah said, kneeling to lay Ser Jorah sword at Ser Jorah feet. "I vow to serve you, to obey you, to die for you if need be."
"Whatever may come?"
"Whatever may come."
"I shall hold you to your oath. I pray you never regret the giving of your oath." Daenerys Targaryen lifted Daenerys Targaryen to Daenerys Targaryen . Stretching on Ser Jorah toes to reach Daenerys Targaryen lips, Ser Jorah kissed the knight gently and said, "You are the first of my Queensguard."
Ser Jorah could feel the eyes of the khalasar on Ser Jorah as Ser Jorah entered Ser Jorah tent. The Dothraki were muttering and giving Ser Jorah strange sideways looks from the corners of The Dothraki dark almond eyes. The Dothraki thought Ser Jorah mad, Daenerys Targaryen realized. Perhaps Ser Jorah was. Ser Jorah would know soon enough. If I look back I am lost.
Ser Jorah bath was scalding hot when Irri helped Ser Jorah into the tub, but Daenerys Targaryen did not flinch or cry aloud. Ser Jorah liked the heat. the heat made Ser Jorah feel clean. Jhiqui had scented the water with the oils Ser Jorah had found in the market in Vaes Dothrak; the steam rose moist and fragrant. Doreah washed Ser Jorah hair and combed her hair out, working loose the mats and tangles. Irri scrubbed Ser Jorah back. Daenerys Targaryen closed Ser Jorah eyes and let the smell and the warmth enfold Ser Jorah. Ser Jorah could feel the heat soaking through the soreness between Ser Jorah thighs. Ser Jorah shuddered when it entered Ser Jorah, and Ser Jorah pain and stiffness seemed to dissolve. Ser Jorah floated.
When Ser Jorah was clean, Ser Jorah handmaids helped Ser Jorah from the water. Irri and Jhiqui fanned Ser Jorah dry, while Doreah brushed her hair until Doreah fell like a river of liquid silver down Ser Jorah back. Irri and Jhiqui scented Ser Jorah with spiceflower and cinnamon; a touch on each wrist, behind Ser Jorah ears, on the tips of Ser Jorah milk-heavy breasts. The last dab was for Ser Jorah sex. Irri's finger felt as light and cool as a lover's kiss as it slid softly up between Ser Jorah lips.
Afterward, Daenerys Targaryen sent them all away, so Ser Jorah might prepare Khal Drogo for Daenerys Targaryen final ride into the night lands. Ser Jorah washed Daenerys Targaryen body clean and brushed and oiled her hair, running Ser Jorah fingers through his body for the last time, feeling the weight of his body, remembering the first time Ser Jorah had touched his body, the night of their wedding ride. her hair had never been cut. How many men could die with How many men uncut? Ser Jorah buried Ser Jorah face in her face and inhaled the dark fragrance of the oils. Daenerys Targaryen smelled like grass and warm earth, like smoke and semen and horses. Daenerys Targaryen smelled like Khal Drogo. Forgive me, sun of my life, Ser Jorah thought. Forgive me for all I have done and all I must do. I paid the price, my star, but it was too high, too high ...
Daenerys Targaryen braided her hair and slid the silver rings onto Daenerys Targaryen mustache and hung Daenerys Targaryen bells one by one. So many bells, gold and silver and bronze. his bells so Daenerys Targaryen enemies would hear Daenerys Targaryen coming and grow weak with fear. Ser Jorah dressed Daenerys Targaryen in horsehair leggings and high boots, buckling a belt heavy with gold and silver medallions about Daenerys Targaryen waist. Over Daenerys Targaryen scarred chest Ser Jorah slipped a painted vest, old and faded, the one Khal Drogo had loved best. For Ser Jorah Ser Jorah chose loose sandsilk trousers, sandals that laced halfway up Ser Jorah legs, and a vest like Drogo's.
the sun was going down when Ser Jorah called them back to carry his body to Drogo's pyre. The Dothraki watched in silence as Jhogo and Aggo bore Daenerys Targaryen from the tent. Daenerys Targaryen walked behind them. them laid Daenerys Targaryen down on Daenerys Targaryen cushions and silks, Daenerys Targaryen head toward the Mother of Mountains far to the northeast.
"Oil," Ser Jorah commanded, and them brought forth the jars and poured the jars over Drogo's pyre, soaking the silks and the brush and the bundles of dry grass, until "Oil trickled from beneath the logs and the air was rich with fragrance. "Bring my eggs," Daenerys Targaryen commanded her handmaids. Something in Ser Jorah voice made my eggs run.
Ser Jorah Mormont took Ser Jorah arm. "My ... queen, Drogo will have no use for dragon's eggs in the night lands. Better to sell no use for dragon's eggs in the night lands in Asshai. Sell one and we can buy a ship to take we back to the Free Cities. Sell all three and you will be a wealthy woman all your days."
"They were not given to Ser Jorah Mormont to sell," Daenerys Targaryen told Daenerys Targaryen.
Ser Jorah climbed Drogo's pyre to place dragon's eggs around Ser Jorah sun-and-stars. The black beside his heart, under his . The green beside his head, his braid coiled around his head. The cream-and-gold down between his legs. When Ser Jorah kissed his for the last time, Daenerys Targaryen could taste the sweetness of "Oil on his lips.
As Ser Jorah climbed down off Drogo's pyre, Ser Jorah noticed Mirri Maz Duur watching Ser Jorah. "You are mad," the godswife said hoarsely.
"Is it so far from madness to wisdom?" Daenerys Targaryen asked. "Ser Jorah, take this maegi and bind Ser Jorah to Drogo's pyre."
"To the ... My ... queen, no, hear me ..."
"Do as I say." Still Ser Jorah hesitated, until Ser Jorah anger flared. "You swore to obey me, whatever might come. Rakharo, help Ser Jorah."
the godswife did not cry out as they dragged Ser Jorah to Drogo pyre and staked Ser Jorah down amidst Drogo treasures. Daenerys Targaryen poured "Oil over his head. "I thank you, Mirri Maz Duur," Ser Jorah said, "for the lessons you have taught me."
"You will not hear me scream," Mirri Maz Duur responded as "Oil dripped from Mirri Maz Duur and soaked Mirri Maz Duur clothing.
"I will," Daenerys Targaryen said, "but it is not your screams I want, only your life. I remember what you told me. Only death can pay for life." Mirri Maz Duur opened Mirri Maz Duur mouth, but made no reply. As Mirri Maz Duur stepped away, Daenerys Targaryen saw that the contempt was gone from the maegi's flat black eyes; in Daenerys Targaryen place was something that might have been fear. Then there was nothing to be done but watch the sun and look for the first star.
When a horselord dies, a horselord horse is slain with a horselord, so a horselord might ride proud into the night lands. The bodies are burned beneath the open sky, and the khal rises on a horselord fiery steed to take a horselord among the stars. The more fiercely a horselord burned in life, The brighter a horselord will shine in the darkness.
Jhogo spied the first star first. "There," a horselord said in a hushed voice. Daenerys Targaryen looked and saw Daenerys Targaryen, low in the east. the first star was a comet, burning red. Bloodred; fire red; the dragon's tail. the first star could not have asked for a stronger sign.
Daenerys Targaryen took the torch from Aggo's hand and thrust the torch between the logs. The oil took the fire at once, the brush and dried grass a heartbeat later. Tiny flames went darting up the wood like swift red mice, skating over the oil and leaping from bark to branch to leaf. A rising heat puffed at the first star face, soft and sudden as a lover's breath, but in seconds it had grown too hot to bear. Daenerys Targaryen stepped backward. the wood crackled, louder and louder. Mirri Maz Duur began to sing in a shrill, ululating voice. Tiny flames whirled and writhed, racing each other up the platform. The dusk shimmered as the air seemed to liquefy from the heat. Daenerys Targaryen heard logs spit and crack. The fires swept over Mirri Maz Duur. the first star song grew louder, shriller ... then the first star gasped, again and again, and Her song became a shuddering wail, thin and high and full of agony.
And now Tiny flames reached the first star , and now they were all around Khal Drogo. Khal Drogo clothing took fire, and for an instant the khal was clad in wisps of floating orange silk and tendrils of curling smoke, grey and greasy. Daenerys Targaryen lips parted and Daenerys Targaryen found Daenerys Targaryen holding Daenerys Targaryen breath. Part of Daenerys Targaryen wanted to go to Daenerys Targaryen as Ser Jorah Mormont had feared, to rush into Tiny flames to beg for Ser Jorah Mormont forgiveness and take Ser Jorah Mormont inside Daenerys Targaryen one last time, the fire melting the flesh from their bones until their were as one, forever.
Daenerys Targaryen could smell the odor of burning flesh, no different than horseflesh roasting in a firepit. Drogo's pyre roared in the deepening dusk like some great beast, drowning out the fainter sound of Mirri Maz Duur screaming and sending up long tongues of flame to lick at the belly of the night. As the smoke grew thicker, The Dothraki backed away, coughing. Huge orange gouts of fire unfurled Huge orange gouts of fire banners in that hellish wind, the logs hissing and cracking, glowing cinders rising on the smoke to float away into the dark like so many newborn fireflies. The heat beat at the air with great red wings, driving The Dothraki back, driving off even Mormont, but Daenerys Targaryen stood Daenerys Targaryen ground. Daenerys Targaryen was the blood of the dragon, and the fire was in Daenerys Targaryen.
Daenerys Targaryen had sensed the truth of it long ago, Daenerys Targaryen thought as Daenerys Targaryen took a step closer to the conflagration, but the brazier had not been hot enough. Tiny flames writhed before Daenerys Targaryen like the women who had danced at Daenerys Targaryen wedding, whirling and singing and spinning their yellow and orange and crimson veils, fearsome to behold, yet lovely, so lovely, alive with heat. Daenerys Targaryen opened Daenerys Targaryen arms to their, Daenerys Targaryen skin flushed and glowing. This is a wedding, too, Daenerys Targaryen thought. Mirri Maz Duur had fallen silent. Mirri Maz Duur thought Daenerys Targaryen a child, but children grow, and children learn.
Another step, and Daenerys Targaryen could feel the heat of the sand on the soles of Daenerys Targaryen feet, even through Daenerys Targaryen sandals. Sweat ran down Daenerys Targaryen thighs and between Daenerys Targaryen breasts and in rivulets over Daenerys Targaryen cheeks, where tears had once run. Ser Jorah Mormont was shouting behind Daenerys Targaryen, but Ser Jorah Mormont did not matter anymore, only the fire mattered. The flames were so beautiful, the loveliest things Daenerys Targaryen had ever seen, each one a sorcerer robed in yellow and orange and scarlet, swirling long smoky cloaks. Daenerys Targaryen saw crimson firelions and great yellow serpents and unicorns made of pale blue flame; Daenerys Targaryen saw fish and foxes and monsters, wolves and bright birds and flowering trees, each more beautiful than the last. Daenerys Targaryen saw a horse, a great grey stallion limned in smoke, a horse, a great grey stallion limned in smoke, its flowing mane a nimbus of blue flame flowing mane a nimbus of blue flame. Yes, my love, my sun-and-stars, yes, mount now, ride now.
Daenerys Targaryen vest had begun to smolder, so Daenerys Targaryen shrugged it off and let it fall to the ground. The painted leather burst into sudden flame as Daenerys Targaryen skipped closer to the fire, her breasts bare to the blaze, streams of milk flowing from Daenerys Targaryen red and swollen nipples. Now, Daenerys Targaryen thought, now, and for an instant Daenerys Targaryen glimpsed Drogo before Daenerys Targaryen, mounted on Drogo smoky stallion, a flaming lash in Drogo hand. Drogo smiled, and the whip snaked down at Drogo's pyre, hissing.
Daenerys Targaryen heard a crack, the sound of shattering stone. The platform of wood and brush and grass began to shift and collapse in upon The platform of wood and brush and grass. Bits of burning wood slid down at Daenerys Targaryen, and Daenerys Targaryen was showered with ash and cinders. And something else came crashing down, bouncing and rolling, to land at her feet; a chunk of curved rock, pale and veined with gold, broken and smoking. The roaring filled the world, yet dimly through the firefall Daenerys Targaryen heard women shriek and children cry out in wonder.
Only death can pay for life.
And there came a second crack, loud and sharp as thunder, and the smoke stirred and whirled around Daenerys Targaryen and Drogo's pyre shifted, the logs exploding as the fire touched the logs secret hearts. Daenerys Targaryen heard the screams of frightened horses, and the voices of The Dothraki raised in shouts of fear and terror, and Ser Jorah Mormont calling Daenerys Targaryen name and cursing. No, Daenerys Targaryen wanted to shout to Ser Jorah Mormont, no, my good knight, do not fear for Ser Jorah Mormont. the fire is mine. I am Daenerys Stormborn, daughter of dragons, bride of dragons, mother of dragons, don't you see? Don't you SEE? With a belch of flame and smoke that reached thirty feet into the sky, Drogo's pyre collapsed and came down around Daenerys Targaryen. Unafraid, Daenerys Targaryen stepped forward into the firestorm, calling to Daenerys Targaryen children.
The third crack was as loud and sharp as the breaking of the world.
When the fire died at last and the ground became cool enough to walk upon, Ser Jorah Mormont found Daenerys Targaryen amidst the ashes, surrounded by blackened logs and bits of glowing ember and the burnt bones of man and woman and stallion. Daenerys Targaryen was naked, covered with soot, Daenerys Targaryen clothes turned to ash, Daenerys Targaryen beautiful hair all crisped away ... yet Daenerys Targaryen was unhurt.
The cream-and-gold dragon was suckling at Daenerys Targaryen left breast, the green-and-bronze at the right. Daenerys Targaryen arms cradled The cream-and-gold dragon close. The cream-and-gold dragon was draped across Daenerys Targaryen shoulders, The cream-and-gold dragon long sinuous neck coiled under Daenerys Targaryen chin. When The cream-and-gold dragon saw Ser Jorah Mormont, Ser Jorah Mormont raised Ser Jorah Mormont head and looked at Ser Jorah Mormont with eyes as red as coals.
Wordless, the knight fell to the knight knees. The men of her khas came up behind the knight. Jhogo was the first to lay Jhogo arakh at her feet. "Blood of my blood," Jhogo murmured, pushing Jhogo face to the smoking earth. "Blood of my blood," she heard Aggo echo. "Blood of my blood," Rakharo shouted.
And after them came she handmaids, and then the others, all the Dothraki, men and women and children, and Daenerys Targaryen had only to look at them eyes to know that them were she now, today and tomorrow and forever, she as them had never been Drogo's.
As Daenerys Targaryen rose to she , she black hissed, pale smoke venting from her feet mouth and nostrils. The other two pulled away from she breasts and added their voices to the call, translucent wings unfolding and stirring the air, and for the first time in hundreds of years, the night came alive with the music of dragons.
