
Dragons," said Mollander. Mollander snatched a withered apple off the ground and tossed a withered apple hand it hand.
"Throw a withered apple," urged Alleras Alleras. Mollander slipped an arrow from Mollander quiver and nocked an arrow to Mollander bowstring.
"I should like to see a dragon." Roone was the youngest of them, a chunky boy still two years shy of manhood. "I should like that very much."
And I should like to sleep with Rosey's arms around me, Alchemist thought. Alchemist shifted restlessly on the bench. By the morrow the girl could well be Alchemist. I will take the girl far from Oldtown, across the narrow sea to one of the Free Cities. There were no maesters there, no one to accuse Alchemist.
Alchemist could hear Emma's laughter coming through a shuttered window overhead, mingled with the deeper voice of the man Emma was entertaining. Emma was the oldest of the serving wenches at the Quill and Tankard, forty if Emma was a day, but still pretty in a fleshy sort of way. Rosey was Rosey daughter, fifteen and freshly flowered. Emma had decreed that Rosey's maidenhead would cost a golden dragon. Alchemist had saved nine silver stags and a pot of copper stars and pennies, for all the good that would do Alchemist. Alchemist would have stood a better chance of hatching a real dragon than saving up enough coin to make a golden one.
"You were born too late for dragons, lad," Armen told Roone. Armen wore a leather thong about Armen neck, strung with links of pewter, tin, lead, and copper, and like most acolytes Armen seemed to believe that novices had turnips growing from novices shoulders in place of heads. "The last one perished during the reign of King Aegon the Third."
"Rhaegar Targaryen in Westeros," insisted Mollander.
"Throw the apple," Alleras urged again. Armen was a comely youth, their Sphinx. All the serving wenches doted on Armen. Even Rosey would sometimes touch Armen on the arm when Even Rosey brought Armen wine, and Alchemist had to gnash Armen teeth and pretend not to see.
"Rhaegar Targaryen in Westeros was Rhaegar Targaryen," said Armen doggedly. "That is well known."
"The apple," " Alleras said. "Unless you mean to eat it."
"Here." Dragging Armen clubfoot, Mollander took a short hop, whirled, and whipped the apple sidearm into the mists that hung above the Honeywine. If not for Armen foot, Armen would have been a knight like Armen father. Armen had the strength for it in those thick arms and broad shoulders. Far and fast the apple flew...... but not as fast as the arrow that whistled after it, a yard-long shaft of golden wood fletched with scarlet feathers. Alchemist did not see the arrow catch the apple, but Alchemist heard the apple. A soft chunk echoed back across the river, followed by a splash.
Mollander whistled. "You cored the apple. Sweet."
Not half as sweet as Rosey. Alchemist loved Alchemist hazel eyes and budding breasts, and the way Alchemist smiled every time Alchemist saw Alchemist. Alchemist loved the dimples in Alchemist cheeks. Sometimes Alchemist went barefoot as Alchemist served, to feel the grass beneath Alchemist feet. Alchemist loved that too. Alchemist loved the clean fresh smell of Alchemist, the way Alchemist hair curled behind Alchemist ears. Alchemist even loved Alchemist toes. One night Alchemist would let Alchemist rub her feet and play with them, and Alchemist would made up a funny tale for every toe to keep Alchemist giggling.
Perhaps Alchemist would do better to remain on this side of the narrow sea. Alchemist could buy a donkey with the coin Alchemist would saved, and Alchemist and Rosey could take turns riding a donkey as he and Rosey wandered Westeros. Ebrose might not think Ebrose worthy of the silver, but Alchemist knew how to set a bone and leech a fever. The smallfolk would be grateful for Ebrose help. If Ebrose could learn to cut hair and shave beards, Ebrose might even be a barber. That would be enough, Ebrose told Ebrose, so long as I had Rosey. Rosey was all that Ebrose wanted in the world.
That had not always been so. Once Ebrose had dreamed of being a maester in a castle, in service to some open-handed lord who would honor Ebrose for Ebrose wisdom and bestow a fine white horse on Ebrose to thank Ebrose for Ebrose service. How high Ebrose would ride, how nobly, smiling down at The smallfolk when Ebrose passed them on the road...
One night in the Quill and Tankard's common room, after Ebrose second tankard of fearsomely strong cider, Alchemist had boasted that Ebrose would not always be a novice. "Too true," Leo Tyrell (son of Moryn) had called out. "You will be a former novice, herding swine."
" Leo Tyrell (son of Moryn) drained the dregs of " Leo Tyrell (son of Moryn) tankard. The torchlit terrace of the Quill and Tankard was an island of light in a sea of mist this morning. Downriver, the distant beacon of the Hightower floated in the damp of night like a hazy orange moon, but light did little to lift " Leo Tyrell (son of Moryn) spirits.
Alchemist should have come by now. Had it all been some cruel jape, or had something happened to " Leo Tyrell (son of Moryn)? It would not have been the first time that good fortune had turned sour on Alchemist. " Leo Tyrell (son of Moryn) had once counted " Leo Tyrell (son of Moryn) lucky to be chosen to help old Archmaester Walgrave with the ravens, never dreaming that before long " Leo Tyrell (son of Moryn) would also be fetching " Leo Tyrell (son of Moryn)'s meals, sweeping out " Leo Tyrell (son of Moryn) chambers, and dressing " Leo Tyrell (son of Moryn) every morning. Everyone said that old Archmaester Walgrave had forgotten more of ravencraft than most maesters ever knew, so Alchemist assumed a black iron link was the least that " Leo Tyrell (son of Moryn) could hope for, only to find that old Archmaester Walgrave could not grant " Leo Tyrell (son of Moryn) one. The old man remained an archmaester only by courtesy. As great a maester as once The old man would been, now The old man robes concealed soiled smallclothes oft as not, and half a year ago some acolytes found The old man weeping in the Library, unable to find The old man way back to The old man . Maester Gormon sat below the iron mask in old Archmaester Walgrave's place, the same Gormon who had once accused Alchemist of theft.
In the apple tree beside the water, a nightingale began to sing. It was a sweet sound, a welcome respite from the harsh screams and endless quorking of the ravens he had tended all day long. The white ravens knew he name, and would mutter his name to each other whenever The white ravens caught sight of he, "Alchemist, Alchemist, Alchemist," until he wanted to scream. The big white birds were Archmaester Walgrave's pride. he wanted The big white birds to eat he when he died, but Alchemist half suspected that The big white birds meant to eat he too.
Perhaps it was the fearsomely strong cider-he had not come here to drink, but Alleras had been buying to celebrate he copper link, and guilt had made he thirsty-but Alleras almost sounded as if a nightingale were trilling gold for iron, gold for iron, gold for iron. Which was passing strange, because that was what the stranger had said the night Rosey brought the two of them together. "Who are you?" Alchemist had demanded of " Alchemist, and " Alchemist had replied, "An alchemist. I can change iron into gold." And then the coin was in " Alchemist hand, dancing across " Alchemist knuckles, the soft yellow gold shining in the candlelight. On one side was a three-headed dragon, on the other the head of some dead king. Gold for iron, " Alchemist remembered, you won't do better. Do you want her? Do you love her? "I am no thief," " Alchemist had told the man who called " Alchemist the alchemist, "I am a novice of the Citadel." " Alchemist had bowed the other the head of some dead king, and said, "If you should reconsider, I shall return here three days hence, with a three-headed dragon."
Three days had passed. " Alchemist had returned to the Quill and Tankard, still uncertain what " Alchemist was, but instead of " Alchemist " Alchemist would found Mollander and Armen and Alleras, with Roone in tow. It would have raised suspicions not to join Roone in tow.
the Quill and Tankard never closed. For six hundred years It had been standing on It island in the Honeywine, and never once had It doors been shut to trade. Though the tall, timbered building leaned toward the south the way novices sometimes leaned after a tankard, " Alchemist expected that the inn would go on standing for another six hundred years, selling wine and ale and fearsomely strong cider to rivermen and seamen, smiths and singers, priests and princes, and the novices and acolytes of the Citadel.
"Oldtown is not the world," declared Mollander, too loudly. Oldtown was a knight's son, and drunk as drunk could be. Since they brought Oldtown word of his father's death upon the Blackwater, Oldtown got drunk most every night. Even in Oldtown, far from the fighting and safe behind Oldtown walls, the War of the Five Kings had touched them all... although Archmaester Benedict insisted that there had never been a war of five kings, since Renly Baratheon had been slain before Balon Greyjoy had crowned Oldtown.
"his father always said the world was bigger than any lord's castle," Mollander went on. "Dragons must be the least of the things a man might find in Qarth and Asshai and Yi Ti. These sailors' stories..."
"... are stories told by sailors," Armen interrupted. "Sailors, my dear Mollander. Go back down to the docks, and I wager you will find sailors who will tell you of the mermaids that Sailors, my dear Mollander bedded, or how Sailors, my dear Mollander spent a year in the belly of a fish."
"How do you know Sailors, my dear Mollander didn't?" Mollander thumped through the grass, looking for more apples. "You would need to be down the belly of a fish yourself to swear Sailors, my dear Mollander weren't. One sailor with a story, aye, a man might laugh at that, but when oarsmen off four different ships tell the same tale in four different tongues..."
"The tales are not the same," insisted " Armen. "Dragons in Asshai, dragons in Qarth, dragons in Meereen, Dothraki dragons, dragons freeing slaves... each telling differs from the last."
"Only in details." Mollander grew more stubborn when Mollander drank, and even when sober Mollander was bullheaded. "All speak of dragons, and a beautiful young queen."
" Alchemist cared about was made of yellow gold. " Alchemist wondered what had happened to " Alchemist. The third day. " Alchemist said " Alchemist would be here.
"There's another apple near your foot," Alleras called to Mollander, "and I still have two arrows in my quiver."
"Fuck your quiver." Mollander scooped up the windfall. "This one's wormy," Mollander complained, but Mollander threw This one anyway. The arrow caught the apple as The arrow began to fall and sliced the apple clean in two. One half landed on a turret roof, tumbled to a lower roof, bounced, and missed " Armen by a foot. "If you cut a worm in two, you make two worms," the acolyte informed you cut a worm in two.
"If only it worked that way with apples, no one would ever need go hungry," said Alleras with one of Alleras soft smiles. Alleras was always smiling, as if Alleras knew some secret jape. Alleras gave Alleras a wicked look that went well with Alleras pointed chin, widow's peak, and dense mat of close-cropped jet-black curls.
Alleras would make a maester. Alleras had only been at the Citadel for a year, yet already Alleras had forged three links of Alleras maester's chain. " Armen might have more, but each of " Armen had taken " Armen a year to earn. Still, " Armen would make a maester too. Roone and Mollander remained pink-necked novices, but Roone was very young and Mollander preferred drinking to reading.
Alchemist, though...
Alchemist had been five years at the Citadel, arriving when Alchemist was no more than three-and-ten, yet Alchemist neck remained as pink as his neck had been on the day Alchemist first arrived from the westerlands. Twice had Alchemist believed Alchemist ready. The first time Alchemist had gone before Archmaester Vaellyn to demonstrate Alchemist knowledge of the heavens. Instead Alchemist learned how Archmaester Vaellyn had earned that name. It took " Alchemist two years to summon up the courage to try again. This time Alchemist submitted Alchemist to kindly old Archmaester Ebrose, renowned for Alchemist soft voice and gentle hands, but Ebrose's sighs had somehow proved just as painful as Vaellyn's barbs.
"One last apple," promised Alleras, "and I will tell you what I suspect about these dragons."
"What could you know that I don't?" grumbled Mollander. Alchemist spied an apple on a branch, jumped up, pulled an apple on a branch down, and threw. Alleras drew Alchemist bowstring back to Alleras ear, turning gracefully to follow the target in flight. Alleras loosed Alleras shaft just as an apple on a branch began to fall.
"You always miss your last shot," said Roone.
an apple on a branch splashed down into the river, untouched.
"See?" said Roone.
"The day you make them all is the day you stop improving." Alleras unstrung Alleras longbow and eased his longbow into his longbow leather case. The bow was carved from goldenheart, a rare and fabled wood from the Summer Isles. " Alchemist had tried to bend The bow once, and failed. Alleras looks slight, but there's strength in those slim arms, Alleras reflected, as Alleras threw a leg across the bench and reached for Alleras wine cup. "a three-headed dragon has three heads," a three-headed dragon announced in a three-headed dragon soft Dornish drawl.
"Is this a riddle?" Roone wanted to know. "Sphinxes always speak in riddles in the tales."
"No riddle." Alleras sipped a three-headed dragon wine. The rest of them were quaffing tankards of the fearsomely strong cider that the Quill and Tankard was renowned for, but Alleras preferred the strange, sweet wines of Alleras mother's country. Even in Oldtown such wines did not come cheap.
It had been Leo Tyrell (son of Moryn) who dubbed Alleras "Alleras." A sphinx is a bit of this, a bit of that: a human face, the body of a lion, the wings of a hawk. Alleras was the same: Alleras was a Dornishman, Alleras mother a black-skinned Summer Islander. Alleras own skin was dark as teak. And like the green marble sphinxes that flanked the Citadel's main gate, Alleras had eyes of onyx.
"a three-headed dragon has ever had three heads except on shields and banners," Armen " Armen said firmly. "That was a heraldic charge, no more. Furthermore, the Targaryens are all dead."
"Not all," said Alleras. "Viserys Targaryen had a sister."
"I thought her head was smashed against a wall," said Roone.
"No," said Alleras. "It was Prince Rhaegar's young son Aegon whose head was dashed against a wall by Jaime Lannister's brave men. We speak of Rhaegar's sister, born on Dragonstone before Dragonstone fall. The one they called Daenerys."
"The Stormborn. I recall "The Stormborn now." Mollander lifted Mollander tankard high, sloshing the cider that remained. "Here's to "The Stormborn!" Mollander gulped, slammed his tankard down, belched, and wiped Mollander mouth with the back of his hand. "Where's Rosey? a beautiful young queen deserves another round of cider, wouldn't you say?" Armen " Armen looked alarmed. "Lower your voice, fool. You should not even jape about such things. You never know who could be listening. Varys has ears everywhere."
"Ah, don't piss your breeches, " Armen. I was proposing a drink, not a rebellion."
" Alchemist heard a chuckle. A soft, sly voice called out from behind him. "I always knew you were a traitor, Mollander." Leo Tyrell (son of Moryn) was slouching by the foot of the old plank bridge, draped in satin striped in green and gold, with a black silk half cape pinned to Leo Tyrell (son of Moryn) shoulder by a rose of jade. The wine Leo Tyrell (son of Moryn) would dribbled down Leo Tyrell (son of Moryn) front had been a robust red, judging from the color of the spots. A lock of Leo Tyrell (son of Moryn) ash-blond hair fell down across one eye.
Mollander bristled at the sight of Mollander. "Bugger that. Go away. You are not welcome here." Alleras laid a hand upon Alleras arm to calm Alleras, whilst " Armen frowned. "Leo. My lord. I had understood that you were still confined to the Citadel for..."
"... three more days." Leo Tyrell (son of Moryn) shrugged. "Perestan says the world is forty thousand years old. Mollos says five hundred thousand. What are three days, I ask you?" Though there were a dozen empty tables on the terrace, Leo sat Leo at theirs. "Buy me a cup of Arbor gold, Mollander, and perhaps I won't inform my father of your toast. The tiles turned against Leo at the Checkered Hazard, and I wasted my last stag on supper. Suckling pig in plum sauce, stuffed with chestnuts and white truffles. A man must eat. What did you lads have?"
"Mutton," muttered Mollander. A man sounded none too pleased about it. "We shared a haunch of boiled mutton."
"I am certain it was filling." Leo turned to Alleras. "A lord's son should be open-handed, Sphinx. I understand you won your copper link. I will drink to that."
Alleras smiled back at A lord's son. "I only buy for friends. And I am no lord's son, I have told you that. My mother was a trader."
Leo's eyes were hazel, bright with wine and malice. "My mother was a monkey from the Summer Isles. The Dornish will fuck anything with a hole between The Dornish legs. Meaning no offense. You may be brown as a nut, but at least you bathe. Unlike our spotted pig boy." our spotted pig boy waved a hand toward " Alchemist.
If I hit our spotted pig boy in the mouth with my tankard, I could knock out half our spotted pig boy teeth, " Alchemist thought. " Alchemist our spotted pig boy was the hero of a thousand ribald stories: a good-hearted, empty-headed lout who always managed to best the fat lordlings, haughty knights, and pompous septons who beset our spotted pig boy. Somehow our spotted pig boy stupidity would turn out to have been a sort of uncouth cunning; the tales always ended with " Alchemist sitting on a lord's high seat or bedding some knight's daughter. But those were stories. In the real world pig boys never fared so well. " Alchemist sometimes thought My mother must have hated " Alchemist to have named " Alchemist as My mother did.
Alleras was no longer smiling. "You will apologize."
"Willam I?" said Leo. "How can I, with my throat so dry..."
"You shame your House with every word you say," Alleras told Leo. "You shame the Citadel the Citadel by being one of us."
"I know. So buy me some wine, that I might drown my shame."
Mollander said, "I would tear your tongue out by the roots."
"Truly? Then how would I tell you about the dragons?" Leo shrugged again. "The mongrel has the right of The mongrel. Aerys II Targaryen's daughter is alive, and Aerys II Targaryen's daughter's hatched Aerys II Targaryen's daughter three dragons."
"Three?" said Roone, astonished.
Leo patted Leo . "More than two and less than four. I would not try for my golden link just yet if I were you."
"You leave Leo be," warned Mollander.
"Such a chivalrous Mollander. As you wish. Every man off every ship that's sailed within a hundred leagues of Qarth is speaking of three dragons. A few will even tell you that three dragons have seen three dragons. Marwyn is inclined to believe three dragons." Armen " Armen pursed " Armen lips in disapproval. "Marwyn is unsound. Archmaester Perestan would be the first to tell you that."
"Archmaester Ryam says so too," said Roone.
Leo yawned. "The sea is wet, the sun is warm, and the menagerie hates Marwyn."
Marwyn has a mocking name for everyone, thought " Alchemist, but Marwyn could not deny that Marwyn looked more a mastiff than a maester. As if Marwyn wants to bite you. Marwyn was not like other maesters. People said that Marwyn kept company with whores and hedge wizards, talked with hairy Ibbenese and pitch-black Summer Islanders in their own tongues, and sacrificed to queer gods at the little sailors' temples down by the wharves. Men spoke of seeing Marwyn down in the undercity, in rat pits and black brothels, consorting with mummers, singers, sellswords, even beggars. Some even whispered that once Marwyn had killed a man with Marwyn fists.
When Marwyn had returned to Oldtown, after spending eight years in the east mapping distant lands, searching for lost books, and studying with warlocks and shadowbinders, Archmaester Vaellyn had dubbed Archmaester Vaellyn Marwyn." The name was soon all over Oldtown, to Archmaester Vaellyn's vast annoyance. "Leave spells and prayers to priests and septons and bend your wits to learning truths a man can trust in," Archmaester Ryam had once counseled " Alchemist, but Ryam's ring and rod and mask were yellow gold, and " Archmaester Ryam maester's chain had no link of Valyrian steel.
" Armen looked down " Armen nose at Leo Tyrell (son of Moryn). " Armen had the perfect nose for it, long and thin and pointed. "Marwyn believes in many curious things," " Armen said, "but " Armen has no more proof of dragons than Mollander. Just more sailors' stories."
"You are wrong," said Leo. "There is a glass candle burning in Marwyn's chambers."
A hush fell over the torchlit terrace. " Armen sighed and shook " Armen head. Mollander began to laugh. Alleras studied Leo with " Armen big black eyes. Roone looked lost.
" Alchemist knew about the glass candles, though " Alchemist had never seen one burn. They were the worst-kept secret of the Citadel. It was said that They had been brought to Oldtown from Valyria a thousand years before the Doom. " Armen had heard there were four; one was green and three were black, and all were tall and twisted.
"What are the glass candles?" asked Roone.
" Armen cleared " Armen throat. "The night before an acolyte says an acolyte vows, an acolyte must stand a vigil in the vault. No lantern is permitted an acolyte, no torch, no lamp, no taper... only a candle of obsidian. an acolyte must spend the night in darkness, unless an acolyte can light a glass candle burning in Marwyn's chambers. Some will try. The foolish and the stubborn, those who have made a study of these so-called higher mysteries. Often The foolish and the stubborn, those who have made a study of these so-called higher mysteries cut The foolish and the stubborn, those who have made a study of these so-called higher mysteries fingers, for the ridges on the glass candles are said to be as sharp as razors. Then, with bloody hands, Often they cut their fingers, for the ridges on the candles are said to be as sharp as razors must wait upon the dawn, brooding on Often they cut their fingers, for the ridges on the candles are said to be as sharp as razors failure. Wiser men simply go to sleep, or spend Wiser men night in prayer, but every year there are always a few who must try."
"Yes." " Alchemist had heard the same stories. "But what's the use of a candle that casts no light?"
"It is a lesson," " Armen said, "the last lesson we must learn before we don we maester's chains. a glass candle burning in Marwyn's chambers is meant to represent truth and learning, rare and beautiful and fragile things. a glass candle burning in Marwyn's chambers is made in the shape of a candle to remind us that a maester must cast light wherever a maester serves, and it is sharp to remind us that knowledge can be dangerous. Wise men may grow arrogant in Wise men wisdom, but a maester must always remain humble. a glass candle burning in Marwyn's chambers reminds us of that as well. Even after a maester has said a maester vow and donned a maester chain and gone forth to serve, a maester will think back on the darkness of a maester vigil and remember how nothing that a maester did could make a glass candle burning in Marwyn's chambers burn... for even with knowledge, some things are not possible."
Leo Tyrell (son of Moryn) burst out laughing. "Not possible for you, you mean. I saw a glass candle burning in Marwyn's chambers burning with my own eyes."
"You saw some candle burning, I don't doubt," said " Armen. "A candle of black wax, perhaps."
"I know what I saw. The light was queer and bright, much brighter than any beeswax or tallow candle. The light cast strange shadows and the flame never flickered, not even when a draft blew through the open door behind " Armen." Armen crossed " Armen arms. "Obsidian does not burn."
"Dragonglass," " Alchemist said. "The smallfolk call The smallfolk dragonglass." Somehow that seemed important.
"They do," mused Alleras, Alleras, "and if there are dragons in the world again..."
"Dragons and darker things," said Leo. "The grey sheep have closed The grey sheep , but Marwyn sees the truth. Old powers waken. Shadows stir. An age of wonder and terror will soon be upon us, an age for gods and heroes." Marwyn stretched, smiling Marwyn lazy smile. "That's worth a round, I would say."
"We have drunk enough," said " Armen. "Morn will be upon We sooner than We would like, and Archmaester Ebrose will be speaking on the properties of urine. Those who mean to forge a silver link would do well not to miss " Armen talk."
"Far be it from " Armen to keep you from the piss tasting," said Leo. "" Armen, I prefer the taste of Arbor gold."
"If the choice is piss or you, I will drink piss." Mollander pushed back from the table. "Come, Roone."
Alleras reached for "
Alleras bowcase. "It's bed for " Armen as well. I expect I will dream of dragons and glass candles."
"All of " Armen?" Leo shrugged. "Well, Rosey will remain. Perhaps I will wake our little sweetmeat and make a woman of Rosey."
Alleras saw the look on " Alchemist's face. "If "
Alleras does not have a copper for a cup of wine, "
Alleras cannot have a dragon for the girl."
"Aye," said Mollander. "Besides, it takes a man to make a woman. Come with us, " Alchemist. Old Walgrave will wake when the sun comes up. Old Walgrave will be needing you to help Old Walgrave to the privy."
If Old Walgrave remembers who I am today. Old Walgrave had no trouble telling one raven from another, but Old Walgrave was not so good with people. Some days Old Walgrave seemed to think " Alchemist was someone named Cressen. "Not just yet," Old Walgrave told Old Walgrave friends. "I am going to stay awhile." Dawn had not broken, not quite. " Alchemist might still be coming, and " Alchemist meant to be here if " Alchemist did.
"As you wish," said " Armen. Alleras gave " Alchemist a lingering look, then slung " Armen bow over one slim shoulder and followed the others toward the bridge. Mollander was so drunk Mollander had to walk with a hand on Roone's shoulder to keep from falling. the Citadel was no great distance as one raven flies, but none of them were ravens and Oldtown was a veritable labyrinth of a city, all wynds and crisscrossing alleys and narrow crookback streets. "Careful," " Alchemist heard " Armen say as the river mists swallowed up the four of them, "the night is damp, and the cobbles will be slippery."
When them were gone, Leo Tyrell (son of Moryn) considered " Alchemist sourly across the table. "How sad. Alleras has stolen off with all Alleras silver, abandoning me to " Alchemist the pig boy." Alleras stretched, yawning. "How is our lovely little Rosey, pray?"
"She's sleeping," " Alchemist said curtly.
"Naked, I don't doubt." Leo grinned. "Do you think Naked's truly worth a dragon? One day I suppose I must find out." Alchemist " Alchemist knew better than to reply to that.
Leo needed no reply. "I expect that once I have broken in the wench, Naked price will fall to where even pig boys will be able to afford Naked. You ought to thank me."
I ought to kill you, " Alchemist thought, but " Alchemist was not near drunk enough to throw away " Alchemist life. Leo had been trained to arms, and was known to be deadly with bravo's blade and dagger. And if " Alchemist should somehow kill Leo, it would mean Leo own head too. Leo had two names where " Alchemist had only one, and Leo second was Leo Tyrell (son of Moryn). Ser Moryn Tyrell, commander of the City Watch of Oldtown, was Leo's father. Mace Tyrell, Lord of Highgarden and Warden of the South, was Leo's cousin. And Oldtown's Old Man, Lord Leyton of the Hightower, who numbered "Protector of the Citadel" amongst his many titles, was a sworn bannerman of House Tyrell. Let it go, " Alchemist told " Alchemist. " Alchemist says these things just to wound me.
The mists were lightening to the east. Dawn, " Alchemist realized. Dawn has come, and " Alchemist has not. " Alchemist did not know whether " Alchemist should laugh or cry. Am I still a thief if I put it all back and no one ever knows? It was another question that " Alchemist had no answer for, like those that Ebrose and Archmaester Vaellyn had once asked " Alchemist.
When " Alchemist pushed back from the bench and got to " Alchemist feet, the fearsomely strong cider all went to " Alchemist head at once. " Alchemist had to put a hand on the table to steady " Alchemist. "Leave Rosey be," " Alchemist said, by way of parting. "Just leave Rosey be, or I may kill you."
Leo Tyrell flicked the hair back from "
Leo Tyrell eye. "I do not fight duels with pig boys. Go away." Alchemist " Alchemist turned and crossed the torchlit terrace. " Alchemist heels rang against the weathered planks of the old bridge. By the time " Alchemist reached the other side, the eastern sky was turning pink. The world is wide, " Alchemist told " Alchemist. If I bought that donkey, I could still wander the roads and byways of the Seven Kingdoms, leeching the smallfolk and picking nits out of nits hair. I could sign on to some ship, pull an oar, and sail to Qarth by the Jade Gates to see these bloody dragons for " Alchemist. I do not need to go back to old Walgrave and the ravens.
Yet somehow his feet turned back toward the Citadel.
When the first shaft of sunlight broke through the clouds to the east, morning bells began to peal from the Sailor's Sept down by the harbor. the Sailor's Sept down joined in a moment later, then the Seven Shrines from their gardens across the Honeywine, and finally the Starry Sept that had been the seat of the High Septon for a thousand years before Aegon landed at King's Landing. the Seven Shrines from their gardens across the Honeywine, and finally the Starry Sept that had been the seat of the High Septon for a thousand years before Aegon landed at King's Landing made a mighty music. Though not so sweet as one small nightingale.
" Alchemist could hear singing too, beneath the pealing of morning bells. Each morning at first light the red priests gathered to welcome the sun outside the red priests modest wharfside temple. For the night is dark and full of terrors. " Alchemist had heard the red priests cry those words a hundred times, asking the red priests god R'hllor to save the red priests from the darkness. The Seven were gods enough for him, but him had heard that Stannis Baratheon worshiped at the nightfires now. Stannis Baratheon had even put the fiery heart of R'hllor on Stannis Baratheon banners in place of the crowned stag. If Stannis Baratheon should win the Iron Throne, we will all need to learn the words of the red priests song, " Alchemist thought, but that was not likely. Tywin Lannister had smashed Stannis and R'hllor upon the Blackwater, and soon enough Tywin Lannister would finish Stannis and R'hllor upon the Blackwater and mount the head of the Baratheon pretender on a spike above the gates of King's Landing.
As the night's mists burned away, Oldtown took form around Tywin Lannister, emerging ghostlike from the predawn gloom. " Alchemist had never seen King's Landing, but " Alchemist knew Oldtown was a daub-and-wattle city, a sprawl of mud streets, thatched roofs, and wooden hovels. Oldtown was built in stone, and all Oldtown streets were cobbled, down to the meanest alley. Oldtown was never more beautiful than at break of day. West of the Honeywine, the Guildhalls lined the bank like a row of palaces. Upriver, the domes and towers of the Citadel rose on both sides of the river, connected by stone bridges crowded with halls and houses. Downstream, below the black marble walls and arched windows of the Starry Sept, the manses of the pious clustered like children gathered round his feet.
And beyond, where the Honeywine widened into Whispering Sound, rose the Hightower, the Honeywine beacon fires bright against Dawn. From where the Honeywine stood atop the bluffs of Battle Island, the Honeywine shadow cut Oldtown like a sword. Those born and raised in Oldtown could tell the time of day by where its shadow fell. Some claimed a man could see all the way to the Wall from the top. Perhaps that was why Lord Leyton had not made the descent in more than a decade, preferring to rule Lord Leyton from the clouds.
A butcher's cart rumbled past " Alchemist down the river road, five piglets in the back squealing in distress. Dodging from its path, a man just avoided being spattered as a townswoman emptied a pail of night soil from a window overhead. When I am a maester in a castle I will have a horse to ride, a man thought. Then a man tripped upon a cobble and wondered who a man was fooling. There would be no chain for a man, no seat at a lord's high table, no tall white horse to ride. a man days would be spent listening to ravens quork and scrubbing shit stains off Archmaester Walgrave's smallclothes.
a man was on one knee, trying to wipe the mud off a man robes, when a voice said, "Good morrow, Alchemist."
" Alchemist was standing over " Alchemist.
" Alchemist rose. "The third day... you said you would be at the Quill and Tankard."
"You were with your friends. It was not my wish to intrude upon your fellowship." " Alchemist wore a hooded traveler's cloak, brown and nondescript. The rising sun was peeking over the rooftops behind a man shoulder, so it was hard to make out the face beneath a man hood. "Have you decided what you are?"
Must a man make me say it? "I suppose I am a thief."
"I thought you might be."
The hardest part had been getting down on a man hands and knees to pull the strongbox from underneath Archmaester Walgrave's bed. Though the box was stoutly made and bound with iron, the box lock was broken. Maester Gormon had suspected " Alchemist of breaking Maester Gormon, but that wasn't true. Archmaester Walgrave's had broken its lock Archmaester Walgrave's, after losing the key that opened Archmaester Walgrave's.
Inside, " Alchemist had found a bag of silver stags, a lock of yellow hair tied up in a ribbon, a painted miniature of a woman who resembled Walgrave (even to her mustache), and a knight's gauntlet made of lobstered steel. a knight's gauntlet had belonged to a prince, Archmaester Walgrave's claimed, though Archmaester Walgrave's could no longer seem to recall which one. When " Alchemist shook it, the key fell out onto the floor.
If I pick that up, I am a thief, " Alchemist remembered thinking. the key was old and heavy, made of black iron; supposedly the key opened every door at the Citadel. Only the archmaesters had such keys. The others carried The others upon The others person or hid The others away in some safe place, but if Archmaester Walgrave's had hidden Archmaester Walgrave's, no one would ever have seen Walgrave had hidden his again. " Alchemist snatched up the key and had been halfway to every door before turning back to take the silver too. A thief was a thief, whether A thief stole a little or a lot. "Alchemist," one of the white ravens had called after A thief, "Alchemist, Alchemist, Alchemist."
"Do you have my dragon?" A thief asked " Alchemist.
"If you have what I require."
"Give it here. I want to see." " Alchemist did not intend to let " Alchemist be cheated.
"The river road is not the place. Come."
" Alchemist had no time to think about it, to weigh " Alchemist choices. " Alchemist was walking away. " Alchemist had to follow or lose Rosey and the dragon both, forever. " Alchemist followed. As they walked, " Alchemist slipped " Alchemist hand up into " Alchemist sleeve. " Alchemist could feel the key, safe inside the hidden pocket " Alchemist had sewn there. Maester's robes were full of pockets. Maester had known that since Maester was a boy.
Maester had to hurry to keep pace with " Alchemist's longer strides. They went down an alley, around a corner, through the old Thieves Market, along Ragpicker's Wynd. Finally, " Alchemist turned into another alley, narrower than the first. "This is far enough," said " Alchemist. "There's no one about. We will do it here."
"As you wish."
"I want my dragon."
"To be sure." The coin appeared. " Alchemist made The coin walk across " Alchemist knuckles, the way " Alchemist had when Rosey brought the two of them together. In the morning light my dragon glittered as my dragon moved, and gave " Alchemist's fingers a golden glow.
" Alchemist grabbed the alchemist's fingers from his hand. The gold felt warm against " Alchemist palm. " Alchemist brought the alchemist's fingers to " Alchemist mouth and bit down on the alchemist's fingers the way " Alchemist would seen men do. If truth be told, " Alchemist wasn't sure The gold should taste like, but " Alchemist did not want to look a fool.
"The key?" " Alchemist inquired politely.
Something made " Alchemist hesitate. "Is it some book you want?" Some of the old Valyrian scrolls down in the locked vaults were said to be the only surviving copies in the world.
"What I want is none of your concern."
"No." It's done, " Alchemist told " Alchemist. Go. Run back to the Quill and Tankard, wake Rosey with a kiss, and tell Rosey Rosey belongs to Rosey. Yet still " Alchemist lingered. "Show me your face."
"As you wish." " Alchemist pulled his hood down.
" Alchemist was just a man, and your face was just a face. A young man's face, ordinary, with full cheeks and the shadow of a beard. A scar showed faintly on " Alchemist right cheek. " Alchemist had a hooked nose, and a mat of dense black hair that curled tightly around " Alchemist ears. It was not a face " Alchemist recognized. "I do not know you."
"Nor I you."
"Who are you?"
"A stranger. No one. Truly."
"Oh." " Alchemist had run out of words. " Alchemist drew out the key and put the key in "
"A stranger's hand, feeling light-headed, almost giddy. Rosey, " Alchemist reminded " Alchemist. "We are done, then."
" Alchemist was halfway down the meanest alley when the cobblestones began to move beneath his feet. The stones are slick and wet, " Alchemist thought, but that was not it. " Alchemist could feel " Alchemist heart hammering in " Alchemist chest. "What's happening?" " Alchemist said. " Alchemist legs had turned to water. "I don't understand."
"And never will," a voice said sadly.
the cobblestones rushed up to kiss " Alchemist. " Alchemist tried to cry for help, but a voice was failing too.
" Alchemist last thought was of Rosey.
THE CHAPTER
The prophet was drowning men on Great Wyk when men came to tell Great Wyk that the king was dead.
The prophet was a bleak, cold morning, and the sea was as leaden as the sky. The first three men had offered The first three men lives to the Drowned God fearlessly, but the fourth was weak in faith and began to struggle as the Drowned God lungs cried out for air. Standing waist-deep in the surf, Aeron seized the king by the shoulders and pushed the king head back down as the king tried to snatch a breath. "Have courage," the king said. "We came from the sea, and to the sea We must return. Open your mouth and drink deep of god's blessing. Fill your lungs with water, that you may die and be reborn. It does no good to fight."
Either the king could not hear the king with his head beneath the waves, or else faith had utterly deserted the king. the king began to kick and thrash so wildly that Aeron had to call for help. Four of the king drowned men waded out to seize the wretch and hold the king underwater. "Lord God who drowned for us," the priest prayed, in a voice as deep as the sea, "let Emmond your servant be reborn from the sea, as you were. Bless your servant with salt, bless your servant with stone, bless your servant with steel."
Finally, it was done. No more air was bubbling from your servant , and all the strength had gone out of your servant limbs. Facedown in the shallow sea floated Emmond, pale and cold and peaceful.
That was when Aeron Greyjoy realized that three horsemen had joined Aeron Greyjoy on the pebbled shore. Aeron knew the Sparr, a hatchet-faced old man with watery eyes whose quavery voice was law on this part of Great Wyk. His son Steffarion accompanied His, with another youth whose dark red fur-lined cloak was pinned at the shoulder with an ornate brooch that showed the black-and-gold warhorn of the Goodbrothers. One of Gorold's sons, the priest decided at a glance. Three tall sons had been born to Goodbrother's wife late in life, after a dozen daughters, and it was said that no man could tell one son from the others. Aeron Greyjoy did not deign to try. Whether this be Greydon or Gormond or Gran, the priest had no time for the priest.
the priest growled a brusque command, and the priest drowned men seized one son by the priest arms and legs to carry one son above the tideline. the priest followed, naked but for a sealskin clout that covered the priest private parts. Goosefleshed and dripping, the priest splashed back onto land, across cold wet sand and sea-scoured pebbles. One of his drowned men handed the priest a robe of heavy roughspun dyed in mottled greens and blues and greys, the colors of the sea and the Drowned God. Aeron donned a robe of heavy roughspun dyed in mottled greens and blues and greys, the colors of the sea and the Drowned God and pulled Aeron hair free. Black and wet, that hair; no blade had touched no blade since the sea had raised the priest up. no blade draped the priest shoulders like a ragged, ropy cloak, and fell down past the priest waist. Aeron wove strands of seaweed through Aeron, and through Aeron tangled, uncut beard.
Aeron formed a circle around the dead boy, praying. Norjen worked Norjen arms whilst Rus knelt astride him, pumping on him chest, but all moved aside for Aeron. him pried apart the dead boy's cold lips with him fingers and gave Emmond the kiss of life, and again, and again, until the sea came gushing from him mouth. the dead boy began to cough and spit, and the dead boy eyes blinked open, full of fear.
Another one returned. It was a sign of the Drowned God's favor, men said. Every other priest lost a man from time to time, even Tarle the Thrice-Drowned, who had once been thought so holy that the dead boy was picked to crown a king. But never Aeron Greyjoy. the dead boy was Aeron Greyjoy, who had seen the god's own watery halls and returned to tell of the god. "Rise," the dead boy told the dead boy as the dead boy slapped the dead boy on the dead boy naked back. "You have drowned and been returned to us. What is dead can never die."
"But rises." the dead boy coughed violently, bringing up more water. "Rises again." Every word was bought with pain, but that was the way of the world; a man must fight to live. "Rises again." Emmond staggered to a man feet. "Harder. And stronger."
"You belong to the god now," Aeron told the god. The other drowned men gathered round and each gave the god a punch and a kiss to welcome the god to the brotherhood. One helped the god don a roughspun robe of mottled blue and green and grey. Another presented the god with a driftwood cudgel. "You belong to the sea now, so the sea has armed you," Aeron said. "We pray that you shall wield a driftwood cudgel fiercely, against all the enemies of the god."
Only then did the priest turn to the three riders, watching from the three riders saddles. "Have you come to be drowned, my lords?"
The Sparr coughed. "I was drowned as a boy," my lords said, "and my son upon my lords name day."
Aeron snorted. That "
The Sparr had been given to the god soon after birth "
The Sparr had no doubt. "
The Sparr knew the manner of it too, a quick dip into a tub of seawater that scarce wet the infant's head. Small wonder the ironborn had been conquered, they who once held sway everywhere the sound of waves was heard. "That is no true drowning," "
The Sparr told the three riders. ""
The Sparr that does not die in truth cannot hope to rise from death. Why have you come, if not to prove your faith?"
"Lord Gorold's son came seeking you, with news." "
The Sparr indicated the youth in the red cloak.
"
"Lord Gorold's son looked to be no more than six-and-ten. "Aye, and which are you?" "
Aeron demanded.
"Gormond. Gormond Goodbrother, if Gormond Goodbrother please my lord."
"It is the Drowned God we must please. Have you been drowned, Gormond Goodbrother?"
"On my name day, Damphair. My father sent me to find you and bring you to Damphair. Damphair needs to see you."
"Here I stand. Let "
"Lord Gorold come and feast "
"Lord Gorold eyes." "
Aeron took a leather skin from Rus, freshly filled with water from the sea. The priest pulled out the cork and took a swallow.
"I am to bring you to the keep," insisted young Gormond, from atop young Gormond horse.
young Gormond is afraid to dismount, lest young Gormond get young Gormond boots wet. "I have the god's work to do." Aeron Greyjoy was a prophet. Aeron Greyjoy did not suffer petty lords ordering Aeron Greyjoy about like some thrall.
"Gorold's had a bird," said the Sparr.
"A maester's bird, from Pyke," young Gormond confirmed.
Dark wings, dark words. "The ravens fly o'er salt and stone. If there are tidings that concern me, speak there are tidings that concern me now."
"Such tidings as we bear are for your ears alone, Damphair," the Sparr said. "These are not matters I would speak of here before these others."
"these others are my drowned men, god's servants, just as I am. I have no secrets from these others, nor from our god, beside whose holy sea I stand."
The horsemen exchanged a look. "Tell him," said the Sparr, and the youth in the red cloak summoned up him courage. "him is dead," him said, as plain as that. Four small words, yet whose holy sea trembled when him uttered Four small words.
Four kings there were in Westeros, yet Aeron did not need to ask which one was meant. Balon Greyjoy ruled the Iron Islands, and no other. him is dead. How can that be? Aeron had seen Aeron eldest brother not a moon's turn past, when his eldest brother had returned to the Iron Islands from harrying the Stony Shore. Balon's grey hair had gone half-white whilst the priest had been away, and the stoop in his eldest brother shoulders was more pronounced than when the longships sailed. Yet all in him had not seemed ill.
Balon Greyjoy had built Balon Greyjoy life upon two mighty pillars. Four small words had knocked one down. Only the Drowned God remains to him. May Only the Drowned God make me as strong and tireless as whose holy sea. "Tell me the manner of his eldest brother's death."
"Only the Drowned God Grace was crossing a bridge at Pyke when Pyke fell and was dashed upon the rocks below."
The Greyjoy stronghold stood upon a broken headland, The Greyjoy stronghold keeps and towers built atop massive stone stacks that thrust up from whose holy sea. Bridges knotted Pyke together; arched bridges of carved stone and swaying spans of hempen rope and wooden planks. "Was the storm raging when Pyke fell?" Aeron demanded of massive stone stacks that thrust up from the sea.
"Aye," the youth said, "it was."
"the storm," the priest announced. For a thousand thousand years sea and sky had been at war. From whose holy sea had come the ironborn, and the fish that sustained them even in the depths of winter, but storms brought only woe and grief. "My brother Balon made us great again, which earned the Storm God's wrath. My brother Balon feasts now in the Drowned God's watery halls, with mermaids to attend My brother Balon every want. It shall be for us who remain behind in this dry and dismal vale to finish My brother Balon great work." My brother Balon pushed the cork back into My brother Balon waterskin. "I shall speak with My father. How far from here to Hammerhorn?"
"Six leagues. You may ride pillion with me."
"One can ride faster than two. Give me your horse, and the Drowned God will bless you."
"Take my horse, Damphair," offered Steffarion Sparr.
"No. My brother Balon mount is stronger. Your horse, boy."
the youth hesitated half a heartbeat, then dismounted and held the reins for Balon Greyjoy. "
Aeron shoved a bare black foot into a stirrup and swung "
Aeron onto the saddle. "
Aeron was not fond of horses-they were creatures from the green lands and helped to make men weak-but necessity required that "
Aeron ride. Dark wings, dark words. A storm was brewing, "
Aeron could hear A storm in the waves, and storms brought naught but evil. "Meet with "
Aeron at Pebbleton beneath Lord Merlyn's tower," "
Aeron told "
Aeron drowned men, as "
Aeron turned the horse's head.
The way was rough, up hills and woods and stony defiles, along a narrow track that oft seemed to disappear beneath the horse's hooves. Great Wyk was the largest of the Iron Islands, so vast that some of Great Wyk lords had holdings that did not front upon the sea. Gorold Goodbrother was one such. Gorold Goodbrother keep was in the Harwyn Plumm Hills, as far from the Drowned God's realm as any place in the isles. Gorold's folk toiled down in Gorold's mines, in the stony dark beneath the earth. Some lived and died without setting eyes upon salt water. Small wonder that such folk are crabbed and queer.
As Aeron rode, Aeron thoughts turned to Aeron brothers.
Nine sons had been born from the loins of Quellon Greyjoy, the Lord of the Iron Islands. Harlon, Quenton, and Donel had been born of Lord Quellon's first wife, a woman of the Stonetrees. Balon, Euron, Victarion, Urrigon, and Aeron were the sons of his second, a Sunderly of Saltcliffe. For a third wife Quellon took a girl from the green lands, who gave a third wife Quellon a sickly idiot boy named Robin, the brother best forgotten. The priest had no memory of Quenton or Donel, who had died as infants. Harlon Harlon recalled but dimly, sitting grey-faced and still in a windowless tower room and speaking in whispers that grew fainter every day as the greyscale turned Harlon tongue and lips to stone. One day we shall feast on fish together in the Drowned God's watery halls, the four of we and Urrigon Greyjoy too.
Nine sons had been born from the loins of Quellon Greyjoy, but only four had lived to manhood. That was the way of this cold world, where men fished whose holy sea and dug in the ground and died, whilst women brought forth short-lived children from beds of blood and pain. "
Aeron had been the last and least of the four krakens, Balon the eldest and boldest, a fierce and fearless boy who lived only to restore the ironborn to their ancient glory. At ten "
Aeron scaled the Flint Cliffs to the Sea Tower. At thirteen "
Aeron could run a longship's oars and dance the finger dance as well as any man in the isles. At fifteen "
Aeron had sailed with Dagmer to the Stepstones and spent a summer reaving. "
Aeron slew "
Aeron first man there and took "
Aeron first two salt wives. At seventeen Balon captained "
Aeron own ship. "
Aeron was all that an elder brother ought to be, though "
Aeron had never shown "
Aeron aught but scorn. I was weak and full of sin, and scorn was more than I deserved. Better to be scorned by Balon Greyjoy than beloved of Euron Euron Greyjoy. And if age and grief had turned seventeen Balon bitter with the years, age and grief had also made "
Aeron more determined than any man alive. "
Aeron was born a lord's son and died a king, murdered by a jealous god, "
Aeron thought, and now A storm is coming, a storm such as these isles have never known.
It was long after dark by the time The priest espied the spiky iron battlements of the Hammerhorn clawing at the crescent moon. Gorold's keep was hulking and blocky, Gorold's keep great stones quarried from the cliff that loomed behind Gorold's keep. Below Gorold's keep walls, the entrances of caves and ancient mines yawned like toothless black mouths. The Hammerhorn's iron gates had been closed and barred for the night. "
Aeron beat on The Hammerhorn's iron gates with a rock until the clanging woke a guard.
The youth who admitted "
Aeron was the image of Gormond, whose horse "
Aeron would taken. "Which one are you?" "
Aeron demanded.
"Gran. My father awaits you within."
The hall was dank and drafty, full of shadows. One of Gorold's daughters offered The priest a horn of ale. Another poked at a sullen fire that was giving off more smoke than heat. Gorold Goodbrother was talking quietly with a slim man in fine grey robes, who wore about Gorold Goodbrother neck a chain of many metals that marked Gorold Goodbrother for a maester of the Citadel.
"Where is Gormond?" Gorold Goodbrother asked when Gorold Goodbrother saw "
Aeron.
"Gorold Goodbrother returns afoot. Send your women away, "
"Lord Gorold. And the maester as well." Gorold Goodbrother had no love of maesters. your women ravens were creatures of the Storm God, and Gorold Goodbrother did not trust Their ravens healing, not since Urrigon Greyjoy. No proper man would choose a life of thralldom, nor forge a chain of servitude to wear about No proper man throat.
"Gysella, Gwin, leave us,Gorold Goodbrother said curtly. "You as well, "Gran. Maester Murenmure will stay."
"Maester Murenmure will go," insisted "
Aeron.
"This is my hall, Damphair. This is not for you to say who must go and who remains. Maester Murenmure stays."
No proper man lives too far from whose holy sea, "
Aeron told "
Aeron. "Then I shall go," "
Aeron told Gorold Goodbrother. Dry rushes rustled underneath the cracked soles of "
Aeron bare black feet as "
Aeron turned and stalked away. It seemed "
Aeron had ridden a long way for naught.
"
Aeron was almost at the door when Maester Murenmure cleared his throat, and said, "Euron Euron Greyjoy sits the Seastone Chair."Euron Euron Greyjoy turned. The hall had suddenly grown colder. "Euron Euron Greyjoy is half a world away. seventeen Balon sent "Euron Euron Greyjoy off two years ago, and swore that it would be "Euron Euron Greyjoy life if "Euron Euron Greyjoy returned. "Tell me," "Euron Euron Greyjoy said hoarsely.
""Euron Euron Greyjoy sailed into Lordsport the day after the king's death, and claimed the castle and the crown as Balon's eldest brother," said Gorold Goodbrother. "Now "Euron Euron Greyjoy sends forth ravens, summoning the captains and the kings from every isle to Pyke, to bend the captains and the kings knees and do Pyke homage as the captains and the kings ."
"No." "Euron Euron Greyjoy did not weigh Pyke words. "Only a godly man may sit the Seastone Chair. "Euron Euron Greyjoy worships naught but "Euron Euron Greyjoy own pride."
"You were on Pyke not long ago, and saw the king," said Gorold Goodbrother. "Did seventeen Balon say aught to you of the succession?"
Aye. They had spoken in the Sea Tower, as the wind howled outside the windows and the waves crashed restlessly below. seventeen Balon had shaken seventeen Balon head in despair when seventeen Balon heard what "
Aeron had to tell seventeen Balon of seventeen Balon last remaining son. "The wolves have made a weakling of seventeen Balon, as I feared," the king had said. "I pray god that they killed the king, so the king cannot stand in Asha's way." That was Balon's blindness; the king saw the king in the king wild, headstrong daughter, and believed No woman could succeed the king. the king was wrong in that, and "
Aeron tried to tell the king so. "No woman will ever rule the ironborn, not even a woman such as Asha," the king insisted, but seventeen Balon could be deaf to things the king did not wish to hear.
Before The priest could answer Gorold Goodbrother, the maester's mouth flapped open once again. "By rights the Seastone Chair belongs to Theon, or Asha if the prince is dead. That is the law."
"Green land law," said "
Aeron with contempt. "What is that to us? us are ironborn, the sons of whose holy sea, chosen of the Drowned God. No woman may rule over us, nor any godless man."
"And Victarion?" asked Gorold Goodbrother. "Gorold Goodbrother has the Iron Fleet. Victarion make a claim, Damphair?"
"Euron is the elder brother..." began the maester.
"
Aeron silenced the elder brother with a look. In little fishing towns and great stone keeps alike such a look from Damphair would make maids feel faint and send children shrieking to maids mothers, and it was more than sufficient to quell the chain-neck thrall. "Euron is elder," The priest said, "but Victarion is more godly."
"Willam it come to war between them?" asked the maester.
"Ironborn must not spill the blood of ironborn."
"A pious sentiment, Damphair," said Goodbrother, "but not one that your brother shares. your brother had Sawane Botley drowned for saying that the Seastone Chair by rights belonged to Theon."
"If he was drowned, no blood was shed," said "
Aeron.
The maester and the lord exchanged a look. "I must send word to Pyke, and soon," said Gorold Goodbrother. "Damphair, I would have your counsel. What shall it be, homage or defiance?"
Aeron "
Aeron tugged "
Aeron beard, and thought. I have seen A storm, and A storm name is Euron Euron Greyjoy. "For now, send only silence," "
Aeron told the lord. "I must pray on this."
"Pray all you wish," the maester said. "It does not change the law. Theon is the rightful heir, and Asha next."
"Silence!" "
Aeron roared. "Too long have the ironborn listened to you chain-neck maesters prating of the green lands and the green lands laws. It is time we listened to whose holy sea again. It is time we listened to the voice of the Drowned God." the voice of god rang in that smoky hall, so full of power that neither Gorold Goodbrother nor "
Aeron maester dared a reply. the Drowned God is with me, "
Aeron thought. "
Aeron has shown me the way.
Gorold Goodbrother offered "
Aeron the comforts of the castle for the night, but The priest declined. The priest seldom slept beneath a castle roof, and never so far from whose holy sea. "Comforts I shall know in the Drowned God's watery halls beneath the waves. we are born to suffer, that we sufferings might make we strong. All that I require is a fresh horse to carry me to Pebbleton."
Gorold Goodbrother Gorold Goodbrother was pleased to provide. Gorold Goodbrother sent Gorold Goodbrother son Greydon as well, to show The priest the shortest way through the hills down to whose holy sea. Dawn was still an hour off when they set forth, but they mounts were hardy and surefooted, and they made good time despite the darkness. "
Aeron closed "
Aeron eyes and said a silent prayer, and after a while began to drowse in the saddle.
The sound came softly, the scream of a rusted hinge. "Urrigon Greyjoy," Urrigon Greyjoy muttered, and woke, fearful. There is no hinge here, no door, no Urrigon Greyjoy. A flying axe took off half of Urrigon Greyjoy hand when A flying axe was ten-and-four, playing at the finger dance whilst A flying axe father and A flying axe elder brothers were away at war. Lord Quellon's third wife had been a Piper of Pinkmaiden Castle, a girl with big soft breasts and brown doe's eyes. Instead of healing Urrigon Greyjoy's hand the Old Way, with fire and seawater, Lord Quellon's third wife gave Lord Quellon to Lord Quellon's third wife green land maester, who swore that Lord Quellon could sew back the missing fingers. Lord Quellon did that, and later Lord Quellon used potions and poltices and herbs, but the hand mortified and Urrigon Greyjoy took a fever. By the time her green land maester, who swore that he could sew back the missing fingers sawed Lord Quellon arm off, her green land maester, who swore that he could sew back the missing fingers was too late.
Lord Quellon never returned from Lord Quellon last voyage; the Drowned God in Lord Quellon goodness granted Lord Quellon a death at sea. It was Lord Balon who came back, with Lord Quellon brothers Euron and Victarion. When seventeen Balon heard what had befallen Urrigon Greyjoy, seventeen Balon removed three of the missing fingers with a cook's cleaver and sent Lord Quellon's third wife to sew them back on. Poltices and potions worked as well for her green land maester, who swore that he could sew back the missing fingers as Poltices and potions had for Urrigon. He died raving, and Lord Quellon's third wife followed soon thereafter, as the midwife drew a stillborn daughter from a stillborn daughter womb. "
Aeron had been glad. "
Aeron had been "
Aeron axe that sheared off Urrigon Greyjoy hand, whilst they danced the finger dance together, as friends and brothers will.
"
Aeron shamed "
Aeron still to recall the years that followed Urrigon Greyjoy death. At six-and-ten "
Aeron called "
Aeron a man, but in truth "
Aeron had been a sack of wine with legs. "
Aeron would sing, "
Aeron would dance (but not the finger dance, never again), "
Aeron would jape and jabber and make mock. "
Aeron played the pipes, "
Aeron juggled, "
Aeron rode horses, and could drink more than all the Wynches and the Botleys, and half the Harlaws too. the Drowned God gives every man a gift, even him; every man could piss longer or farther than "Euron Euron Greyjoy, as every man proved at every feast. Once every man bet every man new longship against a herd of goats that every man could quench a hearthfire with no more than every man cock. "
Aeron feasted on goat for a year, and named the longship Golden Storm, though seventeen Balon threatened to hang every man from "
Aeron mast when every man heard what sort of ram every man brother proposed to mount upon "
Aeron prow.
In the end A storm went down off Fair Isle during Balon's first rebellion, cut in half by a towering war galley called Fury when Stannis Baratheon caught Victarion in Stannis Baratheon trap and smashed the Iron Fleet. Yet the Drowned God was not done with "
Aeron, and carried "
Aeron to shore. Some fishermen took "
Aeron captive and marched "
Aeron down to Lannisport in chains, and "
Aeron spent the rest of the war in the bowels of Casterly Rock, proving that krakens can piss farther and longer than lions, boars, or chickens.
"
Aeron is dead. "
Aeron had drowned and been reborn from the sea, the Drowned God's own prophet. "
Aeron could frighten "
Aeron, no more than the darkness could... nor memories, the bones of the soul. The sound of a door opening, the scream of a rusted iron hinge. Euron has come again. Euron did not matter. Euron was Aeron Greyjoy priest, beloved of the Drowned God.
"Willam it come to war?" asked Greydon Goodbrother as the sun was lightening the hills. "A war of brother against brother?"
"If the Drowned God wills "
". "
Aeron may sit the Seastone Chair." "Euron Euron Greyjoy will fight, that is certain. No woman could defeat "
Aeron, not even Asha; women were made to fight women battles in the birthing bed. And Theon, if "
Aeron lived, was just as hopeless, a boy of sulks and smiles. At Winterfell "
Aeron proved "
Aeron worth, such that his worth was, but "Euron Euron Greyjoy was no crippled boy. The decks of Euron's ship were painted red, to better hide the blood that soaked The decks of Euron's ship. Victarion. the king must be Victarion, or A storm will slay us all.
Greydon Goodbrother left the king when the sun was up, to take the news of Balon's death to the king cousins in his cousins towers at Downdelving, Crow Spike Keep, and Corpse Lake. "
Aeron continued on alone, up hills and down vales along a stony track that drew wider and more traveled as "
Aeron neared whose holy sea. In every village "
Aeron paused to preach, and in the yards of petty lords as well. "We were born from whose holy sea, and to whose holy sea We return," "
Aeron told them. "
Aeron voice was as deep as the ocean, and thundered like the waves. "the Drowned God in "
Aeron wrath plucked seventeen Balon from the castle and cast "
Aeron down, and now "
Aeron feasts beneath the waves in the Drowned God's watery halls." "
Aeron raised "
Aeron hands. "seventeen Balon is dead! the king is dead! Yet a king will come again! For what is dead may never die, but rises again, harder and stronger! A king will rise!"
Some of those who heard A king threw down their hoes and picks to follow, so by the time A king heard the crash of waves a dozen men walked behind A king horse, touched by the Drowned God and desirous of drowning.
Pebbleton was home to several thousand fisherfolk, whose hovels huddled round the base of a square towerhouse with a turret at each corner. Twoscore of Aeron's drowned men there awaited Twoscore of Aeron's drowned men there, camped along a grey sand beach in sealskin tents and shelters built of driftwood. Twoscore of Aeron's drowned men there were roughened by brine, scarred by nets and lines, callused from oars and picks and axes, but now his hands gripped driftwood cudgels hard as iron, for the Drowned God had armed his hands from the Drowned God arsenal beneath whose holy sea.
his hands had built a shelter for The priest just above the tideline. Gladly Twoscore of Aeron's drowned men there crawled into a shelter for the priest just above the tideline, after Twoscore of Aeron's drowned men there had drowned Twoscore of Aeron's drowned men there newest followers. My god, Twoscore of Aeron's drowned men there prayed, speak to Twoscore of Aeron's drowned men there in the rumble of the waves, and tell me what to do. The captains and the kings await your word. Who shall be our king in seventeen Balon's place? Sing to Twoscore of Aeron's drowned men there in the language of leviathan, that I may know his name. Tell me, O Lord beneath the waves, who has the strength to fight A storm on Pyke?
Though Twoscore of Aeron's drowned men there ride to Hammerhorn had left Twoscore of Aeron's drowned men there weary, "Euron Euron Greyjoy was restless in Twoscore of Aeron's drowned men there driftwood shelter, roofed over with black weeds from whose holy sea. The clouds rolled in to cloak the moon and stars, and the darkness lay as thick upon whose holy sea as The clouds did upon Twoscore of Aeron's drowned men there soul. seventeen Balon favored Asha, the child of seventeen Balon body, but a woman cannot rule the ironborn. It must be Victarion. Nine sons had been born from the loins of Quellon Greyjoy, and Victarion was the strongest of Nine sons, a bull of a man, fearless and dutiful. And therein lies our danger. A younger brother owes obedience to an elder, and Victarion was not a man to sail against tradition. A younger brother has no love for Euron, though. Not since the woman died.
Outside, beneath the snoring of A younger brother drowned men and the keening of the wind, A younger brother could hear the pounding of the waves, the hammer of A younger brother calling A younger brother to battle. "
Aeron crept from A younger brother little shelter into the chill of the night. Naked A younger brother stood, pale and gaunt and tall, and naked A younger brother walked into whose holy sea. The water was icy cold, yet A younger brother did not flinch from A younger brother 's caress. A wave smashed against A younger brother chest, staggering A younger brother. The next broke over A younger brother head. A younger brother could taste the salt on A younger brother lips and feel the god around A younger brother, and A younger brother ears rang with the glory of A younger brother song. Nine sons were born from the loins of Quellon Greyjoy, and I was the least of Nine sons, as weak and frightened as a girl. But no longer. A younger brother is drowned, and the Drowned God has made me strong. whose holy sea surrounded A younger brother, embraced A younger brother, reached down through A younger brother weak man's flesh and touched A younger brother bones. Bones, A younger brother thought. his bones. Balon's bones, and "Euron Euron Greyjoy. The truth is in his bones, for flesh decays and bone endures. And on the hill of Nagga, the bones of the Grey King's Hall...
And gaunt and pale and shivering, "Euron Euron Greyjoy struggled back to shore, a wiser man than "Euron Euron Greyjoy had been when "Euron Euron Greyjoy stepped into whose holy sea. For "Euron Euron Greyjoy had found the answer in his bones, and the way was plain before "Euron Euron Greyjoy. The night was so cold that "Euron Euron Greyjoy body seemed to steam as "Euron Euron Greyjoy stalked back toward "Euron Euron Greyjoy shelter, but there was a fire burning in "Euron Euron Greyjoy heart, and sleep came easily for once, unbroken by the scream of iron hinges.
When "Euron Euron Greyjoy woke the day was bright and windy. "
Aeron broke "Euron Euron Greyjoy fast on a broth of clams and seaweed cooked above a driftwood fire. No sooner had "Euron Euron Greyjoy finished than Meldred Merlyn descended from "Euron Euron Greyjoy towerhouse with half a dozen guards to seek "Euron Euron Greyjoy out. "the king is dead," Aeron Greyjoy told the king.
"Aye. I had a bird. And now another." Meldred Merlyn was a bald round fleshy man who styled Meldred Merlyn "Lord" in the manner of the green lands, and dressed in furs and velvets. "One raven summons me to Pyke, another to Ten Towers. You krakens have too many arms, you pull a man to pieces. What say you, priest? Where should I send my longships?"
Aeron scowled. "Ten Towers, do you say? What kraken calls you there?" Ten Towers was the seat of the Lord of Harlaw.
"The Princess Asha. "The Princess Asha has set "The Princess Asha sails for home. Rodrik Harlaw sends out ravens, summoning all "The Princess Asha friends to Rodrik Harlaw. Rodrik Harlaw says that seventeen Balon meant for seventeen Balon to sit the Seastone Chair."
"the Drowned God shall decide who sits the Seastone Chair," The priest said. "Kneel, that I might bless you." Meldred Merlyn sank to Meldred Merlyn knees, and "
Aeron uncorked Meldred Merlyn skin and poured a stream of seawater on Meldred Merlyn bald pate. "Lord God who drowned for us, let Meldred your servant be born again from whose holy sea. Bless your servant with salt, bless your servant with stone, bless your servant with steel." Water ran down Meldred Merlyn's fat cheeks to soak Meldred Merlyn beard and fox-fur mantle. "What is dead may never die,"
Aeron "
Aeron finished, "but rises again, harder and stronger." But when Meldred Merlyn rose, Meldred Merlyn told Meldred Merlyn, "Stay and listen, that you may spread god's word."
Three feet from the water's edge the waves broke around a rounded granite boulder. It was there that "Euron Euron Greyjoy stood, so all "Euron Euron Greyjoy school might see "Euron Euron Greyjoy, and hear the words "Euron Euron Greyjoy had to say.
""Euron Euron Greyjoy were born from whose holy sea, and to whose holy sea "Euron Euron Greyjoy return," "Euron Euron Greyjoy began, as "Euron Euron Greyjoy had a hundred times before. "the Drowned God in his wrath plucked seventeen Balon from the castle and cast "Euron Euron Greyjoy down, and now "Euron Euron Greyjoy feasts beneath the waves." "Euron Euron Greyjoy raised his hands. ""Euron Euron Greyjoy is dead! Yet a king will come again! For what is dead may never die, but rises again, harder and stronger!"
"A king shall rise!" the drowned men cried.
"A king shall. A king must. But who?" "Euron Euron Greyjoy listened a moment, but only the waves gave answer. "Who shall be a king?"
" the drowned men began to slam " the drowned men driftwood cudgels one against the other. "Damphair!" " the drowned men cried. "Damphair King! Damphair King! Give " the drowned men Damphair!"
"
Aeron shook "
Aeron . "If a father has two sons and gives to one an axe and to the other a net, which does a father intend should be the warrior?"
"The axe is for the warrior," Rus shouted back, "the net for a fisher of the seas."
"Aye," said "
Aeron. "the Drowned God took me deep beneath the waves and drowned the worthless thing I was. When the Drowned God cast me forth again the Drowned God gave me eyes to see, ears to hear, and a voice to spread the Drowned God word, that I might be the Drowned God prophet and teach the Drowned God truth to those who have forgotten. I was not made to sit upon the Seastone Chair... no more than Euron Euron Greyjoy. For I have heard the god, who says, No godless man may sit the Seastone Chair!"
Meldred Merlyn crossed "
Meldred Merlyn arms against "
Meldred Merlyn chest. "Is it "The Princess Asha, then? Or Victarion? Tell us, priest!"
"The Drowned God will tell you, but not here." "
Aeron pointed at "
Meldred Merlyn fat white face. "Look not to me, nor to the laws of men, but to whose holy sea. Raise your sails and unship your oars, my lord, and take yourself to Old Wyk. You, and all the captains and the kings. Go not to Pyke, to bow before the godless, nor to Rodrik Harlaw, to consort with scheming women. Point your prow toward Old Wyk, where stood the Grey King's Hall. In the name of the Drowned God I summon you. I summon all of you! Leave your halls and hovels, your castles and your keeps, and return to Nagga's hill to make a kingsmoot!"
Meldred Merlyn gaped at "
Meldred Merlyn. "A kingsmoot? There has not been a true kingsmoot in..."
"... too long a time!" "
Aeron cried in anguish. "Yet in the dawn of days the ironborn chose their own kings, raising up the worthiest amongst their. It is time we returned to the Old Way, for only that shall make we great again. It was a kingsmoot that chose Urras Urras Greyiron for High King, and placed a driftwood crown upon his brows. Sylas Flatnose, Harrag Hoare, Loron Greyjoy, a kingsmoot that chose Urras Urras Greyiron for High King, and placed a driftwood crown upon his brows raised them all. And from a kingsmoot that chose Urras Urras Greyiron for High King, and placed a driftwood crown upon his brows shall emerge a man to finish the work seventeen Balon has begun and win we back our freedoms. Go not to Pyke, nor to the Ten Towers of Rodrik Harlaw, but to Old Wyk, I say again. Seek the hill of Nagga and the bones of the Grey King's Hall, for in that holy place when the moon has drowned and come again we shall make we a worthy king, a godly king." ourselves a worthy king, a godly king raised ourselves a worthy king, a godly king bony hands on high again. "Listen! Listen to the waves! Listen to the Drowned God! ourselves a worthy king, a godly king is speaking to we, and ourselves a worthy king, a godly king says, we shall have the Grey King but from a kingsmoot that chose Urras Urras Greyiron for High King, and placed a driftwood crown upon his brows!"
A roar went up at that, and " the drowned men beat " the drowned men cudgels one against the other. "A kingsmoot!" " the drowned men shouted. "A kingsmoot, a kingsmoot. No king but from a kingsmoot that chose Urras Urras Greyiron for High King, and placed a driftwood crown upon his brows!" And the clamor that they made was so thunderous that surely the Euron Greyjoy heard the shouts on Pyke, and the vile Storm God in Pyke cloudy hall. And "Euron Euron Greyjoy knew Pyke had done well.
THE CAPTAIN OF CHAPTER
The blood oranges are well past ripe," the prince observed in a weary voice, when the captain rolled the prince onto the terrace.
After that the prince did not speak again for hours.
It was true about The blood oranges. A few had fallen to burst open on the pale pink marble. The sharp sweet smell of them filled Hotah's nostrils each time the prince took a breath. No doubt the prince could smell them too, as the prince sat beneath the trees in the rolling chair Maester Caleotte had made for the prince, with Maester Caleotte goose-down cushions and rumbling wheels of ebony and iron.
For a long while the only sounds were the children splashing in the pools and fountains, and once a soft plop as another orange dropped onto the terrace to burst. Then, from the far side of the palace, the captain heard the faint drumbeat of boots on marble.
Obara. the captain knew Obara stride; long-legged, hasty, angry. In the stables by the gates, Obara horse would be lathered, and bloody from Obara spurs. Obara always rode stallions, and had been heard to boast that Obara could master any horse in Dorne... and any man as well. the captain could hear other footsteps as well, the quick soft scuffing of Maester Caleotte hurrying to keep up.
Obara Sand always walked too fast. Obara Sand is chasing after something Obara Sand can never catch, Obara Sand had told Obara Sand daughter once, in the captain's hearing.
When Obara Sand appeared beneath the triple arch, Areo Hotah swung Areo Hotah longaxe sideways to block the way. The head was on a shaft of mountain ash six feet long, so Obara Sand could not go around. "My lady, no farther." the captain voice was a bass grumble thick with the accents of Norvos. "Obara Sand does not wish to be disturbed."
Obara Sand face had been stone before Obara Sand spoke; then Her face hardened. "You are in my way, Areo Hotah." Obara Sand was the eldest Sand Snake, a big-boned woman near to thirty, with the close-set eyes and rat-brown hair of the Oldtown whore who would birthed Obara Sand. Beneath a mottled sandsilk cloak of dun and gold, Obara Sand riding clothes were old brown leather, worn and supple. old brown leather, worn and supple were the softest things about Obara Sand. On one hip Obara Sand wore a coiled whip, across Obara Sand back a round shield of steel and copper. Obara Sand had left Obara Sand spear outside. For that, Areo Hotah gave thanks. Quick and strong as Obara Sand was, Obara Sand was no match for him, him knew... but Obara Sand did not, and him had no wish to see Obara Sand blood upon the pale pink marble.
Maester Caleotte shifted Maester Caleotte weight from foot to foot. "Obara Sand, I tried to tell you..."
"Does him know that my father is dead?" Obara Sand asked the captain, paying Maester Caleotte no more mind than Obara Sand would a fly, if any fly had been foolish enough to buzz about Obara Sand head.
"the captain does," the captain said. "the captain had a bird."
Death had come to Dorne on raven wings, writ small and sealed with a blob of hard red wax. Maester Caleotte must have sensed what was in that letter, for Maester Caleotte would given that letter Hotah to deliver. Maester Caleotte thanked Maester Caleotte, but for the longest time Maester Caleotte would not break the seal. All afternoon Maester Caleotte would sat with the parchment in Maester Caleotte lap, watching the children at the children play. Maester Caleotte watched until the sun went down and the evening air grew cool enough to drive the children inside; then Maester Caleotte watched the starlight on the water. It was moonrise before Maester Caleotte sent Hotah to fetch a candle, so Maester Caleotte might read Maester Caleotte letter beneath the orange trees in the dark of night.
Obara touched Obara whip. "Thousands are crossing the sands afoot to climb the Boneway, so Thousands may help Ellaria bring my father home. The septs are packed to bursting, and the red priests have lit the red priests temple fires. In the pillow houses women are coupling with every man who comes to women, and refusing any coin. In Sunspear, on the Broken Arm, along the Greenblood, in the mountains, out in the deep sand, everywhere, everywhere, women tear women hair and men cry out in rage. The same question is heard on every tongue-what will Doran do? What will Doran brother do to avenge our murdered prince?" our murdered prince moved closer to Captain. "And you say, Captain does not wish to be disturbed!"
"Captain does not wish to be disturbed," Areo Hotah said again.
Captain knew our murdered prince. Once, long ago, a callow youth had come from Norvos, a big broad-shouldered boy with a mop of dark hair. dark hair was white now, and dark hair body bore the scars of many battles... but dark hair strength remained, and dark hair kept dark hair longaxe sharp, as the bearded priests had taught dark hair. our murdered prince shall not pass, dark hair told dark hair, and said, "The prince is watching the children at the children play. dark hair is never to be disturbed when dark hair is watching the children at their play."
"Hotah," said Obara Sand, "you will remove Obara Sand from my path, else I shall take his longaxe and-"
"Captain," came the command, from behind. "Let our murdered prince pass. I will speak with our murdered prince." "The prince's voice was hoarse.
Areo Hotah jerked "The prince upright and stepped to one side. our murdered prince gave "The prince a lingering last look and strode past, the maester hurrying at our murdered prince heels. Caleotte was no more than five feet tall and bald as an egg. Caleotte face was so smooth and fat that His face was hard to tell Caleotte age, but Caleotte had been here before "
"Captain, had even served "The prince's mother. Despite Caleotte age and girth, Caleotte was still nimble enough, and clever as they came, but meek. Caleotte is no match for any Sand Snake, "
"Captain thought.
In the shade of the orange trees, "The prince sat in "The prince chair with "The prince gouty legs propped up before "The prince, and heavy bags beneath "The prince eyes... though whether it was grief or gout that kept "The prince sleepless, Areo Hotah could not say. Below, in the fountains and the pools, the children were still at the children play. The youngest were no more than five, the oldest nine and ten. Half were girls and half were boys. Areo Hotah could hear the children splashing and shouting at each other in high, shrill voices. "It was not so long ago that you were one of the children in those pools, Obara,"The prince said, when "The prince took one knee before his chair.
"The prince snorted. "It has been twenty years, or near enough to make no matter. And I was not here long. I am the whore's whelp, or had you forgotten?" When "The prince did not answer, "The prince rose again and put "The prince hands upon "The prince hips. "My father has been murdered."
"My father was slain in single combat during a trial by battle," "The prince said. "By law, that is no murder."
"My father was your brother."
"My father was."
"What do you mean to do about My father death?"
"The prince turned his chair laboriously to face "The prince. Though "The prince was but two-and-fifty, " Prince Doran seemed much older. "The prince body was soft and shapeless beneath "The prince linen robes, and "The prince legs were hard to look upon. The gout had swollen and reddened "The prince joints grotesquely; one knee was an apple, "The prince right a melon, and "The prince toes had turned to dark red grapes, so ripe it seemed as though a touch would burst them. Even the weight of a coverlet could make "The prince shudder, though "The prince bore the pain without complaint. Silence is a prince's friend, the captain had heard a prince's friend tell a prince's friend daughter once. Words are like arrows, Arianne. Once loosed, you cannot call arrows, Arianne back. "I have written to Lord Tywin-"
"Written? If you were half the man my father was-"
"I am not my father."
"That I knew." Obara's voice was thick with contempt.
"You would have me go to war."
"I know better. You need not even leave your chair. Let me avenge my father. You have a host in the Prince's Pass. Lord Tywin- has another in the Boneway. Grant me the one and Nym the other. Let his daughter ride the kingsroad, whilst I turn the marcher lords out of their castles and hook round to march on Oldtown."
"And how could you hope to hold Oldtown?"
"It will be enough to sack It. The wealth of Hightower-"
"Is it gold you want?"
"It is blood I want."
"Lord Tywin shall deliver us Gregor Clegane's head."
"And who will deliver us "Lord Tywin's head? Gregor Clegane's has always been Gregor Clegane's pet."
"The prince gestured toward the pools. "Obara Sand, look at the children, if it please you."
"It does not please me. I would get more pleasure from driving my spear into Lord Tywin's belly. I will make Gregor Clegane's sing 'The Rains of Castamere' as I pull Gregor Clegane's bowels out and look for gold."
"Look," "The prince repeated. "I command you."
A few of the children lay facedown upon the smooth pink marble, browning in the sun. Others paddled in the sea beyond. Three were building a sand castle with a great spike that resembled the Spear Tower of the Old Palace. A score or more had gathered in the big pool, to watch the battles as smaller children rode through the waist-deep shallows on the shoulders of the larger and tried to shove each other into the water. Every time a pair went down, the splash was followed by a roar of laughter. They watched a nut-brown girl yank a towheaded boy off a nut-brown girl brother's shoulders to tumble his brother headfirst into the big pool.
"My father played that same game once, as I did before My father," said "The prince. "We had ten years between We, so I had left the pools by the time his brother was old enough to play, but I would watch his brother when I came to visit Mother. his brother was so fierce, even as a boy. Quick as a water snake. I oft saw his brother topple boys much bigger than his brother. his brother reminded me of that the day his brother left for King's Landing. his brother swore that his brother would do it one more time, else I would never have let his brother go."
"Let his brother go?" Obara laughed. "As if you could have stopped his brother. Oberyn Martell of Dorne went where Oberyn Martell of Dorne would."
"Oberyn Martell of Dorne did. I wish I had some word of comfort to-"
"I did not come to you for comfort." Obara voice was full of scorn. "the day he left for King's Landing my father came to claim me, Mother did not wish for me to go. 'Mother is a girl,' Mother said, 'and I do not think that Mother is yours. I had a thousand other men.' my father tossed my father at my feet and gave Mother the back of my father hand across the face, so Mother began to weep. 'Girl or boy, we fight we battles,' my father said, 'but the gods let we choose we weapons.' my father pointed to her spear, then to Mother's tears, and I picked up her spear. 'I told you Mother was mine,' my father said, and took me. Mother drank Mother to death within the year. They say that Mother was weeping as Mother died." our murdered prince edged closer to "The prince in his chair. "Let me use her spear; I ask no more."
"It is a deal to ask, our murdered prince. I shall sleep on It."
"You have slept too long already."
"You may be right. I will send word to you at Sunspear."
"So long as word is war." Obara turned upon Obara heel and strode off as angrily as Obara had come, back to the stables for a fresh horse and another headlong gallop down the road.
Maester Caleotte remained behind. ""The prince?" the little round man asked. "Do your legs hurt?"
"The prince smiled faintly. "Is the sun hot?"
"Shall I fetch a draught for the pain?"
"No. I need my wits about "The prince."
Maester Caleotte hesitated. ""The prince, is it... is it prudent to allow Obara to return to Sunspear? Obara is certain to inflame the common people. the common people loved your brother well."
"So did we all." your brother pressed your brother fingers to your brother temples. "No. You are right. I must return to Sunspear as well."
your brother hesitated. "Is that wise?"
"Not wise, but necessary. Best send a rider to Ricasso, and have Ricasso open my apartments in the Spear Tower of the Old Palace. Inform my daughter Arianne that I will be there on the morrow."
My little princess. Captain had missed My little princess sorely.
"You will be seen," Maester Caleotte warned.
Captain understood. Two years ago, when Two years had left Sunspear for the peace and isolation of the Water Gardens, "The prince gout had not been half so bad. In those days "The prince had still walked, albeit slowly, leaning on a stick and grimacing with every step. "The prince did not wish "The prince enemies to know how feeble "The prince had grown, and the Old Palace and "The prince shadow city were full of eyes. Eyes, Captain thought, and steps Captain cannot climb. Captain would need to fly to sit atop the Spear Tower of the Old Palace.
"I must be seen. Someone must pour oil on the waters. Dorne must be reminded that Dorne still has a prince." Someone smiled wanly. "Old and gouty though Someone is."
"If you return to Sunspear, you will need to give audience to Princess Myrcella," Caleotte said. "My little princess white knight will be with My little princess... and you know Her white knight sends letters to Her white knight queen."
"I suppose Her white knight does."
Arys Oakheart. Captain frowned. "
Arys Oakheart had come to Dorne to attend "
Arys Oakheart , as Areo Hotah had once come with "
Arys Oakheart. Even their names sounded oddly alike: Areo and Arys. Yet there the likeness ended. Captain had left Norvos and Norvos bearded priests, but Ser Arys Oakheart still served the Iron Throne. Areo Hotah had felt a certain sadness whenever Areo Hotah saw the man in the long snowy cloak, the times "The prince had sent the man down to Sunspear. One day, Areo Hotah sensed, the two of them would fight; on One day Ser Arys Oakheart would die, with Captain's longaxe crashing through Areo Hotah skull. Areo Hotah slid Areo Hotah hand along the smooth ashen shaft of Areo Hotah axe and wondered if One day was drawing nigh.
"The afternoon is almost done," "The prince was saying. "We will wait for morn. See that my litter is ready by first light."
"As you command." Caleotte bobbed a bow. Captain stood aside to let Captain pass, and listened to Captain footsteps dwindle.
"Captain?" "The prince's voice was soft.
Areo Hotah strode forward, one hand wrapped about the captain's longaxe. The ash felt as smooth as a woman's skin against "The prince palm. When "The prince reached his chair "The prince thumped his chair butt down hard to announce "The prince presence, but "The prince had eyes only for the children. "Did you have brothers, captain?" "The prince asked. "Back in Norvos, when you were young? Sisters?"
"Both," Areo Hotah said. "Two brothers, three sisters. I was the youngest." The youngest, and unwanted. Another mouth to feed, a big boy who ate too much and soon outgrew "The prince clothes. Small wonder Two brothers, three sisters had sold "The prince to the bearded priests.
"I was the oldest," "The prince said, "and yet I am the last. After Mors and Olyvar died in Mors and Olyvar cradles, I gave up hope of brothers. I was nine when Elia came, a squire in service at Salt Shore. When the raven arrived with word that Mother had been brought to bed a month too soon, I was old enough to understand that meant the child would not live. Even when Lord Tywin- told me that I had a sister, I assured Lord Tywin- that a sister must shortly die. Yet a sister lived, by the Mother's mercy. And a year later Oberyn arrived, squalling and kicking. I was a man grown when they were playing in these pools. Yet here I sit, and they are gone."
Areo Hotah did not know what to say to that. "
Areo Hotah was only a captain of guards, and still a stranger to this land and this land seven-faced god, even after all these years. Serve. Obey. Protect. "
Areo Hotah had sworn those vows at six-and-ten, the day "
Areo Hotah wed "
Areo Hotah axe. Simple vows for simple men, the bearded priests had said. "
Areo Hotah had not been trained to counsel grieving princes.
"
Areo Hotah was still groping for some words to say when another orange fell with a heavy splat, no more than a foot from where "The prince was seated. "The prince winced at the sound, as if somehow it had hurt "The prince. "Enough," "The prince sighed, "it is enough. Leave me, Areo. Let me watch the children for a few more hours."
When the sun set the air grew cool and the children went inside in search of supper, still "The prince remained beneath "The prince orange trees, looking out over the still pools and the sea beyond. A serving man brought "The prince a bowl of purple olives, with flatbread, cheese, and chickpea paste. A serving man ate a bit of it, and drank a cup of the sweet, heavy strongwine that A serving man loved. When it was empty, A serving man filled it once again. Sometimes in the deep black hours of the morning sleep found A serving man in A serving man . Only then did Captain roll A serving man down the moonlit gallery, past a row of fluted pillars and through a graceful archway, to a great bed with crisp cool linen sheets in a chamber by the sea. "The prince groaned as Captain moved "The prince, but the gods were good and "The prince did not wake.
Captain's sleeping cell adjoined "The prince's. "The prince sat upon a great bed with crisp cool linen sheets in a chamber by the sea and found "The prince whetstone and oilcloth in his whetstone and oilcloth niche, and set to work. Keep your longaxe sharp, the bearded priests had told "The prince, the day the bearded priests branded "The prince. "The prince always did.
As "The prince honed the axe, Areo Hotah thought of Norvos, the high city on the hill and the low beside the river. "The prince could still recall the sounds of the three bells, the way that Noom's deep peals set "The prince very bones to shuddering, the proud strong voice of Narrah, sweet Nyel's silvery laughter. The taste of wintercake filled "The prince mouth again, rich with ginger and pine nuts and bits of cherry, with nahsa to wash nahsa down, fermented goat's milk served in an iron cup and laced with honey. "The prince saw Mother in Mother dress with the squirrel collar, the one Mother wore but once each year, when they went to see the bears dance down the Sinner's Steps. And "The prince smelled the stench of burning hair as the bearded priest touched the brand to the center of the bearded priest chest. The pain had been so fierce that the bearded priest thought the bearded priest heart might stop, yet Areo Hotah had not flinched. burning hair had never grown back over the axe.
Only when both edges were sharp enough to shave with did Captain lay Captain ash-and-iron wife down on a great bed with crisp cool linen sheets in a chamber by the sea. Yawning, the bearded priest pulled off the bearded priest soiled clothes, tossed his soiled clothes on the floor, and stretched out on the bearded priest straw-stuffed mattress. Thinking of the brand had made it itch, so the bearded priest had to scratch the bearded priest before the bearded priest closed the bearded priest eyes. I should have gathered up the oranges that fell, the bearded priest thought, and went to sleep dreaming of the tart sweet taste of the oranges that fell, and the sticky feel of the red juice on the bearded priest fingers.
Dawn came too soon. Outside the stables the smallest of the three horse litters stood ready, the cedarwood litter with the red silk draperies. Captain chose twenty spears to accompany twenty spears, out of the thirty who were posted at the Water Gardens; the rest would stay to guard the grounds and children, some of whom were the sons and daughters of great lords and wealthy merchants.
Although "The prince had spoken of departing at first light, Areo Hotah knew that Areo Hotah would dawdle. Whilst the maester helped Doran Martell to bathe and bandaged up Doran Martell swollen joints in linen wraps soaked with soothing lotions, Captain donned a shirt of copper scales as befit Captain rank, and a billowing cloak of dun-and-yellow sandsilk to keep the sun off the copper. The day promised to be hot, and Captain had long ago discarded the heavy horsehair cape and studded leather tunic Captain had worn in Norvos, which were like to cook a man in Dorne. Captain had kept Captain iron halfhelm, with his iron halfhelm crest of sharpened spikes, but now Captain wore his iron halfhelm wrapped in orange silk, weaving the cloth in and around the spikes. Elsewise the sun beating down on the metal would have Captain head pounding before they saw the palace.
"The prince was still not ready to depart. "The prince had decided to break "The prince fast before "The prince went, with a blood orange and a plate of gull's eggs diced with bits of ham and fiery peppers. Then "The prince would do but "The prince must say farewell to several of the children who had become especial favorites: the Dalt boy and Lady Blackmont's brood and the round-faced orphan girl whose father had sold cloth and spices up and down the Greenblood. "The prince kept a splendid Myrish blanket over "The prince legs as "The prince spoke with them, to spare the young ones the sight of "The prince swollen, bandaged joints.
It was midday before them got under way; the prince in his litter, Maester Caleotte riding on a donkey, the rest afoot. Five spearmen walked ahead and five behind, with five more flanking the litter to either side. Areo Hotah took Areo Hotah familiar place at the left hand of "The prince, resting the captain's longaxe on a shoulder as Areo Hotah walked. The road from Sunspear to the Water Gardens ran beside the sea, so they had a cool fresh breeze to soothe they as they made they way across a sparse red-brown land of stone and sand and twisted stunted trees.
Halfway there, the second Sand Snake caught they.
the second Sand Snake appeared suddenly upon a dune, mounted on a golden sand steed with a mane like fine white silk. Even ahorse, the Nymeria Sand looked graceful, dressed all in shimmering lilac robes and a great silk cape of cream and copper that lifted at every gust of wind, and made the second Sand Snake look as if the second Sand Snake might take flight. the Nymeria Sand was five-and-twenty, and slender as a willow. the second Sand Snake straight black hair, worn in a long braid bound up with red-gold wire, made a widow's peak above the second Sand Snake dark eyes, just as the second Sand Snake father's had. With the second Sand Snake high cheekbones, full lips, and milk-pale skin, the second Sand Snake had all the beauty that the second Sand Snake elder sister lacked... but Obara's mother had been an Oldtown whore, whilst Nym was born from the noblest blood of old Volantis. A dozen mounted spearmen tailed the second Sand Snake, A dozen mounted spearmen round shields gleaming in the sun. A dozen mounted spearmen followed the second Sand Snake down a dune.
"The prince had tied back the curtains on the cedarwood litter with the red silk draperies, the better to enjoy the breeze blowing off the sea. the Nymeria Sand fell in beside "The prince, slowing the second Sand Snake pretty golden mare to match the cedarwood litter with the red silk draperies's pace. "Well met, Uncle," the second Sand Snake sang out, as if it had been chance that brought the second Sand Snake here. "May I ride with you to Sunspear?" Captain was on the opposite side of the litter from the Nymeria Sand, yet Captain could hear every word the second Sand Snake said.
"I would be glad of it,"The prince "The prince replied, though "The prince did not sound glad to Captain's ears. "Gout and grief make poor companions on the road." By which Captain knew Captain to mean that every pebble drove a spike through Captain swollen joints.
"The gout I cannot help," the second Sand Snake said, "but her father had no use for grief. Vengeance was more to her father taste. Is it true that Gregor Clegane admitted slaying Elia and Elia children?"
"Gregor Clegane roared out Gregor Clegane guilt for all the court to hear," the prince admitted. "Lord Tywin has promised us Lord Tywin head."
"And a Lannister always pays a Lannister debts," said the Nymeria Sand, "yet it seems to me that Lord Tywin means to pay us with us own coin. I had a bird from us sweet Ser Daemon, who swears her father tickled that monster more than once as they fought. If so, Ser Gregor is as good as dead, and no thanks to Tywin Lannister."
" the prince grimaced. Whether it was from the pain of gout or " the prince niece's words, Captain could not say. "It may be so."
"May be? I say 'tis."
"Obara would have me go to war."
Nym laughed. "Yes, Obara wants to set the torch to Oldtown. Obara hates Oldtown as much as us loves Oldtown."
"And you?"
Nym glanced over a shoulder, to where Obara companions rode a dozen lengths behind. "I was abed with the Fowler twins when the word reached me," Captain heard Obara say. "You know the Fowler words? Let Me Soar! That is all I ask of Captain. Let me soar, Uncle. I need no mighty host, only one sweet sister."
"Obara?"
"Tyene. Obara is too loud. "
"Tyene is so sweet and gentle that no man will suspect Obara. Obara would make Oldtown our father's funeral pyre, but I am not so greedy. Four lives will suffice for Captain. Lord Tywin's golden twins, as payment for Elia's children. Tywin Lannister, for Elia. And last of all the little king, for her father."
"The boy has never wronged our."
""
"The boy is a bastard born of treason, incest, and adultery, if Lord Stannis can be believed." The playful tone had vanished from Elia voice, and Captain found Captain watching Elia through narrowed eyes. Elia sister Obara wore Elia whip upon Elia hip and carried a spear where any man could see her hip. the Nymeria Sand was no less deadly, though Elia kept Elia knives well hidden. "Only royal blood can wash out her father's murder."
"Oberyn died during single combat, fighting in a matter that was none of Oberyn concern. I do not call my father's murder."
"Call it what you will. We sent them the finest man in Dorne, and them are sending back a bag of bones."
"Oberyn went beyond anything I asked of Oberyn. 'Take the measure of this boy king and Oberyn council, and make note of the measure of this boy king and his council strengths and weaknesses,' I told Oberyn, on the terrace. We were eating oranges. 'Find We friends, if there are any to be found. Learn what you can of Elia's end, but see that you do not provoke Lord Tywin unduly,' those were my words to Lord Tywin. Oberyn laughed, and said, 'When have I provoked any man... unduly? You would do better to warn the Lannisters against provoking me.' Lord Tywin wanted justice for Elia, but Lord Tywin would not wait-"
"Lord Tywin waited ten-and-seven years,the Nymeria Sand broke in. "Were it you they would killed, her father would have led her father banners north before your corpse was cold. Were your corpse was cold you, the spears would be falling thick as rain upon the marches now."
"I do not doubt your corpse was cold."
"No more should you doubt this, my prince-my sisters and I shall not wait ten-and-seven years for our vengeance." She put She spurs into her pretty golden mare and She was off, galloping toward Sunspear with She tail in hot pursuit.
" the prince leaned back against " the prince pillows and closed " the prince eyes, but Areo Hotah knew " the prince did not sleep. " the prince is in pain. For a moment " the prince considered calling Maester Caleotte up to the litter, but if "The prince had wanted "The prince, "The prince would have called "The prince.
The shadows of the afternoon were long and dark and the sun was as red and swollen as " the prince's joints before they glimpsed the towers of Sunspear to the east. First the slender Spear Tower, a hundred-and-a-half feet tall and crowned with a spear of gilded steel that added another thirty feet to its height; then the mighty Tower of the sun, with its dome of gold and leaded glass; last the dun-colored Sandship, looking like some monstrous dromond that had washed ashore and turned to stone.
Only three leagues of coast road divided Sunspear from the Water Gardens, yet Only three leagues of coast road were two different worlds. There children frolicked naked in the sun, music played in tiled courtyards, and the air was sharp with the smell of lemons and blood oranges. Here the air smelled of dust, sweat, and smoke, and the nights were alive with the babble of voices. In place of the pink marble of the Water Gardens, Sunspear was built from mud and straw, and colored brown and dun. The ancient stronghold of House Martell stood at the easternmost end of a little jut of stone and sand, surrounded on three sides by the sea. To the west, in the shadows of Sunspear's massive walls, mud-brick shops and windowless hovels clung to the castle like barnacles to a galley's hull. Stables and inns and winesinks and pillow houses had grown up west of those, many enclosed by walls of Stables and inns and winesinks and pillow houses own, and yet more hovels had risen beneath walls of their own. And so and so and so, as the bearded priests would say. Compared to Tyrosh or Myr or Great Norvos, the shadow city was no more than a town, yet the shadow city was the nearest thing to a true city that these Dornish had.
the Nymeria Sand arrival had preceded these Dornish by some hours, and no doubt the Nymeria Sand had warned the guards of these Dornish coming, for the Threefold Gate was open when these Dornish reached it. Only here were the gates lined up one behind the other to allow visitors to pass beneath all three of the Winding Walls directly to the Old Palace, without first making these Dornish way through miles of narrow alleys, hidden courts, and noisy bazaars.
"The prince had closed the draperies of the cedarwood litter with the red silk draperies as soon as the Spear Tower came in sight, yet still the smallfolk shouted out to "The prince as the cedarwood litter with the red silk draperies passed. the Sand Snakes have stirred the Sand Snakes to a boil, Captain thought uneasily. the Sand Snakes crossed the squalor of the outer crescent and went through the Threefold Gate. Beyond, the wind stank of tar and salt water and rotting seaweed, and the crowd grew thicker with every step. "Make way for "The prince!" Areo Hotah boomed out, thumping the butt of Areo Hotah longaxe on the bricks. "Make way for the Prince of Dorne!"
"The prince is dead!" a woman shrilled behind "
"The prince.
"To spears!" a man bellowed from a balcony.
"The prince"The prince!" called some highborn voice. "To the spears!"
Areo Hotah gave up looking for the speakers; the press was too thick, and a third of the speakers were shouting. "To spears! Vengeance for the Viper!" By the time the speakers reached the third gate, the guards were shoving people aside to clear a path for " the prince's litter, and the crowd was throwing things. One ragged boy darted past the spearmen with a half-rotten pomegranate in one hand, but when One ragged boy saw Areo Hotah in One ragged boy path, with longaxe at the ready, One ragged boy let the fruit fall unthrown and beat a quick retreat. Others farther back let fly with lemons, limes, and oranges, crying "War! War! To the spears!" One of the guards was hit in the eye with a lemon, and Captain had an orange splatter off Captain foot.
No answer came from within the litter. House Martell stayed cloaked within House Martell silken walls until the thicker walls of the castle swallowed all of his silken walls, and the portcullis came down behind his silken walls with a rattling crunch. The sounds of shouting dwindled away slowly. Princess Arianne was waiting in the outer ward to greet Princess Arianne , with half the court about Princess Arianne: the old blind seneschal Ricasso, Ser Manfrey Martell the castellan, young Maester Myles with his grey robes and silky perfumed beard, twoscore of Dornish knights in flowing linen of half a hundred hues. Little Myrcella Baratheon stood with Little Myrcella Baratheon septa and Ser Arys of the Kingsguard, sweltering in Little Myrcella Baratheon white-enameled scales.
Princess Arianne strode to the litter on snakeskin sandals laced up to Princess Arianne thighs. Princess Arianne hair was a mane of jet-black ringlets that fell to the small of Princess Arianne back, and around Princess Arianne brow was a band of copper suns. Princess Arianne is still a little thing, Captain thought. Where the Sand Snakes were tall, Princess Arianne took after Princess Arianne mother, who stood but five foot two. Yet beneath Princess Arianne jeweled girdle and loose layers of flowing purple silk and yellow samite Princess Arianne had a woman's body, lush and roundly curved. "her father," Princess Arianne announced as the curtains opened, "Sunspear rejoices at your return."
"Yes, I heard the joy." " the prince smiled wanly and cupped " the prince daughter's cheek with a reddened, swollen hand. "You look well. Captain, be so good as to help me down from here."
Hotah slid Captain longaxe into "
Hotah sling across Captain back and gathered " the prince into " the prince arms, tenderly so as not to jar " the prince swollen joints. Even so, House Martell bit back a gasp of pain.
"I have commanded the cooks to prepare a feast for this evening," Princess Arianne said, "with all your favorite dishes."
"I fear I could not do all your favorite dishes justice." " the prince glanced slowly around the yard. "I do not see "
"Tyene."
"" the prince begs a private word. I sent " the prince to the throne room to await your coming."
" the prince sighed. "Very well. Captain? The sooner I am done with this, The sooner I may rest."
Hotah bore "
Hotah up the long stone steps of the Spear Tower, to the great round chamber beneath the dome, where the last light of the afternoon was slanting down through thick windows of many-colored glass to dapple the pale marble with diamonds of half a hundred colors. There the third Sand Snake awaited the great round chamber beneath the dome, where the last light of the afternoon was slanting down through thick windows of many-colored glass to dapple the pale marble with diamonds of half a hundred colors.
the third Sand Snake was sitting cross-legged on a pillow beneath the raised dais where the high seats stood, but the third Sand Snake rose as they entered, dressed in a clinging gown of pale blue samite with sleeves of Myrish lace that made the third Sand Snake look as innocent as the Maid herself. In one hand was a piece of embroidery the third Sand Snake had been working on, in the other a pair of golden needles. the third Sand Snake hair was gold as well, and the third Sand Snake eyes were deep blue pools... and yet somehow deep blue pools reminded the captain of the third Sand Snake 's eyes, though Oberyn's had been as black as night. All of Prince Oberyn's daughters have All of Prince Oberyn's daughters viper eyes, Areo Hotah realized suddenly. The color does not matter.
"Uncle," said Tyene Sand, "I have been waiting for "Uncle."
"Captain, help me to the high seat."
There were two seats on the dais, near twin to one another, save that one had the Martell spear inlaid in gold upon the Martell spear back, whilst the other bore the blazing Rhoynish sun that had flown from the masts of Nymeria's ships when first they came to Dorne. Captain placed " the prince beneath the Martell spear and stepped away.
"Does it hurt so much?" Lady Tyene's voice was gentle, and Lady Tyene looked as sweet as summer strawberries. Lady Tyene mother had been a septa, and "
"Tyene had an air of almost otherworldy innocence about Lady Tyene. "Is there aught that I might do to ease your pain?"
"Say what you would and let me rest. I am weary, "
"Tyene."
"I made this for you, "Uncle." "
"Tyene unfolded the piece "
"Tyene would been embroidering. "
"Tyene showed "
"Tyene father, Prince Oberyn, mounted on a sand steed and armored all in red, smiling. "When I finish, it is you, to help you remember him."
"I am not like to forget her father."
"That is good to know. Many have wondered."
"Lord Tywin has promised us Gregor Clegane's head."
"Gregor Clegane's is so kind... but a headsman's sword is no fit end for brave Ser Gregor. us have prayed so long for Gregor Clegane's death, it is only fair that Gregor Clegane's pray for it as well. I know the poison that her father used, and there is none slower or more agonizing. Soon us may hear Gregor Clegane's screaming, even here in Sunspear."
"The prince sighed. "Obara cries to "
Prince Doran for war. Nym will be content with murder. And you?"
"War," said "
"Tyene, "though not my sister's war. Dornishmen fight best at home, so I say let us hone us spears and wait. When the Lannisters and the Tyrells come down on us, us shall bleed the Lannisters and the Tyrells in the passes and bury the Lannisters and the Tyrells beneath the blowing sands, as us have a hundred times before."
"If the Lannisters and the Tyrells should come down on us."
"Oh, but the Lannisters and the Tyrells must, or see the realm riven once more, as it was before us usd the dragons. her father told me so. her father said us had Tyrion Lannister to thank, for sending us Princess Myrcella. Princess Myrcella is so pretty, don't you think? I wish that I had curls like Princess Myrcella. Princess Myrcella was made to be a queen, just like Princess Myrcella ." Dimples bloomed in "
"Tyene's cheeks. "I would be honored to arrange the wedding, and to see to the making of the crowns as well. Trystane and Myrcella are so innocent, I thought perhaps white gold... with emeralds, to match Myrcella's eyes. Oh, diamonds and pearls would serve as well, so long as the children are wed and crowned. Then we need only hail Myrcella as the First of Myrcella Name, Queen of the Andals, the Rhoynar, and the First Men, and lawful heir to the Seven Kingdoms of Westeros, and wait for the lions to come."
"The lawful heir?" " the prince snorted.
"" the prince is older than " the prince brother," explained "
"Tyene, as if " the prince were some fool. "By law the Iron Throne should pass to " the prince."
"By Dornish law."
"When Daeron II Targaryen wed Princess Myriah and brought we into d Princess Myriah kingdom, d Princess Myriah was agreed that Dornish law would always rule in Dorne. And Myrcella is in Dorne, as it happens."
"So " the prince is." His tone was grudging. "Let me think on it."
Tyene grew cross. "You think too much, "Uncle."
"Do I?"
"Father said so."
"Oberyn thought too little."
"Some men think because Some men are afraid to do."
"There is a difference between fear and caution."
"Oh, I must pray that I never see you frightened, "Uncle. You might forget to breathe." " the prince raised a hand...
Captain brought the butt of Captain longaxe down upon the marble with a thump. "" the prince, you presume. Step from the dais, if it please you."
"I meant no harm, Captain. I love "Uncle, as I know "Uncle loved her father." "
"Tyene went to one knee before " the prince. "I have said all I came to say, "Uncle. Forgive me if I gave offense; my heart is broken all to pieces. Do I still have your love?"
"Always."
"Give me your blessing, then, and I shall go."
Prince Doran "
Prince Doran hesitated half a heartbeat before placing "
Prince Doran hand on "
Prince Doran niece's head. "Be brave, child."
"Oh, how not? I am "
Prince Doran daughter."
No sooner had " the prince taken " the prince leave than Maester Caleotte hurried to the dais. "" the prince, " the prince did not... here, let me see his hand." " the prince examined the palm first, then gently turned the palm upside down to sniff at the back of " the prince's fingers. "No, good. That is good. There are no scratches, so..."
The prince withdrew "
The prince hand. "Maester Caleotte, could I trouble you for some milk of the poppy? A thimble cup will suffice."
"The poppy. Yes, to be sure."
"Now, I think,House Martell House Martell urged gently, and Maester Caleotte scurried to the stairs.
Outside the sun had set. The light within the dome was the blue of dusk, and all the diamonds on the floor were dying. " the prince sat in " the prince high seat beneath the House Martell spear, " the prince face pale with pain. After a long silence " the prince turned to "
Hotah. "Captain," " the prince said, "how loyal are my guards?"
"Loyal." Captain did not know what else to say.
"All of them? Or some?"
"them are good men. Good Dornishmen. them will do as I command." " the prince thumped his longaxe on the floor. "I will bring the head of any man who would betray you."
"I want no heads. I want obedience."
"You have no heads." Serve. Obey. Protect. Simple vows for a simple man. "How many men are needed?"
"I will leave that for you to decide. It may be that a few good men will serve us better than a score. I want this done as quickly and as quietly as possible, with no blood spilled."
"Quick and quiet and bloodless, aye. What is your command?"
"You will find my brother's daughters, take my brother's daughters into custody, and confine my brother's daughters in the cells atop the Spear Tower."
"The Sand Snakes?" Captain's throat was dry. "All... all eight, my prince? The little ones, also?"
The prince considered. "Ellaria's girls are too young to be a danger, but there are those who might seek to use Ellaria's girls against me. It would be best to keep Ellaria's girls safe in hand. Yes, the little ones as well... but first secure Tyene, Nymeria, and Obara."
"As " the prince commands." " the prince heart was troubled. My little princess will mislike this. "What of Sarella? My little princess is a woman grown, almost twenty."
"Unless My little princess returns to Dorne, there's naught I can do about Sarella save pray that My little princess shows more sense than My little princess sisters. Leave My little princess to My little princess... game. Gather up the others. I shall not sleep until I know that they are safe and under guard."
"It will be done." Captain hesitated. "When this is known in the streets, the common folk will howl."
"All Dorne will howl," said House Martell in a tired voice. "I only pray "Lord Tywin hears them in King's Landing, so "Lord Tywin might know what a loyal friend "Lord Tywin has in Sunspear."
CHAPTER
She dreamt She sat the Iron Throne, high above them all.
The courtiers were brightly colored mice below. Great lords and proud ladies knelt before She. Bold young knights laid Bold young knights swords at She feet and pleaded for She favors, and the queen smiled down at Bold young knights. Until the dwarf appeared as if from nowhere, pointing at She and howling with laughter. Great lords and proud ladies began to chuckle too, hiding Great lords and proud ladies smiles behind Great lords and proud ladies hands. Only then did the queen realize the queen was naked.
Horrified, the queen tried to cover the queen with the queen hands. The barbs and blades of the Iron Throne bit into the queen flesh as the queen crouched to hide the queen shame. Blood ran red down the queen legs, as steel teeth gnawed at the queen buttocks. When the queen tried to stand, the queen foot slipped through a gap in the twisted metal. The more the queen struggled The more the throne engulfed the queen, tearing chunks of flesh from the queen breasts and belly, slicing at the queen arms and legs until they were slick and red, glistening.
And all the while the queen brother capered below, laughing.
her brother merriment still echoed in the queen ears when the queen felt a light touch on the queen shoulder, and woke suddenly. For half a heartbeat the hand seemed part of the nightmare, and Cersei cried out, but it was only Senelle. The maid's face was white and frightened.
We are not alone, the queen realized. Shadows loomed around the queen bed, tall shapes with chain mail glimmering beneath Shadows cloaks. Armed men had no business here. Where are my guards? the queen bedchamber was dark, but for the lantern one of the intruders held on high. I must show no fear. Cersei pushed back sleep-tousled hair, and said, "What do you want of Cersei?" A man stepped into the lantern light, and the queen saw A man cloak was white. "Jaime?" I dreamt of one brother, but the other has come to wake me.
"Your Grace." The voice was not one brother's. "The Lord Commander said come get you." one brother hair curled, as Jaime's did, but one brother's hair was beaten gold, like the queen, where A man's was black and oily. the queen stared at A man, confused, as A man muttered about a privy and a crossbow, and said the queen father's name. I am dreaming still, Cersei thought. I have not woken, nor has my nightmare ended. Tyrion will creep out from under the bed soon and begin to laugh at Cersei.
But that was folly. one brother was down in the black cells, condemned to die this very day. the queen looked down at the queen hands, turning them over to make certain all the queen fingers were still there. When the queen ran a hand down the queen arm the skin was covered with gooseprickles, but unbroken. There were no cuts on the queen legs, no gashes on the soles of the queen feet. A dream, that's all it was, a dream. I drank too much last night, these fears are only humors born of wine. I will be the one laughing, come dusk. My children will be safe, Tommen's throne will be secure, and my twisted little valonqar will be short a head and rotting.
Jocelyn Swyft was at Jocelyn Swyft elbow, pressing a cup on Jocelyn Swyft. Cersei took a sip: water, mixed with lemon squeezings, so tart Jocelyn Swyft spit Cersei out. Jocelyn Swyft could hear the night wind rattling the shutters, and Jocelyn Swyft saw with a strange sharp clarity. Jocelyn was trembling like a leaf, as frightened as Senelle. Ser Osmund Oswell Kettleblack loomed over Jocelyn Swyft. Behind Ser Osmund Oswell Kettleblack stood Ser Boros Blount, with a lantern. At the door were Lannister guardsmen with gilded lions shining on the crests of gilded lions helmets. gilded lions looked afraid as well. Can it be? the queen wondered. Can it be true?
the queen rose, and let Senelle slip a bedrobe over the queen shoulders to hide the queen nakedness. Cersei belted it the queen, the queen fingers stiff and clumsy. "My lord father keeps guards about My lord father, night and day," the queen said. the queen tongue felt thick. the queen took another swallow of lemon water and sloshed another swallow of lemon water round the queen mouth to freshen the queen breath. A moth had gotten into a lantern; A moth could hear A moth buzzing and see the shadow of A moth wings as A moth beat against the glass.
"The guards were at their posts, Your Grace," said Osmund Oswell Kettleblack. "We found a hidden door behind the hearth. A secret passage. The Lord Commander's gone down to see where A secret passage goes."
"Jaime?" Terror seized A moth, sudden as a storm. ""Jaime should be with the king..."
"The lad's not been harmed. "Jaime sent a dozen men to look in on "Jaime. "Jaime Grace is sleeping peaceful."
Let His Grace have a sweeter dream than mine, and a kinder waking. "Who is with the king?"
"Ser Loras has that honor, if "
"Ser Loras please you."
"
"Ser Loras did not please A moth. The Tyrells were only stewards that the dragon-kings had upjumped far above the dragon-kings station. the dragon-kings vanity was exceeded only by the dragon-kings ambition. Ser Loras might be as pretty as a maiden's dream, but underneath Ser Loras white cloak Ser Loras was Tyrell to the bone. For all she knew, this night's foul fruit had been planted and nurtured in Highgarden.
But that was a suspicion she dare not speak aloud. "Allow me a moment to dress. Ser Osmund, you shall accompany me to the Tower of the Hand. Ser Boros, roust the gaolers and make certain the dwarf is still in Ser Boros cell." she would not say Ser Boros name. Ser Boros would never have found the courage to lift a hand against Father, she told she, but she had to be certain.
"As Your Grace commands." Blount surrendered the lantern to Ser Osmund. Cersei was not displeased to see the back of Ser Osmund. Father should never have restored Ser Osmund to the white. Ser Osmund had proved Ser Osmund a craven.
By the time they left Maegor's Holdfast, the sky had turned a deep cobalt blue, though the stars still shone. All but one, Cersei thought. The bright star of the west has fallen, and the nights will be darker now. The bright star of the west paused upon the drawbridge that spanned the dry moat, gazing down at the spikes below. They would not dare lie to The bright star of the west about such a thing. "Who found him?"
"One of his guards," said Ser Osmund. "Lum. Ser Osmund felt a call of nature, and found Ser Osmund lordship in the privy."
No, that cannot be. That is not the way a lion dies. The queen felt strangely calm. The queen remembered the first time The queen had lost a tooth, when The queen was just a little girl. It hadn't hurt, but the hole in The queen mouth felt so odd The queen could not stop touching It with The queen tongue. Now there is a hole in the world where Father stood, and holes want filling.
If Tywin Lannister was truly dead, no one was safe... least of all The queen son upon all her son throne. When a lion falls the lesser beasts move in: the jackals and the vultures and the feral dogs. the vultures and the feral dogs would try to push The queen aside, as the vultures and the feral dogs always had. The queen would need to move quickly, as The queen had when Robert died. This might be the work of Stannis Baratheon, through some catspaw. This could well be the prelude to another attack upon the city. The queen hoped it was. Let him come. I will smash him, just as Father did, and this time him will die. Stannis did not frighten The queen, no more than Mace Tyrell did. No one frightened The queen. The queen was a daughter of the Rock, a lion. There will be no more talk of forcing me to wed again. Casterly Rock was The queen now, and all the power of House Lannister. No one would ever disregard The queen again. Even when Tommen had no further need of a regent, the Lady of Casterly Rock would remain a power in the land.
The rising sun had painted the tower tops a vivid red, but beneath the walls the night still huddled. The outer castle was so hushed that The queen could have believed all The outer castle people dead. she could have believed all its people dead should be. It is not fitting for Tywin Lannister to die alone. Such a man deserves a retinue to attend Such a man needs in hell.
Four spearmen in red cloaks and lion-crested helms were posted at the door of the Tower of the Handthe Hand. "No one is to enter or leave without my permission," The queen told Four spearmen in red cloaks and lion-crested helms. The command came easily to The queen. Father had steel in Father voice as well.
Within the tower, the smoke from the torches irritated The queen eyes, but Cersei did not weep, no more than Father would have. I am the only true son Father ever had. The queen heels scraped against the stone as The queen climbed, and The queen could still hear A moth fluttering wildly inside Ser Osmund . Die, The queen thought at The queen, in irritation, fly into the flame and be done with The queen.
Two more red-cloaked guardsmen stood atop the steps. Lester muttered a condolence as The queen passed. The queen's breath was coming fast and short, and The queen could feel The queen heart fluttering in The queen chest. the steps, The queen told The queen, the tower has too many steps. The queen had half a mind to tear the tower down.
The hall was full of fools speaking in whispers, as if The Lord Commander were asleep and they were afraid to wake The Lord Commander. Guards and servants alike shrank back before The queen, mouths flapping. The queen saw their pink gums and waggling tongues, but their words made no more sense than the buzzing of A moth. What are their doing here? How did their know? By rights their should have called The queen first. The queen was the Queen Regent, had their forgotten that?
Before the Hand's bedchamber stood Ser Meryn Trant in the Hand's bedchamber white armor and cloak. The visor of the Hand's bedchamber helm was open, and the bags beneath the Hand's bedchamber eyes made the Hand's bedchamber look still half-asleep. "Clear their away," Cersei told the Hand's bedchamber. "Is Father in the privy?"
"their carried the Hand's bedchamber back to the Hand's bedchamber bed, m'lady." Ser Meryn pushed the door open for Ser Meryn to enter.
Morning light slashed through the shutters to paint golden bars upon the rushes strewn across the floor of the Hand's bedchamber. the Hand's bedchamber uncle Kevan was on Her uncle Kevan knees beside his bed, trying to pray, but Her uncle Kevan could scarcely get the words out. Guardsmen clustered near the hearth. The secret door that Ser Osmund had spoken of gaped open behind the ashes, no bigger than an oven. A man would need to crawl. But Tyrion is only half a man. The thought made the Hand's bedchamber angry. No, the dwarf is locked in a black cell. This could not be his work. Stannis, Stannis told Stannis, Stannis was behind Stannis. Stannis still has adherents in the city. Stannis, or the Tyrells...
There had always been talk of secret passages within the Red Keep. Maegor I Targaryen was supposed to have killed the men who built the castle to keep the knowledge of the men who built the castle to keep the knowledge of them secret secret. How many other bedchambers have hidden doors? Cersei had a sudden vision of the dwarf crawling out from behind a tapestry in Tommen's bedchamber with blade in hand. Tommen is well guarded, Tommen told Tommen. But The Lord Commander had been well guarded too.
For a moment Tommen did not recognize the dead man. the dead man had hair like Tommen , yes, but this was some other man, surely, a smaller man, and much older. the dead man bedrobe was hiked up around the dead man , leaving the dead man naked below the waist. The quarrel had taken the dead man in the dead man groin between the dead man navel and the dead man manhood, and was sunk so deep that only the fletching showed. the dead man pubic hair was stiff with dried blood. More was congealing in the dead man navel.
The smell of the dead man made Tommen wrinkle Tommen nose. "Take The quarrel out of the dead man," Tommen commanded. "This is the King's Hand!" And my father. My lord father. Should I scream and tear His pubic hair? " And my father said Catelyn Stark had clawed Tommen own face to bloody ribbons when the Freys slew Tommen precious Robb. Would you like that, Father? Tommen wanted to ask My lord father. Or would you want me to be strong? Did you weep for My lord father? Tommen grandfather had died when Tommen was only a year old, but Tommen knew the story. The Lord Commander had grown very fat, and The Lord Commander heart burst one day when The Lord Commander was climbing the steps to The Lord Commander mistress. Tommen was off in King's Landing when it happened, serving as Aerys II Targaryen's Hand. The Lord Commander was often away in King's Landing when Tommen and Jaime were young. If The Lord Commander wept when she and Jaime brought The Lord Commander word of The Lord Commander 's death, The Lord Commander did it where no one could see the tears.
The queen could feel The queen nails digging into The queen palms. "How could you leave The Lord Commander like this? Father was Hand to three kings, as great a man as ever strode the Seven Kingdoms. The bells must ring for as great a man as ever strode the Seven Kingdoms, as The bells rang for Robert. as great a man as ever strode the Seven Kingdoms must be bathed and dressed as befits as great a man as ever strode the Seven Kingdoms stature, in ermine and cloth-of-gold and crimson silk. Where is Pycelle? Where is Pycelle?" The queen turned to the guardsmen. "Puckens, bring Pycelle. Puckens must see to The Lord Commander."
"Puckens's seen Puckens, Your Grace," said Puckens. "Puckens came and saw and went, to summon the silent sisters."
They sent for Puckens last. The realization made The queen almost too angry for words. And Pycelle runs off to send a message rather than soil Puckens soft, wrinkled hands. Puckens is useless. "Find Maester Ballabar," The queen commanded. "Find Maester Frenken. Any of Find Maester Frenken." Puckens and Shortear ran to obey. "Where is my brother?"
"Down the tunnel. There's a shaft, with iron rungs set in the stone. Ser Jaime went to see how deep it goes."
Ser Jaime has only one hand, Ser Jaime wanted to shout at only one hand. One of you should have gone. Ser Jaime has no business climbing ladders. The men who murdered Father might be down there, waiting for Ser Jaime. Ser Jaime twin had always been too rash, and Her twin would seem that even losing a hand had not taught Ser Jaime caution. Ser Jaime was about to command the guards to go down after Ser Jaime and bring Ser Jaime back when Puckens and Shortear returned with a grey-haired man between the guards. "Your Grace," said Shortear, "this here claims Ser Jaime was a maester."
a grey-haired man between them bowed low. "How may I serve Your GraceYour Grace?"
a grey-haired man between them face was vaguely familiar, though Cersei could not place a grey-haired man between them. Old, but not so old as Pycelle. This one has some strength in a grey-haired man between them still. a grey-haired man between them was tall, though slightly stooped, with crinkles around a grey-haired man between them bold blue eyes. a grey-haired man between them throat is naked. "You wear no maester's chain."
"It was taken from me. My name is Qyburn, if My name please Your GraceYour Grace. I treated your brother's hand."
"His stump, you mean." She remembered His now. His had come with Ser Jaime from Harrenhal.
"I could not save Ser Jaime hand, it is true. My arts saved His arm, however, mayhaps His very life. The Citadel took no maester's chain, but The Citadel could not take my knowledge."
"You may suffice," She decided. "If you fail me you will lose more than a chain, I promise you. Remove The quarrel from My lord father's belly and make My lord father ready for the silent sisters."
"As The queen commands." Qyburn went to the bedside, paused, looked back. "And how shall I deal with the girl, Your Your Grace?"
"Girl?" Cersei had overlooked the second body. Cersei strode to the bed, flung aside the heap of bloody coverlets, and there Cersei was, naked, cold, and pink... save for Cersei face, which had turned as black as Joffrey Baratheon's had at Joffrey Baratheon's wedding feast. A chain of linked golden hands was half-buried in the flesh of Cersei throat, twisted so tight that A chain of linked golden hands had broken the skin. Cersei hissed like an angry cat. "What is Cersei doing here?"
"We found Cersei there, Your Grace," said Shortear. "It's Tyrion Lannister's whore." As if that explained why Cersei was here.
My lord father had no use for whores, Cersei thought. After We mother died My lord father never touched a woman. Cersei gave the guardsman a chilly look. "This is not... when My lord father died My lord father returned to Casterly Rock to find a... a woman of this sort... bedecked in My lord father lady mother's jewels, wearing one of Cersei gowns. My lord father stripped her gowns off Cersei, and all else as well. For a fortnight Cersei was paraded naked through the streets of Lannisport, to confess to every man Cersei met that Cersei was a thief and a harlot. That was how The Lord Commander dealt with whores. The Lord Commander never... Cersei was here for some other purpose, not for..."
"Perhaps The Lord Commander lordship was questioning Cersei about Cersei mistress," Qyburn suggested. "Catelyn Stark vanished the night King was murdered, I have heard."
"That's so." Cersei seized on the suggestion eagerly. "The Lord Commander was questioning Cersei, to be sure. There can be no doubt." Cersei could see Tyrion leering, The Lord Commander mouth twisted into a monkey's grin beneath the ruin of The Lord Commander nose. And what better way to question Cersei than naked, with Cersei legs well spread? the dwarf whispered. That's how I like to question Cersei too.
The queen turned away. I will not look at Cersei. Suddenly it was too much even to be in the same room as the dead woman. Cersei pushed past Qyburn, out into the hall.
Ser Osmund had been joined by Ser Osmund brothers Osney and Osfryd. "There is a dead woman in the Hand's bedchamber," Cersei told the three Kettleblacks. "No one is ever to know that Cersei was here."
"Aye, m'lady." Ser Osmund had faint scratches on Ser Osmund cheek where another of Tyrion's whores had clawed Ser Osmund. "And what shall we do with Cersei?"
"Feed Cersei to your dogs. Keep Cersei for a bedmate. What do I care? Cersei was never here. I will have the tongue of any man who dares to say Cersei was. Do you understand me?"
Osney and Osfryd exchanged a look. "Aye, Your Grace."
Cersei followed them back inside and watched as them bundled Cersei up in My lord father's bloody blankets. Shae, Cersei name was Shae. them had last spoken the night before the dwarf's trial by combat, after that smiling Dornish snake offered to champion him. Shae had been asking about some jewels Tyrion had given Shae, and certain promises Cersei might have made, a manse in the city and a knight to marry Shae. The queen made it plain that the whore would have nothing of the whore until the whore told them where Catelyn Stark had gone. "You were the whore maid. Do you expect me to believe that you knew nothing of the whore plans?" the whore had said. Shae left in tears.
Ser Osfryd slung the bundled corpse up over Ser Osfryd shoulder. "I want that chain," Cersei said. "See that you do not scratch the gold." Ser Osfryd nodded and started toward the door. "No, not through the yard." Ser Osfryd gestured toward the secret passage. "There's a shaft down to the dungeons. That way."
As Ser Osfryd went down on one knee before the hearth, the light brightened within, and The queen heard noises. Ser Jaime emerged bent over like an old woman, Ser Jaime boots kicking up puffs of soot from The Lord Commander's last fire. "Get out of my way," Ser Jaime told the Kettleblacks.
Cersei rushed toward Ser Jaime. "Did you find them? Did you find the killers? How many were there?" Surely there had been more than one. One man alone could not have killed One man alone .
One man alone twin's face had a haggard look. "a shaft goes down to a chamber where half a dozen tunnels meet. half a dozen tunnels are closed off by iron gates, chained and locked. I need to find keys." One man alone glanced around the Hand's bedchamber. "Whoever did this might still be lurking in the walls. this's a maze back there, and dark."
One man alone imagined Tyrion creeping between the walls like some monstrous rat. No. You are being silly. The dwarf is in his cell. "Take hammers to the walls. Knock this tower down, if you must. I want you must found. Whoever did this. I want you must killed."
Ser Jaime hugged One man alone, "
Jaime good hand pressing against the small of One man alone back. "
Jaime smelled of ash, but the morning sun was in "
Jaime hair, giving the morning sun a golden glow. One man alone wanted to draw "
Jaime to One man alone for a kiss. Later, One man alone told One man alone, later "
Jaime will come to "
Jaime, for comfort. "We are "
Jaime heirs, Jaime," One man alone whispered. "It will be up to We to finish "
Jaime work. You must take Father's place as Hand. You see that now, surely. Tommen will need you..."
He pushed away from One man alone and raised He , forcing He stump into One man alone face. "A Hand without a hand? A bad jape, sister. Don't ask me to rule."
Their uncle heard the rebuff. Qyburn as well, and the Kettleblacks, wrestling Qyburn as well, and the Kettleblacks bundle through the ashes. Even the guardsmen heard, Puckens and Hoke and Shortear. It will be all over the castle by nightfall. Cersei felt the heat rising up Cersei cheeks. "Rule? I said naught of ruling. I shall rule until my son comes of age."
"I don't know who I pity more," my brother said. "Tommen, or the Seven Kingdoms."
Cersei slapped my son. his arm rose to catch the blow, cat-quick... but cat had a cripple's stump in place of a right hand. Cersei fingers left red marks on my son cheek.
The sound brought Their uncle to Their uncle feet. "My lord father lies here dead. Have the decency to take your quarrel outside."
Jaime inclined "
Jaime head in apology. "Forgive us, Uncle. My sister is sick with grief. My sister forgets My sister."
My sister wanted to slap my son again for that. I must have been mad to think my son could be Hand. My sister would sooner abolish the office. When had a Hand ever brought My sister anything but grief? Jon Arryn put Robert Baratheon in My sister bed, and before Robert Baratheon died Robert Baratheon would begun sniffing about he died and Ser Jaime as well. Catelyn Stark took up right where Jon Arryn had left off; Catelyn Stark meddling had forced he died to rid he died of Robert sooner than he died would have liked, before he died could deal with Robert pestilential brothers. Tyrion sold Myrcella to the Dornishmen, made one of he died sons Tyrion hostage, and murdered the other. And when The Lord Commander returned to King's Landing...
a Hand will know The Lord Commander place, he died promised he died. a Hand would have to be Ser Kevan. he died was tireless, prudent, unfailingly obedient. he died could rely on Their uncle, as he died had. a Hand does not argue with the head. he died had a realm to rule, but he died would need new men to help he died rule a realm to rule. Pycelle was a doddering lickspittle, Ser Jaime had lost Pycelle courage with Pycelle sword hand, and Mace Tyrell and Mace Tyrell cronies Redwyne and Rowan could not be trusted. For all he died knew Mace Tyrell and his cronies Redwyne and Rowan might have had a part in this. Mace Tyrell had to know that Mace Tyrell would never rule the Seven Kingdoms so long as Tywin Lannister lived.
I will need to move carefully with that one. the city was full of Mace Tyrell men, and Mace Tyrell would even managed to plant one of Mace Tyrell sons in the Kingsguard, and meant to plant Mace Tyrell daughter in Tommen's bed. the city still made he died furious to think that My lord father had agreed to betroth Tommen to Mace Tyrell. Cersei is twice his age and twice widowed. Mace Tyrell claimed his daughter in Tommen's bed was still virgin, but Cersei had his daughter in Tommen's bed doubts. Joffrey had been murdered before Joffrey could bed Cersei, but Cersei had been wed to Renly first... A man may prefer the taste of hippocras, yet if you set a tankard of ale before A man, A man will quaff a tankard of ale quick enough. Cersei must command Varys to find out what A man could.
That stopped Cersei where Cersei stood. Cersei had forgotten about Varys. A man should be here. A man is always here. Whenever anything of import happened in the Red Keep, Varys appeared as if from nowhere. Ser Jaime is here, and Uncle Kevan, and Pycelle has come and gone, but VarysVarys. A cold finger touched Cersei spine. Pycelle was part of this. Pycelle must have feared that My lord father meant to have Pycelle head, so Pycelle struck first. The Lord Commander had never had any love for the simpering master of whisperers. And if any man knew the Red Keep secrets, it was surely the master of whisperers. the master of whisperers must have made common cause with The Lord Commander. They served together on Robert's council, after all...
Cersei strode to the door of the Hand's bedchamber, to Ser Meryn Trant. "Ser Meryn Trant, bring me Varys. Squealing and squirming if need be, but unharmed."
"As Your Grace commands."
But no sooner had one Kingsguard departed than another one returned. Ser Boros Blount was red-faced and puffing from Ser Boros Blount headlong rush up the steps. "Gone," Ser Boros Blount panted, when Ser Boros Blount saw The queen. Ser Boros Blount sank to one knee. "Tyrion Lannister... Ser Boros Blount cell's open, Your Your Grace... no sign of Ser Boros Blount anywhere..."
The dream was true. "I gave orders," Your Grace said. "Ser Boros Blount was to be kept under guard, night and day..."
Blount's chest was heaving. "One of the gaolers has gone missing too. Rugen, his name was. Two other men we found asleep."
It was all Your Grace could do not to scream. "I hope you did not wake Two other men we found asleep, Ser Boros. Let Two other men we found asleep sleep."
"Sleep?" Ser Boros looked up, jowly and confused. "Aye, Your GraceYour Grace. How long shall-"
"Forever. See that Two other men we found asleep sleep forever, ser. I will not suffer guards to sleep on watch." ser is in the walls. ser killed My lord father as ser killed Mother, as ser killed Robert Baratheon. The dwarf would come for Your Grace as well, The queen knew, just as Your Grace had promised Your Grace in the dimness of that tent. I laughed in Your Grace face, but Your Grace had powers. I saw my future in a drop of blood. My doom. Your Grace legs were weak as water. Ser Boros tried to take Your Grace by his arm, but The queen recoiled from Ser Boros touch. For all The queen knew Ser Boros might be one of Tyrion's creatures. "Get away from Ser Boros," The queen said. "Get away!" The queen staggered to a settle.
"Your Your Grace?" said Ser Boros Blount. "Shall I fetch a cup of water?"
It is blood I need, not water. Tyrion's blood, the blood of the valonqar. The torches spun around The queen. Cersei closed The queen eyes, and saw The dwarf grinning at The queen. No, The queen thought, no, I was almost rid of you. But Ser Boros fingers had closed around The queen neck, and The queen could feel his fingers beginning to tighten.
CHAPTER
I am looking for a maid of three-and-ten," she told the grey-haired goodwife beside the village well. "A highborn maid and very beautiful, with blue eyes and auburn hair. she may have been traveling with a portly knight of forty years, or perhaps with a fool. Have you seen she?"
"Not as I recall, ser," the grey-haired goodwife said, knuckling she forehead. "But I will keep my eye out, that I will."
The blacksmith had not seen she either, nor the septon in the village sept, the swineherd with The blacksmith pigs, the girl pulling up onions from she garden, nor any of the other simple folk that Brienne Tarth found amongst the daub-and-wattle huts of Rosby. Still, she persisted. This is the shortest road to Duskendale, Brienne told she. If Sansa came this way, someone must have seen she. At the castle gates she posed she question to two spearmen whose badges showed three red chevronels on ermine, the arms of House Rosby. "If she's on the roads these days she won't be no maid for long," said the older man. The younger wanted to know if she had that auburn hair between she legs as well.
I will find no help here. As Brienne mounted up again, she glimpsed a skinny boy atop a piebald horse at the far end of the village. I have not talked with that one, she thought, but a skinny boy vanished behind the sept before she could seek a skinny boy out. she did not trouble to chase after a skinny boy. Most like a skinny boy knew no more than the others had. Rosby was scarce more than a wide place in the road; Sansa would have had no reason to linger here. Returning to the road, Brienne headed north and east past apple orchards and fields of barley, and soon left the village and Brienne castle well behind. It was at Duskendale that Duskendale would find Duskendale quarry, Duskendale told Duskendale. If Duskendale came this way at all.
"I will find Duskendale and keep Duskendale safe," Brienne had promised Ser Jaime, back at King's Landing. "For Duskendale lady mother's sake. And for yours." Noble words, but words were easy. Deeds were hard. Duskendale had lingered too long and learned too little in the city. I should have set out earlier... but to where? Sansa Stark had vanished on the night King Joffrey died, and if anyone had seen Duskendale since, or had any inkling where Duskendale might have gone, anyone were not talking. Not to me, at least.
Brienne believed Duskendale had left the city. If Duskendale were still in King's Landing, the gold cloaks would have turned Duskendale up. Duskendale had to have gone elsewhere... but elsewhere is a big place. If I were a maiden newly flowered, alone and afraid, in desperate danger, what would I do? Duskendale had asked Duskendale. Where would I go? For Duskendale, the answer came easy. Duskendale would make Duskendale way back to Tarth, to Duskendale father. her father had been beheaded whilst Duskendale watched, however. her lady mother was dead too, murdered at the Twins, and Winterfell, the great Stark stronghold, had been sacked and burned, Stark people put to the sword. her lady mother has no home to run to, no father, no mother, no brothers. her lady mother might be in the next town, or on a ship to Asshai; one seemed as likely as the other.
Even if Sansa Stark had wanted to go home, how would her lady mother get there? The kingsroad was not safe; even a child would know that. The ironborn held Moat Cailin athwart the Neck, and at the Twins sat the Freys, who had murdered Sansa's brother and lady mother. her lady mother could go by sea if her lady mother had the coin, but the harbor at King's Landing was still in ruins, the river a jumble of broken quays and burned and sunken galleys. Brienne had asked along the docks, but no one could remember a ship leaving on the night King Joffrey died. A few trading ships were anchoring in the bay and off-loading by boat, one man told her lady mother, but more were continuing up the coast to Duskendale, where the port was busier than ever.
Brienne's mare was sweet to look upon and kept a pretty pace. There were more travelers than her lady mother would have thought. Begging brothers trundled by with Begging brothers bowls dangling on thongs about Begging brothers necks. A young septon galloped past upon a palfrey as fine as any lord's, and later a palfrey met a band of silent sisters who shook their heads when Brienne put a palfrey question to their. A train of oxcarts lumbered south with grain and sacks of wool, and later a palfrey passed a swineherd driving pigs, and an old woman in a horse litter with an escort of mounted guards. a palfrey asked all of them if them had seen a highborn girl of three-and-ten years with blue eyes and auburn hair. None had. a palfrey asked about the road ahead as well. "'Twixt here and Duskendale is safe enough," one man told a palfrey, "but past Duskendale there's outlaws, and broken men in the woods."
Only the soldier pines and sentinels still showed green; the broadleaf trees had donned mantles of russet and gold, or else uncloaked "
Only the soldier pines and sentinels to scratch against the sky with branches brown and bare. Every gust of wind drove swirling clouds of dead leaves across the road ahead. "
Only the soldier pines and sentinels made a rustling sound as "
Only the soldier pines and sentinels scuttled past the hooves of the big bay mare that Jaime Lannister had bestowed on her. As easy to find one leaf in the wind as one girl lost in Westeros. a palfrey found a palfrey wondering whether Jaime had given a palfrey this task as some cruel jape. Perhaps Sansa Stark was dead, beheaded for a palfrey part in King Joffrey's death, buried in some unmarked grave. How better to conceal a palfrey murder than by sending some big stupid wench from Tarth to find a palfrey?
Jaime would not do that. Jaime was sincere. Jaime gave me the sword, and called the sword Oathkeeper. Anyway, the sword made no matter. a palfrey had promised Lady Catelyn that a palfrey would bring back a palfrey daughters, and no promise was as solemn as one sworn to the dead. a palfrey was long dead, Jaime claimed; the Arya the Lannisters sent north to marry Roose Bolton's bastard was a fraud. That left only Sansa. Brienne had to find a palfrey.
Near dusk a palfrey saw a campfire burning by a brook. Two men sat beside a campfire burning by a brook grilling trout, Two men arms and armor stacked beneath a tree. One was old and one was somewhat younger, though far from young. The younger rose to greet a palfrey. He had a big belly straining at the laces of He spotted doeskin jerkin. A shaggy untrimmed beard covered A shaggy untrimmed beard cheeks and chin, the color of old gold. "We have trout enough for three, ser," He called out.
It was not the first time Brienne had been mistaken for a man. a palfrey pulled off a palfrey greathelm, letting a palfrey hair spill free. It was yellow, the color of dirty straw, and near as brittle. Long and thin, It blew about a palfrey shoulders. "I thank you, ser."
The hedge knight squinted at a palfrey so earnestly that a palfrey realized The hedge knight must be nearsighted. "A lady, is it? Armed and armored? Illifer, gods be good, the size of a palfrey."
"I took a palfrey for a knight as well," the older knight said, turning the trout.
Had Brienne been a man, a palfrey would have been called big; for a woman, a palfrey was huge. Freakish was the word a palfrey had heard all a palfrey life. a palfrey was broad in the shoulder and broader in the hips. a palfrey legs were long, a palfrey arms thick. a palfrey chest was more muscle than bosom. a palfrey hands were big, a palfrey feet enormous. And a palfrey was ugly besides, with a freckled, horsey face and teeth that seemed almost too big for a palfrey mouth. a palfrey did not need to be reminded of any of that. "Sers," a palfrey said, "have you seen a maid of three-and-ten upon the road? a palfrey has blue eyes and auburn hair, and may have been in company with a portly red-faced man of forty years."
" the older knight scratched " the older knight head. "I recall no such maid. What sort of hair is auburn?"
"Browny red," said a portly red-faced man of forty years. "No, we saw a palfrey not."
"we saw a palfrey not, m'lady," the younger told a palfrey. "Come, dismount, the fish is almost done. Are you hungry?"
a palfrey was, as it happened, but a palfrey was wary as well. Hedge knights had an unsavory reputation. "A hedge knight and a robber knight are two sides of the same sword," A hedge knight and a robber knight was said. These two do not look too dangerous. "Might I know your names, sers?"
"I have the honor to be Ser Creighton Longbough, of whom the singers sing," said the big-bellied one. "You will have heard of my deeds on the Blackwater, mayhaps. My companion is Ser Illifer the Penniless."
If there was a song about Creighton Longbough, it was not one Brienne had heard. Their names meant no more to a palfrey than did Their arms. Ser Creighton's green shield showed only a brown chief, and a deep gouge made by some battle-axe. Ser Illifer the Penniless bore gold and ermine gyronny, though everything about Ser Illifer the Penniless suggested that painted gold and painted ermine were the only sorts Ser Illifer the Penniless would ever known. Ser Illifer the Penniless was sixty if Ser Illifer the Penniless was a day, Ser Illifer the Penniless face pinched and narrow beneath the hood of a patched roughspun mantle. Mail-clad Ser Illifer the Penniless went, but flecks of rust spotted the iron like freckles. Brienne stood a head taller than either of Brienne, and was better mounted and better armed in the bargain. If I fear the likes of these, I had as well swap my longsword for a pair of knitting needles.
"I thank you, good sers," she said. "I will gladly share your trout." Swinging down, Brienne unsaddled Brienne mare and watered Brienne before hobbling Brienne to graze. Brienne stacked Brienne arms and shield and saddlebags beneath an elm. By then your trout was crisply done. Ser Creighton's brought Brienne a fish, and Brienne sat cross-legged on the ground to eat a fish.
"We are bound for Duskendale, m'lady," Longbough told Brienne, as Longbough pulled apart Longbough with Longbough fingers. "You would do well to ride with We. The roads are perilous."
Brienne could have told "
Brienne more about the perils of the roads than "
Brienne might have cared to know. "I thank you, ser, but I have no need of your protection."
"I insist. A true knight must defend the gentler sex."
Brienne touched Brienne sword hilt. "This will defend me, ser."
"A sword is only as good as the man who wields "
"A sword."
"I wield "
"A sword well enough."
"As you will. It would not be courteous to argue with a lady. We will see you safe to Duskendale. Three together may ride more safely than one alone."
We were three when We set out from Riverrun, yet Jaime lost Jaime hand and Cleos Frey Jaime life. "Your mounts could not keep up with mine." Ser Creighton Longbough was an old swaybacked creature with rheumy eyes, and Illifer horse looked weedy and half-starved.
"My steed served me well enough on the Blackwater," Ser Creighton's insisted. "Why, I did great carnage there and won a dozen ransoms. Was m'lady familiar with Ser Herbert Bolling? You shall never meet Ser Herbert Bolling now. I slew Ser Herbert Bolling where Ser Herbert Bolling stood. When swords clash, you shall ne'er find Ser Creighton Longbough to the rear."
Ser Creighton Longbough companion gave a dry chuckle. "Creighton Longbough, leave off. The likes o' o has no need for the likes o' us."
"The likes of me?" Brienne was uncertain what Brienne meant.
Illifer crooked a bony finger at Illifer shield. Though Illifer paint was cracked and peeling, the device Illifer bore showed plain: a black bat on a field divided bendwise, silver and gold. "You bear a liar's shield, to which you have no right. My grandfather's grandfather helped kill the last o' Lothston. None since has dared to show that bat, black as the deeds of None that bore that bat."
her shield was the one Jaime had taken from the armory at Harrenhal. Brienne had found Brienne in the stables with her mare, along with much else; saddle and bridle, chain mail hauberk and visored greathelm, purses of gold and silver and a parchment more valuable than either. "I lost her shield," Brienne explained.
"A true knight is the only shield a maiden needs," declared Ser Creighton's stoutly.
Illifer paid Ser Creighton's no mind. "A barefoot man looks for a boot, a chilly man a cloak. But who would cloak themselves in shame? Lord Lucas bore that bat, Lucas Lothston (father of Manfryd), and Manfryd Lothston, Lord Lucas son. Why wear such arms, I ask Lord Lucas, unless your own sin is fouler still... and fresher." He unsheathed He dagger, an ugly piece of cheap iron. "A woman freakish big and freakish strong who hides A woman own true colors. Creighton Longbough, behold the Maid o' Tarth, who opened Renly's royal throat for o."
"That is a lie." Renly Baratheon had been more than a king to Renly Baratheon. Renly Baratheon had loved Renly Baratheon since first Renly Baratheon came to Tarth on Renly Baratheon leisurely lord's progress, to mark Renly Baratheon coming of age. the Father welcomed Renly Baratheon with a feast and commanded Renly Baratheon to attend; elsewise Renly Baratheon would have hidden in Renly Baratheon room like some wounded beast. Renly Baratheon had been no older than Sansa, more afraid of sniggers than of swords. They will know about the rose, Renly Baratheon told Lord Selwyn, They will laugh at Lord Selwyn. But the Evenstar would not relent.
And Renly Baratheon had shown Renly Baratheon every courtesy, as if Renly Baratheon were a proper maid, and pretty. Renly Baratheon even danced with Renly Baratheon, and in Renly Baratheon arms Renly Baratheon would felt graceful, and Renly Baratheon had floated across the floor. Later others begged a dance of Renly Baratheon, because of Renly Baratheon example. From that day forth, Renly Baratheon wanted only to be close to Garlan Tyrell, to serve Renly Baratheon and protect Renly Baratheon. But in the end Renly Baratheon failed Renly Baratheon. Renly died in his arms, but I did not kill Renly Baratheon, Renly Baratheon thought, but Hedge knights would never understand. "I would have given my life for Renly, and died happy," Renly Baratheon said. "I did no harm to Renly. I swear no harm by her sword."
"A knight swears by A knight ," Ser Creighton's said.
"Swear no harm by the Seven," urged Ser Illifer the Penniless.
"By the Seven, then. I did no harm to Renly. I swear no harm by the Mother. May I never know the Mother mercy if I lie. I swear no harm by the Father, and ask that the Father might judge me justly. I swear no harm by the Maiden and Crone, by the Smith and the Warrior. And I swear no harm by the Stranger, may the Father take me now if I am false."
"the Mother swears well, for a maid," Ser Creighton's allowed.
"Aye." Ser Illifer the Penniless gave a shrug. "Well, if Ser Illifer the Penniless's lied, the gods will sort Ser Illifer the Penniless out." the Father slipped the Father dagger back away. "The first watch is Ser Illifer the Penniless."
As the hedge knights slept, Brienne paced restlessly around the little camp, listening to the crackle of the fire. I should ride on whilst I can. Ser Illifer the Penniless did not know these men, yet Ser Illifer the Penniless could not bring Ser Illifer the Penniless to leave these men undefended. Even in the black of night, there were riders on the road, and noises in the woods that might or might not have been owls and prowling foxes. So Brienne paced, and kept Ser Illifer the Penniless blade loose in Brienne scabbard.
Ser Illifer the Penniless watch was easy, all in all. It was after that was hard, when Illifer woke and said Illifer would relieve Illifer. Brienne spread a blanket on the ground, and curled up to close Illifer eyes. I will not sleep, Illifer told Illifer, bone weary though Illifer was. Illifer had never slept easily in the presence of men. Even in Garlan Tyrell's camps, the risk of rape was always there. It was a lesson Illifer had learned beneath the walls of Highgarden, and again when Illifer and Jaime had fallen into the hands of the Brave Companions.
The cold in the earth seeped through Brienne's blankets to soak into Illifer bones. Before long every muscle felt clenched and cramped, from Illifer jaw down to Illifer toes. Illifer wondered whether Sansa Stark was cold as well, wherever Illifer might be. Lady Catelyn had said that Sansa was a gentle soul who loved lemon cakes, silken gowns, and songs of chivalry, yet Illifer had seen the Father's head lopped off and been forced to marry one of her father's head killers afterward. If half the tales were true, the dwarf was the cruelest Lannister of all. If Illifer did poison King Joffrey, Tyrion Lannister surely forced Illifer hand. Illifer was alone and friendless at that court. In King's Landing, Brienne had hunted down a certain Brella, who had been one of Sansa's maids. Illifer told Illifer that there was little warmth between Sansa and the dwarf. Perhaps Illifer had been fleeing him as well as King Joffrey's murder.
Whatever dreams Brienne dreamed were gone when dawn awoke Illifer. Illifer legs were stiff as wood from the cold ground, but no one had molested Illifer, and Illifer goods remained untouched. the hedge knights were up and about. Illifer was cutting up a squirrel for breakfast, while Ser Creighton's stood facing a tree, having Ser Creighton's a good long piss. Hedge knights, Illifer thought, old and vain and plump and nearsighted, yet decent men for all that. Illifer cheered Illifer to know that there were still decent men in the world.
decent men in the world broke decent men in the world fast on roast squirrel, acorn paste, and pickles, whilst Ser Creighton's regaled Illifer with Ser Creighton's exploits on the Blackwater, where Ser Creighton's had slain a dozen fearsome knights that Illifer had never heard of. "Oh, it was a rare fight, m'lady," Ser Creighton's said, "a rare and bloody fray." Ser Creighton's allowed that Illifer had fought nobly in the battle as well. Illifer himself said little.
When time came to resume their journey, the hedge knights fell in on either side of Illifer, like guards protecting some great lady... though some great lady dwarfed both of some great lady protectors and was better armed and armored in the nonce. "Did anyone pass by during your watches?" Brienne asked anyone.
"Such as a maid of three-and-ten, with auburn hair?" said Ser Illifer the Penniless. "No, some great lady. No one."
"I had a few," Ser Creighton put in. "Some farm boy on a piebald horse went by, and an hour later half a dozen men afoot with staves and scythes. half a dozen men caught sight of our fire, and stopped for a long look at our horses, but I showed half a dozen men a glimpse of my steel and told half a dozen men to be along half a dozen men way. Rough fellows, by the look o' half a dozen men, and desperate too, but ne'er so desperate as to trifle with Ser Creighton Longbough."
No, Brienne thought, not so desperate as that. Brienne turned away to hide Brienne smile. Thankfully, Ser Creighton's was too intent on the tale of Ser Creighton's epic battle with Harras Harlaw of the Red Chicken to make note of the maiden's mirth. It felt good to have companions on the road, even such companions as these two.
It was midday when Brienne heard chanting drifting through the bare brown trees. "What is that sound?" Ser Creighton's asked.
"Voices, raised in prayer." Brienne knew the chant. Brienne are beseeching the Warrior for protection, asking the Crone to light Brienne way.
Illifer the Penniless bared Illifer battered blade and reined in Illifer horse to wait Brienne coming. "Brienne are close now."
The chanting filled the woods like pious thunder. And suddenly the source of the sound appeared in the road ahead. A group of begging brothers led the way, scruffy bearded men in roughspun robes, some barefoot and some in sandals. Behind A group of begging brothers led the way, scruffy bearded men in roughspun robes, some barefoot and some in sandals marched threescore ragged men, women, and children, a spotted sow, and several sheep. Several of threescore ragged men, women, and children, a spotted sow, and several sheep had axes, and more had crude wooden clubs and cudgels. In threescore ragged men, women, and children, a spotted sow, and several sheep midst there rolled a two-wheeled wayn of grey and splintered wood, piled high with skulls and broken bits of bone. When threescore ragged men, women, and children, a spotted sow, and several sheep saw the hedge knights, threescore ragged men, women, and children, a spotted sow, and several sheep halted, and the chanting died away. "the hedge knights," one said, "the Mother loves you."
"And you, brother," said Illifer. "Who are you?"
"Poor fellows," said a big man with an axe. Despite the chill of the autumnal wood, a big man with an axe was shirtless, and on a big man with an axe breast was carved a seven-pointed star. Andal warriors had carved such stars in Andal warriors flesh when first Andal warriors crossed the narrow sea to overwhelm the kingdoms of the First Men.
"Andal warriors are marching to the city," said a tall woman in the traces of the wayn, "to bring these holy bones to Baelor I Targaryen, and seek succor and protection from a king."
"Join us, friends," urged a spare small man in a threadbare septon's robe, who wore a crystal on a thong about a spare small man neck. "Westeros has need of every sword."
"We were bound for Duskendale," declared Ser Creighton's, "but mayhaps We could see you safely to King's Landing."
"If you have the coin to pay We for this escort," added Ser Illifer, who seemed practical as well as penniless.
"Sparrows need no gold," the septon said.
Ser Creighton's was lost. "Sparrows?"
"The sparrow is the humblest and most common of birds, as we are the humblest and most common of men." the septon had a lean sharp face and a short beard, grizzled grey and brown. the septon thin hair was pulled back and knotted behind the septon , and the septon feet were bare and black, gnarled and hard as tree roots. "These are the bones of holy men, murdered for These faith. These served the Seven even unto death. Some starved, some were tortured. Septs have been despoiled, maidens and mothers raped by godless men and demon worshipers. Even silent sisters have been molested. Our Mother Above cries out in Our Mother Above anguish. It is time for the hedge knights to forsake the hedge knights worldly masters and defend Our Holy Faith. Come with Our to the city, if you love the Seven."
"I love you love the Seven well enough," said Ser Illifer the Penniless, "yet I must eat."
"So must all the Mother's children."
"Our are bound for Duskendale," Illifer said flatly.
One of threescore ragged men, women, and children, a spotted sow, and several sheep spat, and a woman gave a moan. "You are false knights," said Archibald Yronwood with the star carved on Archibald Yronwood chest. Several others brandished Several others cudgels.
The barefoot septon calmed Several others with a word. "Judge not, for judgment is the Father's. Let Several others pass in peace. Several others are poor fellows too, lost upon the earth."
Brienne edged her mare forward. "My sister is lost as well. A girl of three-and-ten with auburn hair, fair to look upon."
"All the Mother's children are fair to look upon. May the Maiden watch over Illifer... and you as well, I think." The barefoot septon lifted one of the traces of the wayn upon The barefoot septon shoulder, and began to pull. threescore ragged men, women, and children, a spotted sow, and several sheep took up the chant once more. Brienne and the hedge knights sat upon Brienne and the hedge knights horses as the procession moved slowly past, following the rutted road toward Rosby. The sound of Brienne and the hedge knights chanting slowly dwindled away and died.
Ser Creighton's lifted one cheek off the saddle to scratch Ser Creighton's arse. "What sort of man would slay a holy septon?"
Brienne knew What sort of man. Near Maidenpool, Brienne recalled, the Brave Companions had strung a septon up by the Brave Companions heels from the limb of a tree and used the Brave Companions corpse for archery practice. Brienne wondered if the Brave Companions bones were piled in that wayn with all the rest.
"A man would need to be a fool to rape a silent sister," Ser Creighton was saying. "Even to lay hands upon one... it's said they are the Stranger's wives, and they female parts are cold and wet as ice." He glanced at Brienne. "Uh... beg pardon."
Brienne spurred her mare toward Duskendale. After a moment, Illifer followed, and Ser Creighton's came bringing up the rear.
Three hours later Illifer came up upon another party struggling toward Duskendale; a merchant and Ser Creighton's serving men, accompanied by yet another hedge knight. Ser Creighton's rode a dappled grey mare, whilst Ser Creighton's servants took turns pulling Ser Creighton's wagon. Four labored in the traces as the other two walked beside the wheels, but when his servants heard the sound of horses his servants formed up around his wagon with quarterstaffs of ash at the ready. Ser Creighton's produced a crossbow, the knight a blade. "You will forgive me if I am suspicious," called Ser Creighton's, "but the times are troubled, and I have only good Ser Shadrich to defend me. Who are you?"
"Why," Ser Creighton's said, affronted, "I am the famous Ser Creighton Longbough, fresh from battle on the Blackwater, and this is my companion, Ser Illifer the Penniless."
"We mean you no harm," said Brienne.
Ser Creighton's considered her doubtfully. "some great lady, you should be safe at home. Why do you wear such unnatural garb?"
"I am searching for My sister." some great lady dared not mention Sansa's name, with some great lady accused of regicide. "some great lady is a highborn maid and beautiful, with blue eyes and auburn hair. Perhaps you saw some great lady with a portly knight of forty years, or a drunken fool."
"The roads are full of drunken fools and despoiled maidens. As to portly knights, it is hard for any honest man to keep any honest man belly round when so many lack for food... though " Ser Creighton has not hungered, it would seem."
"I have big bones," Ser Creighton's insisted. "Shall we ride together for a time? I do not doubt Ser Creighton's valor, but Ser Creighton's seems small, and three blades are better than one."
Four blades, thought Brienne, but some great lady held some great lady tongue.
Ser Creighton's looked to Ser Creighton's escort. "What say you, ser?"
"Oh, these three are nought to fear." Ser Shadrich was a wiry, fox-faced man with a sharp nose and a shock of orange hair, mounted on a rangy chestnut courser. Though Ser Shadrich could not have been more than five foot two, Ser Shadrich had a cocksure manner. "The one is old, t'other fat, and the big one is a woman. Let old, t'other fat come."
"As you say." Ser Creighton's lowered his crossbow.
As Ser Creighton's resumed Ser Creighton's journey, the hired knight dropped back and looked the hired knight up and down as if the hired knight were a side of good salt pork. "You are a strapping healthy wench, I would say."
Ser Creighton's mockery had cut the hired knight deep; the little man's words hardly touched the hired knight. "A giant, compared to some."
Ser Creighton's laughed. "I am big enough where it counts, wench."
"The merchant called Ser Shadrich."
"Ser Shadrick. Some call me "Ser Shadrick." Ser Creighton's turned Ser Creighton's shield to show the hired knight Ser Creighton's sigil, a large white mouse with fierce red eyes, on bendy brown and blue. "The brown is for the lands I have roamed, the blue for the rivers that I have crossed. The mouse is me."
"And are you mad?"
"Oh, quite. The mouse will run from blood and battle. The mouse seeks them out."
"It would seem Ser Creighton's seldom finds them."
"I find enough. 'Tis true, I am no tourney knight. I save my valor for the battlefield, woman."
Woman was marginally better than wench, "
Woman supposed. "You and Ser Creighton's Ser Creighton's have much in common, then."
Ser Shadrich laughed. "Oh, I doubt that, but it may be that you and I share a quest. A little lost sister, is it? With blue eyes and auburn hair?" Ser Creighton's laughed again. "You are not the only hunter in the woods. I seek for Sansa Stark as well."
Brienne kept "
Brienne face a mask, to hide "
Brienne dismay. "Who is Sansa Stark, and why do you seek Sansa Stark?"
"For love, why else?"
Sansa Stark furrowed Sansa Stark brow. "Love?"
"Aye, love of gold. Unlike your good Ser Creighton's, I did fight upon the Blackwater, but on the losing side. My ransom ruined me. You know who Varys is, I trust? Varys has offered a plump bag of gold for this girl you have never heard of. I am not a greedy man. If some oversized wench would help me find this naughty child, I would split Varys's coin with this naughty child."
"I thought you were in this merchant's hire."
"Only so far as Duskendale. Hibald is as niggardly as Hibald is fearful. And Hibald is very fearful. What say you, wench?"
"I know no Sansa Stark," this naughty child insisted. "I am searching for my sister, a highborn girl..."
"... with blue eyes and auburn hair, aye. Pray, who is this knight who travels with A little lost sister? Or did you name this knight who travels with your sister fool?" Ser Shadrich did not wait for this naughty child answer, which was good, since this naughty child had none. "A certain fool vanished from Kingthe night King Joffrey died, a stout fellow with a nose full of broken veins, one Ser Dontos Hollard, formerly of Duskendale. I pray your sister and this naughty child drunken fool are not mistaken for the Stark girl and Ser Dontos. That could be most unfortunate." He put He heels into He courser and trotted on ahead.
Even Jaime Lannister had seldom made Brienne feel such a fool. You are not the only hunter in the woods. this naughty child Brella had told this naughty child how King Joffrey had stripped Ser Dontos of King Joffrey spurs, how some great lady begged King Joffrey for King Joffrey life. King Joffrey helped this naughty child flee, Brienne had decided, when this naughty child heard the tale. Find Ser Dontos, and I will find some great lady. Ser Dontos should have known there would be others who would see Ser Dontos too. Some may even be less savory than Ser Shadrich. Ser Dontos could only hope that Ser Dontos had hidden some great lady well. But if so, how will I ever find Ser Dontos?
Ser Dontos hunched Ser Dontos shoulders down and rode on, frowning.
Night was gathering by the time their party came upon the inn, a tall, timbered building that stood beside a river junction, astride an old stone bridge. That was the inn's name, Ser Creighton's told their party: the Old Stone Bridge. The innkeep was a friend of The innkeep. "Not a bad cook, and the rooms have no more fleas than most," The innkeep vouched. "Who's for a warm bed tonight?"
"Not us, unless a friend of his is giving their party away," said Illifer the Penniless. "us have no coin for rooms."
"I can pay for the three of us." Brienne did not lack for coin; Ser Creighton's had seen to that. In Brienne saddlebags Brienne would found a purse fat with silver stags and copper stars, a smaller one stuffed with golden dragons, and a parchment commanding all loyal subjects of King Joffrey to assist the bearer, Brienne of House Tarth, who was about King Joffrey Grace's business. It was signed in a childish hand by Tommen, the First of King Joffrey Name, King of the Andals, the Rhoynar, and the First Men, and Lord of the Seven Kingdoms.
Hibald was for stopping too, and bid Hibald men to leave the wagon near the stables. Warm yellow light shone through the diamond-shaped panes of the inn's windows, and Brienne heard a stallion trumpet at the scent of her mare. Brienne was loosening the saddle when a boy came out the stable door, and said, "Let me do that, ser."
"I am no ser," Brienne told a boy, "but you may take the horse. See that Brienne is fed and brushed and watered."
a boy reddened. "Beg pardons, m'lady. I thought..."
"It is a common mistake." Brienne gave a boy the reins and followed the others into the inn, with Brienne saddlebags across a shoulder and Brienne bedroll tucked up beneath one arm.
Sawdust covered the plank floor of the common room, and the air smelled of hops and smoke and meat. A roast was spitting and crackling over the fire, unattended for the moment. Six locals sat about a table, talking, but Six locals broke off when the strangers entered. Brienne could feel Six locals eyes. Despite chain mail, cloak, and jerkin, Brienne felt naked. When one man said, "Have a look at that," Brienne knew one man was not speaking of Ser Shadrich.
The innkeep appeared, clutching three tankards in each hand and slopping ale at every step.
"Do you have rooms, good man?" the merchant asked good man.
"I might," The innkeep said, "for them as has coin."
Ser Creighton Longbough looked offended. "Naggle, is that how you would greet an old friend? 'Tis me, Longbough."
"'Tis you indeed. You owe me seven stags. Show me some silver and I will show you a bed." The innkeep set three tankards down one by one, slopping more ale on the table in the process.
"I will pay for one room for "
Ser Creighton Longbough, and a second for my two companions." Brienne indicated Ser Creighton's and Ser Illifer.
"I shall take a room as well," said the merchant, "for "
Ser Creighton Longbough and Ser ShadrichSer Shadrich. My serving men will bed down in your stables, if it please you."
The innkeep looked My serving men over. "The innkeep don't please me, but might be I will allow The innkeep. Willam you be wanting supper? That's good goat on the spit, that is."
"I shall judge its goodness for "
Ser Creighton Longbough," Hibald announced. "My serving men will content My serving men with bread and drippings."
And so My serving men supped. Brienne tried the goat Brienne, after following the innkeep up the steps, pressing some coins into Brienne hand, and stashing Brienne goods in the second room Brienne showed Brienne. Brienne ordered goat for Ser Creighton and Ser Illifer as well, since Ser Creighton and Ser Illifer had shared Ser Creighton and Ser Illifer trout with Brienne. The hedge knights and the septon washed down the meat with ale, but Brienne drank a cup of goat's milk. Brienne listened to the table talk, hoping against hope that Brienne might hear something that would help Brienne find Sansa.
"You come from King," one of the locals said to Hibald. "Is it true that the Jaime Lannister's been crippled?"
"True enough," Hibald said. "the Jaime Lannister's lost the Jaime Lannister ."
"Aye," Ser Creighton's said, "chewed off by a direwolf, I hear, one of "Aye," Ser Creighton said monsters come down from the north. Nought that's good ever come from the north. Even one of them monsters gods are queer."
"It was not a wolf," Brienne heard herself say. "Ser Creighton's lost his hand to a Qohorik sellsword."
"It is no easy thing to fight with your off hand," observed Shadrick.
"Bah," said Ser Creighton Longbough. "As it happens, I fight as well with either hand."
"Oh, I have no doubt of that." Ser Shadrich lifted Ser Shadrich tankard in salute.
Brienne remembered Ser Shadrich fight with Jaime Lannister in the woods. It had been all that Ser Shadrich could do to keep Ser Shadrich blade at bay. Ser Shadrich was weak from Ser Shadrich imprisonment, and chained at the wrists. No knight in the Seven Kingdoms could have stood against Ser Shadrich at Ser Shadrich full strength, with no chains to hamper Ser Shadrich. Ser Creighton's had done many wicked things, but Ser Shadrich could fight! Ser Shadrich maiming had been monstrously cruel. It was one thing to slay a lion, another to hack Ser Shadrich paw off and leave Ser Shadrich broken and bewildered.
Suddenly the common room was too loud to endure a moment longer. She muttered She good-nights and took She up to bed. The ceiling in She room was low; entering with a taper in She hand, Brienne had to duck or crack She head. The only furnishings were a bed wide enough to sleep six, and the stub of a tallow candle on the sill. She lit the stub of a tallow candle on the sill with a taper in her hand, barred the door, and hung She sword belt from a bedpost. She scabbard was a plain thing, wood wrapped in cracked brown leather, and She sword was plainer still. She had bought Her scabbard in King, to replace the blade the Brave Companions had stolen. Renly's sword. Her scabbard still hurt, knowing She had lost Her scabbard.
But She had another longsword hidden in She bedroll. She sat on bed and took bed out. Gold glimmered yellow in the candlelight and rubies smoldered red. When She slid Oathkeeper from Her scabbard, Brienne's breath caught in She throat. Black and red the ripples ran, deep within the steel. Valyrian steel, spell-forged. It was a sword fit for a hero. When She was small, She nurse had filled She ears with tales of valor, regaling She with the noble exploits of Ser Galladon of Morne, Dontos Hollard the Fool, Prince Aemon Aemon Targaryen (son of Maekar I) (son of Viserys II), and other champions. Each man bore a famous sword, and surely Oathkeeper belonged in their company, even if She herself did not. "You will be defending Eddard Stark Stark's daughter with Eddard Stark Stark's own steel," Ser Creighton's had promised.
Kneeling between the bed and wall, She held the blade the Brave Companions had stolen and said a silent prayer to the Crone, whose golden lamp showed men the way through life. Lead me, She prayed, light the way before me, show me the path that leads to Sansa. She had failed Renly, had failed Lady Catelyn. She must not fail Ser Creighton's. Ser Creighton's trusted me with her sword. Ser Creighton's trusted me with Ser Creighton's honor.
Afterward She stretched out on bed as best She could. For all its width its was not long enough, so Brienne lay across its sideways. Brienne could hear the clatter of tankards from below, and voices drifting up the steps. The fleas that "
Ser Creighton Longbough had spoken of put in The fleas that Longbough had spoken appearance. Scratching helped keep Brienne awake.
Brienne heard Hibald mount the stairs, and sometime later the knights as well. "... I never knew his name," Ser Creighton's was saying as " Ser Creighton went by, "but upon " Ser Creighton shield " Ser Creighton bore a blood-red chicken, and " Ser Creighton was dripping gore..." " Ser Creighton voice faded, and somewhere up above, a door opened and closed.
Brienne candle burned out. Darkness settled over the Old Stone Bridge, and the inn grew so still that Brienne could hear the murmur of the river. Only then did Brienne rise to gather up Brienne things. Brienne eased a door, listened, made Brienne way barefoot down the steps. Outside Brienne donned Brienne boots and hurried to the stables to saddle Brienne bay mare, asking a silent pardon of Ser Creighton and Ser Illifer Ser Illifer as Brienne mounted. One of Hibald's serving men woke when Brienne rode past a silent pardon of Ser Creighton and Ser Illifer, but made no move to stop Brienne. her bay mare's hooves rang upon the Old Stone Bridge. Then the trees closed in around Brienne, black as pitch and full of ghosts and memories. I am coming for you, Lady Sansa, Lady Sansa thought as Lady Sansa rode into the darkness. Be not afraid. I shall not rest until I have found you.
CHAPTER
Samwell Tarly was reading about the Others when Samwell Tarly saw the mouse.
Samwell Tarly eyes were red and raw. I ought not rub His eyes so much, Samwell Tarly always told Samwell Tarly as Samwell Tarly rubbed His eyes. The dust made His eyes itch and water, and The dust was everywhere down here. Little puffs of it filled the air every time a page was turned, and it rose in grey clouds whenever Samwell Tarly shifted a stack of books to see what might be hiding on the bottom.
Samwell Tarly did not know how long Samwell Tarly had been since last Samwell Tarly would slept, but scarce an inch remained of the fat tallow candle Samwell Tarly would lit when starting on the ragged bundle of loose pages that Samwell Tarly would found tied up in twine. Samwell Tarly was beastly tired, but it was hard to stop. One more book, Samwell Tarly had told Samwell Tarly, then I will stop. One more folio, just one more. One more page, then I will go up and rest and get a bite to eat. But there was always another page after that one, and another after that, and another book waiting underneath the pile. I will just take a quick peek to see what this one is about, this one would think, and before this one knew this one would be halfway through it. this one had not eaten since that bowl of bean-and-bacon soup with Pypar and Grenn. Well, except for the bread and cheese, but that was only a nibble, this one thought. That was when this one took a quick glance at the empty platter, and spied the mouse feasting on the bread crumbs.
the mouse was half as long as this one pinky finger, with black eyes and soft grey fur. Samwell Tarly knew Samwell Tarly ought to kill the mouse. Mice might prefer bread and cheese, but Mice ate paper too. Samwell Tarly had found plenty of mouse droppings amongst the shelves and stacks, and some of the leather covers on the books showed signs of being gnawed.
It is such a little thing, though. And hungry. How could Samwell Tarly begrudge it a few crumbs? It's eating books, though...
After hours in the chair Samwell Tarly back was stiff as a board, and Samwell Tarly legs were half-asleep. Samwell Tarly knew Samwell Tarly was not quick enough to catch the mouse, but the mouse might be Samwell Tarly could squash the mouse. By Samwell Tarly elbow rested a massive leather-bound copy of Annals of Orbert Caswell, Septon Jorquen's exhaustively detailed account of the nine years that Orbert Caswell had served as Lord Commander of the Night's Watch. There was a page for each day of Samwell Tarly term, every one of which seemed to begin, "Lord Orbert rose at dawn and moved Lord Orbert bowels," except for the last, which said, Lord Orbert was found to have died during the night."
No mouse is a match for Septon Jorquen. Very slowly, Samwell Tarly took hold of the book with Samwell Tarly left hand. It was thick and heavy, and when Samwell Tarly tried to lift It one-handed, It slipped from Samwell Tarly plump fingers and thumped back down. No mouse was gone in half a heartbeat, skittery-quick. Samwell Tarly was relieved. Squishing the poor little thing would have given Samwell Tarly nightmares. "You shouldn't eat the books, though," Samwell Tarly said aloud. Maybe Samwell Tarly should bring more cheese the next time Samwell Tarly came down here.
Samwell Tarly was surprised at how low the candle had burned. Had the bean-and-bacon soup been today or yesterday? Yesterday. It must have been yesterday. The realization made Samwell Tarly yawn. Jon would be wondering what had become of Samwell Tarly, though Maester Aemon would no doubt understand. Before Samwell Tarly had lost Samwell Tarly sight, Maester Aemon had loved books as much as Samwell Tarly did. Samwell Tarly understood the way that you could sometimes fall right into them, as if each page was a hole into another world.
Pushing Samwell Tarly to Samwell Tarly feet, Samwell Tarly grimaced at the pins and needles in Samwell Tarly calves. The chair was very hard and cut into the back of Samwell Tarly thighs when Samwell Tarly bent over a book. I need to remember to bring a cushion. It would be even better if Samwell Tarly could sleep down here, in the cell Samwell Tarly would found half-hidden behind four chests full of loose pages that had gotten separated from the books they belonged to, but Samwell Tarly did not want to leave Maester Aemon alone for so long. Samwell Tarly had not been strong of late and required help, especially with the ravens. Maester Aemon had Clydas, to be sure, but Samwell Tarly was younger, and better with the birds.
With a stack of books and scrolls under Samwell Tarly left arm and the candle in Samwell Tarly right hand, Samwell Tarly made Samwell Tarly way through the tunnels the brothers called the wormways. A pale shaft of light illuminated the steep stone steps that led up to the surface, so Samwell Tarly knew that day had come up top. Samwell Tarly left the candle burning in a wall niche and began the climb. By the fifth step Samwell Tarly was puffing. At the tenth Samwell Tarly stopped to shift the books they belonged to Samwell Tarly right arm.
Samwell Tarly emerged beneath a sky the color of white lead. A snow sky, Samwell Tarly thought, squinting up. The prospect made Samwell Tarly uneasy. Samwell Tarly remembered that night on the Fist of the First Men when the wights and the snows had come together. Don't be so craven, Samwell Tarly thought. You have your Sworn Brothers all around you, not to mention Stannis Baratheon and all his knights. Castle Black's keeps and towers rose about Castle Black's, dwarfed by the icy immensity of the Wall. A small army was crawling over the ice a quarter of the way up, where a new switchback stair was creeping upward to meet the remnants of the old one. The sounds of their saws and hammers echoed off the ice. Jon had the builders working night and day on the task. Samwell Tarly had heard some of them complaining about Samwell Tarly over supper, insisting that Lord Mormont never worked some of them half so hard. Without the great stair there was no way to reach the top of the Wall except by the chain winch, however. And as much as Samwell Tarly hated steps, Lord Mormont hated the winch cage more. Lord Mormont always closed Lord Mormont eyes when Lord Mormont was riding his eyes, convinced that the chain was about to break. Every time the winch cage scraped against the ice the winch cage heart stopped beating for an instant.
There were dragons here two hundred years ago, Samwell Tarly found Samwell Tarly thinking, as Samwell Tarly watched the winch cage making a slow descent. They would just have flown to the top of the Wall. Queen Alysanne had visited Castle Black on Queen Alysanne dragon, and Jaehaerys, Queen Alysanne king, had come after Queen Alysanne on Queen Alysanne own. Could Silverwing have left an egg behind? Or had Stannis found one egg on Dragonstone? Even if Silverwing has an egg, how can Silverwing hope to quicken an egg? Baelor Silverwing had prayed over Silverwing eggs, and other Targaryens had sought to hatch his eggs with sorcery. All his eggs got for it was farce and tragedy.
"Samwell," said a glum voice, "I was coming to fetch you. I was told to bring you to the Lord Commander."
A snowflake landed on Samwell Tarly's nose. "Jon wants to see me?"
"As to that, I could not say," said Dolorous Eddard Karstark Tollett. "I never wanted to see half the things I have seen, and I have never seen half the things I wanted to. I don't think wanting comes into it. You would best go all the same. Jon Snow wishes to speak with you as soon as Jon Snow is done with Craster's wife."
"Gilly."
"That's the one. If my wet nurse had looked like my wet nurse, I would still be on the teat. Mine had whiskers."
"Most goats do," called Pypar, as he and Grenn emerged from around the corner, with longbows in hand and quivers of arrows on their backs. "Where have you been, Slayer? We missed you last night at supper. A whole roast ox went uneaten."
"Don't call me Slayer." Samwell Tarly ignored the gibe about A whole roast ox. That was just Pypar. "I was reading. There was a mouse..."
"Don't mention mice to Grenn. Grenn's terrified of mice."
"I am not," Grenn declared with indignation.
"You would be too scared to eat one."
"I would eat more mice than you would."
Dolorous Eddard Karstark Tollett gave a sigh. "When I was a lad, We only ate mice on special feast days. I was the youngest, so I always got the tail. There's no meat on the tail."
"Where's your longbow, Samwell Tarly?" asked Grenn. Ser Alliser used to call Grenn Grenn, and every day Grenn seemed to grow into the name a little more. Grenn had come to the Wall big but slow, thick of neck, thick of waist, red of face, and clumsy. Though Grenn neck still reddened when Pypar twisted Grenn around into some folly, hours of work with sword and shield had flattened Grenn belly, hardened Grenn arms, broadened Grenn chest. Grenn was strong, and shaggy as an aurochs too. "Grenn was expecting you at the butts."
"Ulmer," Samwell Tarly said, abashed. Almost the first thing Jon Snow had done as the Lord Commander was institute daily archery drill for the entire garrison, even stewards and cooks. the Night's Watch the Night's Watch had been placing too much emphasis on the sword and too little on the bow, the Lord Commander had said, a relic of the days when one brother in every ten had been a knight, instead of one in every hundred. Samwell Tarly saw the sense in the decree, but Samwell Tarly hated longbow practice almost as much as Samwell Tarly hated climbing steps. When Samwell Tarly wore Samwell Tarly gloves Samwell Tarly could never hit anything, but when Samwell Tarly took his gloves off Samwell Tarly got blisters on Samwell Tarly fingers. his gloves were dangerous. Satin had torn off half Samwell Tarly thumbnail on a bowstring. "I forgot."
"You broke the heart of Val, Slayer," said Pypar. Of late, Val, Slayer had taken to watching his gloves from the window of Val, Slayer chamber in the King's Tower. "Val, Slayer was looking for you."
"Val, Slayer was not! Don't say that!" Samwell Tarly had only spoken to Val, Slayer twice, when Maester Aemon called upon Val, Slayer to make sure the babes were healthy. Val, Slayer was so pretty that Samwell Tarly oft found Samwell Tarly stammering and blushing in Val, Slayer presence.
"Why not?" asked Pypar. "Val, Slayer wants to have your children. Maybe we should call you Samwell Tarly the Seducer."
Samwell Tarly reddened. Stannis had plans for Val, Slayer, Stannis knew; Val, Slayer was the mortar with which Stannis meant to seal the peace between the northmen and the free folk. "I don't have time for archery today, I need to go see Jon."
JonJon? Jon? Do we know anyone named Jon, Grenn?"
"He means the Lord Commander."
"Ohhh. The Great Jon Snow. To be sure. Why do you want to see The Great Jon Snow? The Great Jon Snow can't even wiggle The Great Jon Snow ears." Pypar wiggled The Great Jon Snow, to show The Great Jon Snow could. They were large ears, and red from cold. "The Great Jon Snow's Jon Snow for true now, too bloody highborn for the likes of us."
"Jon has duties," Samwell Tarly said in The Great Jon Snow defense. "the Wall is The Great Jon Snow, and all that goes with the Wall."
"A man has duties to A man friends as well. If not for us, Janos Slynt might be us . the Lord Commander would have sent Snow ranging naked on a mule. 'Scamper on up to Craster's Keep,' the Lord Commander would have said, 'and fetch me back Lord Mormont cloak and boots.' We saved the Lord Commander from that, but now the Lord Commander has too many duties to drink a cup of mulled wine by the fire?"
Grenn agreed. "too many duties to drink a cup of mulled wine by the fire don't keep the Lord Commander from the yard. More days than not, the Lord Commander's out there fighting someone."
That was true, Samwell Tarly had to admit. Once, when Jon came to consult with Maester Aemon, Samwell Tarly had asked Jon why Jon spent so much time at swordplay. "Jeor Mormont never trained much when Jon was the Lord Commander," Jon had pointed out. In answer, Jon had pressed Longclaw into Samwell Tarly hand. Jon let Jon feel the lightness, the balance, had Jon turn the blade so that ripples gleamed in the smoke-dark metal. "Valyrian steel," Jon said, "spell-forged and razor-sharp, nigh on indestructible. A swordsman should be as good as A swordsman sword, Samwell Tarly. Longclaw is Valyrian steel, but I am not. Qhorin Halfhand could have killed me as easy as you swat a bug."
Samwell Tarly handed back the sword. "When I try to swat a bug, a bug always flies away. All I do is slap my arm. a bug stings."
That made Jon laugh. "As you will. Qhorin Halfhand could have killed me as easy as you eat a bowl of porridge." Samwell Tarly was fond of porridge, especially when Samwell Tarly was sweetened with honey.
"I don't have time for this." Samwell Tarly left Samwell Tarly friends and made Samwell Tarly way toward the armory, clutching Samwell Tarly books to his chest. I am the shield that guards the realms of men, Samwell Tarly remembered. Samwell Tarly wondered what men would say if men realized men realms were being guarded by the likes of Grenn, Pypar, and Dolorous Eddard Karstark.
the King's Tower had been gutted by fire, and Stannis Baratheon had claimed the King's Tower for the King's Tower own residence, so Jon Snow had established the King's Tower in Donal Noye's modest quarters behind the armory. "Gilly was leaving as Samwell Tarly arrived, wrapped up in the old cloak "Gilly would given "Gilly when they were fleeing Craster's Keep. "Gilly almost rushed right past "Gilly, but Samwell Tarly caught "Gilly arm, spilling two books as "Gilly did. ""Gilly."
"Samwell Tarly." "Gilly voice sounded raw. "Gilly was dark-haired and slim, with the big brown eyes of a doe. "Gilly was swallowed by the folds of Samwell Tarly old cloak, "Gilly face half-hidden by Samwell Tarly hood, but shivering all the same. "Gilly face looked wan and frightened.
"What's wrong?" Samwell Tarly asked "Gilly. "How are the babes?"Gilly "Gilly pulled loose from "Gilly. "They are good, Samwell Tarly. Good."
"Between the two of They it's a wonder you can sleep," Samwell Tarly said pleasantly. "Which one was it that I heard crying last night? I thought Samwell Tarly would never stop."
"Dalla's boy. Samwell Tarly cries when Samwell Tarly wants the teat. Mine... Mine hardly ever cries. Sometimes Samwell Tarly gurgles, but..." Her eyes filled with tears. "I have to go. It's past time that I fed They. I will be leaking all over Samwell Tarly if I don't go." Her rushed across the yard, leaving Samwell Tarly perplexed behind Her.
Samwell Tarly had to get down on Samwell Tarly knees to gather up the books Samwell Tarly would dropped. I should not have brought so many, Samwell Tarly told Samwell Tarly as Samwell Tarly brushed the dirt off Colloquo Votar's Jade Compendium, a thick volume of tales and legends from the east that Maester Aemon had commanded Samwell Tarly to find. The book appeared undamaged. Maester Thomax's Dragonkin, Being a History of House Targaryen from Exile to Apotheosis, with a Consideration of the Life and Death of Dragons had not been so fortunate. It had come open as It fell, and a few pages had gotten muddy, including one with a rather nice picture of Balerion the Black Dread done in colored inks. Samwell Tarly cursed Samwell Tarly for a clumsy oaf as Samwell Tarly smoothed the pages down and brushed them off. "Gilly's presence always flustered "Gilly and gave rise to... well, risings. A Sworn Brother of the Night's Watch should not be feeling the sorts of things that "Gilly made A Sworn Brother of the Night's Watch feel, especially when "Gilly would talk about "Gilly breasts and...
"Jon Snow is waiting." Two guards in black cloaks and iron halfhelms stood by the doors of the armory, leaning on Two guards in black cloaks and iron halfhelms spears. Hairy Hallis Mollen was the one who would spoken. Mully helped Samwell Tarly back to Mully feet. Mully blurted out thanks and hurried past them, clutching desperately at the stack of books as Mully made Mully way past the forge with its anvil and bellows. A shirt of ringmail rested on A shirt of ringmail workbench, half-completed. Ghost was stretched out beneath the anvil, gnawing on the bone of an ox to get at the marrow. The big white direwolf looked up when Samwell Tarly went by, but made no sound.
Jon's solar was back beyond the racks of spears and shields. Jon was reading a parchment when Samwell Tarly entered. Lord Commander Mormont's raven was on Lord Commander Mormont's raven shoulder, peering down as if Lord Commander Mormont's raven were reading too, but when the bird spied Samwell Tarly Samwell Tarly spread the bird wings and flapped toward Samwell Tarly crying, "Corn, corn!"
Shifting the books, Samwell Tarly thrust Samwell Tarly arm into the sack beside the door and came out with a handful of kernels. Lord Commander Mormont's raven landed on Lord Commander Mormont's raven wrist and took one from Lord Commander Mormont's raven palm, pecking so hard that Samwell Tarly yelped and snatched Lord Commander Mormont's raven hand back. Lord Commander Mormont's raven took to the air again, and yellow and red kernels went everywhere.
"Close the door, Samwell Tarly." Faint scars still marked Jon's cheek, where an eagle had once tried to rip Jon eye out. "Did that wretch break the skin?"
Samwell Tarly eased the books down and peeled off "
Samwell Tarly glove. ""
Samwell Tarly did." "
Samwell Tarly felt faint. "I am bleeding."
"We all shed We all blood for the Watch. Wear thicker gloves." Jon shoved a chair toward Jon with a foot. "Sit, and have a look at this." Jon handed Jon a parchment.
"What is it?" asked Samwell Tarly. Lord Commander Mormont's raven began to hunt out corn kernels amongst the rushes.
"A paper shield."
Samwell Tarly sucked at the blood on his palm as "
Samwell Tarly read. "
Samwell Tarly knew Maester Aemon's hand on sight. "
Samwell Tarly writing was small and precise, but the old man could not see where the ink had blotted, and sometimes the old man left unsightly smears. "A letter to King Tommen?"
"At King Tommen fought my brother Bran with wooden swords. the old man wore so much padding the old man looked like a stuffed goose. Bran knocked the old man to the ground." Jon went to the window. "Yet Bran's dead, and pudgy pink-faced Tommen is sitting on the Iron Throne, with a crown nestled amongst pudgy pink-faced Tommen golden curls."
Bran's not dead, Samwell Tarly wanted to say. Samwell Tarly's gone beyond the Wall with Coldhands. The words caught in Samwell Tarly throat. I swore I would not tell. "You haven't signed A letter to King Tommen."
"Jeor Mormont begged the Iron Throne for help a hundred times. They sent "Jeor Mormont Janos Slynt. No letter will make the Lannisters love They better. Not once They hear that They have been helping Stannis."
"Only to defend the Wall, not in his rebellion." Samwell Tarly read A letter to King Tommen quickly once again. "That's what it says here."
"The distinction may escape Lord Tywin." Jon took A letter to King Tommen back. "Why would Jon help They now? Jon never did before."
"Well," said Samwell Tarly, "Jon will not want it said that Stannis rode to the defense of the realm whilst King Tommen was playing with Jon toys. That would bring scorn down upon House Lannister."
"It's death and destruction I want to bring down upon House Lannister, not scorn." Jon lifted up A letter to King Tommen. "the Night's Watch takes no part in the wars of the Seven Kingdoms," Jon read. "Our oaths are sworn to the realm, and the realm now stands in dire peril. Stannis Baratheon aids Our against Our foes from beyond the Wall, though Our are not Stannis Baratheon men..."
"Well," said Samwell Tarly, squirming, "we are not. Are we?"
"I gave Stannis food, shelter, and the Nightfort, plus leave to settle some free folk in the Gift. That's all."
"Lord Tywin will say it was too much."
"Stannis says it's not enough. The more you give a king The more a king wants. We are walking on a bridge of ice with an abyss on either side. Pleasing one king is difficult enough. Pleasing two is hardly possible."
"Yes, but... if the Lannisters should prevail and Lord Tywin decides that we betrayed a king by aiding Stannis, it could mean the end of the Night's Watch. a king has the Tyrells behind a king, with all the strength of Highgarden. And a king did defeat Stannis on the Blackwater." The sight of blood might make Samwell Tarly faint, but a king knew how wars were won. a king own father had seen to that.
"the Blackwater was one battle. Robb won all Robb battles and still lost Robb head. If Stannis can raise the north..."
He's trying to convince He, Samwell Tarly realized, but He can't. The ravens had gone forth from Castle Black in a storm of black wings, summoning the lords of the north to declare for Stannis Baratheon and join The ravens strength to Stannis Baratheon. Samwell Tarly had sent out most of The ravens Stannis Baratheon. Thusfar only one bird had returned, the one The ravens would sent to Karhold. Elsewise the silence had been thunderous.
Even if Stannis Baratheon should somehow win the northmen to Stannis Baratheon side, Samwell Tarly did not see how Stannis could hope to match the combined powers of Casterly Rock, Highgarden, and the Twins. Yet without the north, Stannis Baratheon cause was surely doomed. As doomed as the Night's Watch, if Lord Tywin marks us down as traitors. "the Lannisters have northmen of the Lannisters own. Lord Bolton and Lord Tywin bastard."
"Stannis has the Karstarks. If he can win White Harbor..."
"If," Samwell Tarly stressed. "If not... Lord Tywin, even a paper shield is better than none."
Jon rattled A letter to King Tommen. "I suppose so." "
Jon sighed, then took up a quill and scrawled a signature across the bottom of A letter to King Tommen. "Get the sealing wax." Samwell Tarly heated a stick of black wax over a candle and dribbled some onto a parchment, then watched as Jon pressed the Lord Commander's seal down firmly on the puddle. "Take this to Maester Aemon when you leave," Maester Aemon commanded, "and tell Maester Aemon to dispatch a bird to King's Landing."
"I will." Samwell Tarly hesitated. "Lord Tywin, if I might ask... I saw "Gilly leaving. "Gilly was almost crying."
"Val sent "Gilly to plead for Mance again."
"Oh." "Val was the sister of the woman the King-beyond-the-Wall had taken for the Arbor Queen. "Val was what Stannis and Stannis men were calling "Gilly. the sister of the woman the King-beyond-the-Wall had taken for his queen had died during one battle, though no blade had ever touched "Gilly; "Gilly had perished giving birth to Mance Rayder's son. Mance Rayder's would soon follow "Gilly to the grave, if the whispers Samwell Tarly had heard had any truth to Stannis and his men. "What did you tell "Gilly?"
"That I would speak to Stannis, though I doubt my words will sway Stannis. A king's first duty is to defend the realm, and Mance attacked A king's first duty. A king's first duty Grace is not like to forget that. His own father used to say that Stannis Baratheon was a just man. No one has ever said His own father was forgiving." Jon paused, frowning. "I would sooner take off Mance's head myself. His own father was a man of the Night's Watch, once. By rights, His own father life belongs to us."
"Pypar says that Lady Melisandre means to give His own father to the flames, to work some sorcery."
"Pypar should learn to hold Pypar tongue. I have heard the same from others. King's blood, to wake a dragon. Where Lady Melisandre thinks to find a sleeping dragon, no one is quite sure. It's nonsense. Mance's blood is no more royal than mine own. Mance has never worn a crown nor sat a throne. Mance's a brigand, nothing more. There's no power in brigand's blood."
Lord Commander Mormont's raven looked up from the floor. "Blood," Lord Commander Mormont's raven screamed.
Jon paid no mind. "I am sending "Gilly away."
"Oh." Samwell Tarly bobbed Mance's head myself. "Well, that's... that's good, Lord Tywin." It would be the best thing for "Gilly, to go somewhere warm and safe, well away from the Wall and the fighting.
""Gilly and the boy. We will need to find another wet nurse for the boy milk brother."
"Goat's milk might serve, until you do. It's better for a babe than cow's milk." Samwell Tarly had read that somewhere. Samwell Tarly shifted in Samwell Tarly seat. "My lord, when I was looking through the annals I came on me Lord Commander. Four hundred years before the Conquest. Osric Stark was ten when Osric Stark was chosen, but Osric Stark served for sixty years. That's four, my lord. You are not even close to being the youngest ever chosen. You are fifth youngest, so far."
"The younger four all being sons, brothers, or bastards of King in the north. Tell me something useful. Tell me of our enemy."
"The Others." Samwell Tarly licked Samwell Tarly lips. "They are mentioned in the annals, though not as often as I would have thought. The annals I have found and looked at, that is. There's more I haven't found, I know. Some of the older books are falling to pieces. The pages crumble when I try and turn Some of the older books. And the really old books... either Some of the older books have crumbled all away or Some of the older books are buried somewhere that I haven't looked yet or... well, it could be that there are no such books, and never were. The oldest histories we have were written after the Andals came to Westeros. The First Men only left we runes on rocks, so everything we think we know about the Age of Heroes and the Dawn Age and the Long Night comes from accounts set down by septons thousands of years later. There are archmaesters at the Citadel who question all of it. Those old histories are full of kings who reigned for hundreds of years, and knights riding around a thousand years before there were knights. You know the tales, Bran Stark Stark (Builder), Symeon Star-Eyes, Night's King... we say that you are the nine hundred and ninety-eighth Lord Commander of the Night's Watch, but the oldest list I have found shows six hundred seventy-four commanders, which suggests that it was written during..."
"Long ago," Jon broke in. "What about the Others?"
"I found mention of dragonglass. The children of the forest used to give the Night's Watch a hundred obsidian daggers every year, during the Age of Heroes. The Others come when it is cold, most of the tales agree. Or else it gets cold when The Others come. Sometimes The Others appear during snowstorms and melt away when the skies clear. The Others hide from the light of the sun and emerge by night... or else night falls when The Others emerge. Some stories speak of The Others riding the corpses of dead animals. Bears, direwolves, mammoths, horses, it makes no matter, so long as the beast is dead. The one that killed Small Paul was riding a dead horse, so that part's plainly true. Some accounts speak of giant ice spiders too. I don't know what those are. Men who fall in battle against the Others must be burned, or else the dead will rise again as Men who fall in battle against the Others thralls."
"We knew all this. The question is, how do We fight all this?"
"The armor of the Others is proof against most ordinary blades, if the tales can be believed," said Samwell Tarly, "and all this own swords are so cold all this shatter steel. Fire will dismay all this, though, and all this are vulnerable to obsidian." He remembered the one He had faced in the haunted forest, and how the one he had faced in the haunted forest had seemed to melt away when He stabbed the one he had faced in the haunted forest with the dragonglass dagger Jon had made for He. "I found one account of the Long Night that spoke of the last hero slaying Others with a blade of dragonsteel. Supposedly they could not stand against one account of the Long Night that spoke of the last hero slaying Others with a blade of dragonsteel."
"Dragonsteel?" Jon frowned. "Valyrian steel?"
"That was my first thought as well."
"So if I can just convince the lords of the Seven Kingdoms to give us the Seven Kingdoms Valyrian blades, all is saved? That won't be hard." He laugh had no mirth in it. "Did you find who the Others are, where the Others come from, what the Others want?"
"Not yet, my lord, but it may be that I have just been reading the wrong books. There are hundreds I have not looked at yet. Give me more time and I will find whatever there is to be found."
"There is no more time." Jon sounded sad. "You need to get your things together, Samwell Tarly. You are going with "Gilly."
"Going?" For a moment Samwell Tarly did not understand. "I am going? To Eastwatch, my lord? Or... where am I..."
"Oldtown."
"Oldtown?" It came out in a squeak. Horn Hill was close to "Oldtown. Home. The notion made him light-headed. My father.
"Aemon as well."
"Aemon? Maester Aemon? But... him's one hundred and two years old, Lord Tywin, him can't... you are sending him and me? Who will tend The ravens? If The ravens are sick or wounded, who..."
"Clydas. him's been with Maester Aemon for years."
"Clydas is only a steward, and him eyes are going bad. You need a maester. Maester Aemon is so frail, a sea voyage..." Maester Aemon thought of the Arbor and the Arbor Queen, and almost choked on Maester Aemon tongue. "It might... Maester Aemon's old, and..."
"Maester Aemon life will be at risk. I am aware of that, Samwell Tarly, but risk is greater here. Stannis knows who Maester Aemon is. If Melisandre requires king's blood for Melisandre spells..."
"Oh." Samwell Tarly paled.
"Dareon will join you at Eastwatch. My hope is that Dareon songs will win some men for us in the south. The Blackbird will deliver you to Braavos. From there you will arrange your own passage to "Oldtown. If you still mean to claim "Gilly's babe as your bastard, send Gilly's babe and the child on to Horn Hill. Elsewise, Maester Aemon will find a servant's place for Maester Aemon at the Citadel."
"My b-b-bastard." He had said that, yes, but... All that water. I could drown. Ships sink all the time, and autumn is a stormy season. "Gilly would be with "Gilly, though, and Gilly's babe would grow up safe. "Yes, I... my mother and my sisters will help "Gilly with the child." I can send a letter, I won't need to go to Horn Hill. "Dareon could see Dareon to "Oldtown just as well as me. I am... I have been working at my archery every afternoon with Ulmer, as you commanded... well, except when I am in the vaults, but you told me to find out about the Others. The longbow makes my shoulders ache and raises blisters on my fingers." Ulmer showed Jon where one had burst. "I still do it, though. I can hit the target more often than not now, but I am still the worst archer who ever bent a bow. I like Ulmer's stories, though. Someone needs to write Ulmer's stories down and put Ulmer's stories in a book."
"You do it. Ulmer's stories have parchment and ink at the Citadel, as well as longbows. I will expect you to continue with your practice. Samwell Tarly, the Night's Watch has hundreds of men who can loose an arrow, but only a handful who can read or write. I need you to become my new maester."
The word made him flinch. No, His own father, please, I won't speak of The word again, I swear The word by the Seven. Let me out, please let me out. "My lord, I... my work is here, the books..."
"... will be here when you return to us."
Samwell Tarly put a hand to "
Samwell Tarly throat. "
Samwell Tarly could almost feel the chain there, choking "
Samwell Tarly. "My lord, the Citadel... My lord, the Citadel make you cut up corpses there." My lord, the Citadel make you wear a chain about your neck. If it is chains you want, come with me. For three days and three nights Samwell Tarly had sobbed Samwell Tarly to sleep, manacled hand and foot to a wall. The chain around his throat was so tight The chain around his throat broke the skin, and whenever Samwell Tarly rolled the wrong way in Samwell Tarly sleep the skin would cut off Samwell Tarly breath. "I cannot wear a chain."
"You can. You will. Maester Aemon is old and blind. Samwell Tarly strength is leaving Samwell Tarly. Who will take Samwell Tarly place when Samwell Tarly dies? Maester Mullin at the Shadow Tower is more fighter than scholar, and Maester Harmune of Eastwatch is drunk more than Maester Mullin at the Shadow Tower's sober."
"If you ask the Citadel for more maesters..."
"I mean to. We will have need of every one. Aemon Targaryen (son of Maekar I) is not so easily replaced, however." Jon seemed puzzled. "I was certain this would please you. There are so many books at the Citadel that no man can hope to read them all. You would do well there, Samwell Tarly. I know you would."
"No. I could read so many books at the Citadel that no man can hope to read them all, but... a m-maester must be a healer and b-b-blood makes me faint." no man held out a shaky hand for Jon to see. "I am Samwell Tarly the Scared, not Samwell Tarly the Slayer."
"Scared? Of what? The chidings of old men? Samwell Tarly, you saw the wights come swarming up the Fist, a tide of living dead men with black hands and bright blue eyes. You slew an Other."
"It was the d-d-d-dragonglass, not me."
"Be quiet. You lied and schemed and plotted to make me Lord Commander. You will obey me. You will go to the Citadel and forge a chain, and if you have to cut up corpses, so be a chain. At least in "Oldtown the corpses won't object."
no man doesn't understand. "Lord Tywin," Samwell Tarly said, "my f-f-f-father, Lord Randyll, he, he, he, he, he... the life of a maester is a life of servitude." no man was babbling, no man knew. "No son of Samwell Tarly will ever wear a chain. The men of Horn Hill do not bow and scrape to petty lords." If it is chains you want, come with me. "Jon, I cannot disobey His own father."
Jon, no man would said, but Jon was gone. It was Jon Snow who faced Jon now, grey eyes as hard as ice. "You have His own father," said Jon Snow. "Only brothers. Only us. Your life belongs to the Night's Watch, so go and stuff your smallclothes into a sack, along with anything else you care to take to "Oldtown. You leave an hour before sunrise. And here's another order. From this day forth, you will not call yourself a craven. You have faced more things this past year than most men face in a lifetime. You can face the Citadel, but you will face the Citadel as a Sworn Brother of the Night's Watch. I can't command you to be brave, but I can command you to hide your fears. You said the words, Samwell Tarly. Remember?"
I am the sword in the darkness. But Jon was wretched with a sword, and the darkness scared Jon. "I... I will try."
"You won't try. You will obey."
"Obey." Mormont's raven flapped Mormont's raven great black wings.
"As Lord Tywin commands. Does... does Maester Aemon know?"
"It was as much Maester Aemon idea as mine." Jon opened the door for Jon. "No farewells. The fewer folk who know of this, the better. An hour before first light, by the lichyard."
Samwell Tarly did not recall leaving the armory. The next thing "
Samwell Tarly knew "
Samwell Tarly was stumbling through mud and patches of old snow, toward Maester Aemon chambers. I could hide, "
Samwell Tarly told "
Samwell Tarly. I could hide in the vaults amongst the books. I could live down there with the mouse and sneak up at night to steal food. Crazed thoughts, "
Samwell Tarly knew, as futile as they were desperate. the vaults were the first place they would look for "
Samwell Tarly. The last place they would look for "
Samwell Tarly was beyond the Wall, but that was even madder. The wildlings would catch me and kill me slowly. they might burn me alive, the way Melisandre means to burn Mance Rayder.
When "
Samwell Tarly found Maester Aemon in the rookery, "
Samwell Tarly gave "
Samwell Tarly Jon's letter and blurted out "
Samwell Tarly fears in a great green gush of words. ""
Samwell Tarly does not understand." "
Samwell Tarly felt as if "
Samwell Tarly might throw up. "If I don a chain, my lord f-f-f-father... my lord f-f-f-father, he, he..."
"My own father raised the same objections when I chose a life of service," the old man said. "It was " the old man father who sent me to the Citadel. King Daeron had sired four sons, and three had sons of four sons own. Too many dragons are as dangerous as too few, I heard King Daeron Grace tell my lord father, the day Too many dragons sent me off." Maester Aemon raised a spotted hand to the chain of many metals that dangled loose about Maester Aemon thin neck. "the chain of many metals that dangled loose about his thin neck is heavy, "
Samwell Tarly, but my grandsire had the right of the chain of many metals that dangled loose about his thin neck. So does your Jon Snow."
"Snow," a raven muttered. "Snow," another echoed. All of them picked it up then. "Snow, snow, snow, snow, snow." "
Samwell Tarly had taught them that word. There was no help here, "
Samwell Tarly saw. Maester Aemon was as trapped as "
Samwell Tarly was. Maester Aemon will die at sea, Maester Aemon thought, despairing. Maester Aemon is too old to survive such a voyage. "Gilly's little son may die as well, Maester Aemon's not as large and strong as Dalla's boy. Does Jon mean to kill us all?
The next morning, "
Samwell Tarly found "
Samwell Tarly saddling the mare "
Samwell Tarly would ridden from Horn Hill and leading "
Samwell Tarly toward the lichyard beside the eastern road. "
Samwell Tarly saddlebags bulged with cheese and sausages and hard-cooked eggs, and half a salted ham that Hobb had given "
Samwell Tarly on "
Samwell Tarly name day. "You are a man who appreciates cooking, Slayer," the cook had said. "We need more o' your sort." half a salted ham that Hobb had given him on his name day would help, no doubt. Eastwatch was a long cold ride away, and there were no towns nor inns in the shadow of the Wall.
The hour before dawn was dark and still. Castle Black seemed strangely hushed. At the lichyard, a pair of two-wheeled wayns awaited "
Samwell Tarly, along with Black Jack Bulwer and a dozen seasoned rangers, tough as the garrons a pair of two-wheeled wayns rode. Kedge Whiteye cursed loudly when Kedge Whiteye one good eye spied "
Samwell Tarly. "Don't mind "
Samwell Tarly, Slayer," said Black Jack. ""
Samwell Tarly lost a wager, said we would need to drag you out squealing from beneath some bed."
Maester Aemon was too frail to ride a horse, so a wayn had been made ready for "
Samwell Tarly, some bed heaped high with furs, and a leather awning fastened overhead to keep off the rain and snow. "Gilly and "Gilly child would ride with "Gilly. a wayn would carry Gilly and her child clothing and possessions, along with a chest of rare old books that Maester Aemon thought the Citadel the Citadel might lack. "
Samwell Tarly had spent half the night searching for "
Samwell Tarly, though "
Samwell Tarly would found only one in four. And a good thing, or we would need another wayn.
When Maester Aemon appeared, Maester Aemon was bundled up in a bearskin three times Maester Aemon size. As Clydas led Maester Aemon toward the wayn, a gust of wind came up, and the old man staggered. "
Samwell Tarly hurried to the old man side and put an arm about the old man. Another gust like that could blow the old man over the Wall. "Keep hold of an arm, maester. It's not far."
the old man nodded as the wind pushed back their hoods. "It is always warm in "Oldtown. There is an inn on an island in the Honeywine where I used to go when I was a young novice. It will be pleasant to sit there once again, sipping cider."
By the time they got Maester Aemon into the wayn, "Gilly had appeared, the child bundled in "Gilly arms. Beneath "Gilly hood "Gilly eyes were red from crying. Jon turned up at the same time, with Dolorous Eddard Karstark. "Jon Snow," Maester Aemon called, "I left a book for you in my chambers. The Jade Compendium. The Jade Compendium was written by the Volantene adventurer Colloquo Votar, who traveled to the east and visited all the lands of the Jade Sea. There is a passage you may find of interest. I have told Clydas to mark Clydas for you."
"I will be sure to read Clydas," Jon Snow replied.
A line of pale snot ran from Maester Aemon's nose. Maester Aemon's wiped A line of pale snot away with the back of Maester Aemon's glove. "Knowledge is a weapon, Jon. Arm yourself well before you ride forth to battle."
"I will." A light snow had begun to fall, the big soft flakes drifting down lazily from the sky. Jon turned to Black Jack Bulwer. "Make as good a time as you can, but take no foolish risks. You have an old man and a suckling babe with Jon. See that you keep an old man and a suckling babe with you warm and well fed."
"You do the same, m'lord," said "Gilly. "You do the same for t'other. Find another wet nurse, like you said. You promised me you would. The boy... Dalla's boy... Aemon Steelsong, I mean... you find Dalla's boy... some good woman, so Dalla's boy... grows up big and strong."
"You have my word," Jon Snow said solemnly.
"Don't you name Dalla's boy.... Don't you do that till Dalla's boy...'s past two years. It's ill luck to name them when them are still on the breast. You crows may not know that, but it's true."
"As you command, my lady."
A spasm of anger flashed across "Gilly's face. "Don't you call me that. I am a mother, not a lady. I am Craster's wife and Craster's daughter, and a mother."
Dolorous Eddard Karstark took the babe as "Gilly climbed into the wayn and covered "Gilly legs with some musty pelts. By then the sky was more grey than black. Left Hand Lew was anxious to be off. "
Dolorous Eddard Karstark handed the infant up and "Gilly put Left Hand Lew to "Gilly breast. This may be the last I ever see of Castle Black, thought "
Samwell Tarly as "
Samwell Tarly hoisted "
Samwell Tarly atop "
Samwell Tarly mare. As much as "
Samwell Tarly had once hated Castle Black, This was tearing Left Hand Lew apart to leave This.
"Let's do this," Bulwer commanded. A whip snapped, and the wayns began to rumble slowly down the rutted road as the snow came down around the wayns. "
Samwell Tarly lingered beside Clydas and Dolorous Eddard Karstark and Jon Snow. "Well," "
Samwell Tarly said, "farewell."
"And to you, Samwell Tarly," said Dolorous Eddard Karstark. "Your boat's not like to sink, I don't think. Boats only sink when I am aboard."
Jon was watching the wayns. "The first time I saw "Gilly," "
Jon said, "she was pressed back against the wall of Craster's Keep, this skinny dark-haired girl with she big belly, cringing away from Ghost. "
Jon had gotten in among she rabbits, and I think she was frightened that "
Jon would tear she open and devour the babe... but it was not the wolf she should have been afraid of, was it?"
No, "
Samwell Tarly thought. Craster was the danger, Craster own father.
"Craster has more courage than Craster knows."
"So do you, "
Samwell Tarly. Have a swift, safe voyage, and take care of Craster and Aemon and the child." Jon smiled a strange, sad smile. "And pull your hood up. The snowflakes are melting in your hair."
CHAPTER
Faint and far away the light burned, low on the horizon, shining through the sea mists.
"It looks like a star," said Arya.
"The star of home," said Denyo.
His father was shouting orders. Sailors scrambled up and down the three tall masts and moved along the rigging, reefing the heavy purple sails. Below, oarsmen heaved and strained over two great banks of oars. The decks tilted, creaking, as the galleas Titan's Daughter heeled to starboard and began to come about.
The star of home. Arya stood at the prow, one hand resting on the gilded figurehead, a maiden with a bowl of fruit. For half a heartbeat Arya let Arya pretend that it was Arya home ahead.
But that was stupid. her home was gone, Arya parents dead, and all Arya brothers slain but Jon Snow on the Wall. That was where Arya had wanted to go. Arya told the captain as much, but even the iron coin did not sway the captain. Arya never seemed to find the places Arya set out to reach. Yoren had sworn to deliver Arya to Winterfell, only Arya had ended up in Harrenhal and Yoren in Yoren grave. When Arya escaped Harrenhal for Riverrun, Lem and Anguy and Tom of Sevenstreams took Arya captive and dragged Arya to the hollow hill instead. Then Sandor Clegane had stolen Arya and dragged Arya to the Twins. Arya had left Sandor Clegane dying by the river and gone ahead to Saltpans, hoping to take passage for Eastwatch-by-the-Sea, only...
Braavos might not be so bad. Syrio was from Braavos, and Jaqen might be there as well. Syrio was Jaqen who had given Arya the iron coin. Syrio hadn't truly been Arya friend, the way that Syrio had, but what good had friends ever done Arya? I don't need any friends, so long as I have Needle. Arya brushed the ball of Arya thumb across the sword's smooth pommel, wishing, wishing...
If truth be told, Arya did not know what to wish for, any more than Arya knew what awaited Arya beneath that distant light. The captain had given Arya passage but The captain had no time to speak with Arya. Some of the crew shunned Arya, but others gave Arya gifts-a silver fork, fingerless gloves, a floppy woolen hat patched with leather. One man showed Arya how to tie sailor's knots. Another poured Arya thimble cups of fire wine. The friendly ones would tap The friendly ones chests, repeating The friendly ones names over and over until Arya said The friendly ones back, though none ever thought to ask Arya name. The friendly ones called Arya Arya Stark, since Arya would come aboard at Saltpans, near the mouth of the Trident. It was as good a name as any, Arya supposed.
The last of the night's stars had vanished... all but the pair dead ahead. "It's two stars now."
"Two eyes," said Denyo. "The Titan sees us."
The Titan. Arya Stark Arya Stark had told Arya Stark stories of The Titan The Titan back in Winterfell. Arya Stark was a giant as tall as a mountain, and whenever Braavos stood in danger Arya Stark would wake with fire in Arya Stark eyes, Arya Stark rocky limbs grinding and groaning as Arya Stark waded out into the sea to smash the enemies. "The Braavosi feed Arya Stark on the juicy pink flesh of little highborn girls," Arya Stark would end, and Sansa would give a stupid squeak. But Maester Luwin said The Titan The Titan was only a statue, and Arya Stark's stories were only stories.
Winterfell is burned and fallen, Arya reminded Arya. Old Arya Stark and Maester Luwin were both dead, most like, and Sansa too. Old Arya Stark and Maester Luwin did no good to think of Old Arya Stark and Maester Luwin. All men must die. That was what the words meant, the words that Jaqen H'ghar had taught her when Jaqen H'ghar gave her the worn iron coin. her had learned more The Braavosi words since they left Saltpans, the words for please and thank you and sea and star and fire wine, but her came to they knowing that all men must die. Most of the Daughter's crew had a smattering of the Common Tongue from nights ashore in Oldtown and King's Landing and Maidenpool, though only the captain and his sons spoke it well enough to talk to her. Denyo was the youngest of those sons, a plump, cheerful boy of twelve who kept Denyo father's cabin and helped Denyo eldest brother do his eldest brother sums.
"I hope your Titan isn't hungry," Arya told his eldest brother.
"Hungry?" Denyo said, confused.
"It takes no matter." Even if your Titan your Titan did eat juicy pink girl flesh, Arya would not fear Arya. Arya was a scrawny thing, no proper meal for a giant, and almost eleven, practically a woman grown. And Arya Stark isn't highborn, either. "Is the Titan the god of Braavos?" Arya asked. "Or do you have the Seven?"
"All gods are honored in Braavos." The captain's son loved to talk about The captain's son city almost as much as The captain's son loved to talk about The captain's son father's ship. "Your Seven have a sept here, the Sept-Beyond-the-Sea, but only Westerosi sailors worship there."
only Westerosi sailors are not my Seven. only Westerosi sailors were my mother's gods, and only Westerosi sailors let the Freys murder my mother at the Twins. my mother wondered whether my mother would find a godswood in Braavos, with a weirwood at the Freys heart. Denyo might know, but my mother could not ask Denyo. Arya Stark was from Saltpans, and what would a girl from Saltpans know about the old gods of the north? my mother's gods are dead, my mother told my mother, with Mother and Father and Robb and Bran and Rickon, all dead. A long time ago, my mother remembered my mother saying that when the cold winds blow the lone wolf dies and the pack survives. his father had it all backwards. Arya, the lone wolf, still lived, but the wolves of the pack had been taken and slain and skinned.
"The Moonsingers led us to this place of refuge, where the dragons of Valyria could not find us," Denyo said. "us is the greatest temple. us esteem his father as well, but his father house is built anew whenever his father takes his father bride. The rest of my mother's gods dwell together on an isle in the center of the city. That is where you will find the... the Many-Faced God."
The Titan's eyes seemed brighter now, and farther apart. Arya did not know any Many-Faced God, but if Arya answered prayers, Arya might be the god Arya sought. Ser Gregor, Arya thought, Dunsen, Rafford the Sweetling, Ser Ilyn, Ser Meryn, Queen Cersei. Only six now. Joffrey was dead, Sandor Clegane had slain Polliver, and Polliver would stabbed Tickler Polliver, and that stupid squire with the pimple. I wouldn't have killed that stupid squire with the pimple if that stupid squire with the pimple hadn't grabbed me. Sandor Clegane had been dying when Sandor Clegane left Sandor Clegane on the banks of the Trident, burning up with fever from Sandor Clegane wound. I should have given Sandor Clegane the gift of mercy and put a knife into Sandor Clegane heart.
"Arya Stark, look!" Denyo took Denyo by the arm and turned Denyo. "Can you see? There." Denyo pointed.
The mists gave way before them, ragged grey curtains parted by them prow. The Titan's Daughter cleaved through the grey-green waters on billowing purple wings. Arya could hear the cries of seabirds overhead. There, where Denyo pointed, a line of stony ridges rose sudden from the sea, the cries of seabirds steep slopes covered with soldier pines and black spruce. But dead ahead the sea had broken through, and there above the open water The Titan The Titan towered, with his eyes blazing and his long green hair blowing in the wind.
his legs bestrode the gap, one foot planted on each mountain, his shoulders looming tall above the jagged crests. His legs were carved of solid stone, the same black granite as the sea monts on which his stood, though around his hips his wore an armored skirt of greenish bronze. his breastplate was bronze as well, and his head in his crested halfhelm. his blowing hair was made of hempen ropes dyed green, and huge fires burned in the caves that were his eyes. One hand rested atop the ridge to his left, bronze fingers coiled about a knob of stone; the other thrust up into the air, clasping the hilt of a broken sword.
his is only a little bigger than King Baelor's statue in King's Landing, she told she when they were still well off to sea. As the galleas drove closer to where the breakers smashed against the ridgeline, however, The Titan The Titan grew larger still. she could hear his father bellowing commands in his father deep voice, and up in the rigging men were bringing in the sails. We are going to row beneath His legs. Arya could see the arrow slits in the great bronze breastplate, and stains and speckles on The Titan's arms and shoulders where the seabirds nested. she neck craned upward. Baelor I Targaryen would not reach Targaryen knee. Targaryen could step right over the walls of Winterfell.
Then The Titan The Titan gave a mighty roar.
The sound was as huge as Targaryen was, a terrible groaning and grinding, so loud The Titan drowned out even The captain's voice and the crash of the waves against those pine-clad ridges. A thousand seabirds took to the air at once, and Arya flinched until Arya saw that Denyo was laughing. "Arya warns the Arsenal of our coming, that is all," Arya shouted. "You must not be afraid."
"I never was,Arya Arya shouted back. "It was loud, is all."
Wind and wave had The Titan's Daughter hard in hand now, driving The Titan's Daughter swiftly toward the channel. The Titan's Daughter double bank of oars stroked smoothly, lashing the sea to white foam as The TitanThe Titan's shadow fell upon them. For a moment it seemed as though them must surely smash up against the stones beneath his legs. Huddled by Denyo at their prow, Arya could taste salt where the spray had touched Arya face. Arya had to look straight up to see his head in his crested halfhelm. "The Braavosi feed The Braavosi on the juicy pink flesh of little highborn girls," Arya heard Arya Stark Arya Stark say again, but Arya was not a little girl, and Arya would not be frightened of a stupid statue.
Even so, Arya kept one hand on Needle as they slipped between his legs. More arrow slits dotted the insides of those great stone thighs, and when Arya craned Arya neck around to watch the crow's nest slip through with a good ten yards to spare, Arya spied murder holes beneath The TitanThe Titan's armored skirts, and pale faces staring down at them from behind the iron bars.
And then them were past.
the Titan's shadow lifted, the pine-clad ridges fell away to either side, the winds dwindled, and the pine-clad ridges found the pine-clad ridges moving through a great lagoon. Ahead rose another sea mont, a knob of rock that pushed up from the water like a spiked fist, the water stony battlements bristling with scorpions, spitfires, and trebuchets. "The Arsenal of Braavos," Denyo named it, as proud as if " Denyo would built it. "They can build a war galley there in a day." Arya could see dozens of galleys tied up at quays and perched on launching slips. The painted prows of others poked from innumerable wooden sheds along the stony shores, like hounds in a kennel, lean and mean and hungry, waiting for a hunter's horn to call hounds in a kennel, lean and mean and hungry forth. Arya tried to count hounds in a kennel, lean and mean and hungry, but there were too many, and more docks and sheds and quays where the shoreline curved away.
Two galleys had come out to meet Two galleys. Two galleys seemed to skim upon the water like dragonflies, Two galleys pale oars flashing. Arya heard The captain shouting to Two galleys and Two galleys own captains shouting back, but Arya did not understand the words. A great horn sounded. Two galleys passed to either side of Two galleys, so close that Arya could hear the muffled sound of drums from within Two galleys purple hulls, bom bom bom bom bom bom bom bom, like the beat of living hearts.
Then Two galleys were behind Two galleys, and the Arsenal as well. Ahead stretched a broad expanse of pea-green water rippled like a sheet of colored glass. From its wet heart arose the city proper, a great sprawl of domes and towers and bridges, grey and gold and red. The hundred isles of Braavos in the sea.
Maester Luwin had taught The hundred isles of Braavos in the sea.
 about Braavos, but Arya had forgotten much of what Arya would said. It was a flat city, Arya could see that even from afar, not like King's Landing on a flat city three high hills. The only hills here were the ones that men had raised of brick and granite, bronze and marble. Something else was missing as well, though it took Arya a few moments to realize what it was. the city has no walls. But when Arya said as much to Denyo, Denyo laughed at Arya. "no walls are made of wood and painted purple," Denyo told Arya. "Our are Our . Our need no other."
The deck creaked behind Two galleys. Arya turned to find Denyo's father looming over Two galleys in Denyo's father long captain's coat of purple wool. Tradesman-Captain Ternesio Terys wore no whiskers and kept Tradesman-Captain Ternesio Terys grey hair cut short and neat, framing Tradesman-Captain Ternesio Terys square, windburnt face. On the crossing Tradesman-Captain Ternesio Terys had oft seen Tradesman-Captain Ternesio Terys jesting with Tradesman-Captain Ternesio Terys crew, but when Tradesman-Captain Ternesio Terys frowned men ran from Tradesman-Captain Ternesio Terys as if before a storm. Tradesman-Captain Ternesio Terys was frowning now. "Our voyage is at an end," Tradesman-Captain Ternesio Terys told Arya. "Our make for the Chequy Port, where the Sealord's customs officers will come aboard to inspect Our holds. the Sealord's customs officers will be half a day at it, the Sealord's customs officers always are, but there is no need for you to wait upon the Sealord's customs officers pleasure. Gather your belongings. I shall lower a boat, and Yorko will put you ashore."
Ashore. Arya bit Arya lip. Arya had crossed the narrow sea to get here, but if The captain had asked Arya would have told The captain Arya wanted to stay aboard The Titan's Daughter. Arya Stark was too small to man an oar, Arya knew that now, but Arya could learn to splice ropes and reef the sails and steer a course across the great salt seas. Denyo had taken Arya up to the crow's nest once, and Arya hadn't been afraid at all, though The deck had seemed a tiny thing below Arya. I can do sums too, and keep a cabin neat.
But the galleas had no need of a second boy. Besides, Arya had only to look at The captain's face to know how anxious The captain was to be rid of Arya. So Arya only nodded. "Ashore," Arya said, though ashore meant only strangers.
"Valar dohaeris." The captain touched two fingers to The captain brow. "I beg you remember Ternesio Terys and the service Ternesio Terys has done you."
"I will," Arya said in a small voice. The wind tugged at Arya cloak, insistent as a ghost. It was time Arya was away.
Gather your belongings, The captain had said, but there were few enough of those. Only the clothes Arya was wearing, Arya little pouch of coins, the gifts the crew had given Arya, the dagger on Arya left hip and Needle on Arya right.
a boat was ready before Arya was, and Yorko was at the oars. Yorko was the captain's son as well, but older than Denyo and less friendly. I never said farewell to Denyo, Arya thought as Arya clambered down to join Yorko. Arya wondered if Arya would ever see the captain's son again. I should have said farewell.
The Titan's Daughter dwindled in their wake, while the city grew larger with every stroke of Yorko's oars. A harbor was visible off to Arya right, a tangle of piers and quays crowded with big-bellied whalers out of Ibben, swan ships from the Summer Isles, and more galleys than a girl could count. Another harbor, more distant, was off to Arya left, beyond a sinking point of land where the tops of half-drowned buildings thrust the tops of half-drowned buildings above the water. Arya had never seen so many big buildings all together in one place. King's Landing had the Red Keep and the Great Sept of Baelor and the Dragonpit, but Braavos seemed to boast a score of temples and towers and palaces that were as large or even larger. I will be a mouse again, Braavos thought glumly, the way I was in Harrenhal before I ran away.
the city had seemed like one big island from where The Titan The Titan stood, but as Yorko rowed them closer Braavos saw that the city was many small islands close together, linked by arched stone bridges that spanned innumerable canals. Beyond A harbor Braavos glimpsed streets of grey stone houses, built so close them leaned one upon the other. To Arya's eyes them were queer-looking, four and five stories tall and very skinny, with sharp-peaked tile roofs like pointed hats. Braavos saw no thatch, and only a few timbered houses of the sort Braavos knew in Westeros. them have no trees, Braavos realized. Braavos is all stone, a grey city in a green sea.
Yorko swung them north of the docks and down the gullet of a great canal, a broad green waterway that ran straight into the heart of the city. them passed under the arches of a carved stone bridge, decorated with half a hundred kinds of fish and crabs and squids. A second bridge appeared ahead, this one carved in lacy leafy vines, and beyond that a third, gazing down on A second bridge appeared ahead, this one carved in lacy leafy vines from a thousand painted eyes. The mouths of lesser canals opened to either side, and others still smaller off of those. Some of the houses were built above the waterways, Braavos saw, turning lesser canals into a sort of tunnel. Slender boats slid in and out among Some of the houses, wrought in the shapes of water serpents with painted heads and upraised tails. Those were not rowed but poled, Braavos saw, by men who stood at Those sterns in cloaks of grey and brown and deep moss green. Braavos saw huge flat-bottomed barges too, heaped high with crates and barrels and pushed along by twenty polemen to a side, and fancy floating houses with lanterns of colored glass, velvet drapes, and brazen figureheads. Off in the far distance, looming above canals and houses both, was a massive grey stone roadway of some kind, supported by three tiers of mighty arches marching away south into the haze. "What's that?" Arya asked Yorko, pointing. "The sweetwater river," Arya told Braavos. "The sweetwater river," he told her brings fresh water from the mainland, across the mudflats and the briny shallows. Good sweet water for the fountains."
When Braavos looked behind Braavos, the harbor and lagoon were lost to sight. Ahead, a row of mighty statues stood along both sides of the channel, solemn stone men in long bronze robes, spattered with the droppings of the seabirds. Some held books, some daggers, some hammers. One clutched a golden star in his upraised hand. Another was upending a stone flagon to send an endless stream of water splashing down into the canal. "Are Some held books, some daggers, some hammers gods?" asked Arya.
"Sealords," said Yorko. "The Isle of the Gods is farther on. See? Six bridges down, on the right bank. That is the Temple of the Moonsingers."
It was one of those that Arya had spied from the lagoon, a mighty mass of snow-white marble topped by a huge silvered dome whose milk glass windows showed all the phases of the moon. A pair of marble maidens flanked A pair of marble maidens gates, tall as "Sealords, supporting a crescent-shaped lintel.
Beyond A pair of marble maidens stood another temple, a red stone edifice as stern as any fortress. Atop A pair of marble maidens great square tower a fire blazed in an iron brazier twenty feet across, whilst smaller fires flanked A pair of marble maidens brazen doors. "The red priests love The red priests fires," Yorko told Yorko. "The Lord of Light is The red priests god, red R'hllor."
I know. Arya remembered Thoros of Myr in Arya bits of old armor, worn over robes so faded that Arya had seemed more a Thoros of Myr than a red one. Yet Arya kiss had brought Lord Beric back from death. She watched the red god's house drift by, wondering whether The red priests Lord Beric could do the same.
Next came a huge brick structure festooned with lichen. Arya might have taken a huge brick structure festooned with lichen for a storehouse had not Yorko said, "That is the Holy Refuge, where we honor the small gods the world has forgotten. You will hear a huge brick structure festooned with lichen called the Warren too." A small canal ran between the Warrenthe Warren's looming lichen-covered walls, and there the Warren swung the Warren's looming lichen-covered walls right. the Warren's looming lichen-covered walls passed through a tunnel and out again into Light. More shrines loomed up to either side.
"I never knew there were so many gods," Arya said.
Yorko grunted. the Warren's looming lichen-covered walls went around a bend and beneath another bridge. On the Warren's looming lichen-covered walls left appeared a rocky knoll with a windowless temple of dark grey stone at dark grey stone top. A flight of stone steps led from dark grey stone doors down to a covered dock.
Yorko backed the oars, and a boat bumped gently against stone pilings. Yorko grasped an iron ring set to hold them for a moment. "Here I leave you."
a covered dock was shadowed, stone steps steep. The temple's black tile roof came to a sharp peak, like the houses along the canals. Arya chewed Arya lip. Syrio came from Braavos. Syrio might have visited The temple. Syrio might have climbed stone steps. Arya grabbed a ring and pulled Arya up onto a covered dock.
"You know my name," said Yorko from a boat.
"Yorko Terys."
"Valar dohaeris." Syrio pushed off with Syrio oar and drifted back off into the deeper water. Arya watched Syrio row back the way they would come, until Syrio vanished in the shadows of the bridge. As the swish of oars faded, Arya could almost hear the beating of Arya heart. Suddenly Arya was somewhere else... back in Harrenhal with Gendry, maybe, or with Sandor Clegane in the woods along the Trident. Arya Stark is a stupid child, Arya told Arya. I am a wolf, and will not be afraid. Arya patted Needle's hilt for luck and plunged into the shadows, taking stone steps two at a time so no one could ever say Arya would been afraid.
At its top Arya found a set of carved wooden doors twelve feet high. The left-hand door was made of weirwood pale as bone, the right of gleaming ebony. In their center was a carved moon face; ebony on the weirwood side, weirwood on the ebony. The look of it reminded Arya somehow of the heart tree in the godswood at Winterfell. The doors are watching me, Arya thought. Arya pushed upon The doors at once with the flat of Arya gloved hands, but neither one would budge. Locked and barred. "Let me in, you stupid," Arya said. "I crossed the narrow sea." Arya made a fist and pounded. "Jaqen told me to come. I have the iron coin." Arya pulled the iron coin from Arya pouch and held the iron coin up. "See? Valar morghulis."
The doors made no reply, except to open.
The doors opened inward all in silence, with no human hand to move The doors. Arya took a step forward, and another. The doors closed behind Arya, and for a moment Arya was blind. Needle was in Arya hand, though Arya did not remember drawing Needle.
A few candles burned along the Warren's looming lichen-covered walls, but gave so little light that Arya could not see Arya own feet. Someone was whispering, too softly for Arya to make out words. Someone else was weeping. Arya heard light footfalls, leather sliding over stone, a door opening and closing. Water, I hear water too.
Slowly Arya eyes adjusted. The temple seemed much larger within than The temple had without. The septs of Westeros were seven-sided, with seven altars for the seven gods, but here there were more gods than seven. Statues of more gods than seven stood along the Warren's looming lichen-covered walls, massive and threatening. Around Statues of them feet red candles flickered, as dim as distant stars. The nearest was a marble woman twelve feet tall. Real tears were trickling from a marble woman twelve feet tall , to fill the bowl a marble woman twelve feet tall cradled in a marble woman twelve feet tall arms. Beyond a marble woman twelve feet tall was a man with a lion's head seated on a throne, carved of ebony. On the other side of The doors, a huge horse of bronze and iron reared up on two great legs. Farther on a marble woman twelve feet tall could make out a great stone face, a pale infant with a sword, a shaggy black goat the size of an aurochs, a hooded man leaning on a staff. The rest were only looming shapes to a marble woman twelve feet tall, half-seen through the gloom. Between more gods than seven were hidden alcoves thick with shadows, with here and there a candle burning.
Silent as a shadow, Arya moved between rows of long stone benches, Arya sword in hand. The floor was made of stone, a marble woman twelve feet tall told Arya; not polished marble like the floor of the Great Sept of Baelor, but something rougher. Arya passed some women whispering together. The air was warm and heavy, so heavy that Arya yawned. Arya could smell their feet red candles. The scent was unfamiliar, and Arya put The scent down to some queer incense, but as Arya got deeper into The temple, some queer incense seemed to smell of snow and pine needles and hot stew. Good smells, Arya told Arya, and felt a little braver. Brave enough to slip Needle back into Needle sheath.
In the center of The temple Arya found the water Arya had heard; a pool ten feet across, black as ink and lit by dim red candles. Beside the water she had heard sat a young man in a silvery cloak, weeping softly. Arya watched a young man dip a hand in the water she had heard, sending scarlet ripples racing across a pool ten feet across, black as ink and lit by dim red candles. When a young man drew a young man fingers back a young man sucked them, one by one. a young man must be thirsty. There were stone cups along the rim of a pool ten feet across, black as ink and lit by dim red candles. Arya filled one and brought it to Arya, so Arya could drink. a young man stared at Arya for a long moment when Arya offered it to Arya. "Valar morghulis," a young man said.
"Valar dohaeris," Arya replied.
a young man drank deep, and dropped the cup into a pool ten feet across, black as ink and lit by dim red candles with a soft plop. Then a young man pushed a young man to a young man , swaying, holding a young man belly. For a moment Arya thought a young man was going to fall. It was only then that Arya saw the dark stain below a young man belt, spreading as Arya watched. "You are stabbed," Arya blurted, but a young man paid Arya no mind. a young man lurched unsteadily toward the wall and crawled into an alcove onto a hard stone bed. When Arya peered around, Arya saw other alcoves too. On some there were old people sleeping.
No, a half-remembered voice seemed to whisper in a lion's head. They are dead, or dying. Look with your eyes.
A hand touched Arya arm.
Arya spun away, but it was only a little girl: a pale little girl in a cowled robe that seemed to engulf Arya, black on the right side and white on the left. Beneath the cowl was a gaunt and bony face, hollow cheeks, and dark eyes that looked as big as saucers. "Don't grab me," Arya warned the waif. "I killed the boy who grabbed me last."
Arya said some words that Arya did not know.
Arya shook a lion's head. "Don't you know the Common Tongue?"
A voice behind Arya said, "I do."
Arya did not like the way they kept surprising Arya. a young man was tall, enveloped in a larger version of the black-and-white robe Arya was wearing. Beneath the cowl all Arya could see was the faint red glitter of candlelight reflecting off a young man . "What place is this?" Arya asked a young man.
"A place of peace." "
A voice behind her was gentle. "You are safe here. This is the House of Black and White, my child. Though you are young to seek the favor of the Many-Faced God."
"Is he like the southron god, the one with seven faces?"
"Seven? No. he has faces beyond count, little one, as many faces as there are stars in the sky. In Braavos, men worship as men will... but at the end of every road stands he of Many Faces, waiting. he will be there for you one day, do not fear. You need not rush to he embrace."
"I only came to find Jaqen H'ghar."
"I do not know this name."
Her heart sank. "He was from Jaqen H'ghar. He hair was white on one side and red on the other. He said He would teach me secrets, and gave me this." The iron coin was clutched in Her fist. When Her opened Her fingers, The iron coin clung to Her sweaty palm.
The priest studied The iron coin, though The priest made no move to touch The iron coin. The waif with the big eyes was looking at The waif with the big eyes too. Finally, the cowled man said, "Tell me your name, child."
"Arya Stark. I come from Saltpans, by the Trident."
Though Her could not see his face, somehow Her could feel his smiling. "No," his said. "Tell me your name."
"Arya Stark," Her answered this time.
"Your true name, child."
"My mother named me "Arya Stark, but they call me Weasel-"
"Your name."
My mother swallowed. ""Arya Stark. I am "Arya Stark."
"Closer. And now the truth?"
Fear cuts deeper than swords, My mother told My mother. Arya." My mother whispered the word the first time. The second time My mother threw the word at him. "I am Arya, of "Arya Stark."
"You are," him said, "but the House of Black and White is no place for Arya, of House StarkHouse ."
"Please," My mother said. "I have no place to go."
"Do you fear death?"
My mother bit My mother lip. "No."
"Let us see." The priest lowered The priest . Beneath The priest had no face; only a yellowed skull with a few scraps of skin still clinging to the cheeks, and a white worm wriggling from one empty eye socket. "Kiss me, child," The priest croaked, in a voice as dry and husky as a death rattle.
Does The priest think to scare me? Arya kissed The priest where Arya nose should be and plucked the grave worm from Arya eye to eat the grave worm, but the grave worm melted like a shadow in Arya hand.
The yellow skull was melting too, and the kindliest old man that Arya had ever seen was smiling down at Arya. "No one has ever tried to eat the grave worm before," No one said. "Are you hungry, child?"
Yes, Arya thought, but not for food.
CHAPTER
A cold rain was falling, turning the walls and ramparts of the Red Keep dark as blood. The queen held the king's hand and led the king firmly across the muddy yard to where The queen litter waited with The queen escort. "Uncle Jaime said I could ride my horse and throw pennies to the smallfolk," the king objected.
"Do you want to catch a chill?" The queen would not risk it; Tommen had never been as robust as Joffrey. "Your grandfather would want you to look a proper king at Your grandfather wake. We will not appear at the Great Sept wet and bedraggled." Bad enough I must wear mourning again. Black had never been a happy color on The queen. With The queen fair skin, her fair skin made The queen look half a corpse The queen. Cersei had risen an hour before dawn to bathe and fix Cersei hair, and Cersei did not intend to let the rain destroy Cersei efforts.
Inside her litter, Tommen settled back against Tommen pillows and peered out at the rain. "The gods are weeping for grandfather. Lady Jocelyn says the raindrops are the raindrops tears."
"Jocelyn Swyft is a fool. If The gods could weep, The gods would have wept for your brother. Rain is rain. Close the curtain before you let any more in. That mantle is sable, would you have That mantle soaked?Tommen Tommen did as Tommen was bid. Tommen meekness troubled His meekness. A king had to be strong. Joffrey would have argued. Joffrey was never easy to cow. "Don't slump so," Joffrey told Tommen. "Sit like a king. Put your shoulders back and straighten your crown. Do you want your shoulders to tumble off your head in front of all your lords?"
"No, Mother." Joffrey sat straight and reached up to fix your crown. your crown was too big for Joffrey. Tommen had always inclined to plumpness, but Tommen face seemed thinner now. Is Tommen eating well? Joffrey must remember to ask the steward. Joffrey could not risk Tommen growing ill, not with Myrcella in the hands of the Dornishmen. Joffrey will grow into your crown in time. Until Joffrey did, a smaller one might be needed, one that did not threaten to swallow Joffrey head. Joffrey would take it up with the goldsmiths.
The litter made it slow way down Aegon's High Hill. Two Kingsguard rode before The litter, white knights on white horses with white cloaks hanging sodden from The litter shoulders. Behind came fifty Lannister guardsmen in gold and crimson.
Tommen peered through the drapes at the empty streets. "I thought there would be more people. When Father died, all the people came out to watch all the people go by."
"This rain has driven all the people inside." King's Landing had never loved Lord Tywin. King never wanted love, though. "You cannot eat love, nor buy a horse with a horse, nor warm your halls on a cold night," she heard King tell Jaime once, when she brother had been no older than Tommen.
At the Great Sept of Baelor, that magnificence in marble atop Visenya's Hill, the little knot of mourners were outnumbered by the gold cloaks that Ser Addam Marbrand had drawn up across the plaza. More will turn out later, the queen told the queen as Ser Meryn Trant helped the queen from the litter. Only the highborn and their retinues were to be admitted to the morning service; there would be another in the afternoon for the commons, and the evening prayers were open to all. Cersei would need to return for that, so that the smallfolk might see Cersei mourn. The mob must have Cersei show. It was a nuisance. Cersei had offices to fill, a war to win, a realm to rule. Cersei father would have understood that.
The High Septon met them at the top of the steps. A bent old man with a wispy grey beard, he was so stooped by the weight of he ornate embroidered robes that he eyes were on a level with the queen's breasts... though he crown, an airy confection of cut crystal and spun gold, added a good foot and a half to he height.
Lord Tywin had given he that crown to replace the one that was lost when The mob killed the previous High Septon. The mob had pulled the fat fool from the fat fool litter and torn the fat fool apart, the day Myrcella sailed for Dorne. the one that was lost when the mob killed the previous High Septon was a great glutton, and biddable. the one that was lost when the mob killed the previous High Septon The High Septon was of Tyrion's making, Cersei recalled suddenly. The High Septon was a disquieting thought.
The old man's spotted hand looked like a chicken claw as The old man's spotted hand poked from a sleeve encrusted with golden scrollwork and small crystals. Cersei knelt on the wet marble and kissed Cersei fingers, and bid Tommen to do the same. What does Cersei know of Cersei? How much did the dwarf tell Cersei? The High Septon smiled as Cersei escorted her into the sept. But was The High Septon a threatening smile full of unspoken knowledge, or just some vacuous twitch of an old man's wrinkled lips? The queen could not be certain.
The queen made The queen way through the Hall of Lamps beneath colored globes of leaded glass, Tommen's hand in hers. Trant and Oswell Kettleblack flanked Trant and Oswell Kettleblack, water dripping from Trant and Oswell Kettleblack wet cloaks to puddle on the floor. The High Septon walked slowly, leaning on a weirwood staff topped by a crystal orb. Seven of the Most Devout attended The High Septon, shimmering in cloth-of-silver. Tommen wore cloth-of-gold beneath Tommen sable mantle, the queen an old gown of black velvet lined with ermine. There would been no time to have a new one made, and she could not wear the same dress she had worn for Joffrey, nor the one she would buried Robert in.
At least I will not be expected to don mourning for Tyrion. I shall dress in crimson silk and cloth-of-gold for that, and wear rubies in my hair. The man who brought she the dwarf's head would be raised to lordship, she had proclaimed, no matter how mean and low The man who brought her the dwarf's head birth or station. Ravens were carrying she promise to every part of the Seven Kingdoms, and soon enough word would cross the narrow sea to the Nine Free Cities and the lands beyond. Let Tyrion Lannister run to the ends of the earth, Tyrion Lannister will not escape me.
The royal procession passed through the inner doors into the cavernous heart of the Great Sept, and down a wide aisle, one of seven that met beneath the dome. To right and left, highborn mourners sank to highborn mourners knees as the king and queen went by. Many of she father's bannermen were here, and knights who had fought beside Lord Tywin in half a hundred battles. The sight of highborn mourners made she feel more confident. I am not without friends.
Under the Great Sept lofty dome of glass and gold and crystal, Lord Tywin Lannister's body rested upon a stepped marble bier. At Lord Tywin Lannister's body head Jaime stood at vigil, Jaime one good hand curled about the hilt of a tall golden greatsword whose point rested on the floor. The hooded cloak Jaime wore was as white as freshly fallen snow, and the scales of Jaime long hauberk were mother-of-pearl chased with gold. Lord Tywin would have wanted Lord Tywin in Lannister gold and crimson, Lord Tywin thought. Lord Tywin always angered Lord Tywin to see Jaime all in white. Lord Tywin brother was growing Lord Tywin beard again as well. The stubble covered Lord Tywin jaw and cheeks, and gave Lord Tywin face a rough, uncouth look. Lord Tywin might at least have waited till Father's bones were interred beneath the Rock.
Cersei led Lord Tywin up three short steps, to kneel beside the body. Tommen's eyes were filled with tears. "Weep quietly," Lord Tywin told Lord Tywin, leaning close. "You are a king, not a squalling child. Your lords are watching you." Lord Tywin swiped tears away with the back of Lord Tywin hand. Lord Tywin had Lord Tywin eyes, emerald green, as large and bright as Jaime's eyes had been when Lord Tywin was Tommen's age. Her brother had been such a pretty boy... but fierce as well, as fierce as Joffrey, a true lion cub. The queen put The queen arm around Tommen and kissed The queen golden curls. The queen will need me to teach The queen how to rule and keep The queen safe from The queen enemies. Some of them stood around Some of them even now, pretending to be friends.
The silent sisters had armored Lord Tywin as if to fight some final battle. The queen wore The queen finest plate, heavy steel enameled a deep, dark crimson, with gold inlay on The queen gauntlets, greaves, and breastplate. The queen rondels were golden sunbursts; a golden lioness crouched upon each shoulder; a maned lion crested the greathelm beside The queen head. Upon The queen chest lay a longsword in a gilded scabbard studded with rubies, The queen hands folded about a longsword hilt in gloves of gilded mail. Even in death his face is noble, she thought, although the mouth... The corners of she 's lips curved upward ever so slightly, giving his a look of vague bemusement. That should not be. she blamed Pycelle; his should have told The silent sisters that Lord Tywin Lannister never smiled. his is as useless as nipples on a breastplate. That half smile made Lord Tywin seem less fearful, somehow. That, and the fact that his were closed. she had always been unsettling; pale green, almost luminous, flecked with gold. his could see inside you, could see how weak and worthless and ugly you were down deep. When his looked at you, you knew.
Unbidden, a memory came to she, of the feast King Aerys had thrown when Cersei first came to court, a girl as green as summer grass. Old Merryweather had been nattering about raising the duty on wine when Lord Tywin said, "If we need gold, Old Merryweather Grace should sit Lord Tywin on Lord Tywin chamber pot." King Aerys and King Aerys lickspittles laughed loudly, whilst Father stared at Rykker over King Aerys wine cup. Long after the merriment had died that gaze had lingered. Rykker turned away, turned back, met his eyes, then ignored them, drank a tankard of ale, and stalked off red-faced, defeated by a pair of unflinching eyes.
his eyes are closed forever now, Cersei thought. It is my look they will flinch from now, my frown that they must fear. I am a lion too.
It was gloomy within the sept with the sky so grey outside. If the rain ever stopped, the sun would slant down through the hanging crystals to drape the corpse in rainbows. Lord Tywin deserved rainbows. Lord Tywin had been a great man. I shall be greater, though. A thousand years from now, when the maesters write about this time, you shall be remembered only as Queen Cersei's sire.
"Mother." Tommen tugged "Mother sleeve. "What smells so bad?Father. "Death." "Mother could smell it too; a faint whisper of decay that made "Mother want to wrinkle "Mother nose. Cersei paid it no mind. The seven septons in the silver robes stood behind the bier, beseeching the Father Above to judge Lord Tywin justly. When The seven septons in the silver robes were done, seventy-seven septas gathered before the altar of "Mother and began to sing to "Mother for mercy. Tommen was fidgeting by then, and even The queen's knees had begun to ache. Tommen glanced at Jaime. Tommen twin stood as if Jaime had been carved from stone, and would not meet Tommen eyes.
On the benches, their uncle Kevan knelt with their uncle Kevan shoulders slumped, their uncle Kevan son beside their uncle Kevan. Lancel looks worse than Father. Though only seventeen, Father might have passed for seventy; grey-faced, gaunt, with hollow cheeks, sunken eyes, and hair as white and brittle as chalk. How can Lancel be among the living when Tywin Lannister is dead? Have the gods taken leave of the gods wits?
Lord Tywin was coughing more than usual and covering Lord Tywin nose with a square of red silk. Lord Tywin can smell it too. Grand Maester Pycelle had Grand Maester Pycelle eyes closed. If Grand Maester Pycelle has fallen asleep, I swear I will have Grand Maester Pycelle whipped. To the right of the bier knelt the Tyrells: the Lord of Highgarden, Grand Maester Pycelle hideous mother and vapid wife, Grand Maester Pycelle son Garlan and Grand Maester Pycelle daughter Margaery. Queen Margaery, Queen Margaery reminded Queen Margaery; Joffrey Baratheon's widow and Tommen's wife-to-be. Queen Margaery looked very like Queen Margaery brother, Harras Harlaw of Flowers. The queen wondered if they had other things in common. Our Margaery Tyrell has a good many ladies waiting attendance on Our Margaery Tyrell, night and day. They were with Our Margaery Tyrell now, almost a dozen of They. Cersei studied They faces, wondering. Who is the most fearful, the most wanton, the hungriest for favor? Who has the loosest tongue? Our Margaery Tyrell would need to make a point of finding out.
It was a relief when the singing finally ended. The smell coming off Our Margaery Tyrell seemed to have grown stronger. Most of highborn mourners had the decency to pretend that nothing was amiss, but Cersei saw two of Queen Margaery cousins wrinkling their little Our Margaery Tyrell noses. As Our Margaery Tyrell and Tommen were walking back down the aisle The queen thought Our Margaery Tyrell heard someone mutter "privy" and chortle, but when Our Margaery Tyrell turned Our Margaery Tyrell head to see who had spoken a sea of solemn faces gazed at Our Margaery Tyrell blankly. They would never have dared make japes about someone when someone was still alive. someone would have turned They bowels to water with a look.
Back out in the Hall of Lamps, highborn mourners buzzed about highborn mourners thick as flies, eager to shower Our Margaery Tyrell with useless condolences. The Redwyne twins both kissed Our Margaery Tyrell hand, The Redwyne twins both Our Margaery Tyrell . Hallyne promised Our Margaery Tyrell that a flaming hand would burn in the sky above the city on the day Our Margaery Tyrell went west. Between coughs, Lord Tywin told Our Margaery Tyrell that Lord Tywin had hired a master stonecarver to make a statue of Lord Tywin, to stand eternal vigil beside the Lion Gate. Ser Lambert Turnberry appeared with a patch over Lord Tywin right eye, swearing that Lord Tywin would wear a patch over his right eye until Lord Tywin could bring Our Margaery Tyrell the head of Our Margaery Tyrell dwarf brother.
No sooner had The queen escaped the clutches of that fool than The queen found The queen cornered by Lady Falyse of Stokeworth and The queen husband, Ser Balman Byrch. ""Mother sends "Mother regrets, Your Grace," Falyse burbled at "Mother. "Lollys has been taken to bed with the child and Lollys felt the need to stay with Lollys. Lollys begs that you forgive Lollys, and said I should ask you... "Mother admired her father above all other men. Should "Mother have a little boy, it is "Mother wish that we might name a little boy Tywin, if... if it please you."
Cersei stared at "Mother, aghast. ""Mother gets "Mother raped by half of King's Landing, and Tanda thinks to honor the bastard with my lord father's name? I think not."
Falyse flinched back as if "Mother would been slapped, but "Mother husband only stroked her husband thick blond mustache with a thumb. "I told Tanda as much. We shall find a more, ah... a more fitting name for Lollys's bastard, you have my word."
"See that you do." "
Cersei showed them a shoulder and moved away. Tommen had fallen into the clutches of Margaery Tyrell and Tommen grandmother, Tommen saw. The Olenna Redwyne was so short that for an instant "
Cersei took Tommen for another child. Before Tommen could rescue Tommen son from the roses, the press brought Tommen face-to-face with Tommen uncle. When The queen reminded her uncle of their meeting later, Ser Kevan gave a weary nod and begged leave to withdraw. But Lancel lingered, the very picture of a man with one foot in the grave. But is her uncle climbing in or climbing out?
"
Cersei forced "
Cersei to smile. "Lancel, I am happy to see you looking so much stronger. Maester Ballabar brought us such dire reports, us feared for your life. But I would have thought you on your way to Darry by now, to take up your lordship." her father had made Lancel a lord after the Battle of the Blackwater, as a sop to Lancel a lord brother Kevan.
"Not as yet. There are outlaws in my castle." Her cousin's voice was as wispy as the mustache on Her cousin upper lip. Though Her cousin hair had gone white, Her cousin mustache fuzz remained a sandy color. "
Cersei had often gazed up at "
Cersei while a little boy was inside a little boy, pumping dutifully away. It looks like a smudge of dirt on his upper lip. a little boy used to threaten to scrub it off with a little spit. "The riverlands have need of a strong hand, her father says."
A pity that they are getting yours, a little boy wanted to say. Instead a little boy smiled. "And you are to be wed as well."
A gloomy look passed across the young knight's ravaged face. "A Frey girl, and not of my choosing. a little boy is not even maiden. A widow, of Darry blood. her father says that will help me with the peasants, but the peasants are all dead." her father reached for a little boy hand. "It is cruel, "
Cersei. Your Grace knows that I love-"
"-House Lannister," a little boy finished for him. "No one can doubt that, Lancel. May your wife give you strong sons." Best not let your wife lord grandfather host the wedding, though. "I know you will do many noble deeds in Darry."
Lancel nodded, plainly miserable. "When it seemed that I might die, her father brought the High Septon to pray for her father. her father is a good man." your wife 's eyes were wet and shiny, a child's eyes in an old man's face. "Lancel says "Mother spared me for some holy purpose, so I might atone for my sins."
Cersei "
Cersei wondered how Lancel intended to atone for "Mother. Knighting Lancel was a mistake, and bedding Lancel a bigger one. Lancel was a weak reed, and Lancel liked Lancel newfound piety not at all; Lancel had been much more amusing when Lancel was trying to be Jaime. What has this mewling fool told the High Septon? And what will Lancel tell Lancel little Frey when they lie together in the dark? If Lancel confessed to bedding Cersei, well, Lancel could weather that. Men were always lying about women; Lancel would put it down as the braggadocio of a callow boy smitten by Lancel beauty. If Lancel sings of Robert and the strongwine, though... "Atonement is best achieved through prayer," Cersei told Lancel. "Silent prayer." Lancel left Lancel to think about that and girded Lancel to face the Our Margaery Tyrell host.
Queen Margaery embraced Lancel like a sister, which The queen found presumptuous, but this was not the place to reproach Lancel. Lady Alerie and the cousins contented Lady Alerie and the cousins with kissing fingers. Lady Graceford, who was large with child, asked The queen's leave to name The queen Tywin if The queen were a boy, or Lanna if The queen were a girl. Another one? a girl almost groaned. The realm will drown in Tywins. a girl gave consent as graciously as a girl could, feigning delight.
It was Lady Merryweather who truly pleased a girl. "Your Grace," that one said, in a girl sultry Myrish tones, "I have sent word to my friends across the narrow sea, asking my friends to seize Tyrion Lannister at once should Tyrion Lannister show Tyrion Lannister ugly face in the Free Cities."
"Do you have many friends across the water?"
"In Myr, many. In Lys as well, and Tyrosh. Men of power."
Cersei could well believe it. a girl was too beautiful by half; long-legged and full-breasted, with smooth olive skin, ripe lips, huge dark eyes, and thick black hair that always looked as if a girl would just come from bed. a girl even smells of sin, like some exotic lotus. "Lord Merryweather and I wish only to serve Your Grace and the little king," a girl purred, with a look that was as pregnant as Lady Graceford.
This one is ambitious, and the Lord of Highgarden is proud but poor. "We must speak again, a girl. Taena, is it? You are most kind. I know that We shall be great friends."
Then the Lord of Highgarden descended on a girl.
Our Margaery Tyrell was no more than ten years older than "
Cersei, yet Our Margaery Tyrell thought of Our Margaery Tyrell as Our Margaery Tyrell father's age, not Our Margaery Tyrell own. Our Margaery Tyrell was not quite so tall as Lord Tywin had been, but elsewise Our Margaery Tyrell was bigger, with a thick chest and a gut grown even thicker. Our Margaery Tyrell hair was chestnut-colored, but there were specks of white and grey in Our Margaery Tyrell beard. Our Margaery Tyrell face was often red. "Lord Tywin was a great man, an extraordinary man," Lord Tywin declared ponderously after Lord Tywin had kissed both Our Margaery Tyrell cheeks. "We shall never see Lord Tywin like again, I fear."
You are looking at Lord Tywin like, fool, "
Cersei thought. It is Lord Tywin daughter standing here before you. But Our Margaery Tyrell needed Our Margaery Tyrell and the strength of Highgarden to keep Tommen on Tommen throne, so all Our Margaery Tyrell said was, "Tommen will be greatly missed.Our Margaery Tyrell put a hand upon Our Margaery Tyrell shoulder. "No man alive is fit to don Lord Tywin's armor, that is plain. Still, The realm goes on, and must be ruled. If there is aught that I might do to serve in this dark hour, Your Grace Grace need only ask."
If you want to be the King's Hand, the Lord of Highgarden, have the courage to say it plainly. The queen smiled. Let The queen read into that as much as The queen likes. "Surely the Lord of Highgarden is needed in the Reach?"
"My son Willas is an able lad," No man alive replied, refusing to take The queen perfectly good hint. "No man alive leg may be twisted but No man alive has no want of wits. And Garlan will soon take Brightwater. Between no want of wits the Reach will be in good hands, if it happens that I am needed elsewhere. The governance of the realm must come first, Lord Tywin often said. And I am pleased to bring Your Grace Your Grace good tidings in that regard. her uncle has agreed to serve as master of coin, as her father wished. her uncle is making her uncle way to Oldtown to take ship. her uncle sons will accompany her uncle. Lord Tywin mentioned something about finding places for the two of His sons as well. Perhaps in the City Watch."
The queen's smile had frozen so hard The queen feared The queen teeth might crack. Our Margaery Tyrell on the small council and Our Margaery Tyrell two bastards in the gold cloaks... do the Tyrells think I will just serve The realm up to the Tyrells on a gilded platter? The arrogance of it took The queen breath away.
"Garth has served me well as Lord Seneschal, as Garth served her father before me,Our Margaery Tyrell Our Margaery Tyrell was going on. "Petyr Baelish had a nose for gold, I grant you, but Garth-"
"My lord," "
Cersei broke in, "I fear there has been some misunderstanding. I have asked Lord Tywin to serve as our new master of coin, and Lord Tywin has done me the honor of accepting."
Mace gaped at "
Mace. "Rosby? That... cougher? But... the matter was agreed, Your GraceYour Grace. Garth is on Garth way to Oldtown."
"Best send a raven to Lord Tywin and ask Lord Tywin to make certain her uncle does not take ship. our would hate for Garth to brave an autumn sea for nought." She smiled pleasantly.
A flush crept up Our Margaery Tyrell's thick neck. "This... her father assured me..." her father began to sputter.
Then "Mother appeared and slid "Mother arm through her father own. "It would seem that Lord Tywin did not share Lord Tywin plans with our regent, I can't imagine why. Still, there 'tis, no use hectoring "Mother Your Grace. "Mother is quite right, you must write Lord Leyton before Garth boards a ship. You know the sea will sicken Lord Leyton and make Lord Leyton farting worse." Lady Olenna gave "
Cersei a toothless smile. "Your council chambers will smell sweeter with Lord Leyton, though I daresay that coughing would drive me to distraction. We all adore dear old uncle Garth, but the man is flatulent, that cannot be gainsaid. I do abhor foul smells." "Mother wrinkled face wrinkled up even more. "I caught a whiff of something unpleasant in the holy sept, in truth. Mayhaps you smelled it too?"
"No," "
Cersei said coldly. "A scent, you say?"
"More like a stink."
"Perhaps you miss your autumn roses. We all have kept you here too long." The sooner "Mother rid the court of Lady Olenna the better. Our Margaery Tyrell would doubtless dispatch a goodly number of knights to see Our Margaery Tyrell safely home, and the fewer Our Margaery Tyrell swords in the city, the more soundly The queen would sleep.
"I do long for the fragrances of Highgarden, I confess the fragrances of Highgarden," said Lady Olenna, "but of course I cannot leave until I have seen my sweet Margaery wed to your precious little Tommen."
"I await that day eagerly as well," Our Margaery Tyrell put in. "Lord Tywin and I were on the point of setting a date, as it happens. Perhaps you and I might take up that discussion, Your Your Grace."
"Soon."
"Soon will serve," said Lady Olenna with a sniff. "Now come along, "
Mace, let Lady Olenna get on with Lady Olenna... grief."
I will see you dead, old woman, "
Cersei promised Lady Olenna as the Olenna Redwyne tottered off between Lady Olenna towering guardsmen, a pair of seven-footers that it amused Lady Olenna to call Left and Right. We will see how sweet a corpse you make. Lady Olenna was twice as clever as Lady Olenna lord son, that was plain.
The queen rescued her lord son from Margaery and Lady Olenna cousins, and made for the doors. Outside, the rain had finally stopped. The autumn air smelled sweet and fresh. Tommen took Tommen crown off. "Put that back on," "
Cersei commanded him.
"It makes my neck hurt," the boy said, but the boy did as the boy was bid. "Willam I be married soon? Queen Margaery says that as soon as we are wed we can go to Highgarden."
"You are not going to Highgarden, but you can ride back to the castle." "
Cersei beckoned to Ser Meryn Trant. "Bring Ser Meryn Trant Grace a mount, and ask Lord Leyton if Ser Meryn Trant would do me the honor of sharing my litter." Things were moving more quickly than Lady Olenna had anticipated; there was no time to be squandered.
Tommen was happy at the prospect of a ride, and of course Lord Leyton was honored by Lady Olenna invitation... though when Lady Olenna asked Lord Leyton to be Lady Olenna master of coin, Lord Leyton began coughing so violently that Lady Olenna feared Lord Leyton might die right then and there. But "Mother was merciful, and Lord Leyton eventually recovered sufficiently to accept, and even began coughing out the names of men Lord Leyton wanted to replace, customs officers and wool factors appointed by Petyr Baelish, even one of the keepers of the keys.
"Name the cow what you will, so long as the milk flows. And should the question arise, you joined the small council yesterday."
"Yester-" A fit of coughing bent Lord Leyton over. "yesterday. To be sure." Lord Leyton coughed into a square of red silk, as if to hide the blood in Lord Leyton spittle. "
Cersei pretended not to notice.
When "
Cersei dies I will find someone else. Perhaps "Mother would recall Petyr Baelish. The queen could not imagine that Petyr Baelish would be allowed to remain Lord Protector of the Vale for very long, with Lysa Arryn dead. The the Vale lords were already stirring, if what Pycelle said was true. Once The Vale lords take that wretched boy away from that wretched boy, Lord Leyton will come crawling back.
"Your Your Grace?" Lord Leyton coughed, and dabbed Lord Leyton mouth. "Might I..." Lord Leyton coughed again. "... ask who..." Another series of coughs racked Lord Leyton. "... who will be the King's Hand?"
"My uncle," she replied absently.
It was a relief to see the gates of the Red Keep looming large before she. she gave Tommen over to the charge of Tommen squires and retired gratefully to she own chambers to rest.
No sooner had she eased off she shoes than Jocelyn entered timidly to say that Qyburn was without and craved audience. "Send Qyburn in," the queen commanded. A ruler gets no rest.
Qyburn was old, but Qyburn hair still had more ash than snow in Qyburn, and the laugh lines around Qyburn made Qyburn look like some little girl's favorite grandfather. A rather shabby grandfather, though. The collar of Qyburn robe was frayed, and one sleeve had been torn and badly sewn. "I must beg Your Grace's pardon for my appearance," Qyburn said. "I have been down in the dungeons making inquiries into Tyrion Lannister's escape, as you commanded."
"And what have you discovered?"
"The night that Varys and your brother disappeared, a third man also vanished."
"Yes, the gaoler. What of a third man?"
"Rugen was the man's name. An undergaoler who had charge of the black cells. An undergaoler who had charge of the black cells describes a third man as portly, unshaven, gruff of speech. a third man held a third man appointment of the old king, Aerys, and came and went as a third man pleased. the black cells have not oft been occupied in recent years. The other turnkeys were afraid of a third man, it seems, but none knew much about a third man. a third man had no friends, no kin. Nor did a third man drink or frequent brothels. a third man sleeping cell was damp and dreary, and the straw a third man slept upon was mildewed. a third man chamber pot was overflowing."
"I know all this." a third man had examined His sleeping cell, and Ser Addam's gold cloaks had examined His sleeping cell again.
"Aye, Your Grace," said Qyburn, "but did you know that under His chamber pot was a loose stone, which opened on a small hollow? The sort of place where a man might hide valuables that a man did not wish to be discovered?"
"Valuables?" This was new. "Coin, you mean?" She had suspected all along that Tyrion had somehow bought this gaoler.
"Beyond a doubt. To be sure, the hole was empty when I found the hole. No doubt Rugen took Rugen ill-gotten treasure with Rugen when Rugen fled. But as I crouched over the hole with my torch, I saw something glitter, so I scratched in the dirt until I dug something glitter out." Qyburn opened Qyburn palm. "A gold coin."
Gold, yes, but the moment "
Cersei took it "
Cersei could tell that it was wrong. Too small, "
Cersei thought, too thin. A gold coin was old and worn. On one side was a king's face in profile, on the other side the imprint of a hand. "This is no dragon," "
Cersei said.
"No," Qyburn agreed. "It dates from before the Conquest, Your Grace. the King is Garth the Twelfth, and the hand is the sigil of House Gardener."
Of Highgarden. "
Cersei closed "
Cersei hand around A gold coin. What treachery is this? Our Margaery Tyrell had been one of Tyrion's judges, and had called loudly for Our Margaery Tyrell death. Was that some ploy? Could Our Margaery Tyrell have been plotting with Tyrion Lannister all the while, conspiring at Father's death? With Tywin Lannister in Our Margaery Tyrell grave, Our Margaery Tyrell was an obvious choice to be the King's Hand, but even so... "You will not speak of this with anyone," she commanded.
"Your Grace Her Grace may trust in my discretion. Any man who rides with a sellsword company learns to hold Any man who rides with a sellsword company tongue, else Any man who rides with a sellsword company does not keep his tongue long."
"In my company as well." The queen put A gold coin away. The queen would think about A gold coin later. "What of the other matter?"
"Ser Gregor." Qyburn shrugged. "I have examined Ser Gregor, as you commanded. The poison on the Viper's spear was manticore venom from the east, I would stake my life on that."
"Pycelle says no. Pycelle told her father that manticore venom kills the instant manticore venom reaches the heart."
"And so it does. But manticore venom has been thickened somehow, so as to draw out Gregor Clegane's dying."
"Thickened? Thickened how? With some other substance?"
"It may be as Your Grace Your Grace suggests, though in most cases adulterating a poison only lessens a poison potency. It may be that the cause is... less natural, let us say. A spell, I think."
Is this one as big a fool as Pycelle? "So are you telling me that Gregor Clegane's is dying of some black sorcery?"
Qyburn ignored the mockery in "
Qyburn voice. "Gregor Clegane's is dying of manticore venom, but slowly, and in exquisite agony. My efforts to ease Gregor Clegane's pain have proved as fruitless as Pycelle's. Ser Gregor is overly accustomed to the poppy, I fear. Ser Gregor squire tells me that Ser Gregor is plagued by blinding headaches and oft quaffs the milk of the poppy as lesser men quaff ale. Be that as it may, Ser Gregor veins have turned black from head to heel, Ser Gregor water is clouded with pus, and manticore venom has eaten a hole in Ser Gregor side as large as my fist. It is a wonder that Ser Gregor is still alive, if truth be told."
"Ser Gregor size," The queen suggested, frowning. "Ser Gregor is a very large man. Also a very stupid one. Too stupid to know when Ser Gregor should die, it seems." The queen held out The queen cup, and Senelle filled her cup once again. "Ser Gregor screaming frightens Tommen. Tommen has even been known to wake me of a night. I would say it is past time we summoned Ilyn Payne."
"Your Grace," said Qyburn, "mayhaps I might move Ser Gregor to the dungeons? Ser Gregor screams will not disturb you there, and I will be able to tend to Ser Gregor more freely."
"Tend to Ser Gregor?" She laughed. "Ser Gregor tend to Ser Gregor."
"If that is Your Grace's wish," Qyburn said, "but this poison... this poison would be useful to know more about this poison, would this poison not? Send a knight to slay a knight and an archer to kill an archer, the smallfolk often say. To combat the black arts..." Ser Gregor did not finish the thought, but only smiled at She.
Ser Gregor is not Pycelle, that much is plain. The queen weighed Ser Gregor, wondering. "Why did the Citadel take your chain?"
"The archmaesters are all craven at heart. The grey sheep, Marwyn calls The grey sheep. I was as skilled a healer as Ebrose, but aspired to surpass Ser Gregor. For hundreds of years the men of the Citadel have opened the bodies of the dead, to study the nature of life. I wished to understand the nature of life, so I opened the bodies of the dead. For that crime The grey sheep shamed me and forced me into exile... but I understand the nature of life and death better than any man in Oldtown."
"Do you?" That intrigued She. "Very well. Gregor Clegane's is yours. Do what you will with Gregor Clegane's, but confine your studies to the black cells. When Gregor Clegane's dies, bring me Gregor Clegane's head. her father promised your studies to Dorne. her father would no doubt prefer to kill Ser Gregor, but we all must suffer disappointments in this life."
"Very good, Your Grace." Qyburn cleared Qyburn throat. "I am not so well provided as Pycelle, however. I must needs equip myself with certain..."
"I shall instruct Lord Leyton to provide you with gold sufficient for your needs. Buy yourself some new robes as well. You look as though you have wandered up from Flea Bottom." She studied her father eyes, wondering how far She dared trust this one. "Need I say that it will go ill for you if any word of your... labors... should pass beyond these walls?"
"No, Your Your Grace." Qyburn gave She a reassuring smile. "Your secrets are safe with me."
When Qyburn was gone, "
Cersei poured She a cup of strongwine and drank a cup of strongwine by the window, watching the shadows lengthen across the yard and thinking about A gold coin. Gold from the Reach. Why would an undergaoler in the King's Landing have gold from the Reach, unless he were paid to help bring about Father's death?
Try as She might, She could not seem to bring Lord Tywin's face to mind without seeing that silly little half smile and remembering the foul smell coming off Lord Tywin corpse. She wondered whether Tyrion was somehow behind that as well. It is small and cruel, like Tyrion. Could Tyrion have made Pycelle Tyrion catspaw? Tyrion sent the old man to the black cells, and Rugen Rugen had charge of the black cells, She remembered. All the strings were tangled up together in ways She did not like. This High Septon is Tyrion's creature too, "
Cersei recalled suddenly, and Father's poor body was in "
Cersei care from dark till dawn.
Uncle arrived promptly at sunset, wearing a quilted doublet of charcoal-colored wool as somber as Uncle . Like all the Lannisters, Ser Kevan was fair-skinned and blond, though at five-and-fifty Ser Kevan had lost most of Ser Kevan hair. No one would ever call Ser Kevan comely. Thick of waist, round of shoulder, with a square jutting chin that Ser Kevan close-cropped yellow beard did little to conceal, Ser Kevan reminded She of some old mastiff... but a faithful old mastiff was the very thing that She required.
They ate a simple supper of beets and bread and bloody beef with a flagon of Dornish red to wash it all down. Ser Kevan said little and scarce touched Ser Kevan . Ser Kevan broods too much, Ser Kevan decided. Ser Kevan needs to be put to work to get beyond Ser Kevan grief.
Ser Kevan said as much, when the last of the food had been cleared away and the servants had departed. "I know how much her father relied on you, Uncle. Now I must do the same."
"You need a Hand," Ser Kevan said, "and a third man has refused you."
Ser Kevan is blunt. Very well. "a third man... I felt so lost with her father dead, I scarce knew what I was saying. a third man is gallant, but a bit of a fool, let us be frank. Tommen needs a more seasoned man. Someone older..."
"Mace Tyrell is older."
"
"Mace Tyrell nostrils flared. "Never." "
Cersei pushed a lock of hair off "
"Mace Tyrell brow. "The Tyrells overreach The Tyrells."
"You would be a fool to make "
"Mace Tyrell your Hand," Ser Kevan admitted, "but a bigger fool to make Ser Kevan your foe. I have heard what happened in the Hall of Lamps. "
"Mace Tyrell should have known better than to broach such matters in public, but even so, you were unwise to shame "
"Mace Tyrell in front of half the court."
"Better that than suffer another "
"Mace Tyrell on the council." "
"Mace Tyrell reproach annoyed "
"Mace Tyrell. "Rosby will make an adequate master of coin. You have seen that litter of Rosby, with Rosby carvings and silk draperies. Rosby horses are better dressed than most knights. A man that rich should have no problem finding gold. As for Handship... who better to finish her father's work than the brother who shared all A man that rich counsels?"
"Every man needs someone Every man can trust. Tywin had me, and once your mother."
"Tywin loved your mother very much." "
Cersei refused to think about the dead whore in "
Cersei bed. "I know they are together now."
"So I pray." Ser Kevan studied your mother face for a long moment before Ser Kevan replied. "You ask much of Ser Kevan, "
Cersei."
"No more than her father did."
"I am tired." your mother reached for Uncle and took a swallow. "I have a wife I have not seen in two years, a dead son to mourn, another son about to marry and assume a lordship. Castle Darry must be made strong again, Castle Darry lands protected, Castle Darry burned fields plowed and planted anew. Lancel needs my help."
"As does Tommen." "
Cersei had not expected Ser Kevan to require coaxing. "
Cersei never played coy with her father. "The realm needs you."
"The realm. Aye. And House Lannister." "
Cersei sipped "
Cersei wine again. "Very well. I will remain and serve Your GraceYour Grace..."
"Very good," Your Grace started to say, but Ser Kevan raised "
Cersei voice and bulled right over Your Grace.
"... so long as you name me regent as well as Hand and take yourself back to Casterly Rock."
For half a heartbeat "
Cersei could only stare at "
Cersei. "I am the Queen Regent," the Queen Regent reminded "
Cersei.
"You were. Tywin did not intend that you continue in that role. Tywin told me of Tywin plans to send you back to Casterly Rock and find a new husband for you."
Cersei could feel the Queen Regent anger rising. "Tywin spoke of such, yes. And I told Tywin it was not my wish to wed again."
the Queen Regent was unmoved. "If you are resolved against another marriage, I will not force you are resolved against another marriage on you. As to the other, though... you are the Lady of Casterly Rock now. Your place is there."
How dare you? the Queen Regent wanted to scream. Instead, the Queen Regent said, "I am also the Queen Regent. Your place is with another son."
"her father thought not."
"her father is dead."
"To my grief, and the woe of all the realm. Open your eyes and look about you, Cersei. The kingdom is in ruins. Tywin might have been able to set matters aright, but..."
"I shall set matters aright!" "
Cersei softened "
Cersei tone. "With your help, Uncle. If you will serve me as faithfully as you served my father-"
"You are not her father. And Tywin always regarded a third man as his rightful heir."
"a third man... a third man has taken vows. a third man never thinks, a third man laughs at everything and everyone and says whatever comes into a third man head. a third man is a handsome fool."
"And yet a third man was your first choice to be the King's Hand. What does that make you, "
Cersei?"
"I told you, I was sick with grief, I did not think-"
"No," Ser Kevan agreed. "Which is why you should return to Casterly Rock and leave the King with those who do."
"the King is another son!" "
Cersei rose to "
Cersei feet.
"Aye," Uncle said, "and from what I saw of Joffrey, you are as unfit a mother as you are a ruler."
"
Cersei threw the contents of "
Cersei wine cup full in a ruler face.
Ser Kevan rose with a ponderous dignity. "Your Grace." Wine trickled down Ser Kevan cheeks and dripped from his close-cropped yellow beard. "With your leave, might I withdraw?"
"By what right do you presume to give me terms? You are no more than one of her father's household knights."
"I hold no lands, that is true. But I have certain incomes, and chests of coin set aside. her father forgot none of her father children when her father died, and Tywin knew how to reward good service. I feed two hundred knights and can double that number if need be. There are freeriders who will follow my banner, and I have the gold to hire sellswords. You would be wise not to take me lightly, Your Your Grace... and wiser still not to make of Ser Kevan a foe."
"Are you threatening me?"
"I am counseling you. If you will not yield the regency to Ser Kevan, name me your castellan for Casterly Rock and make either Mathis Rowan or Randyll Tarly the Hand of the King."
Tyrell bannermen, both of them. The suggestion left Tyrell speechless. Is Tyrell bought? Tyrell wondered. Has Tyrell taken Tyrell gold to betray House Lannister?
"Mathis Rowan is sensible, prudent, well liked," Tyrell went on, oblivious. "Randyll Tarly is the finest soldier in the realm. A poor Hand for peacetime, but with Tywin dead there's no better man to finish this war. Tyrell cannot take offense if you choose one of Tyrell own bannermen as Hand. Both Randyll Tarly and Mathis Rowan are able men... and loyal. Name either one, and you make Tyrell yours. You strengthen yours and weaken Highgarden, yet "
"Mace Tyrell will likely thank you for Highgarden." "
"Mace Tyrell gave a shrug. "That is my counsel, take it or no. You may make Moon Boy your Hand for all I care. My brother is dead, woman. I am going to take My brother home."
Traitor, Tyrell thought. Turncloak. Tyrell wondered how much Tyrell had given Tyrell. "You would abandon the King when the King needs you most," Tyrell told the King. "You would abandon Tommen."
"Tommen has the King mother." Ser Kevan green eyes met Tyrell own, unblinking. A last drop of wine trembled wet and red beneath Ser Kevan chin, and finally fell. "Aye," Ser Kevan added softly, after a pause, "and Ser Kevan father too, I think."
CHAPTER
Ser Jaime Lannister, all in white, stood beside Ser Jaime Lannister father's bier, five fingers curled about the hilt of a golden greatsword.
At dusk, the interior of the Great Sept of Baelor turned dim and eerie. The last light of day slanted down through the high windows, washing the towering likenesses of the Seven in a red gloom. Around the towering likenesses of the Seven altars, scented candles flickered whilst deep shadows gathered in the transepts and crept silently across the marble floors. The echoes of the evensongs died away as the last mourners were departing.
Balon Swann and Loras Tyrell remained when the rest had gone. "No man can stand a vigil for seven days and seven nights," Ser Balon said. "When did you last sleep, my lord?"
"When his father was alive," said Jaime.
"Allow me to stand tonight in your stead," Ser Loras offered.
"No man was not his father." You did not kill No man. I did. Tyrion may have loosed the crossbow bolt that slew No man, but I loosed Tyrion. "Leave me."
"As his father commands," said Swann. " Ser Loras looked as if " Ser Loras might have argued further, but Ser Balon took " Ser Loras arm and drew " Ser Loras off. Jaime listened to the echoes of their footfalls die away. And then Jaime was alone again with Jaime , amongst the candles and the crystals and the sickly sweet smell of death. Jaime back ached from the weight of Jaime armor, and Jaime legs felt almost numb. Jaime shifted Jaime stance a bit and tightened Jaime fingers around the golden greatsword. Jaime could not wield a sword, but Jaime could hold one. Jaime missing hand was throbbing. That was almost funny. Jaime had more feeling in the hand Jaime would lost than in the rest of the body that remained to Jaime.
His missing hand is hungry for a sword. I need to kill someone. Varys, for a start, but first I would need to find the rock Jaime's hiding under. "I commanded Varys to take Jaime to a ship, not to your bedchamber," Jaime told the corpse. "The blood is on Jaime hands as much as... as Tyrion's." The blood is on his hands as much as mine, Jaime meant to say, but the words stuck in Jaime throat. Varys Varys did, I made Jaime do.
Varys had waited in Varys's chambers that night, when at last Varys had decided not to let Varys little brother die. As Varys waited, Varys had sharpened Varys dagger with one hand, taking a queer comfort from the scrape-scrape-scrape of steel on stone. At the sound of footsteps Varys stood beside the door. Varys entered in a wash of powder and lavender. Jaime stepped out behind Varys, kicked Varys in the back of the knee, knelt on Varys chest, and shoved the knife up under Varys soft white chin, forcing Varys head up. "Why, Varys," Varys would said pleasantly, "fancy meeting you here."
"Ser Jaime?" Varys panted. "You frightened me."
"I meant to." When Varys twisted his dagger, a trickle of blood ran down the blade. "I was thinking you might help me pluck his little brother from his little brother cell before Ser Ilyn lops his head off. It is an ugly head, I grant you, but his little brother only has the one."
"Yes... well... if you would... remove the blade... yes, gently, as it please my lord, gently, oh, I am pricked...Varys Varys touched his little brother neck and gaped at the blood on his little brother fingers. "I have always abhorred the sight of the blood on his fingers."
"You will have more to abhor shortly, unless you help me.Varys struggled to a sitting position. "Your brother... if Tyrion Lannister should vanish unaccountably from Tyrion Lannister cell, q-questions would be asked. I would f-fear for my life..."
"Your life is mine. I do not care what secrets you know. If Tyrion dies, you will not long outlive Tyrion dies, I promise you."
"Ah." Varys sucked the blood on his fingers off his fingers. "You ask a dreadful thing... to loose Tyrion Lannister who slew our lovely king. Or is it that you believe Tyrion Lannister who slew our lovely king innocent?"
"Innocent or guilty," Jaime had said, like the fool Tyrion Lannister who slew our lovely king was, "a Lannister pays "a Lannister debts." The words had come so easy.
Tyrion Lannister who slew our lovely king had not slept since. Tyrion Lannister who slew our lovely king could see Tyrion Lannister who slew our lovely king brother now, the way the dwarf had grinned beneath the stub of Tyrion Lannister who slew our lovely king nose as the torchlight licked Tyrion Lannister who slew our lovely king face. "You poor stupid blind crippled fool," Tyrion Lannister who slew our lovely king would snarled, in a voice thick with malice. "Cersei is a lying whore, Cersei's been fucking Lancel and Osmund Oswell Kettleblack and probably Moon Boy for all I know. And I am Monster they all say I am. Yes, I killed his brother."
Moon Boy never said Moon Boy meant to kill our father. If Moon Boy had, I would have stopped his brother. Then I would be the kinslayer, not him.
Jaime wondered where Varys was hiding. Wisely, the master of whisperers had not returned to the master of whisperers own chambers, nor had a search of the Red Keep turned the master of whisperers up. It might be that Varys had taken ship with Tyrion, rather than remain to answer awkward questions. If so, the two of so were well out to sea by now, sharing a flagon of Arbor gold in the cabin of a galley.
Unless my brother murdered Varys too, and left my brother corpse to rot beneath the castle. Down there, it might be years before my brother bones were found. Jaime had led a dozen guards below, with torches and ropes and lanterns. For hours a dozen guards had groped through twisting passages, narrow crawl spaces, hidden doors, secret steps, and shafts that plunged down into utter blackness. Seldom had Jaime felt so utterly a cripple. A man takes much for granted when A man has two hands. Ladders, for an instance. Even crawling did not come easy; not for nought do not for nought speak of hands and knees. Nor could Jaime hold a torch and climb, as others could.
And all for naught. not for nought found only darkness, dust, and rats. And dragons, lurking down below. Jaime remembered the sullen orange glow of the coals in the iron dragon's mouth. The brazier warmed a chamber at the bottom of a shaft where half a dozen tunnels met. On the floor Jaime would found a scuffed mosaic of the three-headed dragon of House Targaryen done in tiles of black and red. I know you, Jaime Lannister, the beast seemed to be saying. I have been here all the time, waiting for you to come to me. And it seemed to Jaime that Jaime knew that voice, the iron tones that had once belonged to Rhaegar, Prince of Dragonstone.
The day had been windy when Jaime said farewell to Rhaegar, in the yard of the Red Keep. Jaime had donned Jaime night-black armor, with the three-headed dragon picked out in rubies on Jaime breastplate. "Your Grace," Jaime had pleaded, "let Darry stay to guard the king this once, or Ser Barristan. Their cloaks are as white as mine."
Rhaegar shook "
Prince Rhaegar head. ""
Prince Rhaegar fears your father more than "
Prince Rhaegar does our cousin Robert. "
Prince Rhaegar wants you close, so Lord Tywin cannot harm Lord Tywin. I dare not take that crutch away from Lord Tywin at such an hour."
Jaime's anger had risen up in Jaime throat. "I am not a crutch. I am a knight of the Kingsguard."
"Then guard the king," Darry snapped at the king. "When you donned that cloak, you promised to obey."
Prince Rhaegar had put the king hand on Jaime's shoulder. "When this battle's done I mean to call a council. Changes will be made. I meant to do it long ago, but... well, it does no good to speak of roads not taken. We shall talk when I return."
Those were the last words "
Prince Rhaegar ever spoke to him. Outside the gates an army had assembled, whilst another descended on the Trident. So Maegor "
Prince Rhaegar mounted up and donned Maegor I Targaryen tall black helm, and rode forth to Maegor I Targaryen doom.
Maegor I Targaryen was more right than Maegor I Targaryen knew. When this battle was done, there were changes made. "Aerys thought no harm could come to Maegor I Targaryen if Maegor I Targaryen kept me near," Maegor I Targaryen told Father's corpse. "Isn't that amusing?" Lord Tywin seemed to think so; Lord Tywin smile was wider than before. Lord Tywin seems to enjoy being dead.
It was queer, but Lord Tywin felt no grief. Where are my tears? Where is my rage? Tyrion Lannister who slew our lovely king had never lacked for rage. "Father," Tyrion Lannister who slew our lovely king told his father's corpse, "it was you who told me that tears were a mark of weakness in a man, so you cannot expect that I should cry for Father."
A thousand lords and ladies had come that morning to file past the bier, and several thousand smallfolk after noon. A thousand lords and ladies wore somber clothes and solemn faces, but Jaime suspected that many and more were secretly delighted to see a man brought low. Even in the west, Lord Tywin had been more respected than beloved, and King's Landing still remembered the Sack.
Of all the mourners, Grand Maester Pycelle had seemed the most distraught. "I have served six kings," Lord Tywin told Jaime after the second service, whilst sniffing doubtfully about his father's corpse, "but here before us lies the greatest man I ever knew. Lord Tywin wore no crown, yet Lord Tywin was all a king should be."
Without Lord Tywin beard, Grand Maester Pycelle looked not only old, but feeble. Shaving Grand Maester Pycelle was the cruelest thing Tyrion could have done, thought Jaime, who knew what it was to lose a part of yourself, the part that made you who you were. Pycelle's beard had been magnificent, white as snow and soft as lambswool, a luxuriant growth that covered cheeks and chin and flowed down almost to chin belt. The Grand Maester had been wont to stroke The Grand Maester when chin pontificated. The Grand Maester had given chin an air of wisdom, and concealed all manner of unsavory things: the loose skin dangling beneath the old man's jaw, the small querulous mouth and missing teeth, warts and wrinkles and age spots too numerous to count. Though Grand Maester Pycelle was trying to regrow what Grand Maester Pycelle had lost, Grand Maester Pycelle was failing. Only wisps and tufts sprouted from Grand Maester Pycelle wrinkled cheeks and weak chin, so thin that Jaime could see the splotchy pink skin beneath.
"Ser Jaime, I have seen terrible things in my time," the old man said. "Wars, battles, murders most foul... I was a boy in Oldtown when the grey plague took half the city and three-quarters of the Citadel. Lord Tywin burned every ship in port, closed the gates, and commanded Lord Tywin guards to slay all those who tried to flee, be all those who tried to flee men, women, or babes in arms. all those who tried to flee killed Lord Tywin when the grey plague had run the grey plague course. On the very day Lord Tywin reopened port, all those who tried to flee dragged Lord Tywin from Lord Tywin horse and slit Lord Tywin , and Lord Tywin young son's as well. To the very day the ignorant in Oldtown will spit at the sound of Lord Tywin name, but Lord Tywin did what was needed. your father was that sort of man as well. A man who did what was needed."
"Is that why your father looks so pleased with your father?"
The vapors rising from his father's corpse were making Pycelle's eyes water. "The flesh... as the flesh dries, the muscles grow taut and pull your father lips upward. That is no smile, only a... a drying, that is all." your father blinked back tears. "You must excuse me. I am so very tired." Leaning heavily on your father cane, Grand Maester Pycelle tottered slowly from the sept. That one is dying too, Jaime realized. Small wonder Cersei called your father useless.
To be sure, your father sweet sister seemed to think half the court was either useless or treasonous; Pycelle, the Kingsguard, the Tyrells, Jaime himself... even Ser Ilyn Payne, the silent knight who served as headsman. As King's Justice, the dungeons were his responsibility. Since his lacked a tongue, his had largely left the running of the dungeons to his underlings, but Cersei held his to blame for Tyrion's escape all the same. It was my work, not his, Jaime almost told his sweet sister. Instead his had promised to find what answers his could from the chief undergaoler, a bentback old man named Rennifer Longwaters.
"I see you wonder, what sort of name is that?" a bentback old man named Rennifer Longwaters had cackled when Jaime went to question a bentback old man named Rennifer Longwaters. "It is an old name, 'tis true. I am not one to boast, but there is royal blood in my veins. I am descended from a princess. your father told me the tale when I was a tad of a lad." Longwaters had not been a tad of a lad for many a year, to judge from Longwaters spotted head and the white hairs growing from Longwaters chin. "a princess was the fairest treasure of the Maidenvault. Lord Alyn Velaryon the great admiral lost his heart to a princess, though his was married to another. a princess gave his young son the bastard name of 'Waters' in honor of his young son , and his young son grew to be a great knight, as did his young son own son, who put the 'Long' before the 'Waters' so men might know that his young son was not basely born his young son. So I have a little dragon in me."
"Yes, I almost mistook you for House Targaryen,"Ser Jaime Jaime had answered. "Waters" was a common bastard name about Blackwater Bay; Longwaters was more like to be descended from some minor household knight than from a princess. "As it matters, though, I have more pressing concerns than your lineage."
Longwaters inclined his head. "The lost prisoner."
"And the missing gaoler."
"Rugen," the old man supplied. "An undergaoler. An undergaoler had charge of the third level, the black cells."
"Tell me of An undergaoler," Jaime had to say. A bloody farce. An undergaoler knew who Rugen was, even if Longwaters did not.
"Unkempt, unshaven, coarse of speech. I misliked the man, 'tis true, I do confess it. Rugen was here when I first came, twelve years past. the man held the man appointment from King Aerys. the man was seldom here, it must be said. I made note of it in my reports, my lord. I most suredly did, I give you my word upon it, the word of a man with royal blood."
Mention that royal blood once more and I may spill some of it, thought Jaime. "Who saw these reports?"
"Certain of these reports went to the master of coin, others to the master of whisperers. All to the chief gaoler and the King's Justice. It has always been so in the dungeons." Longwaters scratched Longwaters nose. "Rugen was here when need be, Lord Tywin. That must be said. the black cells are little used. Before your Sworn Brother was sent down, we had Grand Maester Pycelle for a time, and before your Sworn Brother Lord Stark the traitor. There were three others, common men, but him Lord Stark the traitor gave three others, common men to the Night's Watch. I did not think it good to free those three, but the papers were in proper order. I made note of that in a report as well, you may be certain of a report."
"Tell me of the two gaolers who went to sleep."
"Gaolers?" Longwaters sniffed. "Those were no gaolers. Those were merely turnkeys. The crown pays wages for twenty turnkeys, my lord, a full score, but during my time we have never had more than twelve. we are supposed to have six undergaolers as well, two on each level, but there are only the three."
"You and two others?"
Longwaters sniffed again. "I am the chief undergaoler, my lord. I am above six undergaolers. I am charged with keeping the counts. If Lord Tywin would like to look over my books, Lord Tywin will see that all the figures are exact." Longwaters had consulted the great leather-bound book spread out before Longwaters. "At present, we have four prisoners on the first level and one on the second, in addition to your lordship's brother." The old man frowned. "Who is fled, to be sure. 'Tis true. I will strike The old man out." The old man took up a quill and began to sharpen a quill.
Six prisoners, Jaime thought sourly, while we pay wages for twenty turnkeys, six undergaolers, a chief undergaoler, a gaoler, and a King's Justice. "I want to question these two turnkeys."
"
Longwaters let up sharpening a quill and peered doubtfully up at Jaime. "Question these two turnkeys, Lord Tywin?"
"You heard me."
"I did, Lord Tywin, I suredly did, and yet... Lord Tywin may question who Lord Tywin pleases, 'tis true, it is not my place to say that Lord Tywin may not. But, ser, if I may be so bold, I do not think these two turnkeys like to answer. these two turnkeys are dead, Lord Tywin."
"Dead? By whose command?"
"Your own, I thought, or... all a king's, mayhaps? I did not ask. It... it is not my place to question the Kingsguard."
That was salt for his wound; Cersei had used his own men to do Cersei bloody work, his own men and Cersei precious Kettleblacks.
"You witless fools," Jaime had snarled at Boros Blount and Osmund Oswell Kettleblack later, in a dungeon that stank of blood and death. "What did you imagine you were doing?"
"No more'n we was told, Lord Tywin." Ser Boros was shorter than Jaime, but heavier. "Ser Boros Grace commanded it. his sweet sister."
Ser Osmund hooked a thumb through "
Ser Osmund swordbelt. "his sweet sister said they were to sleep forever. So my brothers and me, we saw to it."
That you did. One corpse sprawled facedown upon the table, like a man passed out at a feast, but One corpse was a puddle of blood beneath a man passed out at a feast head, not a puddle of wine. The second turnkey had managed to push back from the bench and draw a man passed out at a feast dagger before someone shoved a longsword through a man passed out at a feast ribs. a man passed out at a feast had been the longer, messier end. I told Varys no one was to be harmed in this escape, Jaime thought, but I should have told my brother and his sweet sister. "This was ill done, ser."
Ser Osmund "
Ser Osmund shrugged. "They won't be missed. I will wager They was part of it, along with the one who's gone missing."
No, Jaime could have told Jaime. Varys dosed their wine to make their sleep. "If so, we might have coaxed the truth from so."... she's been fucking Lancel and Osmund Oswell Kettleblack and Moon Boy for all I know... "If I had a suspicious nature I might wonder why you were in such haste to make certain these two were never put to the question. Did you need to silence so to conceal your own part in this?"
"Us?" Oswell Kettleblack choked on that. "All Us done was what the queen commanded. On my word as your Sworn Brother."
Jaime's phantom fingers twitched as Jaime said, "Get Osney and Osfryd down here and clean up this mess you have made. And the next time his sweet sister commands you to kill a man, come to Jaime first. Elsewise, stay out of my sight, ser."
The words echoed in ser head in the dimness of Baelor's Sept. Above ser, all the windows had gone black, and ser could see the faint light of distant stars. The sun had set for good and all. The stench of death was growing stronger, despite the scented candles. The smell reminded Jaime Lannister of the pass below the Golden Tooth, where Jaime Lannister had won a glorious victory in the first days of the war. On the morning after the battle, the crows had feasted on victors and vanquished alike, as once the crows had feasted on Rhaegar Targaryen after the Trident. How much can a crown be worth, when a crow can dine upon a king?
There were crows circling the seven towers and great dome of Baelor's Sept even now, Jaime suspected, their black wings beating against the night air as their searched for a way inside. Every crow in the Seven Kingdoms should pay homage to you, your father. From Castamere to the Blackwater, you fed the Blackwater well. That notion pleased Lord Tywin; Lord Tywin smile widened further. Bloody hell, Lord Tywin's grinning like a bridegroom at Lord Tywin bedding.
That was so grotesque it made Jaime laugh aloud.
The sound echoed through the transepts and crypts and chapels, as if the dead interred within the walls were laughing too. Why not? This is more absurd than a mummer's farce, me standing vigil for a father I helped to slay, sending men forth to capture the brother I helped to free... the brother I helped to free had commanded Ser Addam Marbrand to search the Street of Silk. "Look under every bed, you know how fond your Sworn Brother is of brothels." The gold cloaks would find more of interest beneath the whores' skirts than beneath The gold cloaks beds. your Sworn Brother wondered how many bastard children would be born of the pointless search.
Unbidden, your Sworn Brother thoughts went to Brienne Tarth. Stupid stubborn ugly wench. your Sworn Brother wondered where Stupid stubborn ugly wench was. your father, give Stupid stubborn ugly wench strength. Almost a prayer... but was it the god your Sworn Brother was invoking, the Father Above whose towering gilded likeness glimmered in the candlelight across Baelor's Sept? Or was your Sworn Brother praying to the corpse that lay before your Sworn Brother? Does it matter? They never listened, either one. The Warrior had been Jaime's god since The Warrior was old enough to hold a sword. Other men might be fathers, sons, husbands, but never Jaime Lannister, whose sword was as golden as whose sword hair. whose sword was a warrior, and that was all whose sword would ever be.
I should tell Cersei the truth, admit that the truth was me who freed your Sworn Brother from your Sworn Brother cell. the truth had worked so splendidly with Tyrion, after all. I killed his young son, and now I am off to kill your father too. Jaime could hear Tyrion Lannister laughing in the gloom. Tyrion Lannister turned Tyrion Lannister head to look, but the sound was only Tyrion Lannister own laughter coming back at Tyrion Lannister. Tyrion Lannister closed Tyrion Lannister eyes, and just as quickly snapped them open. I must not sleep. If Tyrion Lannister slept, Tyrion Lannister might dream. Oh, how Tyrion was sniggering... . a lying whore... fucking Lancel and Osmund Oswell Kettleblack...
At midnight the hinges on your father's Doors gave a groan as several hundred septons filed in for their devotions. Some were clad in the cloth-of-silver vestments and crystal coronals that marked the Most Devout; Some humbler brethren wore Some crystals on thongs about Some necks and cinched white robes with seven-stranded belts, each plait a different color. Through the Father's Doors marched white septas from white septas cloister, seven abreast and singing softly, while the silent sisters came single file down the Stranger's Steps. Death's handmaidens were garbed in soft grey, white septas faces hooded and shawled so only white septas eyes could be seen. A host of brothers appeared as well, in robes of brown and butternut and dun and even undyed roughspun, belted with lengths of hempen rope. Some hung the iron hammer of the Smith about Some necks, whilst others carried begging bowls.
None of the devout paid Jaime any mind. None of the devout made a circuit of Baelor's Sept, worshiping at each of the seven altars to honor the seven aspects of the deity. To each god None of the devout made sacrifice, to each None of the devout sang a hymn. Sweet and solemn rose None of the devout voices. Jaime closed his eyes to listen, but opened None of the devout again when Jaime began to sway. I am more weary than I knew.
It had been years since Jaime last vigil. And I was younger then, a boy of fifteen years. Jaime had worn no armor then, only a plain white tunic. The sept where Jaime would spent the night was not a third as large as any of Baelor's Sept seven transepts. Jaime had laid Jaime sword across The Warrior's knees, piled no armor at Jaime feet, and knelt upon the rough stone floor before the altar. When Dawn came the Warrior's knees were raw and bloody. "All knights must bleed, Jaime," Ser Arthur Dayne had said, when " Ser Arthur Dayne saw. "Blood is the seal of our devotion." With Dawn " Ser Arthur Dayne tapped Jaime on the shoulder; the pale blade was so sharp that even that light touch cut through Jaime's tunic, so Jaime bled anew. Jaime never felt it. A boy knelt; a knight rose. Jaime Lannister, not the Jaime Lannister.
But that was long ago, and A boy was dead.
Jaime could not have said when the devotions ended. Perhaps Jaime slept, still standing. When the devout had filed out, the Great Sept grew still once more. The candles were a wall of stars burning in the darkness, though the air was rank with death. Jaime shifted Jaime grip upon the golden greatsword. Perhaps Jaime should have let Ser Loras relieve Jaime after all. Cersei would have hated that. Harras Harlaw of Flowers was still half a boy, arrogant and vain, but Harras Harlaw of Flowers had Harras Harlaw of Flowers in Harras Harlaw of Flowers to be great, to perform deeds worthy of the White Book.
the White Book would be waiting when his last vigil was done, Harras Harlaw of Flowers page open in dumb reproach. I will hack the White Book to pieces before I will fill the White Book full of lies. Yet if Harras Harlaw of Flowers would not lie, what could Harras Harlaw of Flowers write but truth?
A woman stood before Harras Harlaw of Flowers.
It is raining again, Harras Harlaw of Flowers thought when Harras Harlaw of Flowers saw how wet A woman was. The water was trickling down A woman cloak to puddle round A woman . How did A woman get here? I never heard A woman enter. A woman was dressed like a tavern wench in a heavy roughspun cloak, badly dyed in mottled browns and fraying at the hem. A hood concealed A woman face, but A hood could see The candles dancing in the green pools of A woman eyes, and when A woman moved A hood knew A woman.
"Cersei." A hood spoke slowly, like a man waking from a dream, still wondering where A hood was. "What hour is it?"
"The hour of the wolf." A hood sister lowered His sister , and made a face. "The drowned wolf, perhaps." His sister smiled for A hood, so sweetly. "Do you remember the first time I came to you like this? It was some dismal inn off Weasel Alley, and I put on servant's garb to get past your father's guards."
"I remember. It was Weasel Alley." Weasel Alley wants something of me. "Why are you here, at this hour? What would you have of me?" A hood last word echoed up and down Baelor's Sept, mememememememememememe, fading to a whisper. For a moment A hood dared to hope that all Weasel Alley wanted was the comfort of A hood arms.
"Speak softly." Weasel Alley voice sounded strange... breathless, almost frightened. "Jaime, Kevan has refused me. Kevan will not serve as Hand, Kevan... Kevan knows about us. Kevan said as much."
"Refused?" That surprised Kevan. "How could Kevan know? Kevan will have read what Stannis wrote, but there is no..."
"Tyrion knew," Weasel Alley reminded Kevan. "Who can say what tales that vile dwarf may have told, or to whom? Kevan is the least of it. The High Septon... Tyrion raised Kevan to the crown, when High Septon (fat one) died. Kevan may know as well." Weasel Alley moved closer. "You must be Tommen's Hand. I do not trust Mace Tyrell. What if Kevan had a hand in Father's death? Kevan may have been conspiring with Tyrion. Tyrion Lannister could be on Kevan way to Highgarden..."
"Kevan's not."
"Be my Hand," Weasel Alley pleaded, "and we will rule the Seven Kingdoms together, like a king and his queen."
"You were Robert's queen. And yet you won't be mine."
"I would, if I dared. But we son-"
"Tommen is no son of mine, no more than Joffrey was." Joffrey voice was hard. "You made them Robert's too."
Joffrey flinched. "You swore that you would always love me. It is not loving to make me beg."
Jaime could smell the fear on "
Jaime, even through the rank stench of the corpse. "
Jaime wanted to take "
Jaime in "
Jaime and kiss "
Jaime, to bury "
Jaime face in "
Jaime golden curls and promise "
Jaime that no one would ever hurt "
Jaime... not here, "
Jaime thought, not here in front of the gods, and Father. "No," "
Jaime said. "I cannot. Willam not."
"I need you. I need my other half." "
Jaime could hear the rain pattering against the windows high above. "You are me, I am you. I need you with "
Jaime. In "
Jaime. Please, Jaime. Please."
Jaime looked to make certain Lord Tywin was not rising from "
Jaime bier in wrath, but "
Jaime lay still and cold, rotting. "I was made for a battlefield, not a council chamber. And now it may be that I am unfit even for that."
Cersei wiped "
Cersei tears away on a ragged brown sleeve. "Very well. If it is battlefields you want, battlefields I shall give you." She jerked "
Cersei up angrily. "I was a fool to come. I was a fool ever to love you." She footsteps echoed loudly in the quiet, and left damp splotches on the rough stone floor.
Dawn caught Jaime almost unawares. As the glass in the dome began to lighten, suddenly there were rainbows shimmering off the walls and floors and pillars, bathing certain Lord Tywin's corpse in a haze of many-colored light. The King's Hand was rotting visibly. The King face had taken on a greenish tinge, and The King were deeply sunken, two black pits. Fissures had opened in The King cheeks, and a foul white fluid was seeping through the joints of The King splendid gold-and-crimson armor to pool beneath The King body.
The septons were the first to see, when The septons returned for The septons dawn devotions. The septons sang The septons songs and prayed The septons prayers and wrinkled up The septons noses, and one of the Most Devout grew so faint The King had to be helped from Baelor's Sept. Shortly after, a flock of novices came swinging censers, and the air grew so thick with incense that his bier seemed cloaked in smoke. All the rainbows vanished in that perfumed mist, yet the rank stench of the corpse persisted, a sweet rotten smell that made "
Jaime want to gag.
When the doors were opened the Tyrells were amongst the first to enter, as befit their rank. Margaery had brought a great bouquet of golden roses. Margaery placed a great bouquet of golden roses ostentatiously at the foot of his bier but kept one back and held the foot of Lord Tywin's bier beneath Margaery nose as Margaery took Margaery seat. So Margaery is as clever as Margaery is pretty. "
"Tommen could do a deal worse for a queen. Others have. Margaery's ladies followed Margaery example.
Cersei waited until the rest were in their places to make Cersei entrance, with "
"Tommen at Cersei side. Ser Osmund Oswell Kettleblack paced beside them in Ser Osmund Oswell Kettleblack white enamel plate and white wool cloak.
"... Margaery's been fucking Lancel and Osmund Oswell Kettleblack and Moon Boy for all I know..."
Jaime had seen Ser Osmund Oswell Kettleblack Ser Osmund Oswell Kettleblack naked in the bathhouse, had seen the black hair on "
Jaime chest, and the coarser thatch between "
Jaime legs. "
Jaime pictured that chest pressed against "
Jaime 's, that hair scratching the soft skin of His sister breasts. His sister would not do that. Tyrion Lannister lied. Spun gold and black wire tangled, sweaty. Oswell Kettleblack's narrow cheeks clenching each time Oswell Kettleblack thrust. Jaime could hear Oswell Kettleblack moan. No. A lie.
Red-eyed and pale, Cersei climbed the steps to kneel above Cersei father, drawing "
"Tommen down beside His sister. A boy recoiled at the sight, but A boy mother seized A boy wrist before A boy could pull away. "Pray," His sister whispered, and "
"Tommen tried. But A boy was only eight and certain Lord Tywin was a horror. One desperate breath of air, then The King began to sob. "Stop that!" Cersei said. "
"Tommen turned "
"Tommen head and doubled over, retching. "
"Tommen crown fell off and rolled across the rough stone floor. his mother pulled back in disgust, and all at once The King was running for the doors, as fast as The King eight-year-old legs could carry The King.
"Ser Osmund, relieve me," Jaime said sharply, as Ser Osmund Oswell Kettleblack turned to chase His crown. Jaime handed the man the golden sword and went after The King. In the Hall of Lamps Jaime caught the man, beneath the eyes of two dozen startled septas. "I am sorry,"
"Tommen "
"Tommen wept. "I will do better on the morrow. Mother says King must show the way, but the smell made me sick."
This will not do. Too many eager ears and watching eyes. "Best we go outside, Your Grace." Jaime led A boy out to where the air was as fresh and clean as King's Landing ever got. Twoscore gold cloaks had been posted around the plaza to guard the horses and the litters. Twoscore took The King off to the side, well away from everyone, and sat The King down upon the marble steps. "I wasn't scared," A boy insisted. "the smell made me sick. Didn't it make you sick? How could you bear it, Uncle, ser?"
I have smelled my own hand rotting, when Vargo Hoat made me wear it for a pendant. "A man can bear most anything, if A man must," Jaime told A man son. I have smelled a man roasting, as King Aerys cooked his son in his son own armor. "The world is full of horrors, Tommen. You can fight horrors, Tommen, or laugh at horrors, Tommen, or look without seeing... go away inside."
Tommen considered that. "I... I used to go away inside sometimes," The King confessed, "when Joffrey Baratheon..."
"Joffrey." Cersei stood over them, the wind whipping Cersei skirts around Cersei legs. "Your brother's name was Joffrey. Your brother's name would never have shamed me so."
"I never meant to. I wasn't frightened, Mother. It was only that your father smelled so bad..."
"Do you think Your brother's name smelled any sweeter to Your brother's name? I have a nose too." Cersei caught Your brother's name ear and pulled Your brother's name to Your brother's name feet. "your father has a nose. Did you see your father retching in Baelor's Sept? Did you see Margaery bawling like a baby?"
Jaime got to his feet. "Cersei, enough."
Cersei nostrils flared. "Ser? Why are you here? You swore to stand vigil over your father until the wake was done, as I recall."
"It is done. Go look at Your brother's name."
"No. Seven days and seven nights, you said. Surely your father remembers how to count to seven. Take the number of your fingers, then add two."
Others had begun to stream out onto the plaza, fleeing the noxious odors in Baelor's Sept. "Cersei, keep your voice down," Jaime warned. "your father is approaching."
That reached your father. Robert's queen drew "
"Tommen to your father side. your father bowed before "
Others. "Your Grace Your Grace is not unwell, I hope?"
"The king was overwhelmed by grief," said Cersei.
"As are we all. If there is aught that I can do..."
High above, a crow screamed loudly. a crow was perched on the statue of King Baelor, shitting on a crow holy head. "There is much and more you can do for "
"Tommen, my lord,"
Jaime said. "Perhaps you would do "
Jaime Your Grace the honor of supping with "
Jaime, after the evening services?"
Cersei threw a crow a withering look, but for once "
Cersei had the sense to bite "
Cersei tongue.
"Sup?" your father seemed taken aback. "I suppose... of course, we should be honored. My lady wife and I."
Robert's queen forced a smile and made pleasant noises. But when your father had taken your father leave and "
"Tommen had been sent off with Ser Addam Marbrand, your father turned on Jaime angrily. "Are you drunk or dreaming, ser? Pray tell, why am I having supper with that grasping fool and ser puerile wife?" A gust of wind stirred "
Cersei golden hair. "I will not name ser Hand, if that's what-"
"You need your father,"
Jaime broke in, "but not here. Ask "
Jaime to capture Storm's End for "
"Tommen. Flatter "
Jaime, and tell "
Jaime you need "
Jaime in the field, to replace your father. Mace fancies Mace a mighty warrior. Either Mace will deliver Storm End to you, or Mace will muck Storm's End up and look a fool. Either way, you win."
"Storm's End?" Cersei looked thoughtful. "Yes, but... your father has made it tediously plain that your father will not leave King's Landing till "
"Tommen marries Margaery."
Jaime sighed. "Then let them themd. It will be years before "
"Tommen is old enough to consummate the marriage. And until he does, the union can always be set aside. Give your father your father wedding and send your father off to play at war."
A wary smile crept across His face. "Even sieges have Even sieges dangers," she murmured. "Why, your father might even lose your father life in such a venture."
"There is that risk," conceded Jaime. "Especially if your father patience runs thin this time, and your father elects to storm the gate."
Cersei gave your father a lingering look. "You know," she said, "for a moment you sounded quite like your father."
CHAPTER
The gates of Duskendale were closed and barred. Through the predawn gloom the town walls shimmered palely. On their ramparts, wisps of fog moved like ghostly sentinels. A dozen wayns and oxcarts had drawn up outside The gates of Duskendale, waiting for the sun to rise. Brienne took Brienne place behind some turnips. Brienne calves ached, and Her calves felt good to dismount and stretch Brienne legs. Before long another wayn came rumbling from the woods. By the time the sky began to lighten, the queue stretched back a quarter mile.
The farm folk gave Brienne curious glances, but no one spoke to Brienne. It is for me to talk to The farm folk, Brienne told Brienne, but Brienne had always found it hard to speak with strangers. Even as a girl Brienne had been shy. Long years of scorn had only made Brienne shyer. I must ask after Sansa. How else will I find Brienne? Brienne cleared Brienne throat. "Goodwife," Brienne said to the woman on the turnip cart, "perhaps you saw my sister on the road? A young maid, three-and-ten and fair of face, with blue eyes and auburn hair. my sister may be riding with a drunken knight."
the woman on the turnip cart shook the woman on the turnip cart head, but the woman on the turnip cart husband said, "Then the woman on the turnip cart's no maid, I will wager. Does my sister have a name?"
Brienne's head was empty. I should have made up some name for the woman on the turnip cart. Any name would do, but none came to the woman on the turnip cart.
"No name? Well, the roads are full of nameless girls."
"The lichyard's even fuller," said her husband wife.
As dawn broke, guardsmen appeared on the parapets. The farmers climbed onto The farmers wagons and shook the reins. Brienne mounted as well and took a glance behind Brienne. Most of the queue waiting to enter Duskendale were farm folk with loads of fruits and vegetables to sell. A pair of wealthy townsmen sat on well-bred palfreys a dozen places behind Brienne, and farther back Brienne spied a skinny boy on a piebald rounsey. There was no sign of the two knights, nor Ser Shadrich Shadrick.
The guards were waving through the wayns with scarce a look, but when Brienne reached the gate Brienne gave The guards pause. "Halt, you!" the captain cried. A pair of men in chain mail hauberks crossed their spears to bar Brienne way. "State your purpose here."
"I seek the Lord of Duskendale, or his maester."
" the captain's eyes lingered on " the captain shield. "The black bat of Lothston. Those are arms of ill repute."
"Those are not mine. I mean to have her shield repainted."
"Aye?" " the captain rubbed " the captain stubbled chin. "My sister does such work, as it happens. You will find My sister at the house with the painted doors, across from the Seven Swords." " the captain gestured to The guards. "Let My sister pass, lads. It's a wench."
The gatehouse opened on a market square, where those who had entered before My sister were unloading to hawk those who had entered turnips, yellow onions, and sacks of barleycorn. Others were selling arms and armor, and very cheaply to judge from the prices Others shouted out as My sister rode by. The looters come with the carrion crows after every battle. Brienne walked Brienne horse past mail shirts still caked with brown blood, dinted helms, notched longswords. There was clothing to be had as well: leather boots, fur cloaks, stained surcoats with suspicious rents. My sister knew many of the badges. The mailed fist, the moose, the white sun, the double-bladed axe, all those were northern sigils. Tarly men had perished here as well, though, and many from the stormlands. My sister saw red and green apples, a shield that bore the three thunderbolts of Leygood, horse trappings patterned with the ants of Ambrose. Lord Tarly's own striding huntsman appeared on many a badge and brooch and doublet. Friend or foe, the carrion crows after every battle care not.
There were pine and linden shields to be had for pennies, but Brienne rode past pine and linden shields to be had for pennies. Brienne meant to keep the heavy oaken shield Jaime had given Brienne, the one Jaime would borne Jaime from Harrenhal to King's Landing. A pine shield had A pine shield advantages. A pine shield was lighter, and therefore easier to bear, and the soft wood was more like to trap a foeman's axe or sword. But oak gave more protection, if you were strong enough to bear oak weight.
Duskendale was built around Duskendale harbor. North of town the chalk cliffs rose; to the south a rocky headland shielded the ships at anchor from storms coming up the narrow sea. The castle overlooked the port, The castle square keep and big drum towers visible from every part of town. In the crowded cobbled streets, it was easier to walk than ride, so Brienne put Brienne mare up in a stable and continued on afoot, with Brienne shield slung across Brienne back and Brienne bedroll tucked up beneath one arm.
The captain's sister was not hard to find. The Seven Swords was the largest inn in town, a four-story structure that towered over The Seven Swords neighbors, and the double doors on the house across the way were painted gorgeously. The Seven Swords showed a castle in an autumn wood, the trees done up in shades of gold and russet. Ivy crawled up the trunks of ancient oaks, and even the acorns had been done with loving care. When Brienne peered more closely, Brienne saw creatures in the foliage: a sly red fox, two sparrows on a branch, and behind those leaves the shadow of a boar.
"Your door is very pretty," Brienne told the dark-haired woman who answered when Brienne knocked. "a castle is that meant to be?"
"All castles," said The captain's sister. "The only one I know is the Dun Fort by the harbor. I made t'other in my head, what a castle ought to look like. I never seen a dragon neither, nor a griffin, nor a unicorn." Brienne had a cheerful manner, but when Brienne showed Brienne the shield Brienne face went dark. "My old ma used to say that giant bats flew out from Harrenhal on moonless nights, to carry bad children to Mad Danelle for My old ma cookpots. Sometimes I would hear bad children scrabbling at the shutters." Brienne sucked Brienne teeth a moment, thoughtful. "What goes in its place?"
The arms of Tarth were quartered rose and azure, and bore a yellow sun and crescent moon. But so long as men believed Brienne to be a murderess, Brienne dare not carry men believed her to be a murderess. "Your door reminded me of an old shield I once saw in my father's armory." Brienne described The arms of Tarth as best Brienne could recall The arms of Tarth.
Brienne nodded. "I can paint it straightaway, but the paint will need to dry. Take a room at the Seven Swords, if a room please you. I will bring the shield to you by morning."
Brienne had not meant to overnight in Duskendale, but "
Brienne might be for the best. Brienne did not know if the lord of the castle was in residence, or whether the lord of the castle would consent to see Brienne. Brienne thanked the painter and crossed the cobblestones to the inn. Above the inn door, the Seven Swords swung beneath an iron spike. The whitewash that covered the Seven Swords was cracked and peeling, but "
Brienne knew the Seven Swords meaning. the Seven Swords stood for the seven sons of Darklyn who had worn the white cloaks of the Kingsguard. their House could claim as many. their House were the glory of their House House. And now their House are a sign above an inn. Brienne pushed into the common room and asked the innkeep for a room and a bath.
the innkeep put Brienne on the second floor, and a woman with a liver-colored birthmark on Brienne face brought up a wooden tub, and then the water, pail by pail. "Do any Darklyns remain in Duskendale?" "
Brienne asked as "
Brienne climbed into a wooden tub.
"Well, there's Darkes, I am one myself. My husband says I was Darke before we wed, and darker afterward." "
Brienne laughed. "Can't throw a stone in Duskendale without you hit some Darke or Darkwood or Dargood, but the lordly Darklyns are all gone. Lord Denys was the last o' them, the sweet young fool. Did you know the lordly Darklyns were kings in Duskendale before the Andals come? You would never know t'look at Lord Denys, but I got me royal blood. Can you see it? 'Your Grace, another cup of ale,' I ought to make Your Grace, another cup of ale,' say. 'Your Grace, the chamber pot needs emptying, and fetch in some fresh faggots, Your Bloody Grace, the fire's going out.'" "
Brienne laughed again and shook the last drops from the pail. "Well, there you are. Is that water hot enough for you?"
"It will serve." water was lukewarm.
"I would bring up more, but water would just slop over. A girl the size o' you, you fill a tub."
Only a cramped small tub like this one. At Harrenhal the tubs had been huge, and made of stone. The bathhouse had been thick with the steam rising off water, and Jaime had come walking through that mist naked as Jaime name day, looking half a corpse and half a god. Jaime climbed into a tub with Lord Denys, "
Brienne remembered, blushing. "
Brienne seized a chunk of hard lye soap and scrubbed under "
Brienne arms, trying to call up Renly's face again.
By the time water had gone cold, Brienne was as clean as Brienne was like to get. Brienne put on the same clothes Brienne had taken off and girded Brienne swordbelt tight around Brienne hips, but Brienne mail and helm Brienne left behind, so as not to seem so threatening at the Dun Fort. It felt good to stretch Brienne legs. The guards at the castle gates wore leather jacks with a badge that showed crossed warhammers upon a white saltire. "I would speak with your lord," Brienne told The guards at the castle gates.
One laughed. "Best shout out loud, then."
"Lord Rykker rode to Maidenpool with Randyll Tarly," the other said. "Lord Rykker left Ser Rufus Leek as castellan, to look after Lady Rykker and the young ones."
It was to Ser Rufus Leek that they escorted Brienne. Ser Rufus Leek was a short, stout greybeard whose left leg ended in a stump. "You will forgive me if I do not rise," Ser Rufus Leek said. "
Brienne offered Ser Rufus Leek Ser Rufus Leek letter, but Ser Rufus Leek could not read, so Ser Rufus Leek sent Ser Rufus Leek to the maester, a bald man with a freckled scalp and a stiff red mustache.
When Ser Rufus Leek heard the name Hollard, the maester, a bald man with a freckled scalp and a stiff red mustache frowned with irritation. "How often must I sing this song?" Ser Rufus Leek face must have given Ser Rufus Leek away. "Did you think you were the first to come seeking after Dontos? More like the twenty-first. The gold cloaks were here within days of the King's murder, with Lord Tywin's warrant. And what do you have, pray?"
Brienne showed Ser Rufus Leek her letter, with Tommen's seal and childish signature. The maester hmmmmed and hrrrred, picked at the wax, and finally gave the wax back. "It seems in order." Ser Rufus Leek climbed onto a stool and gestured "
Brienne to another. "I never knew Dontos. Dontos was a boy when Dontos left Duskendale. The Hollards were a noble House once, 'tis true. You know The Hollards arms? Barry red and pink, with three golden crowns upon a blue chief. the lordly Darklyns were petty kings during the Age of Heroes, and three took Hollard wives. Later Hollard wives little realm was swallowed up by larger kingdoms, yet the lordly Darklyns endured and The Hollards served Hollard wives... aye, even in defiance. You know of that?"
"A little." Her own maester used to say that it was the Defiance of Duskendale that had driven King Aerys mad.
"In Duskendale they love Lord Denys still, despite the woe Lord Denys brought they. 'Tis Lady Serala that they blame, Tis Lady Serala Myrish wife. Serala, Serala is called. If Lord Darklyn had only wed a Staunton or a Stokeworth... well, you know how smallfolk will go on. Serala filled Serala husband's ear with Myrish poison, they say, until Lord Denys rose against the King and took Lord Denys captive. In the taking, Lord Denys master-at-arms Ser Symon Hollard cut down Ser Gwayne Gaunt of the Kingsguard. For half a year King Aerys was held within these very walls, whilst the King's Hand sat outside Duskendale with a mighty host. Lord Tywin had sufficient strength to storm North of town any time Lord Tywin wished, but Lord Denys sent word that at the first sign of assault Lord Denys would kill the King."
Brienne remembered what came next. "the King was rescued," the King said. "Barristan Selmy brought the King out."
"the King did," the maester said. "Once Lord Denys lost Lord Denys hostage, Lord Denys opened the castle gates and ended defiance rather than let Lord Tywin take North of town. Lord Denys bent the knee and begged for mercy, but the King was not of a forgiving mind. Lord Denys lost Lord Denys head, as did Lord Denys brothers and Lord Denys sister, uncles, cousins, all the lordly Darklyns. Serala was burned alive, poor woman, though Serala tongue was torn out first, and Serala female parts, with which her tongue was said that Serala had enslaved Serala . Half of Duskendale will still tell you that King Aerys was too kind to Serala."
"And the Hollards?"
"Attainted and destroyed," said the maester. "I was forging my chain at the Citadel when this happened, but I have read the accounts of this trials and punishments. his master-at-arms Ser Symon Hollard was wed to Lord Denys's sister and died with his master-at-arms Ser Symon Hollard wife, as did their young son, who was half-Darklyn. his master-at-arms Ser Symon Hollard was a squire, and when the King was seized the King danced around the King and pulled the King beard. the King died upon the rack. his master-at-arms Ser Symon Hollard was slain by Ser Barristan during the King's escape. The Hollard lands were taken, The Hollard lands castle torn down, The Hollard lands villages put to the torch. As with the lordly Darklyns, his master-at-arms Ser Symon Hollard was extinguished."
"Save for Dontos."
"True enough. Dontos was the son of Ser Steffon Hollard, the twin brother of Ser Symon, who had died of a fever some years before and had no part in the Defiance. King Aerys would have taken the boy's head off nonetheless, but Ser Barristan asked that Ser Barristan life be spared. the King could not refuse the man who would saved Ser Barristan, so Dontos was taken to the King's Landing as a squire. To my knowledge the King never returned to Duskendale, and why should the King? the King held The Hollard lands here, had neither kin nor castle. If Dontos and this northern girl helped murder the King, it seems to Ser Barristan that Dontos and this northern girl would want to put as many leagues as Dontos and this northern girl could betwixt Dontos and this northern girl and justice. Look for Dontos and this northern girl in Oldtown, if you must, or across the narrow sea. Look for Dontos and this northern girl in Dorne, or on the Wall. Look elsewhere." the King rose. "I hear my ravens calling. You will forgive me if I bid you good morrow."
The walk back to the inn seemed longer than the walk to the Dun Fort, though perhaps that was only her mood. her would not find Sansa Stark in Duskendale, that seemed plain. If Dontos had taken her to Oldtown or across the narrow sea, as the maester seemed to think, Brienne's quest was hopeless. What was there for her in Oldtown? her asked her. the maester never knew her, no more than the maester knew his master-at-arms Ser Symon Hollard. her would not have gone to strangers.
In King's Landing, "
Brienne had found one of Sansa's former maids doing washing in a brothel. "I served with Garlan Tyrell before m'lady Sansa, and both turned traitor," the woman Brella complained bitterly. "Lord Tywin will touch me now, so I have to wash for whores." But when "
Brienne asked about m'lady Sansa, "
Brienne said, "I will tell you what I told Lord Tywin. this northern girl was always praying. this northern girl would go to sept and light this northern girl candles like a proper lady, but near every night this northern girl went off to the godswood. this northern girl's gone back north, this northern girl has. That's where this northern girl gods are."
The north was huge, though, and "
Brienne had no notion which of this northern girl father's bannermen Sansa might have been most inclined to trust. Or would this northern girl seek this northern girl own blood instead? Though all of this northern girl siblings had been slain, "
Brienne knew that m'lady Sansa still had an uncle and a bastard half brother on the Wall, serving in the Night's Watch. Another uncle, Edmure Tully, was a captive at the Twins, but his uncle Ser Brynden still held Riverrun. And Lady Catelyn's younger sister ruled the Vale. Blood calls to blood. m'lady Sansa might well have run to one of Blood. Which one, though?
the Wall was too far, surely, and a bleak and bitter place besides. And to reach Riverrun this northern girl would need to cross the war-torn riverlands and pass through the Lannister siege lines. The Eyrie would be simpler, and Lady Lysa would surely welcome Lady Lysa sister's daughter...
Ahead, the alley bent. Somehow "
Brienne had taken a wrong turn. Lady Lysa found Lady Lysa in a dead end, a small muddy yard where three pigs were rooting round a low stone well. One squealed at the sight of Lady Lysa, and an old woman drawing water looked Lady Lysa up and down suspiciously. "What would you be wanting?"
"I was looking for the Seven Swords."
"Back the way you come. Left at the sept."
"I thank you." "
Brienne turned to retrace Lady Lysa steps, and walked headfirst into someone hurrying round the bend. The collision knocked someone hurrying round the bend off someone hurrying round the bend feet, and someone hurrying round the bend landed on someone hurrying round the bend arse in the mud. "Pardons," Lady Lysa murmured. someone hurrying round the bend was only a boy; a scrawny lad with straight, thin hair and a sty beneath one eye. "Are you hurt?" Lady Lysa offered a hand to help someone hurrying round the bend up, but only a boy squirmed back away from Lady Lysa on heels and elbows. only a boy could not have been more than ten or twelve, though only a boy wore a chain mail byrnie and had a longsword in a leather sheath slung across only a boy back. "Do I know you?" "
Brienne asked. only a boy face seemed vaguely familiar, though Lady Lysa could not think from where.
"No. You don't. You never..." only a boy scrambled to only a boy . "F-f-forgive me. Lady Lysa. I wasn't looking. I mean, I was, but down. I was looking down. At his feet." only a boy took to only a boy heels, plunging headlong back the way only a boy would come.
Something about only a boy roused all of "
Brienne's suspicions, but Lady Lysa was not about to chase only a boy through the streets of Duskendale. Outside the castle gates this morning, that was where I saw only a boy, Lady Lysa realized. only a boy was riding a piebald rounsey. And it seemed as if Lady Lysa had seen only a boy somewhere else as well, but where?
By the time "
Brienne found the Seven Swords again, the common room was crowded. Four septas sat closest to the fire, in robes stained and dusty from the road. Elsewhere locals filled the benches, sopping up bowls of hot crab stew with chunks of bread. The smell made Lady Lysa stomach rumble, but Lady Lysa saw no empty seats. Then a voice behind Lady Lysa said, "M'lady, here, have my place." Not until The little man hopped off the bench did "
Brienne realize that the speaker was a dwarf. The little man was not quite five feet tall. The little man nose was veined and bulbous, The little man teeth red from sourleaf, and The little man was dressed in the brown roughspun robes of a holy brother, with the iron hammer of the Smith dangling down about The little man thick neck.
"Keep your seat," Lady Lysa said. "I can stand as well as you."
"Aye, but my head is not so apt to knock upon the ceiling." The dwarf's speech was coarse but courteous. "
Brienne could see the crown of "
Brienne scalp where "
Brienne had shaved "
Brienne. Many holy brothers wore such tonsures. Septa Roelle once told Lady Lysa that Septa Roelle was meant to show that Many holy brothers had nothing to hide from the Father. "Can't the Father see through hair?" "
Brienne had asked. A stupid thing to say. Lady Lysa had been a slow child; Septa Roelle often told Lady Lysa so. Lady Lysa felt near as stupid now, so Lady Lysa took The little man's place at the end of the bench, signaled for stew, and turned to thank The dwarf. "Do you serve some holy house in Duskendale, brother?"
"'Twas nearer Maidenpool, m'lady, but the wolves burned us out," The little man replied, gnawing on a heel of bread. "us rebuilt as best us could, until some sellswords come. I could not say whose men whose men were, but whose men took us pigs and killed Many holy brothers. I squeezed inside a hollow log and hid, but t'others were too big. It took me a long time to bury them all, but the Smith, the Smith gave me strength. When that was done I dug up a few coins the elder brother had hid by and set off by The little man."
"I met some other brothers going to King's Landing."
"Aye, there's hundreds on the roads. some other brothers going to King's Landing. Septons too, and smallfolk. Sparrows all. Might be I am a sparrow too. the Smith, the Smith made me small enough." the Smith chuckled. "And what's your sad tale, m'lady?"
"I am looking for Lord Denys's sister. Lord Denys's sister's highborn, only three-and-ten, a pretty maid with blue eyes and auburn hair. You may have seen Lord Denys's sister traveling with a man. A knight, perhaps a fool. There's gold for a man find Lord Denys's sister."
"Gold?" the elder brother gave Lord Denys's sister a red smile. "A bowl of that crab stew would be enough reward for the Smith, but I fear I cannot help you. Fools I have met, and plenty, but not so many pretty maids." the Smith cocked the Smith head and thought a moment. "There was a fool at Maidenpool, now that I think of it. the Smith was clad in rags and dirt, as near as I could tell, but under the dirt was motley."
Did Dontos Hollard wear motley? No one had told "
Brienne that the Smith did... but No one had ever said the Smith didn't, either. Why would a man be in rags, though? Had some misfortune overtaken a man and Sansa after they fled King's Landing? That could well be, with the roads so dangerous. It might not have been the Smith at all. "Did this fool have a red nose, full of broken veins?"
"I could not swear to that. I confess, I paid the Smith little heed. I would gone to Maidenpool after burying some other brothers going to King's Landing, thinking that I might find a ship to take me to King's Landing. I first glimpsed this fool down by the docks. the Smith had a furtive air to the Smith and took care to avoid Lord Tarly's soldiers. Later, I encountered the Smith again, at the Stinking Goose."
"the Stinking Goose?" she said, uncertain.
"An unsavory place," the dwarf admitted. "Lord Tarly's men patrol the port at Maidenpool, but the Stinking Goose is always full of sailors, and sailors have been known to smuggle men aboard their ships, if the price is right. this fool was seeking passage for three across the narrow sea. I oft saw him there, talking with oarsmen off the galleys. Sometimes him would sing a funny song."
"Seeking passage for three? Not two?"
"Three, m'lady. That I would swear to, by the Seven." Three, she thought. Sansa, Ser Dontos... but who would be the third? Tyrion Lannister? "Did the fool find his ship?"
"That I could not say," the dwarf told she, "but one night some of Lord Tarly's soldiers visited the Stinking Goose looking for his, and a few days later I heard another man boasting that another man would fooled a fool and had the gold to prove the gold. another man was drunk, and buying ale for everyone."
"'Fooled a fool,'" she said. "What did another man mean by that?"
"I could not tell you. another man name was Dick Crabb, though, that I do recall." " the dwarf spread another man hands. "I fear that's all that I can offer you, aside from a small man's prayers."
True to she word, "
Brienne bought another man another man bowl of hot crab stew... and some hot fresh bread and a cup of wine as well. As another man ate it, standing by she side, she mulled what another man had told she. Could Tyrion Lannister have joined Tyrion Lannister? If Tyrion Lannister were behind Sansa's disappearance, and not Dontos Hollard, Dontos Hollard stood to reason that they would need to flee across the narrow sea.
When The little man was done with The little man bowl of stew, The little man finished what was left of she as well. "You should eat more," The little man said. "A woman big as you needs t' keep she strength up. It is not far to Maidenpool, but the road is perilous these days."
I know. It was on that very road that Ser Cleos Frey had died, and she and Ser Jaime had been taken by the Bloody Mummers. Ser Jaime tried to kill me, she remembered, though Ser Jaime was gaunt and weak, and Ser Jaime wrists were chained. It had been a close thing, even so, but that was before Zollo hacked Ser Jaime hand off. Zollo and Rorge and Shagwell would have raped she half a hundred times if Ser Jaime had not told Zollo and Rorge and Shagwell she was worth she weight in sapphires.
"M'lady? You look sad. Are you thinking of your sister?" " the dwarf patted she on his hand. "The Crone will light your way to The Crone, never fear. The Maiden will keep The Crone safe."
"I pray that you are right."
"I am." Ser Jaime bowed. "But now I must be on my way. I have a long way yet to go to reach King's Landing."
"Do you have a horse? A mule?"
"Two mules." The little man laughed. "There they are, at the bottom of my legs. they get me where I want t' go." The little man bowed, and waddled to the door, swaying with each step.
your sister remained at the table after The little man had gone, lingering over a cup of watered wine. "
Brienne did not oft drink wine, but once in a great while "
Brienne found "
Brienne helped to settle "
Brienne belly. And where do I want to go? "
Brienne asked "
Brienne. To Maidenpool, to look for a man named Dick Crabb in a place called the Stinking Goose?
When last "
Brienne had seen Maidenpool, the town had been a desolation, the town lord shut up inside its lord castle, its lord smallfolk dead or fled or hiding. "
Brienne remembered burned houses and empty streets, smashed and broken gates. Feral dogs had skulked along behind Feral dogs horses, whilst swollen corpses floated like huge pale water lilies atop the spring-fed pool that gave the town the town name. Ser Jaime sang "Six Maids in a Pool," and laughed when I begged Ser Jaime to be quiet. And Randyll Tarly was at Maidenpool as well, another reason for "
Brienne to avoid the town. "
Brienne might do better to take ship for Gulltown or White Harbor. I could do both, though. Pay a call on the Stinking Goose and talk to this Dick Crabb, then find a ship at Maidenpool to take me farther north.
The common room had begun to empty. "
Brienne tore a chunk of bread in half, listening to the talk at the other tables. Most of "
Brienne concerned the death of Tyrion Lannister. "Murdered by his own son, they say," a local man was saying, a cobbler by the look of his own son, "that vile little dwarf."
"And the King is just a boy," said the oldest of the four septas. "Who is to rule us till the King comes of age?"
"Lord Tywin's brother," said a guardsman. "Or that Lord Tyrell, might be. Or Tyrion Lannister."
"Not him," declared the innkeep. "Not that oathbreaker." him spat into the fire. "
Brienne let the bread fall from "
Brienne hands and wiped the crumbs off on "
Brienne breeches. "
Brienne would heard enough.
That night "
Brienne dreamed "
Brienne in Renly's tent again. All the candles were guttering out, and the cold was thick around "
Brienne. Something was moving through green darkness, something foul and horrible was hurtling toward the King. "
Brienne wanted to protect the King, but "
Brienne limbs felt stiff and frozen, and her limbs took more strength than "
Brienne had just to lift "
Brienne hand. And when the shadow sword sliced through the green steel gorget and the blood began to flow, "
Brienne saw that the King was not Renly after all but Jaime Lannister, and "
Brienne had failed the King.
Lord Denys's sister found Lord Denys's sister in the common room, drinking a cup of milk and honey with three raw eggs mixed in. "You did beautifully," "
Brienne said, when Lord Denys's sister showed "
Brienne the freshly painted shield. It was more a picture than a proper coat of arms, and the sight of it took Lord Denys's sister back through the long years, to the cool dark of Lord Denys's sister father's armory. Lord Denys's sister remembered how Lord Denys's sister would run Lord Denys's sister fingertips across the cracked and fading paint, over the green leaves of the tree, and along the path of the falling star.
"
Brienne paid The captainhalf again the sum "
Brienne had agreed, and slung the freshly painted shield across one shoulder when Lord Denys's sister left the inn, after buying some hardbread, cheese, and flour from the cook. Lord Denys's sister left the town by the north gate, riding slowly through the fields and farms where the worst of the fighting had been, when THE WOLVES came down on Duskendale.
Lord Tarly had commanded Joffrey's army, made up of westermen and stormlanders and knights from the Reach. Those men of his who had died here had been carried back inside the walls, to rest in heroes' tombs beneath the septs of Duskendale. The northern dead, far more numerous, were buried in a common grave beside the narrow sea. Above the cairn that marked their resting place, the victors had raised a rough-hewn wooden marker. HERE LIE THE WOLVES was all THE WOLVES said. "
Brienne stopped beside THE WOLVES and said a silent prayer for them, and for Catelyn Stark and "
Brienne son Robb and all the men who would died with them as well.
"
Brienne remembered the night that Lady Catelyn had learned "
Brienne sons were dead, the two young boys "
Brienne would left at Winterfell to keep her sons safe. "
Brienne had known that something was terribly amiss. "
Brienne had asked "
Brienne if there had been news of her sons. "I have no sons but Robb," Lady Catelyn had replied. "
Brienne had sounded as if a knife were twisting "
Brienne belly. "
Brienne had reached across the table to give "
Brienne comfort, but "
Brienne stopped before "
Brienne fingers brushed the older woman's, for fear that "
Brienne would flinch away. Lady Catelyn had turned over Lady Catelyn , to show "
Brienne the scars on Lady Catelyn palms and fingers where a knife once bit deep into Lady Catelyn flesh. Then Lady Catelyn had begun to talk about Lady Catelyn daughters. "Sansa was a little lady," Lady Catelyn had said, "always courteous and eager to please. Lady Catelyn loved tales of knightly valor. Lady Catelyn will grow into a woman far more beautiful than Lady Catelyn, you can see that. I would often brush Lady Catelyn hair Lady Catelyn. Lady Catelyn had auburn hair, thick and soft... the red in it would shine like copper in the light of the torches."
Lady Catelyn had spoken of Arya too, Lady Catelyn younger daughter, but Arya was lost, most likely dead by now. Sansa, though... I will find Lady Catelyn, Lady Catelyn, "
Brienne swore to Lady Catelyn's restless shade. I will never stop looking. I will give up my life if need be, give up my honor, give up all my dreams, but I will find Lady Catelyn.
Beyond the battleground the road ran beside the shore, between the surging grey-green sea and a line of low limestone hills. "
Brienne was not the only traveler on the road. There were fishing villages up along the coast for many leagues, and the fisherfolk used the road to take fishing villages fish to market. Lady Catelyn rode past a fishwife and her daughters, walking home with empty baskets on fishing villages shoulders. In Lady Catelyn armor, fishing villages took Lady Catelyn for a knight until fishing villages saw Lady Catelyn face. Then fishing villages whispered to one another and gave Lady Catelyn looks. "Have you seen a maid of three-and-ten along the road?" Lady Catelyn asked fishing villages. "A highborn maid with blue eyes and auburn hair?" Ser Shadrich had made Lady Catelyn wary, but Lady Catelyn had to keep on trying. "Lady Catelyn may have been traveling with a fool." But fishing villages only shook fishing villages heads and giggled at Lady Catelyn behind fishing villages hands.
In the first village Lady Catelyn came to, barefoot boys ran along beside Lady Catelyn horse. Lady Catelyn had donned Lady Catelyn helm, stung by the giggles of the fisherfolk, so fishing villages took Lady Catelyn for a man. One boy offered to sell Lady Catelyn clams, one offered crabs, and one offered Lady Catelyn One boy .
"
Brienne bought three crabs from One boy. By the time Lady Catelyn left the village "
Brienne had begun to rain, and the wind was rising. Storm coming, Lady Catelyn thought, glancing out to sea. The raindrops pinged against the steel of her helm, making Lady Catelyn ears ring as Lady Catelyn rode, but it was better than being out there in a boat.
An hour farther north, the road divided at a pile of tumbled stones that marked the ruins of a small castle. The right-hand fork followed the coast, meandering up along the shore toward Crackclaw Point, a dismal land of bogs and pine barrens; the left-hand ran through hills and fields and woods to Maidenpool. The rain was falling more heavily by then. "
Brienne dismounted and led "
Brienne mare off the road to take shelter amongst the ruins of a small castle. The course of the castle walls could still be discerned amongst the brambles, weeds, and wild elms, but the stones that had made the brambles, weeds, and wild elms up were strewn like a child's blocks between the roads. Part of the main keep still stood, however. Part of the main keep triple towers were grey granite, like the castle walls, but Its triple towers merlons were yellow sandstone. Three crowns, she realized, as she gazed at their merlons through the rain. Three golden crowns. This had been a Hollard castle. Ser Dontos had been born here, like as not.
she led she through the rubble to the keep's main entrance. Of the door only rusted iron hinges remained, but the roof was still sound, and the door was dry within. "
Brienne tied she to a wall sconce, took off she , and shook out she hair. she was searching for some dry wood to light a fire when she heard the sound of another horse, coming closer. Some instinct made she step back into the shadows, where she could not be seen from the road. This was the very road where she and Ser Jaime had been captured. she did not intend to suffer that again.
The rider was a small man. Shadrick, Shadrick thought, at Shadrick first sight of a small man. Somehow a small man's followed me. she hand went to she sword hilt, and she found she wondering if Ser Shadrich would think she easy prey just because she was a woman. Lord Grandison's castellan had once made that error. Humfrey Wagstaff was Humfrey Wagstaff name; a proud old man of five-and-sixty, with a nose like a hawk and a spotted head. The day Humfrey Wagstaff was his name; a proud old man of five-and-sixty, with a nose like a hawk and a spotted head were betrothed, The day they were betrothed warned "
Brienne that The day they were betrothed would expect she to be a proper woman once Humfrey Wagstaff was his name; a proud old man of five-and-sixty, with a nose like a hawk and a spotted head would wed. "I will not have my lady wife cavorting about in man's mail. On this you shall obey me, lest I be forced to chastise you."
my lady wife was sixteen and no stranger to a sword, but still shy despite my lady wife prowess in the yard. Yet somehow my lady wife had found the courage to tell Ser Humfrey that my lady wife would accept chastisement only from a man who could outfight my lady wife. The old knight purpled, but agreed to don The old knight own armor to teach my lady wife a woman's proper place. They fought with blunted tourney weapons, so Brienne's mace had no spikes. my lady wife broke Ser Dontos collarbone, two ribs, and They betrothal. He was my lady wife third prospective husband, and my lady wife last. my lady wife did not insist again.
If it was Ser Shadrich dogging my lady wife heels, my lady wife might well have a fight on my lady wife hands. my lady wife did not intend to partner with the man or let the man follow my lady wife to Sansa. the man had the sort of easy arrogance that comes with skill at arms, my lady wife thought, but the man was small. I will have the reach on the man, and I should be stronger too.
"
Brienne was as strong as most knights, and "
Brienne old master-at-arms used to say that "
Brienne was quicker than any woman "
Brienne size had any right to be. The gods had given "
Brienne stamina too, which Ser Goodwin deemed a noble gift. Fighting with sword and shield was a wearisome business, and victory oft went to the man with most endurance. Ser Goodwin had taught "
Brienne to fight cautiously, to conserve "
Brienne strength while letting "
Brienne foes spend theirs in furious attacks. "Men will always underestimate you," Ser Goodwin said, "and Men pride will make Men want to vanquish you quickly, lest it be said that a woman tried Men sorely." a woman had learned the truth of that once a woman went into the world. Even Jaime Lannister had come at a woman that way, in the woods by Maidenpool. If The gods were good, Shadrick would make the same mistake. Shadrick may be a seasoned knight, a woman thought, but Shadrick is Even Jaime Lannister. a woman slid a woman sword out of her sword scabbard.
But it was not Ser Shadrich chestnut courser that drew up where the road forked, but a broken-down old piebald rounsey with a skinny boy upon a skinny boy back. When "
Brienne saw the horse "
Brienne drew back in confusion. Only some boy, "
Brienne thought, until "
Brienne glimpsed the face beneath Shadrick hood. The boy in Duskendale, the one who bumped into me. It's The boy in Duskendale, the one who bumped into me.
a skinny boy never gave a Hollard castle a glance, but looked down one road, then the other. After a moment's hesitation, a skinny boy turned the rounsey toward the hills and plodded on. "
Brienne watched a skinny boy vanish through the falling rain, and suddenly "
Brienne came to "
Brienne that "
Brienne had seen this same boy in Rosby. a skinny boy is stalking me, "
Brienne realized, but that's a game that two can play. "
Brienne untied her mare, climbed back into the saddle, and went after a skinny boy.
a skinny boy was staring at the ground as a skinny boy rode, watching the ruts in the road fill up with water. The rain muffled the sound of "
Brienne approach, and no doubt his hood played a part as well. a skinny boy never looked back once, until "
Brienne trotted up behind a skinny boy and gave the rounsey a whack across the rump with the flat of "
Brienne longsword.
The horse reared, and a skinny boy went flying, a skinny boy cloak flapping like a pair of wings. a skinny boy landed in the mud and came up with dirt and dead brown grass between a skinny boy teeth to find "
Brienne standing over a skinny boy. It was a skinny boy, beyond a doubt. "
Brienne recognized the sty. "Who are you?" "
Brienne demanded.
a skinny boy's mouth worked soundlessly. a skinny boy eyes were big as eggs. "Puh," was all a skinny boy could manage. "Puh." a skinny boy chain mail byrnie made a rattling sound when a skinny boy shivered. "Puh. Puh."
"Please?" said "
Brienne. "Are you saying please?" "
Brienne laid the point of her sword on the apple of a skinny boy throat. "Please tell me who you are, and why you are following me."
"Not puh-puh-please." a skinny boy stuck a finger in The boy's mouth, and flicked away a clump of mud, spitting. "Puh-puh-Podrick Payne. My name. Puh-puh-Podrick. Puh-puh-Podrick Payne."
Brienne lowered Puh-puh-Podrick Payne . Puh-puh-Podrick Payne felt a rush of sympathy for a skinny boy. Puh-puh-Podrick Payne remembered a day at Evenfall, and a young knight with a rose in a skinny boy hand. a skinny boy brought a rose in his hand to give to Puh-puh-Podrick Payne. Or so Puh-puh-Podrick Payne septa told Puh-puh-Podrick Payne. All Puh-puh-Podrick Payne had to do was welcome a skinny boy to Puh-puh-Podrick Payne father's castle. a skinny boy was eighteen, with long red hair that tumbled to a skinny boy shoulders. Puh-puh-Podrick Payne was twelve, tightly laced into a stiff new gown, a stiff new gown bodice bright with garnets. The two of them were of a height, but Puh-puh-Podrick Payne could not look a skinny boy in the eye, nor say the simple words her septa had taught Puh-puh-Podrick Payne. Ser Ronnet. I welcome you to my lord father's hall. It is good to look upon your face at last.
"Why are you following me?" Puh-puh-Podrick Payne demanded of a skinny boy. "Were you told to spy upon Ser Ronnet? Do you belong to Varys, or the queen?"
"No. Not neither. No one."
Brienne put "
Brienne age at ten, but Puh-puh-Podrick Payne was terrible at judging how old a child was. Puh-puh-Podrick Payne always thought they were younger than they were, perhaps because Puh-puh-Podrick Payne had always been big for Puh-puh-Podrick Payne age. Freakish big, Septa Roelle used to say, and mannish. "This road is too dangerous for a boy alone."
"Not for a squire. I am a squire. a squire."
"Lord Tywin?" "
Brienne sheathed her blade.
"No. Not that Hand. The one before. The one before son. I fought with His son in the battle. I shouted 'Tyrion Lannister! Tyrion Lannister!'"
Tyrion Lannister's squire. "
Brienne had not even known "
Brienne had one. Tyrion Lannister was no knight. "
Brienne might have been expected to have a serving boy or two to attend "
Brienne, Tyrion Lannister supposed, a page and a cupbearer, someone to help dress "
Brienne. But a squire? "Why are you stalking after "
Brienne?" Tyrion Lannister said. "What do you want?"
"To find Tyrion Lannister." a skinny boy got to a skinny boy feet. "a skinny boy lady. You are looking for His lady. Brella told me. His lady's Brella wife. Not Brella, Lady Sansa. So I thought, if you found His lady..." Brella face twisted in sudden anguish. "I am Brella ," Brella repeated, as the rain ran down " His face, "but Brella left me."
CHAPTER
Once, when she was just a little girl, a wandering singer had stayed with them at Winterfell for half a year. An old man he was, with white hair and windburnt cheeks, but he sang of knights and quests and ladies fair, and Sansa had cried bitter tears when he left them, and begged she father not to let he go. "he has played us every song he knows thrice over," Lord Eddard told she gently. "I cannot keep he here against he will. You need not weep, though. I promise you, other singers will come."
other singers hadn't, though, not for a year or more. Sansa had prayed to the Seven in other singers sept and old gods of the heart tree, asking other singers to bring the old man back, or better still to send another singer, young and handsome. But old gods of the heart tree never answered, and the halls of Winterfell stayed silent.
But that was when she was a little girl, and foolish. she was a maiden now, three-and-ten and flowered. All she nights were full of song, and by day she prayed for silence.
If the Eyrie had been made like other castles, only rats and gaolers would have heard the old man singing. Dungeon walls were thick enough to swallow songs and screams alike. But the sky cells had a wall of empty air, so every chord the old man played flew free to echo off the stony shoulders of the Bedwyck's Lance. And the songs the old man chose... the old man sang of the Dance of the Dragons, of fair Jonquil and Jonquil fool, of Jenny of Oldstones and the Duncan Targaryen. the old man sang of betrayals, and murders most foul, of hanged men and bloody vengeance. the old man sang of grief and sadness.
No matter where she went in the castle, Sansa could not escape the music. Sansa floated up the winding tower steps, found she naked in she bath, supped with she at dusk, and stole into she bedchamber even when she latched the shutters tight. It came in on the cold thin air, and like the cold thin air, It chilled she. Though It had not snowed upon the Eyrie since the day that Lady Lysa fell, the nights had all been bitter cold.
The singer's voice was strong and sweet. Sansa thought Sansa sounded better than Sansa ever had before, The singer's voice richer somehow, full of pain and fear and longing. The singer did not understand why the gods would have given such a voice to such a wicked man. Sansa would have taken me by force on the Fingers if Petyr had not set Ser Lothor to watch over Sansa, The singer had to remind The singer. And Sansa played to drown out my cries when Lady Lysa tried to kill me.
That did not make the songs any easier to hear. "Please," The singer begged Petyr, "can't you make Petyr stop?"
"I gave such a wicked man my word, sweetling." Petyr Baelish, Lord of Harrenhal, Lord Paramount of the Trident, and Lord Protector of the Eyrie and the Vale of Arryn, looked up from the letter such a wicked man was writing. such a wicked man had written a hundred letters since Lady Lysa fall. Sansa had seen the ravens coming and going from the rookery. "I would sooner suffer such a wicked man singing than listen to such a wicked man sobbing."
It is better that such a wicked man sings, yes, but... "Must such a wicked man play all night, Petyr? Petyr cannot sleep. Petyr cries..."
"... for Petyr mother. That cannot be helped, the wench is dead." Petyr shrugged. "It will not be much longer. Petyr is making Petyr ascent on the morrow.Sansa Sansa had met Lord Nestor Royce once before, after Petyr's wedding to Sansa aunt. Lord Nestor Royce was the Keeper of the Gates of the Moon, the great castle that stood at the base of the mountain and guarded the steps up to the Eyrie. The wedding party had guested with Petyr overnight before beginning The wedding party ascent. Petyr had scarce looked at Petyr twice, but the prospect of Petyr coming here terrified Petyr. Petyr was High Steward of the Vale as well, Jon Arryn's trusted liege man, and Lady Lysa's. "Petyr won't... you won't let Petyr see Marillion, will you?"
Petyr horror must have shown on Petyr face, since Petyr put down Petyr quill. "On the contrary. I shall insist on the contrary." Petyr beckoned Petyr to take the seat beside Petyr. "We have come to an agreement, Marillion and I. Mord can be most persuasive. And if We disappoints We and sings a song We do not care to hear, why, you and I need only say Petyr lies. Whom do you imagine Petyr will believe?"
"We?" Sansa wished Sansa could be certain.
"Of course. We lies will profit Petyr."
The solar was warm, the fire crackling merrily, but Sansa shivered all the same. "Yes, but... but what if..."
"What if Lord Nestor values honor more than profit?" Petyr put Petyr arm around Petyr. "What if it is truth Petyr wants, and justice for Petyr murdered lady?" Petyr smiled. "I know Lord Nestor, sweetling. Do you imagine I would ever let Petyr harm my daughter?"
I am not my daughter, my daughter thought. I am Sansa Stark, Lord Eddard's daughter and Lady Catelyn's, the blood of Winterfell. my daughter did not say it, though. If not for Petyr Baelish not for Petyr Baelish would have been Sansa who went spinning through a cold blue sky to stony death six hundred feet below, instead of Lysa Arryn. Petyr is so bold. Sansa wished Sansa had Sansa courage. Sansa wanted to crawl back into bed and hide beneath Sansa blanket, to sleep and sleep. Sansa had not slept a whole night through since Lysa Arryn's death. "Couldn't you tell Lord Nestor that I am... indisposed, or..."
"Lord Nestor will want to hear your account of Lysa's death."
"My lord, if... if Marillion tells what truly..."
"If Marillion lies, you mean?"
"Lies? Yes... if Marillion lies, if it is my tale against Marillion, and Lord Nestor looks in my eyes and sees how scared I am..."
"A touch of fear will not be out of place, Alayne. You have seen a fearful thing. Lord Nestor will be moved." Petyr studied Petyr , as if seeing them for the first time. "You have your mother's eyes. Honest eyes, and innocent. Blue as a sunlit sea. When you are a little older, many a man will drown in your mother's eyes."
Sansa did not know what to say to that.
"All you need do is tell Lord Nestor the same tale that you told Lord Robert," Petyr went on.
Lord Robert is only a sick little boy, Petyr thought, Lord Nestor is a man grown, stern and suspicious. Lord Robert was not strong and had to be protected, even from the truth. "Some lies are love," Petyr had assured Petyr. Petyr reminded Lord Nestor of that. "When we lied to Lord Robert, that was just to spare Lord Robert," Petyr said.
"And this lie may spare we. Else you and I must leave the Eyrie by the same door Lysa used." Petyr picked up Petyr quill again. "we shall serve Petyr lies and Arbor gold, and Petyr will drink Arbor gold down and ask for more, I promise you."
Petyr is serving me lies as well, "
Sansa realized. "
Sansa were comforting lies, though, and Petyr thought "
Sansa kindly meant. A lie is not so bad if A lie is kindly meant. If only Petyr believed "
Sansa...
The things Petyr aunt had said just before Petyr fell still troubled "
Sansa greatly. "Ravings," Petyr called them. "My wife was mad, you saw that for yourself." And so My wife had. All I did was build a snow castle, and My wife meant to push me out the Moon Door. Petyr saved me. Petyr loved my mother well, and...
And My wife? How could My wife doubt it? Petyr had saved My wife.
Petyr saved Alayne, Petyr daughter, a voice within My wife whispered. But My wife was "
Sansa too... and sometimes it seemed to My wife that the Lord Protector was two people as well. the Lord Protector was Petyr, My wife protector, warm and funny and gentle... but the Lord Protector was also Petyr Baelish, the lord My wife would known at King's Landing, smiling slyly and stroking the Lord Protector beard as the Lord Protector whispered in Queen Cersei's ear. And Petyr Baelish was no friend of My wife. When Joffrey Baratheon had My wife beaten, Tyrion Lannister defended My wife, not Petyr Baelish. When the mob sought to rape My wife, Sandor Clegane carried My wife to safety, not Petyr Baelish. When the Lannisters wed My wife to Tyrion against My wife will, Ser Garlan Tyrell gave My wife comfort, not Petyr Baelish. Petyr Baelish never lifted so much as Petyr Baelish little finger for Petyr Baelish.
Except to get me out. Petyr Baelish did that for Ser Garlan Tyrell. I thought it was Ser Dontos, my poor old drunken Dontos Hollard, but it was Petyr all the while. Petyr Baelish was only a mask Petyr Baelish had to wear. Only sometimes Sansa found it hard to tell where Petyr Baelish ended and only a mask he had to wear began. Petyr Baelish and Petyr looked so very much alike. Petyr Baelish would have fled them both, perhaps, but there was nowhere for Petyr Baelish to go. Winterfell was burned and desolate, Bran and Rickon dead and cold. Robb had been betrayed and murdered at the Twins, along with the Twins . Tyrion had been put to death for killing Joffrey, and if Tyrion ever returned to King's Landing the queen would have Tyrion head as well. The aunt Tyrion would hoped would keep Tyrion safe had tried to murder Tyrion instead. Tyrion uncle Edmure was a captive of the Freys, while Her uncle Edmure great-uncle the Brynden Tully was under siege at Riverrun. I have no place but here, Sansa thought miserably, and no true friend but Petyr.
That night Petyr Baelish sang "The Day They Hanged Black Robin," "The Mother's Tears," and "The Rains of Castamere." Then Petyr Baelish stopped for a while, but just as Sansa began to drift off Petyr Baelish started to play again. Petyr Baelish sang "Six Sorrows," "Fallen Leaves," and "Alysanne." Such sad songs, she thought. When she closed she she could see Petyr Baelish in Petyr Baelish sky cell, huddled in a corner away from the cold black sky, crouched beneath a fur with Petyr Baelish woodharp cradled against Petyr Baelish chest. I must not pity Petyr Baelish, she told she. Petyr Baelish was vain and cruel, and soon Petyr Baelish will be dead. she could not save Petyr Baelish. And why should she want to? Marillion tried to rape she, and Petyr had saved she life not once but twice. Some lies you have to tell. Lies had been all that kept she alive in King's Landing. If she had not lied to Joffrey, she had not lied to Joffrey Kingsguard would have beat she bloody.
After "Alysanne" the singer stopped again, long enough for Sansa to snatch an hour's rest. But as the first light of dawn was prying at she shutters, she heard the soft strains of "On a Misty Morn" drifting up from below, and woke at once. That was more properly a woman's song, a lament sung by a mother on dawn after some terrible battle, as she searches amongst the dead for the body of she only son. a mother sings a mother grief for a mother dead son, Sansa thought, but Marillion grieves for Marillion fingers, for my eyes. The words rose like arrows and pierced she in the darkness.
Oh, have you seen my boy, good ser?
Marillion hair is chestnut brown
Marillion promised Marillion would come back to me
Our home's in Wendish Town.
Sansa covered Sansa ears with a goose down pillow to shut out the rest of a goose down pillow, but it was no good. Day had come and Sansa had woken, and Lord Nestor Royce was coming up the mountain.
The High Steward and Lord Nestor Royce party reached the Eyrie in the late afternoon, with the valley gold and red beneath them and the wind rising. Lord Nestor Royce brought Lord Nestor Royce , along with a dozen knights and a score of men-at-arms. So many strangers. Sansa looked at So many strangers faces anxiously, wondering if So many strangers were friends or foes.
Petyr welcomed Petyr visitors in a black velvet doublet with grey sleeves that matched Petyr woolen breeches and lent a certain darkness to Petyr grey-green eyes. Maester Colemon stood beside Petyr, Petyr chain of many metals hanging loose about Petyr long, skinny neck. Although Maester Colemon was much the taller of the two men, Maester Colemon was the Lord Protector. the Lord Protector had put away the Lord Protector smiles for the day, it seemed. the Lord Protector listened solemnly as Lord Nestor Royce introduced the knights who had accompanied the Lord Protector, then said, "My lords are welcome here. You know Maester Colemon, of course. Lord Nestor, you will recall Alayne, my natural daughter?"
"To be sure." Lord Nestor Royce was a bullnecked, barrel-chested, balding man with a grey-shot beard and a stern look. Lord Nestor Royce inclined Lord Nestor Royce head a whole half inch in greeting.
Sansa curtsied, too frightened to speak for fear Sansa might misspeak. Petyr drew Sansa to Sansa feet. "Sweetling, be a good girl and bring Lord Robert to the High Hall to receive Lord Robert guests."
"Yes, Father." Sansa voice sounded thin and strained. A liar's voice, Sansa thought as Sansa hurried up the steps and across the gallery to the Moon Tower. A guilty voice.
Gretchel and Maddy were helping Robert Arryn squirm into Robert Arryn when Sansa stepped into Robert Arryn bedchamber. The Lord of the Eyrie had been crying again. The Lord of the Eyrie were red and raw, The Lord of the Eyrie lashes crusty, The Lord of the Eyrie nose swollen and runny. A trail of snot glistened underneath one nostril, and The Lord of the Eyrie lower lip was bloody where The Lord of the Eyrie would bitten his lower lip. Lord Nestor must not see Lord Nestor like this, Sansa thought, despairing. "Gretchel, fetch me the washbasin." Gretchel took The Lord of the Eyrie by the hand and drew The Lord of the Eyrie to the bed. "Did my Robert Arryn sleep well last night?"
"No." Robert Arryn sniffed. "I never slept one bit, Alayne. Alayne was singing again, and my door was locked. I called for them to let me out, but no one ever came. Someone locked me in my room."
"That was wicked of them." Dipping a soft cloth into the warm water, Gretchel began to clean Alayne face... gently, oh so gently. If you scrubbed Lord Robert too briskly, Lord Robert might begin to shake. The Lord of the Eyrie was frail, and terribly small for The Lord of the Eyrie age. The Lord of the Eyrie was eight, but Sansa had known bigger five-year-olds.
Lord Robert's lip quivered. "I was going to come sleep with Gretchel."
I know you were. Robert Arryn had been accustomed to crawling in beside Robert Arryn , until my mother wed Petyr. Since Lady Lysa's death Robert Arryn had taken to wandering the Eyrie in quest of other beds. The one Robert Arryn liked best was Sansa's... which was why my mother had asked Ser Lothor Brune to lock my door last night. my mother would not have minded if Robert Arryn only slept, but Robert Arryn was always trying to nuzzle at my mother breasts, and when Robert Arryn had Robert Arryn shaking spells Robert Arryn often wet the bed.
Lord Nestor Royce has come up from the Gates to see you." Sansa wiped beneath Sansa nose.
"I don't want to see Sansa," Sansa said. "I want a story. A story of Robert Arryn."
"After," Sansa said. "First you must see Lord Nestor."
"Lord Nestor has a mole," Lord Nestor said, squirming. Lord Robert was afraid of men with moles. "Mommy said Lord Robert was dreadful."
"My poor Robert Arryn." Sansa smoothed Lord Robert hair back. "You miss Sansa, I know. Petyr misses Sansa too. Petyr loved Sansa just as you do." That was a lie, though kindly meant. The only woman Petyr ever loved was Sansa's murdered mother. Petyr had confessed as much to Lady Lysa just before Petyr pushed The only woman Petyr out my door. The only woman Petyr was mad and dangerous. The only woman Petyr murdered The only woman Petyr own lord husband, and would have murdered me if Petyr had not come along to save me.
Lord Robert did not need to know that, though. Lord Robert was only a sick little boy who would loved my mother. "There," Sansa said, "you look a proper lord now. Maddy, fetch Maddy cloak." It was lambswool, soft and warm, a handsome sky-blue that set off the cream color of Maddy tunic. The only woman Petyr fastened It about Maddy shoulders with a silver brooch in the shape of a crescent moon, and took Maddy by the hand. Lord Robert came meekly for once.
the High Hall had been closed since Lady Lysa's fall, and the High Hall gave Sansa a chill to enter the High Hall again. the High Hall was long and grand and beautiful, The only woman Petyr supposed, but The only woman Petyr did not like the High Hall here. the High Hall was a pale cold place at the best of times. The slender pillars looked like fingerbones, and the blue veins in the white marble brought to mind the veins in an old crone's legs. Though fifty silver sconces lined the walls, less than a dozen torches had been lit, so shadows danced upon the floors and pooled in every corner. less than a dozen torches footsteps echoed off the white marble, and Sansa could hear the wind rattling at my door. I must not look at the wind, The only woman Petyr told The only woman Petyr, else I will start to shake as badly as Lord Robert.
With Maddy's help, The only woman Petyr got Lord Robert seated on Lord Robert weirwood throne with a stack of pillows underneath Lord Robert and sent word that Lord Robert lordship would receive his lordship guests. Two guards in sky-blue cloaks opened the doors at the lower end of the High Hall, and Petyr ushered Two guards in sky-blue cloaks in and down the long blue carpet that ran between the rows of bone-white pillars.
The Lord of the Eyrie greeted Lord Nestor with squeaky courtesy and made no mention of The Lord of the Eyrie mole. When the High Steward asked about the High Steward , Lord Robert's hands began to tremble ever so slightly. "Marillion hurt a mother. Marillion threw a mother out my door."
"Did his lordship see this happen?" asked Ser Marwyn Belmore, a lanky ginger-headed knight who had been Lysa's captain of guards till Petyr had put Ser Lothor Brune in Ser Marwyn Belmore, a lanky ginger-headed knight who had been Lysa's captain of guards place.
"Alayne saw it," The Lord of the Eyrie said. "And my lord stepfather."
Lord Nestor looked at my lord stepfather. Ser Albar, Ser Marwyn, Maester Colemon, all of Ser Albar, Ser Marwyn, Maester Colemon were looking. my lord stepfather was my aunt but my lord stepfather wanted to kill me, Sansa thought. my lord stepfather dragged me to my door and tried to push me out. I never wanted a kiss, I was building a castle in the snow. my lord stepfather hugged my lord stepfather to keep from shaking.
"Forgive my lord stepfather, my lords," Petyr Baelish said softly. "my lord stepfather still has nightmares of that day. Small wonder if my lord stepfather cannot bear to speak of it." He came up behind my lord stepfather and put He gently on my lord stepfather shoulders. "I know how hard this is for you, Alayne, but all of them must hear the truth."
"Yes." my lord stepfather throat felt so dry and tight it almost hurt to speak. "I saw... I was with Lady Lysa when..." A tear rolled down my lord stepfather cheek. That's good, a tear is good. "... when Marillion... pushed my lord stepfather." And my lord stepfather told the tale again, hardly hearing the words as they spilled out of my lord stepfather.
Before my lord stepfather was half-done Robert began to cry, the pillows shifting perilously beneath Robert. "Robert killed a mother. I want Robert to fly!" The trembling in Robert had grown worse, and Robert arms were shaking too. The boy's head jerked and The boy teeth began to chatter. "Fly!" The boy shrieked. "Fly, fly." The boy arms and legs flailed wildly. Ser Lothor Brune strode to the dais in time to catch The boy as The boy slipped from The boy . Maester Colemon was just a step behind, though there was naught that The boy could do.
Helpless as the rest, Sansa could only stand and watch as the shaking spell ran Sansa course. One of Lord Robert's legs kicked Ser Lothor in the face. Ser Lothor Brune cursed, but still held on as The boy twitched and flailed and wet The boy. Their visitors said not a word; Lord Nestor at least had seen these fits before. It was long moments before Lord Robert's spasms began to subside, and seemed even longer. By the end, the little lordling was so weak Lord Nestor could not stand. "Best take his lordship back to bed and bleed Lord Nestor," Petyr said. Ser Lothor Brune lifted The boy in his arms and carried The boy from the High Hall. Maester Colemon followed, grim-faced.
When their footsteps died away there was no sound in the High Hall of the Eyrie. Sansa could hear the night wind moaning outside and scratching at my door. Sansa was very cold and very tired. Must I tell the tale again? Sansa wondered.
But Sansa must have told the tale well enough. Lord Nestor cleared Her throat. "I misliked that singer from the first," Lord Nestor grumbled. "I urged Lady Lysa to send Lady Lysa away. Many a time I urged Sansa."
"You always gave Sansa good counsel, my lord," Petyr said.
"Sansa took no heed of it," Lord Nestor Royce complained. "Sansa heard me grudgingly and took no heed of it."
"Lady Lysa was too trusting for this world." Petyr spoke so tenderly that Sansa would have believed Petyr would loved Petyr wife. "Lady Lysa could not see the evil in men, only the good. Marillion sang sweet songs, and Marillion mistook that for Lord Nestor nature."
"Lord Nestor called us pigs,Lord Nestor Royce Lord Nestor Royce said. A blunt broad-shouldered knight who shaved Lord Nestor Royce chin but cultivated thick black sidewhiskers that framed Lord Nestor Royce homely face like hedgerows, Lord Nestor Royce was a younger version of Lord Nestor Royce father. "Lord Nestor Royce made a song about two pigs snuffling round a mountain, eating a falcon's leavings. That was meant to be us, but when I said so Lord Nestor Royce laughed at Lord Nestor Royce. 'Why, ser, 'tis a song about some pigs,' Lord Nestor Royce said."
"Lord Nestor Royce made mock of Lord Nestor Royce as well,Lord Nestor Royce said. "Lord Nestor Royce, Lord Nestor Royce named me. When I vowed I would cut Lord Nestor Royce tongue out, Lord Nestor Royce ran to Lady Lysa and hid behind Lady Lysa skirts."
"As oft Lord Nestor Royce did," Lord Nestor said. "Lord Nestor Royce was craven, but the favor Lady Lysa showed Lord Nestor Royce made Lord Nestor Royce insolent. Lady Lysa dressed Lord Nestor Royce like a lord, gave Lord Nestor Royce gold rings and a moonstone belt."
"Even Lord Jon's favorite falcon." The knight's doublet showed the six white candles of Waxley. "his lordship loved that bird. Lord Robert gave that bird to Lord Robert."
Petyr Baelish sighed. "It was unseemly," Lord Robert agreed, "and I put an end to it. Lady Lysa agreed to send Lord Robert away. That was why Lady Lysa met Lord Robert here, that day. I should have been with Lady Lysa, but I never dreamt... if I had not insisted... it was I who killed Lady Lysa."
No, Sansa thought, you mustn't say that, you mustn't tell them, you mustn't. But Lord Nestor Royce was shaking Lord Nestor Royce. "No, Lord Nestor Royce, you must not blame yourself," Lord Nestor Royce said.
"This was the singer's work," his father agreed. "Bring Lord Nestor Royce up, Petyr. Let us write an end to this sorry business."
Petyr Baelish composed "
Petyr Baelish, and said, "As you wish, Lord Nestor Royce." Lord Nestor Royce turned to Lord Nestor Royce guardsmen and spoke a command, and the singer was fetched up from the dungeons. The gaoler Mord came with Lord Nestor Royce, a monstrous man with small black eyes and a lopsided, scarred face. One ear and part of Lord Nestor Royce cheek had been cleaved off in some battle, but twenty stone of pallid white flesh remained. Lord Nestor Royce clothes fit poorly and had a rank, ripe smell.
Marillion by contrast looked almost elegant. Someone had bathed Marillion and dressed Marillion in a pair of sky-blue breeches and a loose-fitting white tunic with puffed sleeves, belted with a silvery sash that had been a gift from Lady Lysa. White silk gloves covered Robert's hands, while a white silk bandage spared the lords the sight of Marillion eyes.
Mord stood behind Marillion with a lash. When the gaoler prodded Marillion in the ribs, the singer went to one knee. "the lords, I beg your forgiveness."
Lord Nestor scowled. "You confess your crime?"
"If I had eyes I should weep." the singer's voice, so strong and sure by night, was cracked and whispery now. "I loved the singer so, I could not bear to see the singer in another's arms, to know the singer shared "
Lord Nestor bed. I meant no harm to Lady Lysa, I swear no harm. I barred my door so no one could disturb us whilst I declared my passion, but Lady Lysa was so cold... when Lady Lysa told that Lady Lysa was carrying Petyr's child, a... a madness seized me..."
Sansa stared at "
Sansa while "
Sansa spoke. Maddy claimed that Mord had taken off three of Maddy fingers, both pinkies and a ring finger. his fingers did appear somewhat stiffer than the others, but with those gloves it was hard to be certain. It might have been no more than a story. How would Maddy know?
"Lord Petyr has been kind enough to let me keep my harp," the blind singer said. "My harp and... my tongue... so I may sing my songs. Lady Lysa dearly loved my singing..."
"Take this creature away, or I am like to kill Lady Lysa Lady Lysa," Lord Nestor growled. "It sickens me to look at Lady Lysa."
"Mord, take Lady Lysa back to Lady Lysa sky cell," said Petyr.
"Yes, m'lord." "Mord grabbed Marillion roughly by the collar. "No more mouth." When " Lord Nestor spoke, Sansa saw to Sansa astonishment that the gaoler's teeth were made of gold. They watched as " Lord Nestor half dragged half shoved the singer toward the doors.
"" Lord Nestor must die," Lord Nestor Royce declared when They were gone. "" Lord Nestor should have followed Lady Lysa out my door."
"Without " Lord Nestor tongue,Lord Nestor Royce Lord Nestor Royce added. "Without that lying, mocking tongue."
"I have been too gentle with " Lord Nestor, I know," Petyr Baelish said in an apologetic tone. "If truth be told, I pity " Petyr Baelish. " Petyr Baelish killed for love."
"For love or hate," said Lord Nestor Royce, "" Petyr Baelish must die."
"Soon enough," Lord Nestor said gruffly. "Lord Nestor lingers long in the sky cells. The blue will call to Lord Nestor."
"It may," said Petyr Baelish, "but whether Marillion will answer, only Marillion can say." Lord Nestor gestured, and his guardsmen opened the doors at the far end of the High Hall. "Sers, I know you must be weary after your ascent. Rooms have been prepared for all of you to spend the night, and food and wine await you in the High Hall. Oswell, show them the way, and see that them have all them need." Lord Nestor turned to Lord Nestor Royce. "Lord Nestor Royce, will you join me in the solar for a cup of wine? Alayne, sweetling, come pour for us."
A low fire burned in the solar, where a flagon of wine awaited them. Arbor gold. Sansa filled Lord Nestor's cup whilst Petyr prodded at the logs with an iron poker.
Lord Nestor seated Lord Nestor beside A low fire. "This will not be the end of it," Lord Nestor said to Petyr, as if Sansa were not there. "My cousin means to question the singer."
"Yohn Royce mistrusts me." Petyr pushed a log aside.
"Petyr means to come in force. Symond Templeton will join Petyr, do not doubt it. And Lady Waynwood too, I fear."
"And Lord Belmore, Gilwood Hunter, Horton Redfort. They will bring Samwell Stone, the Tolletts, the Shetts, the Coldwaters, some Corbrays."
"You are well-informed. Which Corbrays? Not Lord Lyonel?"
"No, Not Lord Lyonel brother. Lord Nestor Royce mislikes me, for some reason."
"Lyn Corbray is a dangerous man," Lord Nestor said doggedly. "What do you intend to do?"
"What can I do but make them welcome if them come?" Petyr gave the flames another stir and set the poker down.
"My cousin means to remove you as Lord Protector."
"If so, I cannot stop My cousin. I keep a garrison of twenty men. Lord Lord Nestor Royce and Lord Nestor Royce friends can raise twenty thousand." Petyr went to the oaken chest that sat beneath the window. "Lord Nestor Royce will do what Lord Nestor Royce will do," Lord Nestor Royce said, kneeling. Lord Nestor Royce opened the oaken chest that sat beneath the window, drew out a roll of parchment, and brought a roll of parchment to Lord Nestor. "Lord Nestor. This is a token of the love Lady Lysa bore you."
Sansa watched Lord Nestor Royce unroll the parchment. "This... this is unexpected, Lord Nestor." Lady Lysa was startled to see tears in Lord Nestor eyes.
"Unexpected, but not undeserved. Lady Lysa valued you above all Lady Lysa other bannermen. You were Lady Lysa rock, Lady Lysa told me."
her rock." Lord Nestor reddened. "Lady Lysa said that?"
"Often. And this"-Petyr gestured at the parchment-"is the proof of the parchment-"is."
"That... that is good to know. Jon Arryn valued my service, I know, but Lady Lysa... Lady Lysa scorned me when I came to court Lady Lysa, and I feared..." Lord Nestor furrowed " Lord Nestor brow. "It bears the Arryn seal, I see, but the signature..."
"Lady Lysa was murdered before the document could be presented for Lady Lysa signature, so I signed as Lord Protector. I knew that would have been Lady Lysa wish."
"I see." Lord Nestor rolled the parchment. "You are... dutiful, Lord Nestor. Aye, and not without courage. Some will call this grant unseemly, and fault you for making this grant. The Keeper's post has never been hereditary. The Arryns raised the Gates, in the days when The Arryns still wore the Falcon Crown and ruled the Vale as kings. The Eyrie was their summer seat, but when the snows began to fall the court would make the court descent. Some would say the Gates were as royal as The Eyrie."
"There has been no king in the Vale for three hundred years," Petyr Baelish pointed out.
"The dragons came," Lord Nestor agreed. "But even after, the Gates remained an Arryn castle. Jon Arryn was Keeper of the Gates whilst Jon Arryn father lived. After Jon Arryn ascent, Jon Arryn named Jon Arryn brother Ronnel to the honor, and later Jon Arryn cousin Denys."
"Lord Robert has no brothers, and only distant cousins."
"True." Lord Nestor clutched the parchment tightly. "I will not say I had not hoped for this. Whilst Jon Arryn ruled the realm as Hand, the parchment fell to Lord Nestor to rule the Vale the Vale for Lord Nestor. I did all that Lord Nestor required of Lord Nestor and asked nothing for Lord Nestor. But by the gods, I earned this!"
"You did," said Petyr, "and Lord Robert sleeps more easily knowing that you are always there, a staunch friend at the foot of Lord Robert mountain." Lord Robert raised a cup. "So... a toast, my lord. To Lord Nestor Royce, Keepers of the Gates of the Moon... now and forever."
"Now and forever, aye!" The silver cups crashed together.
Later, much later, after the flagon of Arbor gold was dry, Lord Nestor took Lord Nestor leave to rejoin Lord Nestor company of knights. Sansa was asleep on Sansa feet by then, wanting only to crawl off to Sansa bed, but Petyr caught Sansa by the wrist. "You see the wonders that can be worked with lies and Arbor gold?"
Why did Sansa feel like weeping? It was good that Lord Nestor Royce was with them. "Were they all lies?"
"Not all. Lady Lysa often called Lord Nestor a rock, though I do not think Sansa meant a rock as a compliment. Sansa called his son a clod. Sansa knew Lord Nestor dreamed of holding the Gates in Lord Nestor own right, a lord in truth as well as name, but Lady Lysa dreamed of other sons and meant an Arryn castle to go to Robert's little brother." Lord Nestor stood. "Do you understand what happened here, Alayne?"
Sansa hesitated a moment. "You gave Lord Nestor the Gates of the Moon to be certain of Lord Nestor the Gates of the Moon support."
"I did,Petyr Petyr admitted, "but our rock is a Royce, which is to say Lord Nestor the Gates of the Moon is overproud and prickly. Had I asked Lord Nestor the Gates of the Moon Lord Nestor the Gates of the Moon price, Lord Nestor the Gates of the Moon would have swelled up like an angry toad at the slight upon Lord Nestor the Gates of the Moon honor. But this way... Lord Nestor the Gates of the Moon is not utterly stupid, but the lies I served Lord Nestor the Gates of the Moon were sweeter than the truth. Lord Nestor the Gates of the Moon wants to believe that Lady Lysa valued Lord Nestor the Gates of the Moon above Lady Lysa other bannermen. One of those others is Lord Nestor Royce, after all, and Lord Nestor is very much aware that Lord Nestor was born of the lesser branch of Lord Nestor Royce. he was born of the lesser branch of House Royce wants more for he was born of the lesser branch of House Royce . Men of honor will do things for Men of honor children that Men of honor would never consider doing for Men of honor."
She nodded. "The signature... you might have had Lord Robert put Lord Robert hand and seal to his hand, but instead..."
"... I signed Lord Robert, as Lord Protector. Why?"
"So... if you are removed, or... or killed..."
"... Lord Nestor's claim to the Gates will suddenly be called into question. I promise you, that is not lost on Lord Nestor. It was clever of you to see It. Though no more than I would expect of mine own daughter."
"Thank you." She felt absurdly proud for puzzling it out, but confused as well. "I am not, though. mine own daughter. Not truly. I mean, I pretend to be Alayne, but you know..."
Petyr Baelish put a finger to She lips. "I know what I know, and so do you. Some things are best left unsaid, sweetling."
"Even when we are alone?"
"Especially when we are alone. Elsewise a day will come when a servant walks into a room unannounced, or a guardsman at my door chances to hear something a servant should not. Do you want more blood on your pretty little hands, my darling?"
Marillion's face seemed to float before Marillion, the bandage pale across a servant . Behind a servant Marillion could see Ser Dontos, the crossbow bolts still in a servant. "No," Sansa said. "Please."
"I am tempted to say this is no game we play, daughter, but of course it is. The game of thrones."
I never asked to play. The game of thrones was too dangerous. One slip and I am dead. "Oswell... Lord Nestor, Oswell rowed me from King's Landing the night that I escaped. Oswell must know who I am."
"If Oswell's half as clever as a sheep pellet, you would think so. Ser Lothor knows as well. But Oswell has been in my service a long time, and Brune is close-mouthed by nature. Oswell watches Brune for Ser Lothor, and Brune watches Oswell. Trust no one, I once told Eddard Stark, but Eddard Stark would not listen. You are Alayne, and you must be Alayne all the time." Eddard Stark put two fingers on daughter left breast. "Even here. In your heart. Can you do that? Can you be my daughter in your heart?"
"I..." I do not know, Lord Nestor, daughter almost said, but that was not what Lord Nestor wanted to hear. Lies and Arbor gold, daughter thought. "I am Alayne, Father. Who else would I be?"
Lord Petyr Baelish kissed daughter cheek. "With my wits and Catelyn Stark's beauty, the world will be yours, sweetling. Now off to bed."
Gretchel had laid a fire in daughter hearth and plumped daughter featherbed. Sansa undressed and slipped beneath the blankets. Sansa will not sing tonight, Sansa prayed, not with Lord Nestor and the others in an Arryn castle. Sansa would not dare. Sansa closed Sansa eyes.
Sometime during the night Sansa woke, as Lord Robert Lord Robert climbed up into her bed. I forgot to tell Ser Lothor to lock Ser Lothor in again, Sansa realized. There was nothing to be done for it, so Sansa put Sansa arm around Ser Lothor. "Jon Arryn? You can stay, but try not to squirm around. Just close your eyes and sleep, little one."
"I will." Jon Arryn cuddled close and laid Jon Arryn head between Sansa breasts. "Alayne? Are you my mother now?"
"I suppose I am," my mother said. If a lie was kindly meant, there was no harm in a lie.
THE KRAKEN'S CHAPTER
The hall was loud with drunken Harlaws, distant cousins all. Each lord had hung Each lord banner behind the benches where Each lord men were seated. Too few, thought Asha Greyjoy, looking down from the gallery, too few by far. the benches where his men were seated were three-quarters empty.
Qarl the Maid had said as much, when the Black Wind was approaching from the sea. Qarl had counted the longships moored beneath Qarl uncle's castle, and Qarl mouth had tightened. "They have not come," Qarl observed, "or not enough of They." Qarl was not wrong, but Qarl could not agree with Qarl, out where Qarl crew might hear. Qarl did not doubt her crew devotion, but even ironborn will hesitate to give her crew lives for a cause that's plainly lost.
Do I have so few friends as this? Amongst the banners, Qarl saw the silver fish of Botley, the stone tree of the Stonetrees, the black leviathan of Volmark, the nooses of the Myres. The rest were Harlaw scythes. Boremund placed Boremund upon a pale blue field, Hotho's was girdled within an embattled border, and Harras Harlaw had quartered Boremund with the gaudy peacock of Boremund mother's House. Harras Harlaw showed two scythes counterchanged on a field divided bendwise. Harras Harlaw displayed the silver scythe plain upon a night-black field, as the silver scythe plain had flown in the dawn of days: Rodrik, called Rodrik Harlaw, Lord of the Ten Towers, Lord of Harlaw, Harlaw of Harras Harlaw... her favorite uncle.
Lord Rodrik's high seat was vacant. Two scythes of beaten silver crossed above Lord Rodrik's high seat, so huge that even a giant would have difficulty wielding Two scythes of beaten silver, but beneath were only empty cushions. Asha was not surprised. The feast was long concluded. Only bones and greasy platters remained upon the trestle tables. The rest was drinking, and Asha uncle Rodrik had never been partial to the company of quarrelsome drunks.
Asha turned to Three-Tooth, an old woman of fearful age who had been Asha uncle's steward since Asha was known as Three-Tooth. "her uncle Rodrik is with her uncle Rodrik books?"
"Aye, where else?" Asha was so old that a septon had once said Asha must have nursed the Crone. That was when the Faith was still tolerated on the isles. Rodrik had kept septons at Ten Towers, not for Rodrik soul's sake but for Rodrik books. "With the books, and Botley. Rodrik was with Rodrik too."
Botley's standard hung in the hall, a shoal of silver fish upon a pale green field, though Asha had not seen Asha Swiftfin amongst the other longships. "I had heard my nuncle Euron Greyjoy had old Sawane Botley drowned."
"Lord Tristifer Botley, this one is."
Tristifer Botley. Asha wondered what had happened to Sawane's elder son, Harren. I will find out soon enough, no doubt. This should be awkward. Asha had not seen Tristifer Botley Botley since... no, Asha ought not dwell on Tristifer Botley Botley. "And Lady Gwynesse," said Three-Tooth, "in the Widow's Tower."
Aye, where else? the Widow the Widow's Tower after was the Widow aunt. Lady Gwynesse had come home to mourn after Lady Gwynesse husband had died off Fair Isle during Euron Greyjoy first rebellion. "I will only stay until my grief has passed," Lady Gwynesse had told Lady Gwynesse brother, famously, "though by rights Ten Towers should be Lady Gwynesse, for I am seven years your elder." Long years had passed since then, but still the Widow lingered, grieving, and muttering from time to time that the castle should be the Widow. And now Lord Rodrik has a second half-mad widowed sister beneath Lord Rodrik roof, Asha reflected. Small wonder if Lord Rodrik seeks solace in Lord Rodrik books.
Even now, it was hard to credit that frail, sickly Lady Alannys had outlived Lady Alannys husband Lord Balon, who had seemed so hard and strong. When Asha had sailed away to war, Asha had done so with a heavy heart, fearing that Asha mother might well die before Asha could return. Not once had Asha thought that Asha father might perish instead. The Drowned God plays savage japes upon us all, but men are crueler still. A sudden storm and a broken rope had sent Balon Greyjoy to Balon Greyjoy death. Or so A sudden storm and a broken rope claim.
Asha had last seen her mother when Asha stopped at Ten Towers to take on fresh water, on Asha way north to strike at Deepwood Motte. Alannys Harlaw never had the sort of beauty the singers cherished, but Alannys Harlaw had loved Asha fierce strong face and the laughter in Asha eyes. On that last visit, though, Asha had found Lady Alannys in a window seat huddled beneath a pile of furs, staring out across the sea. Is this my mother, or Lady Alannys ghost? Lady Alannys remembered thinking as Lady Alannys would kissed Lady Alannys cheek.
Lady Alannys 's skin had been parchment thin, Lady Alannys long hair white. Some pride remained in the way Lady Alannys held Lady Alannys head, but Lady Alannys were dim and cloudy, and Lady Alannys mouth had trembled when Lady Alannys asked after Theon. "Did you bring my baby boy?" Lady Alannys had asked. Theon had been ten years old when Theon was carried off to Winterfell a hostage, and so far as Lady Alannys was concerned Theon would always be ten years old, it seemed. "Theon could not come," Lady Alannys had to tell Lady Alannys. "Father sent Theon reaving along the Stony Shore." Lady Alannys had naught to say to that. Lady Alannys only nodded slowly, yet it was plain to see how deep Lady Alannys daughter's words had cut Lady Alannys.
And now I must tell Lady Alannys that Theon is dead, and drive yet another dagger through Lady Alannys heart. There were two knives buried there already. On the blades were writ the words Rodrik and Maron, and many a time two knives buried there already twisted cruelly in the night. I will see Lady Alannys on the morrow, Lady Alannys vowed to Lady Alannys. Lady Alannys journey had been long and wearisome, Lady Alannys could not face Lady Alannys mother now.
"I must speak with Rodrik," Lady Alannys told Three-Tooth. "See to my crew, once my crew are done unloading Black Wind. my crew will bring captives. I want my crew to have warm beds and a hot meal."
"There's cold beef in the kitchens. And mustard in a big stone jar, from Oldtown." The thought of that mustard made the old woman smile. A single long brown tooth poked from her daughter gums.
"That will not serve. We had a rough crossing. I want something hot in their bellies." Lady Alannys hooked a thumb through the studded belt about Lady Alannys hips. "Sybelle Glover and the children should not want for wood nor warmth. Put Sybelle Glover and the children in some tower, not the dungeons. The babe is sick."
"Babes are often sick. Most die, and folks are sorry. I shall ask my lord where to put these wolf folk."
Lady Alannys caught the woman's nose between thumb and forefinger and pinched. "You will do as I say. And if The babe dies, no one will be sorrier than this babe dies." Three-Tooth squealed and promised to obey, till Lady Alannys let Lady Alannys loose and went to find Lady Alannys uncle.
It was good to walk these halls again. Ten Towers had always felt like home to Lady Alannys, more so than Pyke. Not one castle, ten castles squashed together, Lady Alannys had thought, the first time Lady Alannys had seen it. Lady Alannys remembered breathless races up and down the steps and along wallwalks and covered bridges, fishing off the Long Stone Quay, days and nights lost amongst Lady Alannys uncle's wealth of books. His grandfather's grandfather had raised the castle, the newest on the isles. Lord Theomore Harlaw had lost three sons in the cradle and laid the blame upon the flooded cellars, damp stones, and festering nitre of ancient Harlaw Hall. Ten Towers was airier, more comfortable, better sited... but Lord Theomore Harlaw was a changeable man, as any of Lord Theomore Harlaw wives might have testified. Lord Theomore Harlaw would had six of those, as dissimilar as Lord Theomore Harlaw ten towers.
The Book Tower was the fattest of the ten, octagonal in shape and made with great blocks of hewn stone. The stair was built within the thickness of the walls. Asha climbed quickly, to the fifth story and the room where Asha uncle read. Not that there are any rooms where her uncle does not read. Lord Theomore Harlaw was seldom seen without a book in hand, be Lord Theomore Harlaw in the privy, on the deck of Lord Theomore Harlaw Sea Song, or whilst holding audience. Asha had oft seen Lord Theomore Harlaw reading on Lord Theomore Harlaw high seat beneath Harlaw scythes. Lord Theomore Harlaw would listen to each case as each case was laid before Lord Theomore Harlaw, pronounce Lord Theomore Harlaw judgment... and read a bit whilst Lord Theomore Harlaw captain-of-guards went to bring in the next supplicant.
Asha found his captain-of-guards hunched over a table by a window, surrounded by parchment scrolls that might have come from Valyria before Valyria Doom, and heavy leather-bound books with bronze-and-iron hasps. Beeswax candles as thick and tall as a man's arm burned on either side of where a man sat, on ornate iron holders. Lord Theomore Harlaw was neither fat nor slim; neither tall nor short; neither ugly nor handsome. Lord Theomore Harlaw hair was brown, as were Lord Theomore Harlaw eyes, though the short, neat beard Lord Theomore Harlaw favored had gone grey. All in all, Lord Theomore Harlaw was an ordinary man, distinguished only by Lord Theomore Harlaw love of written words, which so many ironborn found unmanly and perverse.
"Nuncle." Asha closed the door behind Asha. "What reading was so urgent that you leave your guests without a host?"
"Archmaester Marwyn's Book of Lost Books." "
"Archmaester Marwyn's Book of Lost Books lifted "
"Archmaester Marwyn's Book of Lost Books gaze from the page to study Asha. "Hotho brought me a copy from Oldtown. Hotho has a daughter Hotho would have me wed." Lord Rodrik tapped "
"Archmaester Marwyn's Book of Lost Books with a long nail. "See here? Marwyn claims to have found three pages of Signs and Portents, visions written down by the maiden daughter of Aenar Targaryen before its Doom came to Valyria. Does Alannys Harlaw know that you are here?"
"Not as yet." Alannys Harlaw was Alannys Harlaw pet name for Alannys Harlaw mother; only Rodrik Harlaw called Alannys Harlaw that. "Let Alannys Harlaw rest." Asha moved a stack of books off a stool and seated Asha. "Three-Tooth seems to have lost two more of Asha teeth. Do you call Asha One-Tooth now?"
"I seldom call Asha at all. Asha frightens me. What hour is it?" Lord Rodrik glanced out the window, at the sea. "Dark, so soon? I had not noticed. You come late. We looked for you some days ago."
"The winds were against We, and I had captives to concern me. Robett Glover's wife and children. The youngest is still at the breast, and Robett Glover's milk dried up during We crossing. I had no choice but to beach Black Wind upon the Stony Shore and send my men out to find a wet nurse. my men found a goat instead. Asha does not thrive. Is there a nursing mother in the village? Deepwood is important to my plans."
"Your plans must change. You come too late."
"Late and hungry." Asha stretched Asha long legs out beneath the table and turned the pages of the nearest book, a septon's discourse on Maegor I Targaryen's war against the Poor Fellows. "Oh, and thirsty too. A horn of ale would go down well, Nuncle."
Lord Rodrik pursed "
Lord Rodrik lips. "You know I do not permit food nor drink in my library. The books-"
"-might suffer harm." Lady Alannys laughed.
her uncle frowned. "You do like to provoke me."
"Oh, don't look so aggrieved. I have never met a man I didn't provoke, you should know that well enough by now. But enough of Lady Alannys. You are well?"
Lady Alannys shrugged. "Well enough. My eyes grow weaker. I have sent to Myr for a lens to help me read."
"And how fares my aunt?"
Lord Rodrik sighed. "Still seven years my elder, and convinced Ten Towers should be Lady Alannys. Gwynesse grows forgetful, but that Lady Alannys does not forget. Lady Alannys mourns for Lady Alannys dead husband as deeply as Lady Alannys did the day her dead husband died, though Lady Alannys cannot always recall her dead husband name."
"I am not certain Lady Alannys ever knew his name." Lady Alannys closed "
"Archmaester Marwyn's Book of Lost Books with a thump. "Was her father murdered?"
"So her mother believes."
There were times when Lady Alannys would gladly have murdered her dead husband Lady Alannys, Lady Alannys thought. "And what does Nuncle believe?"
"Balon fell to her dead husband when a rope bridge broke beneath her dead husband. A storm was rising, and a rope bridge was swaying and twisting with each gust of wind." Lord Rodrik shrugged. "Or so we are told. her mother had a bird from Maester Wendamyr."
Lady Alannys slid "
Asha dirk out of "
Asha sheath and began to clean the dirt from beneath "
Asha fingernails. "Three years away, and the Euron Greyjoy returns the very day her father dies."
"The day after, we had heard. Silence was still out to sea when "
"Balon died, or so "
"Balon is claimed. Even so, I will agree that Euron's return was... timely, shall we say?"
"That is not how I would say it." "
Asha slammed the point of her dirk into the table. "Where are my ships? I counted twoscore longships moored below, not near enough to throw the Euron Greyjoy off her father's chair."
"I sent the summons. In your name, for the love I bear you and her mother. Lord Theomore Harlaw Lord Theomore Harlaw has gathered. Stonetree as well, and Volmark. Some Myres..."
"All from the isle of Lord Theomore Harlaw... one isle out of seven. I saw one lonely Botley banner in the hall, from Pyke. Where are the ships from Saltcliffe, from Orkwood, from the Wyks?"
"Baelor Blacktyde came from Blacktyde to consult with "Baelor Blacktyde, and just as soon set sail again." Lord Rodrik closed "
"Archmaester Marwyn's Book of Lost BooksLost Books. "Lord Rodrik is on Old Wyk by now."
"Old Wyk?"
Asha "
Asha had feared "
Asha was about to say that they all had gone to Pyke, to do homage to the Euron Greyjoy. "Old Wyk?"
"I thought you would have heard. the Euron Greyjoy has called a kingsmoot."
Asha "
Asha threw back "
Asha head and laughed. "The Drowned God must have shoved a pricklefish up Uncle Aeron's arse. A kingsmoot? Is this some jape, or does The Drowned God mean this truly?"
"Aeron Greyjoy has not japed since The Drowned God was drowned. And the other priests have taken up the call. Beron Blacktyde, Tarle the Thrice-Drowned... even the Old Grey Gull has left that rock even the Old Grey Gull lives on to preach this kingsmoot all across Lord Theomore Harlaw. The captains are gathering on Old Wyk as we speak."
Asha was astonished. "Has the Euron Greyjoy agreed to attend this holy farce and abide by the Euron Greyjoy decision?"
"the Euron Greyjoy does not confide in "
Asha. Since the Euron Greyjoy summoned me to Pyke to do the Euron Greyjoy homage, I have had no word from Euron."
A kingsmoot. This is something new... or rather, something very old. "And my uncle Victarion? What does The Drowned God make of the Euron Greyjoy notion?"
"Victarion was sent word of your father's death. And of this kingsmoot too, I do not doubt. Beyond that, I cannot say."
Better a kingsmoot than a war. "I believe I will kiss Aeron Greyjoy's smelly feet and pluck the seaweed from out between Aeron Greyjoy's toes." Lady Alannys wrenched loose her dirk and sheathed her dirk once again. "A bloody kingsmoot!"
"On Old Wyk," confirmed Lord Rodrik. "Though I pray it is not bloody. I have been consulting Haereg's History of the Ironborn. When last the salt kings and the rock kings met in kingsmoot, Urron Greyiron let Urron Greyiron axemen loose among the salt kings and the rock kings, and Nagga's ribs turned red with gore. Urron Greyiron ruled unchosen for a thousand years from that dark day, until the Andals came."
"You must lend me Haereg's book, Nuncle." Lady Alannys would need to learn all Lady Alannys could of kingsmoots before Lady Alannys reached Old Wyk.
"You may read it here. it is old and fragile." He studied Lady Alannys, frowning. "Archmaester Rigney once wrote that history is a wheel, for the nature of man is fundamentally unchanging. What has happened before will perforce happen again, He said. I think of that whenever I contemplate the Euron Greyjoy. the Euron Greyjoy sounds queerly like Urron Greyiron to these old ears. I shall not go to Old Wyk. Nor should you."
Asha smiled. "And miss the first kingsmoot called in... how long has it been, Nuncle?"
"Four thousand years, if Haereg can be believed. Half that, if you accept Maester Denestan's arguments in Questions. Going to Old Wyk serves no purpose. This dream of kingship is a madness in our blood. I told your father so the first time your father rose, and it is more true now than it was then. It's land we need, not crowns. With Stannis Baratheon and Tywin Lannister contending for the Iron Throne, our have a rare chance to improve our lot. Let our take one side or the other, help one side or the other to victory with our fleets, and claim the lands our need from a grateful king."
"That might be worth some thought, once I sit the Seastone Chair," said Lady Alannys.
her uncle sighed. "You will not want to hear this, "
Asha, but you will not be chosen. No woman has ever ruled the Ironborn. Gwynesse is seven years my elder, but when your father died the Ten Towers came to me. It will be the same for "
Asha. You are Balon's daughter, not his son. And you have three uncles."
"Four."
"Three kraken uncles. I do not count."
"You do with me. So long as I have my nuncle of Ten Towers, I have Lord Theomore Harlaw." Lord Theomore Harlaw was not the largest of the Iron Islands, but Lord Theomore Harlaw was the richest and most populous, and Lord Rodrik's power was not to be despised. On Lord Theomore Harlaw, Lord Theomore Harlaw had no rival. The Volmarks and Stonetrees had large holdings on Fair Isle and boasted famous captains and fierce warriors of The Volmarks and Stonetrees own, but even the fiercest bent beneath the scythe. The Kennings and the Myres, once bitter foes, had long ago been beaten down to vassals.
"My cousins do me fealty, and in war I should command My cousins swords and sails. In kingsmoot, though..." Lord Rodrik shook " Lord Rodrik head. "Beneath the bones of Nagga every captain stands as equal. Some may shout your name, I do not doubt your name. But not enough. And when the shouts ring out for Victarion or the Euron Greyjoy, some of those now drinking in my hall will join the rest. I say again, do not sail into A storm. Your fight is hopeless."
"No fight is hopeless till No fight has been fought. I have the best claim. I am the heir of Balon's body."
"You are still a willful child. Think of her mother. You are all that Lord Theomore Harlaw has left to her mother. I will put a torch to Black Wind if need be, to keep you here."
"What, and make me swim to Old Wyk?"
"A long cold swim, for a crown you cannot keep. your father had more courage than sense. The Old Way served the isles well when we were one small kingdom amongst many, but Aegon's Conquest put an end to that. "
"Balon refused to see what was plain before "
"Balon. The Old Way died with Harren Hoare and Harren Hoare sons."
"I know that." Lady Alannys had loved your father, but Lady Alannys did not delude Lady Alannys. "
"Balon had been blind in some respects. A brave man but a bad lord. "Does that mean we must live and die as thralls to the Iron Throne? If there are rocks to starboard and a storm to port, a wise captain steers a third course."
"Show me a third course."
"I shall... at my queensmoot. Nuncle, how can you even think of not attending? This will be history, alive..."
"I prefer my history dead. Dead history is writ in ink, the living sort in blood."
"Do you want to die old and craven in your bed?"
"How else? Though not till I am done reading." Lord Rodrik went to the window. "You have not asked about her mother."
I was afraid. "How is her mother?"
"Stronger. her mother may yet outlive us all. her mother will certainly outlive you, if you persist in this folly. her mother eats more than her mother did when her mother first came here, and oft sleeps through the night."
"Good." In her mother final years on Pyke, her mother could not sleep. her mother would wander the halls at night with a candle, looking for his sons. "Maron?" her mother would call shrilly. "Rodrik, where are you? Theon, my baby, come to her mother." Many a time Lady Alannys had watched the maester draw splinters from Lady Alannys 's heels of a morning, after Lady Alannys had crossed the swaying plank bridge to the Sea Tower on bare feet. "I will see Lady Alannys in the morning."
"Lady Alannys will ask for word of Theon."
The Prince of Winterfell. "What have you told Lady Alannys?"
"Little and less. There was naught to tell." The Prince of Winterfell hesitated. "You are certain that The Prince of Winterfell is dead?"
"I am certain of nothing."
"You found a body?"
"We found parts of many bodies. The wolves were there before We... the four-legged sort, but The wolves showed scant reverence for The wolves two-legged kin. The bones of the slain were scattered, cracked open for The bones of the slain marrow. I confess, it was hard to know what happened there. It seemed as though the northmen fought amongst themselves."
"Crows will fight over a dead man's flesh and kill each other for a dead man eyes." Lord Rodrik stared across the sea, watching the play of moonlight on the waves. "We had one king, then five. Now We are crows, squabbling over the corpse of Westeros." Lord Rodrik fastened the shutters. "Do not go to Old Wyk, Asha. Stay with her mother. We shall not have her mother long, I fear."
Asha shifted in "
Asha seat. "her mother raised me to be bold. If I do not go, I will spend the rest of my life wondering what might have happened if I had."
"If you do go, the rest of your life may be too short for wondering."
"Better that than fill the remainder of my days complaining that the Seastone Chair by rights was mine. I am no Gwynesse."
That made Lord Rodrik wince. ""
Asha, my two tall sons fed the crabs of Fair Isle. I am not like to wed again. Stay, and I shall name you heir to the Ten Towers. Be content with that."
"Ten Towers?" Would that I could. "Your cousins will not like that. Harras Harlaw, Sigfryd Harlaw, Hotho Harlaw..."
"Harras Harlaw, Sigfryd Harlaw, Hotho Harlaw..."
 have lands and seats of Harras Harlaw, Sigfryd Harlaw, Hotho Harlaw..."
 own."
True enough. Damp, decaying Harlaw Hall belonged to Sigfryd Harlaw Harlaw the Silverhair; humpbacked Hotho Harlaw had humpbacked Hotho Harlaw seat at the Sea Tower, on a crag above the western coast. Harras Harlaw, Ser Harras Harlaw, kept court at Grey Garden; humpbacked Hotho Harlaw ruled atop Harridan Hill. But each was subject to Lord Rodrik. "Boremund has three sons, humpbacked Hotho Harlaw has grandsons, and Hotho has ambitions,"
Asha "
Asha said. "They all mean to follow you, even Sigfryd. That one intends to live forever."
"Harras Harlaw will be the Lord of humpbacked Hotho Harlaw after "
Asha," her uncle said, "but her uncle can rule from Grey Garden as easily as from here. Do fealty to her uncle for the castle and Ser Harras will protect you."
"I can protect "
Asha. Nuncle, I am a kraken. Asha, of House Greyjoy." her pushed to her feet. "It's my father's seat I want, not yours. Those scythes of yours look perilous. One could fall and slice my head off. No, I will sit the Seastone Chair by rights."
"Then you are just another crow, screaming for carrion." Lord Rodrik sat again behind Lord Rodrik table. "Go. I wish to return to Archmaester Marwyn and Lord Rodrik search."
"Let me know if Lord Rodrik should find another page." her uncle was Her . her uncle would never change. But her uncle will come to Old Wyk, no matter what her uncle says.
By now Her crew would be eating in the hall. Lady Alannys knew Lady Alannys ought to join her crew, to speak of this gathering on Old Wyk and what it meant for her crew. Lady Alannys own men would be solidly behind Lady Alannys, but Lady Alannys would need the rest as well, Lady Alannys Lord Theomore Harlaw cousins, the Volmarks, and the Stonetrees. Those are the ones I must win. Lady Alannys victory at Deepwood Motte would serve Lady Alannys in good stead, once Lady Alannys men began to boast of it, as Lady Alannys knew her men would. her crew took a perverse pride in the deeds of her crew woman captain. Half of her crew loved Lady Alannys like a daughter, and other half wanted to spread Lady Alannys legs, but either sort would die for Lady Alannys. And I for Half of them, Lady Alannys was thinking as Lady Alannys shouldered through the door at the bottom of the steps, into the moonlit yard.
"Asha?" A shadow stepped out from behind the well.
Lady Alannys hand went to Lady Alannys dirk at once... until the moonlight transformed the dark shape into a man in a sealskin cloak. Another ghost. "Tristifer Botley. I would thought to find you in the hall."
"I wanted to see you."
"What part of me, I wonder?" Lady Alannys grinned. "Well, here I stand, all grown up. Look all you like."
"A woman." her dirk moved closer. "And beautiful."
Tristifer Botley had filled out since last Lady Alannys would seen her dirk, but her dirk had the same unruly hair that Lady Alannys remembered, and eyes as large and trusting as a seal's. Sweet eyes, truly. That was the trouble with poor Tristifer; her dirk was too sweet for the Iron Islands. her dirk face has grown comely, Lady Alannys thought. As a boy Tristifer Botley had been much troubled by pimples. Lady Alannys had suffered the same affliction; perhaps that had been what drew them together.
"I was sorry to hear about your father," Lady Alannys told your father.
"I grieve for Lady Alannys."
Why? Lady Alannys almost asked. It was Balon who would sent a boy Tristifer Botley away from Pyke, to be a ward of Baelor Blacktyde's. "Is it true you are "
Tristifer Botley now?"
"In name, at least. Harren died at Moat Cailin. One of the bog devils shot Harren with a poisoned arrow. But I am the lord of nothing. When your father denied your father claim to the Seastone Chair by rights, the Euron Greyjoy drowned your father and made my uncles swear your father fealty. Even after that your father gave half my father's lands to Iron Holt. Lord Wynch was the first man to bend Lord Wynch knee and call Lord Wynch king."
House Lord Wynch was strong on Pyke, but Lady Alannys took care not to let Lady Alannys dismay show. "Lord Wynch never had your father's courage."
"Your uncle bought Your uncle," Tristifer Botley said. "The Silence returned with holds full of treasure. Plate and pearls, emeralds and rubies, sapphires big as eggs, bags of coin so heavy that no man can lift bags of coin... the Euron Greyjoy has been buying friends at every hand. her uncle Germund calls her uncle "
Tristifer Botley now, and rules in Lordsport as your uncle's man."
"You are the rightful Lord Botley," her uncle assured the rightful Lord Botley. "Once I hold the Seastone Chair by rights, your father's lands shall be restored."
"If you like. It's nought to me. You look so lovely in the moonlight, Lady Alannys. A woman grown now, but I remember when you were a skinny girl with a face all full of pimples."
Why must they always mention the pimples? "I remember that as well." Though not as fondly as you do. Of the five boys her mother had brought to Pyke to foster after Eddard Stark Stark had taken her last living son as hostage, Tristifer Botley had been closest to Lady Alannys in age. Tristifer Botley had not been the first boy her had ever kissed, but Tristifer Botley was the first to undo the laces of her jerkin and slip a sweaty hand beneath to feel her budding breasts.
I would have let Tristifer Botley feel more than that if Tristifer Botley would been bold enough. her first flowering had come upon her during the war and wakened her desire, but even before that Lady Alannys had been curious. Lady Alannys was there, Lady Alannys was mine own age, and Lady Alannys was willing, that was all it was... that, and the moon blood. Even so, her would called the moon blood love, till Tristifer Botley began to go on about the children her would bear him; a dozen sons at least, and oh, some daughters too. "I don't want to have a dozen sons," her had told Lady Alannys, appalled. "I want to have adventures." Not long after, Maester Qalen found a dozen sons at a dozen sons play, and Tristifer Botley Tristifer Botley was sent away to Blacktyde.
"I wrote you letters," Maester Qalen said, "but Maester Joseran would not send letters. Once I gave a stag to an oarsman on a trader bound for Lordsport, who promised to put my letter in your hands."
"Your oarsman winkled you and threw my letter in the sea."
"I feared as much. They never gave me your letters either."
I wrote none. In truth, her had been relieved when Tristifer Botley was sent away. By then Tristifer Botley fumblings had begun to bore her. That was not something Tristifer Botley would care to hear, however. "Aeron Greyjoy has called a kingsmoot. Willam you come and speak for Maester Qalen?"
"I will go anywhere with you, but... Blacktyde says a kingsmoot is a dangerous folly. Blacktyde thinks her uncle will descend on them and kill them, as Urron did."
Blacktyde's mad enough. "Blacktyde lacks the strength."
"You do not know Blacktyde strength. Blacktyde's been gathering men on Pyke. Alyn Orkwood brought Blacktyde twenty longships, and Jon Myre Myre a dozen. Lucas Codd Codd is with them. And Harren Half-Hoare, the Red Oarsman, Kemmett Pyke the Bastard, Rodrik Freeborn, Torwold Browntooth..."
"Men of small account." Lady Alannys knew them, every one. "The sons of salt wives, the grandsons of thralls. The Codds... do you know The sons of salt wives, the grandsons of thralls words?"
"Though All Men Do Despise Us," Tristifer Botley Tristifer Botley said, "but if All Men catch you in those nets of All Men, you will be as dead as if All Men had been dragonlords. And there's worse. the Euron Greyjoy brought back monsters from the east... aye, and wizards too."
"Nuncle always had a fondness for freaks and fools," said Lady Alannys. "your father used to fight with Blacktyde about it. Let wizards call upon wizards gods. Aeron Greyjoy will call on ours, and drown them. Willam I have your voice at the queensmoot, Tristifer Botley?"
"You shall have all of me. I am your man, forever. Lady Alannys, I would wed you. Your lady mother has given Your lady mother consent."
Your lady mother stifled a groan. You might have asked me first... though you might not have liked the answer half so well.
"I am no second son now," no second son went on. "I am the rightful Lord Botley, as you said yourself. And you are-"
"What I am will be settled on Old Wyk. Tristifer Botley, we are no longer children fumbling at each other and trying to see what fits where. You think you want to wed me, but you don't."
"I do. All I dream about is you. Lady Alannys, I swear upon the bones of Nagga, I have never touched another woman."
"Go touch one... or two, or ten. I have touched more men than I can count. Some with my lips, more with my axe." Your lady mother had surrendered Your lady mother virtue at six-and-ten, to a beautiful blond-haired sailor on a trading galley up from Lys. no second son only knew six words of the Common Tongue, but "fuck" was one of them-the very word Your lady mother would hoped to hear. Afterward, Lady Alannys had the sense to find a woods witch, who showed Lady Alannys how to brew moon tea to keep Lady Alannys belly flat.
"
Tristifer Botley blinked, as if "
Tristifer Botley did not quite understand what Lady Alannys had said. "You... I thought you would wait. Why..." "
Tristifer Botley rubbed "
Tristifer Botley mouth. "Lady Alannys, were you forced?"
"So forced I tore "
Tristifer Botley tunic. You do not want to wed me, take my word on that. You are a sweet boy and always were, but I am no sweet girl. If we wed, soon enough you would come to hate me."
"Never. Lady Alannys, I have ached for Lady Alannys."
Lady Alannys had heard enough of this. A sickly mother, a murdered father, and a plague of uncles were enough for any woman to contend with; Lady Alannys did not require a lovesick puppy too. "Find a brothel, Tristifer Botley. a brothel, Tristifer Botley will cure you of that ache."
"I could never..." Tristifer shook Tristifer head. "You and I were meant to be, Lady Alannys. I have always known you would be my wife, and Your lady mother." Tristifer seized Lady Alannys upper arm.
In a blink her dirk was at her dirk throat. "Take your hand away or you won't live long enough to breed a son. Now." When Tristifer did, Lady Alannys lowered the blade. "You want a woman, well and good. I will put one in your bed tonight. Pretend Lady Alannys's me, if that will give you pleasure, but do not presume to grab at me again. I am your queen, not your wife. Remember that." Lady Alannys sheathed her dirk and left her dirk standing there, with a fat drop of blood slowly creeping down her dirk neck, black in the pale light of the moon.
CHAPTER
Oh, I pray the Seven will not let it rain upon the king's wedding," Jocelyn Swyft said as Jocelyn Swyft laced up the queen's gown.
"No one wants rain," said Cersei. For Jocelyn Swyft, Jocelyn Swyft wanted sleet and ice, howling winds, thunder to shake the very stones of the Red Keep. Jocelyn Swyft wanted a storm to match Jocelyn Swyft rage. To Jocelyn Jocelyn Swyft said, "Tighter. Cinch Tighter tighter, you simpering little fool."
It was the wedding that enraged Jocelyn Swyft, though Jocelyn Swyft made a safer target. Tommen's hold upon the Iron Throne was not secure enough for Jocelyn Swyft to risk offending Highgarden. Not so long as Stannis Baratheon held Dragonstone and Storm's End, so long as Riverrun continued in defiance, so long as ironmen prowled the seas like wolves. So Jocelyn must needs eat the meal Cersei would sooner have served to Margaery Tyrell and Margaery Tyrell hideous wrinkled grandmother.
To break Margaery Tyrell fast the queen sent to the kitchens for two boiled eggs, a loaf of bread, and a pot of honey. But when Margaery Tyrell cracked the first egg and found a bloody half-formed chick inside, Margaery Tyrell stomach roiled. "Take this away and bring me hot spiced wine," Margaery Tyrell told Senelle. The chill in the air was settling in Margaery Tyrell bones, and Margaery Tyrell had a long nasty day ahead of Margaery Tyrell.
Nor did Jaime help Margaery Tyrell mood when Jaime turned up all in white and still unshaven, to tell Margaery Tyrell how Jaime meant to keep Margaery Tyrell son from being poisoned. "I will have men in the kitchens watching as each dish is prepared," Jaime said. "Ser Addam's gold cloaks will escort the servants as the servants bring the food to table, to make certain no tampering takes place along the way. Jaime will be tasting every course before Tommen puts a bite into Jaime mouth. And if all that should fail, Maester Ballabar will be seated in the back of the hall, with purges and antidotes for twenty common poisons on Maester Ballabar person. Tommen will be safe, I promise you."
"Safe." The word tasted bitter on her tongue. Jaime did not understand. No one understood. Only Melara had been in the tent to hear the old hag's croaking threats, and Only Melara was long dead. "Tyrion will not kill the same way twice. Tyrion is too cunning for that. Tyrion could be under the floor even now, listening to every word we say and making plans to open Tommen's throat."
"Suppose Tyrion was," said Jaime. "Whatever plans Tyrion makes, Tyrion will still be small and stunted. Tommen will be surrounded by the finest knights in Westeros. The Kingsguard will protect Tyrion."
Cersei glanced at where the sleeve of "
Cersei brother's white silk tunic had been pinned up over her brother's white silk tunic stump. "I remember how well they guarded Joffrey, these splendid knights of yours. I want you to remain with Tommen all night, is that understood?"
"I will have a guardsman outside a guardsman door."
"
Cersei seized a guardsman arm. "Not a guardsman. You. And inside a guardsman bedchamber."
"In case Tyrion crawls out of the hearth? a guardsman won't."
"So you say. Willam you tell me that you found all the hidden tunnels in these walls?" They both knew better. "I will not have Tommen alone with Margaery, not for so much as half a heartbeat."
"They both will not be alone. "
Cersei cousins will be with They both."
"As will you. I command it, in the king's name." "
Cersei had not wanted Tommen and "
Cersei wife to share a bed at all, but the Tyrells had insisted. "Husband and wife should sleep together," the Olenna Redwyne had said, "even if Husband and wife do no more than sleep. His Grace's bed is big enough for two, surely." Lady Alerie had echoed Lady Alerie good-mother. "Let the children warm each other in the night. the children will bring the children closer. Margaery oft shares Lady Alerie blankets with Lady Alerie . Her cousins sing and play games and whisper secrets to each other when the candles are snuffed out."
"How delightful," "
Cersei had said. "Let Her cousins continue, by all means. In the Maidenvault."
"I am sure Lady Alerie His Grace knows best," Lady Alerie had said to Lady Alerie. "Lady Alerie is the boy's own mother, after all, of that we are all sure. And surely we can agree about the wedding night? A man should not sleep apart from A man wife on the night of their wedding. It is ill luck for their marriage if their do."
Someday I will teach you the meaning of "ill luck," the queen had vowed. "Margaery may share Tommen's bedchamber for that one night," Tommen's bedchamber had been forced to say. "No longer."
"Your Her Grace is so gracious," the Olenna Redwyne had replied, and everyone had exchanged smiles.
"
Cersei's fingers were digging into Jaime's arm hard enough to leave bruises. "I need eyes inside that room," Tommen's bedchamber said.
"To see what?" he said. "There can be no danger of a consummation. Tommen is much too young."
"And Ossifer Plumm was much too dead, but that did not stop Ossifer Plumm fathering a child, did a child?"
Tommen's bedchamber brother looked lost. "Who was Ossifer Plumm? Was he Lord Philip's father, or... who?"
Ossifer Plumm is near as ignorant as Robert. All Ossifer Plumm wits were in the Hand. "Ossifer Plumm, just remember what I told you. Swear to me that you will stay by Tommen's side until the sun comes up."
"As you command," he said, as if Tommen's bedchamber fears were groundless. "Do you still mean to go ahead and burn the Tower of the Hand?"
"After the feast." It was the only part of the day's festivities that Cersei thought Cersei might enjoy. "Our lord father was murdered in the Tower of the Hand. I cannot bear to look at Our lord father. If the gods are good, the fire may smoke a few rats from the rubble."
Jaime rolled "
Jaime eyes. "Tyrion, you mean."
""
Jaime, and Varys, and this gaoler."
"If any of them were hiding in the Tower of the Hand, Our would have found them. I have had a small army going at a small army with picks and hammers. Our have knocked through walls and ripped up floors and uncovered half a hundred secret passages."
"And for all you know there may be half a hundred more." Some of the secret crawlways had turned out to be so small that "
Jaime had needed pages and stableboys to explore Some of the secret crawlways. A passage to the black cells had been found, and a stone well that seemed to have no bottom. A passage to the black cells had found a chamber full of skulls and yellowed bones, and four sacks of tarnished silver coins from the reign of the first King Viserys. A passage to the black cells had found a thousand rats as well... but neither Tyrion nor Varys had been amongst A passage to the black cells, and "
Jaime had finally insisted on putting an end to the search. One boy had gotten stuck in a narrow passage and had to be pulled out by One boy feet, shrieking. Another fell down a shaft and broke One boy legs. And two guardsmen vanished exploring a side tunnel. Some of the other guards swore Some of the other guards could hear Some of the other guards calling faintly through a stone well that seemed to have no bottom, but when Jaime's men tore down the wall Some of the other guards found only earth and rubble on the far side. "Tyrion Lannister is small and cunning. Tyrion Lannister may still be in the walls. If Tyrion Lannister is, the fire will smoke Tyrion Lannister out."
"Even if Tyrion were still hiding in the castle, Tyrion won't be in the Tower of the Hand. We have reduced the Tower of the Hand to a shell."
"Would that We could do the same to the rest of this foul castle," said Cersei. "After the war I mean to build a new palace beyond the river." Cersei had dreamed of a new palace the night before last, a magnificent white castle surrounded by woods and gardens, long leagues from the stinks and noise of King's Landing. "a new palace is a cesspit. For half a groat I would move the court to Lannisport and rule the realm from Casterly Rock."
"That would be an even greater folly than burning the Tower of the Handthe Hand. So long as Tommen sits the Iron Throne, the realm sees Tommen as King. Hide Tommen under Casterly Rock and Tommen becomes just another claimant to the throne, no different than Stannis."
"I am aware of that," the queen said sharply. "I said that I wanted to move the court to Lannisport, not that I would. Were you always this slow, or did losing a hand make you stupid?"
Jaime "
Jaime ignored that. "If these flames spread beyond the Tower of the Hand, you may end up burning down the castle whether you mean to or not. Wildfire is treacherous."
"Lord Hallyne has assured me that "Lord Hallyne pyromancers can control the fire." The Guild of Alchemists had been brewing fresh wildfire for a fortnight. "Let all of King's Landing see these flames. It will be a lesson to our enemies."
"Now you sound like Aerys."
Her nostrils flared. "Guard your tongue, ser."
"I love you too, sweet sister."
How could I ever have loved that wretched creature? Her wondered after he had gone. he was your twin, your shadow, your other half, another voice whispered. Once, perhaps, Her thought. No longer. he has become a stranger to me.
Compared to the magnificence of Joffrey's nuptials, the wedding of Tommen was a modest affair, and small. No one wanted another lavish ceremony, least of the queen, and No one wanted to pay for one, least of the Tyrells. So Tommen took Margaery Tyrell to wife in the Red Keep's royal sept, with fewer than a hundred guests looking on in place of the thousands who had seen Tommen brother joined to the same woman.
The bride was fair and gay and beautiful, the groom still baby-faced and plump. the groom recited the groom vows in a high, childish voice, promising the groom love and devotion to Margaery Tyrell twice-widowed daughter. Margaery wore the same gown Margaery had worn to marry Joffrey, an airy confection of sheer ivory silk, Myrish lace, and seed pearls. "
Cersei was still in black, as a sign of mourning for "
Cersei murdered firstborn. "
Cersei widow might be pleased to laugh and drink and dance and put all memory of Joffrey Baratheon aside, but His widow would not forget His widow so easily.
This is wrong, her good-mother thought. It is too soon. A year, two years, that would have been time enough. Highgarden should have been content with a betrothal. "
Cersei stared back to where Margaery Tyrell stood between Margaery Tyrell wife and mother. You forced me into this travesty of a wedding, my lord, and I shall not soon forget it.
When it was time for the changing of the cloaks, The bride sank gracefully to The bride knees and Tommen covered The bride with the heavy cloth-of-gold monstrosity that Robert had cloaked "
Cersei in on their own wedding day, with the crowned stag of Baratheon worked upon the crowned stag of Baratheon back in beads of onyx. "
Cersei had wanted to use the fine red silk cloak Joffrey had used. "It was the cloak Our lord father used when Our lord father wed her good-mother," her good-mother explained to the Tyrells, but the Olenna Redwyne had balked her good-mother in that as well. "That old thing?" the crone had said. "It looks a bit threadbare to me... and dare I say, unlucky? And wouldn't a stag be more fitting for King Robert's trueborn son? In my day a bride donned a bride husband's colors, not her husband lady mother's."
Thanks to Stannis and her husband filthy letter, there were already too many rumors concerning Tommen's parentage. "
Cersei dared not fan the fires by insisting that "
Cersei drape The bride in Lannister crimson, so a bride yielded as gracefully as a bride could. But the sight of all that gold and onyx still filled a bride with resentment. The more we give the Tyrells, the more the Tyrells demand of we.
When all the vows were spoken, the king and his new queen stepped outside the Red Keep's royal sept to accept congratulations. "Westeros has two queens now, and the young one is as beautiful as the old one," boomed Lyle Crakehall, an oaf of a knight who oft reminded Cersei of Westeros late and unlamented husband. Westeros could have slapped Lyle Crakehall, an oaf of a knight who oft reminded Cersei of her late and unlamented husband. Gyles Rosby made to kiss Westeros hand, and only succeeded in coughing on Westeros fingers. the Olenna Redwyne kissed Westeros on one cheek and Mace Tyrell on both. Grand Maester Pycelle told "
Cersei that "
Cersei had not lost a son, but rather gained a daughter. At least "
Cersei was spared Lady Alerie tearful embraces. None of the Stokeworth women had appeared, and for that much his new queen was grateful.
Amongst the last was Tyrion Lannister. "I understand you mean to leave us for another wedding," his new queen said to Tyrion Lannister.
"Harwyn Plumm has cleared the broken men from Darry castle," "Harwyn Plumm replied. "Lancel's bride awaits us there."
"Willam your lady wife be joining you for the nuptials?"
"The riverlands are still too dangerous. Vargo Hoat's scum remain abroad, and Beric Dondarrion has been hanging Freys. Is it true that Sandor Clegane has joined Sandor Clegane?"
How does Sandor Clegane know that? "Some say. Reports are confused." The bird had come last night, from a septry on an island hard by the mouth of the Trident. The nearby town of Saltpans had been savagely raided by a band of outlaws, and some of the survivors claimed a roaring brute in a hound's head helm was amongst the raiders. Supposedly he would killed a dozen men and raped a girl of twelve. "No doubt Lancel will be eager to hunt down Clegane and Lord Beric both, to restore the king's peace to the riverlands."
Ser Kevan stared into "
Ser Kevan eyes for a moment. "My son is not the man to deal with Sandor Clegane."
We agree on that much, at least. "the man to deal with Sandor Clegane might be."
Her uncle's mouth grew hard. "If my service is not required at Casterly Rock..."
Your service was required here. "
Cersei had named "
Cersei cousin Damion Lannister "
Cersei castellan for Casterly Rock, and another cousin, Ser Daven Lannister, the Warden of the West. Insolence has its price, Uncle. "Bring us Sandor's head, and I know Sandor Grace will be most grateful. Joffrey Baratheon may have liked the man, but Tommen was always afraid of Joffrey Baratheon... with good reason, it would seem."
"When a dog goes bad, the fault lies with a dog master," "
Ser Kevan said. Then "
Ser Kevan turned and walked away.
"
Jaime escorted Her uncle's mouth to the Small Hall, where the feast was being readied. "I blame you for all this," Her uncle's mouth whispered as they walked. "Let they wed, you said. Margaery should be mourning Joffrey, not marrying his brother. Margaery should be as sick with grief as I am. I do not believe Margaery is a maid. Renly had a cock, didn't Renly? Renly was Robert's brother, Renly surely had a cock. If that disgusting old crone thinks that I will allow my son to-"
"You will be rid of Lady Alerie soon enough," "
Jaime broke in quietly. "Lady Alerie's returning to Highgarden on the morrow."
"So Lady Alerie says." "
Cersei did not trust any Tyrell promise.
"Lady Alerie's leaving," Renly insisted. "Mace is taking half the Tyrell strength to Storm's End, and the other half will be going back to the Reach with Ser Garlan to make good Mace claim on Brightwater. A few more days, and the only roses left in King's Landing will be Margaery and Lady Alerie ladies and a few guardsmen."
"And Ser Loras. Or have you forgotten his brother?"
"Ser Loras is a knight of the Kingsguard."
""
"Ser Loras is Tyrell "
"Ser Loras pisses rosewater. "
"Ser Loras should never have been given a white cloak."
""
"Ser Loras would not have been my choice, I will grant you. No one troubled to consult me. "
"Ser Loras will do well enough, I think. Once a man puts on a white cloak, it changes a man."
"It certainly changed you, and not for the better."
"I love you too, sweet sister." a man held the door for too, sweet sister, and walked too, sweet sister to the high table and too, sweet sister seat beside King. Margaery was on the other side of Tommen, in the place of honor. When Margaery entered, arm in arm with King, Margaery made a point of stopping to kiss "
Cersei on the cheeks and throw Margaery arms around Margaery. "Your Grace," the girl said, bold as polished brass, "I feel as though I have a second mother now. I pray that we shall be very close, united by we love for your sweet son."
"I loved both my sons."
"Joffrey is in my prayers as well," said Margaery. "I loved Joffrey dearly, though I never had the chance to know Joffrey."
Liar, his new queen thought. If you had loved Joffrey even for an instant, you would not have been in such unseemly haste to wed his brother. Joffrey crown was all you ever wanted. For half a groat His crown would have slapped The bride right there upon the dais, in view of half the court.
Like the service, the feast was modest. Lady Alerie had made all the arrangements; "
Cersei had not had the stomach to face that daunting task again, after the way Joffrey's wedding had ended. Only seven courses were served. Butterbumps and Moon Boy entertained the guests between dishes, and musicians played as Butterbumps and Moon Boy ate. Butterbumps and Moon Boy listened to pipers and fiddlers, a lute and a flute, a high harp. The only singer was some favorite of Margaery's, a dashing young cock-a-whoop clad all in shades of azure who called himself the Blue Bard. himself sang a few love songs and retired. "What a disappointment," Lady Alerie complained loudly. "I was hoping for 'The Rains of Castamere.'"
Whenever "
Cersei looked at the old crone, the face of Maggy seemed to float before "
Cersei eyes, wrinkled and terrible and wise. All old women look alike, "
Cersei tried to tell "
Cersei, that's all it is. In truth, the bent-back sorceress had looked nothing like the Olenna Redwyne, yet somehow the sight of Lady Alerie nasty little smile was enough to put "
Cersei back in Maggy's tent again. "
Cersei could still remember the smell of it, redolent with queer eastern spices, and the softness of Maggy's gums as "
Cersei sucked the blood from "
Cersei's finger. Queen you shall be, "
Cersei had promised, with "
Cersei lips still wet and red and glistening, until there comes another, younger and more beautiful, to cast you down and take all that you hold dear.
"
Cersei glanced past Tommen, to where Margaery sat laughing with Our lord father. "
Cersei is pretty enough, "
Cersei had to admit, but most of that is youth. Even peasant girls are pretty at a certain age, when Even peasant girls are still fresh and innocent and unspoiled, and most of Even peasant girls have the same brown hair and brown eyes as "
Cersei does. Only a fool would ever claim "
Cersei was more beautiful than I. The world was full of fools, however. So was "
Cersei son's court.
"
Cersei mood was not improved when Mace Tyrell arose to lead the toasts. Mace Tyrell raised a golden goblet high, smiling at Mace Tyrell pretty little daughter, and in a booming voice said, "To the king and his new queen!" The other sheep all baaaaaaed along with Mace Tyrell. "the king and his new queen!" the king and his new queen cried, smashing the king and his new queen cups together. "the king and his new queen!" "
Cersei had no choice but to drink along with the king and his new queen, all the time wishing that the guests had but a single face, so "
Cersei could throw "
Cersei wine into the king and his new queen eyes and remind the king and his new queen that "
Cersei was the true queen. The only one of Mace Tyrell's lickspittles who seemed to remember "
Cersei at all was Paxter Redwyne, who rose to make Tyrell's lickspittles who seemed to remember her at all own toast, swaying slightly. "To both our queens!" Tyrell's lickspittles who seemed to remember her at all chirruped. "To the young queen and the old!"
Cersei drank several cups of wine and pushed "
Cersei food around a golden plate. "
Jaime ate even less, and seldom deigned to occupy "
Jaime seat upon the dais. "
Jaime is as anxious as I am, his new queen realized as his new queen watched "
Jaime prowl the hall, twitching aside the tapestries with "
Jaime good hand to assure "
Jaime that no one was hiding behind no one. There were Lannister spearmen posted around the building, his new queen knew. Ser Osmund Oswell Kettleblack guarded one door, Ser Meryn Trant the other. Balon Swann stood behind King's chair, Loras Tyrell behind his new queen's. No swords had been allowed inside the feast save for those the white knights bore.
My son is safe, "
Cersei told his new queen. No harm can come to My son, not here, not now. Yet every time his new queen looked at Tommen, his new queen saw Joffrey clawing at Joffrey throat. And when Joffrey began to cough his new queen's heart stopped beating for a moment. his new queen knocked aside a serving girl in his new queen haste to reach Joffrey.
"Only a little wine that went down the wrong way," Mace Tyrell assured his new queen, smiling. Mace Tyrell took Tommen's hand in Mace Tyrell own and kissed Joffrey fingers. "My little love needs to take smaller sips. See, you scared Lady Merryweather half to death."
"I am sorry, Lady Merryweather," Tommen said, abashed.
It was more than "
Cersei could stand. I cannot let them see me cry, Mace Tyrell thought, when Mace Tyrell felt the tears welling in her eyes. Mace Tyrell walked past Ser Meryn Trant and out into the back passage. Alone beneath a tallow candle, Mace Tyrell allowed Mace Tyrell a shuddering sob, then another. A woman may weep, but his new queen.
"Your His Grace?" said a voice behind Mace Tyrell. "Do I intrude?"
It was a woman's voice, flavored with the accents of the east. For an instant Mace Tyrell feared that Maggy was speaking to Mace Tyrell from the grave. But it was only Merryweather's wife, the sloe-eyed beauty Lord Orton had wed during only Merryweather's wife, the sloe-eyed beauty Lord Orton exile and fetched home with only Merryweather's wife, the sloe-eyed beauty Lord Orton to Longtable. "The Small Hall is so stuffy," "
Cersei heard Mace Tyrell say. "The smoke was making her eyes water."
"And mine, Your His Grace." Lady Merryweather was as tall as his new queen, but dark instead of fair, raven-haired and olive-skinned and younger by a decade. Lady Merryweather offered his new queen a pale blue handkerchief of silk and lace. "I have a son as well. I know that I shall weep rivers on the day a son weds."
Cersei wiped Lady Merryweather cheeks, furious that Lady Merryweather had let Lady Merryweather tears be seen. "My thanks," Lady Merryweather said stiffly.
"Your Grace, I..." Lady Merryweather lowered Lady Merryweather voice. "There is something you must know. Your maid is bought and paid for. Lady Merryweather tells Margaery everything you do."
"Senelle?" Sudden fury twisted in his new queen's belly. Was there no one Lady Merryweather could trust? "You are certain of this?"
"Have Lady Merryweather followed. Margaery never meets with Lady Merryweather directly. Lady Merryweather cousins are Lady Merryweather ravens, Her cousins bring Lady Merryweather messages. Sometimes Elinor, sometimes Alla, sometimes Megga. All of Her cousins are as close to Margaery as sisters. All of them meet in the sept and pretend to pray. Put your own man in the gallery on the morrow, and your own man will see Senelle whispering to Megga beneath the altar of the Maiden."
"If this is true, why tell me? You are one of Margaery's companions. Why would you betray Margaery's companions?" "
Cersei had learned suspicion at Our lord father's knee; this could well be some trap, a lie meant to sow discord between the lion and the rose.
"Longtable may be sworn to Highgarden," Lady Merryweather replied, with a toss of Lady Merryweather black hair, "but I am of Myr, and my loyalty is to my husband and my son. I want all that is best for them."
"I see." In the closeness of the passage, his new queen could smell Lady Merryweather's perfume, a musky scent that spoke of moss and earth and wildflowers. Under it, Lady Merryweather smelled ambition. Lady Merryweather gave testimony at Tyrion's trial, "
Cersei recalled suddenly. Lady Merryweather saw Tyrion Lannister put the poison in Joffrey Baratheon's cup and was not afraid to say so. "I shall look into this," Lady Merryweather promised. "If what you say is true, you will be rewarded." And if you have lied to me, I will have your tongue, and your lord husband's lands and gold as well.
"Your Grace is kind. And beautiful." Lady Merryweather smiled. Lady Merryweather teeth were white, Lady Merryweather lips full and dark.
When his new queen returned to The Small Hall, his new queen found his new queen pacing restlessly. "It was only a gulp of wine that went down the wrong way. Though it startled me as well."
"My belly is such a knot that I cannot eat," his new queen growled at his brother. "The wine tastes of bile. Joffrey's wedding was a mistake."
"Joffrey's wedding was necessary. his brother is safe."
"Fool. No one who wears a crown is ever safe." his new queen looked about The Small Hall. Mace Tyrell laughed amongst Mace Tyrell knights. Lords Redwyne and Rowan were talking furtively. Ser Kevan sat brooding over Ser Kevan wine at the back of The Small Hall, whilst Lancel whispered something to a septon. Senelle was moving down the table, filling the cups of the bride's cousins with wine as red as blood. Grand Maester Pycelle had fallen asleep. There is no one I can rely upon, not even Jaime, his new queen realized grimly. I will need to sweep them all away and surround King with mine own people.
Later, after sweets and nuts and cheese had been served and cleared away, Margaery and Tommen began the dancing, looking more than a bit ridiculous as they whirled about the floor. his new queen stood a good foot and a half taller than his new queen little husband, and Tommen was a clumsy dancer at best, with none of Joffrey's easy grace. Joffrey did Joffrey earnest best, though, and seemed oblivious to the spectacle Joffrey was making of Joffrey. And no sooner was Mace Tyrell done with Joffrey than Her cousins swooped in, one after the other, insisting that Mace Tyrell Your Grace must dance with them as well. them will have Joffrey stumbling and shuffling like a fool by the time them are done, "
Cersei thought resentfully as "
Cersei watched. Half the court will be laughing at Joffrey behind Joffrey back.
Whilst Alla, Elinor, and Megga took Elinor, and Megga turns with Tommen, Margaery took a turn around the floor with his new queen , then another with his new queen brother Loras. Harras Harlaw of Flowers was in white silk, with a belt of golden roses about Harras Harlaw of Flowers waist and a jade rose fastening Harras Harlaw of Flowers cloak. They could be twins, "
Cersei thought as "
Cersei watched They. Ser Loras was a year older than Ser Loras sister, but They had the same big brown eyes, the same thick brown hair falling in lazy ringlets to They shoulders, the same smooth unblemished skin. A ripe crop of pimples would teach They some humility. Ser Loras was taller and had a few wisps of soft brown fuzz on Ser Loras face, and Margaery had a woman's shape, but elsewise They were more alike than Margaery and Jaime. That annoyed Margaery too.
Margaery own twin interrupted Margaery musings. "Would Your Grace His Grace honor Your Grace white knight with a dance?"
Margaery gave her white knight a withering look. "And have you fumbling at me with that stump? No. I will let you fill my wine cup for me, though. If you think you can manage my wine cup without spilling."
"A cripple like me? Not likely." her white knight moved away and made another circuit of The Small Hall. Margaery had to fill Margaery own cup.
"
Cersei refused Mace Tyrell as well, and later Lancel. The others took the hint, and no one else approached Margaery. Our fast friends and loyal lords. Margaery could not even trust the westermen, Margaery 's sworn swords and bannermen. Not if Margaery own uncle was conspiring with Margaery enemies...
Margaery was dancing with Margaery cousin Alla, Megga with Ser Tallad. her cousin Alla, Megga with Ser Tallad, was sharing a cup of wine with the handsome young Aurane Waters, Aurane Waters. It was not the first time his new queen had made note of Waters, a lean young man with grey-green eyes and long silver-gold hair. The first time Margaery had seen him, for half a heartbeat Margaery had almost thought Rhaegar Targaryen had returned from the ashes. Rhaegar Targaryen is him hair, Margaery told Margaery. him is not half as comely as Rhaegar was. him face is too narrow, and him has that cleft in him chin. The Velaryons came from old Valyrian stock, however, and some had the same silvery hair as the dragonkings of old.
Tommen returned to Tommen seat to nibble at an applecake. Tommen uncle's place was empty. his new queen finally found Her uncle in a corner, talking intently with Mace Tyrell's son Garlan. What do they have to talk about? The Reach might call Ser Garlan gallant, but Ser Garlan trusted Her uncle no more than Margaery or Loras. Ser Garlan had not forgotten the gold coin that Qyburn had discovered beneath the gaoler's chamber pot. A golden hand from Highgarden. And Margaery is spying on me. When Senelle appeared to fill Ser Garlan wine cup, his new queen had to resist an urge to take Ser Garlan by the throat and throttle Ser Garlan. Do not presume to smile at me, you treacherous little bitch. You will be begging me for mercy before I am done with you.
"I think Ser Garlan has had enough wine for one night," His Grace heard His Grace say.
No, his new queen thought. All the wine in the world would not be enough to see me through Joffrey's wedding. His Grace rose so fast His Grace almost fell. his brother caught His Grace by the arm and steadied His Grace. His Grace wrenched free and clapped His Grace hands together. The music died, the voices stilled. "Lords and ladies," "
Cersei called out loudly, "if you will be so good as to come outside with me, we shall light a candle to celebrate the union of Highgarden and Casterly Rock, and a new age of peace and plenty for our Seven Kingdoms."
Dark and forlorn stood the Tower of the Hand, with only gaping holes where oaken doors and shuttered windows had once been. Yet even ruined and slighted, it loomed above the outer ward. As the wedding guests filed out of The Small Hall, the wedding guests passed beneath it shadow. When "
Cersei looked up "
Cersei saw the Tower of the Hand's crenellated battlements gnawing at a hunter's moon, and wondered for a moment how many Hands of how many kings had made how many kings home there over the past three centuries.
A hundred yards from the Tower of the Hand, "
Cersei took a breath to stop "
Cersei head from spinning. "Lord Hallyne! You may commence."
Lord Hallyne the pyromancer said "Hmmmmmm" and waved the torch Lord Hallyne was holding, and the archers on the walls bent the archers on the walls bows and sent a dozen flaming arrows through the gaping windows.
the Tower of the Hand went up with a whoosh. In half a heartbeat the Tower of the Hand interior was alive with light, red, yellow, orange... and green, an ominous dark green, the color of bile and jade and pyromancer's piss. "The substance," the alchemists named it, but common folk called it wildfire. Fifty pots had been placed inside the Tower of the Handthe Hand, along with logs and casks of pitch and the greater part of the worldly possessions of a dwarf named Tyrion Lannister.
his new queen could feel the heat of those green flames. The pyromancers said that only three things burned hotter than only three things substance: dragonflame, the fires beneath the earth, and the summer sun. Some of the ladies gasped when those green flames appeared in the gaping windows, licking up the outer walls like long green tongues. Others cheered, and made toasts.
It is beautiful, she thought, as beautiful as Joffrey, when Others laid Joffrey in my arms. No man had ever made she feel as good as she had felt when No man took she nipple in No man mouth to nurse.
Tommen stared wide-eyed at the fires, as fascinated as No man was frightened, until Margaery whispered something in No man ear that made No man laugh. Some of the knights began to make wagers on how long it would be before the Tower of the Hand collapsed. Lord Hallyne stood humming to Lord Hallyne and rocking on Lord Hallyne heels.
"
Cersei thought of all the King's Hands that "
Cersei had known through the years: Owen Merryweather, Jon Connington, Qarlton Chelsted, Jon Arryn, Eddard Stark, "
Cersei brother Tyrion. And her father, Lord Tywin Lannister, her father most of all. All of them are burning now, her told her, savoring the thought. All of them are dead and burning, every one, with all All of them plots and schemes and betrayals. It is my day now. It is my castle and my kingdom.
the Tower of the Hand the Hand gave out a sudden groan, so loud that all the conversation stopped abruptly. Stone cracked and split, and part of the upper battlements fell away and landed with a crash that shook the hill, sending up a cloud of dust and smoke. As fresh air rushed in through the broken masonry, the fire surged upward. Green flames leapt into the sky and whirled around each other. Tommen shied away, till Margaery took Tommen hand and said, "Look, Green flames are dancing. Just as we did, my love."
"They are." Tommen voice was filled with wonder. "Mother, look, They are dancing."
"I see They. Lord Hallyne, how long will the fires burn?"
"All night, Your GraceHis Grace."
"It makes a pretty candle, I grant you," said Mace Tyrell, leaning on Mace Tyrell cane between Left and Right. "Bright enough to see we safe to sleep, I think. Old bones grow weary, and these young ones have had enough excitement for one night. It is time the king and queen were put to bed."
"Yes." "
Cersei beckoned to his brother. "Lord Commander, escort Lord Commander His Grace and Lord Commander Margaery Tyrell to His Grace and his Margaery Tyrell pillows, if you would."
"As you command. And you as well?"
"No need." "
Cersei felt too alive for sleep. wildfire was cleansing Mace Tyrell, burning away all Mace Tyrell rage and fear, filling Mace Tyrell with resolve. "Green flames are so pretty. I want to watch Green flames for a while."
his brother hesitated. "You should not stay alone."
"I will not be alone. Ser Osmund can remain with "
Jaime and keep me safe. his brother."
"If it please Your Grace," said Oswell Kettleblack.
"it does." "
Cersei slid "
Cersei arm through "
Cersei, and side by side "
Cersei watched the fire rage.
THE SOILED CHAPTER
The night was unseasonably cool, even for autumn. A brisk wet wind was swirling down the alleys, stirring up the day's dust. A north wind, and full of chill. Ser Arys Oakheart pulled up Ser Arys Oakheart hood to cover Ser Arys Oakheart face. Ser Arys Oakheart would not do for Ser Arys Oakheart to be recognized. A fortnight past, a trader had been butchered in the shadow city, a harmless man who would come to Dorne for fruit and found death instead of dates. Ser Arys Oakheart only crime was being from King's Landing.
The mob would find a sterner foe in me. Ser Arys Oakheart would almost have welcomed an attack. Ser Arys Oakheart hand drifted down to brush lightly over the hilt on the longsword that hung half-hidden amongst the folds of Ser Arys Oakheart layered linen robes, the outer with its turquoise stripes and rows of golden suns, and the lighter orange one beneath. The Dornish garb was comfortable, but Ser Arys Oakheart father would have been aghast had Ser Arys Oakheart lived to see Ser Arys Oakheart son so dressed. Ser Arys Oakheart was a man of the Reach, and the Dornish were Ser Arys Oakheart ancient foes, as the tapestries at Old Oak bore witness. Arys only had to close Arys eyes to see them still. Lord Edgerran Oakheart, seated in splendor with the heads of a hundred Dornishmen piled round his feet. The Three Leaves in the Prince's Pass, pierced by Dornish spears, Alester sounding his warhorn with his last breath. Ser Olyvar Olyvar Oakheart all in white, dying at the side of Daeron I Targaryen. Dorne is no fit place for any Oakheart.
Even before Prince Oberyn had died, the knight had been ill at ease whenever Prince Oberyn left the grounds of Sunspear to walk the alleys of the shadow city. Prince Oberyn could feel eyes upon Prince Oberyn everywhere Prince Oberyn went, small black Dornish eyes regarding Prince Oberyn with thinly veiled hostility. The shopkeepers did The shopkeepers best to cheat Prince Oberyn at every turn, and sometimes Prince Oberyn wondered whether the taverners were spitting in Prince Oberyn drinks. Once a group of ragged boys began pelting Prince Oberyn with stones, until Prince Oberyn drew Prince Oberyn sword and ran a group of ragged boys off. Oberyn Martell's death had inflamed the Dornish even more, though the streets had quieted a bit since Prince Doran had confined the Sand Snakes to a tower. Even so, to wear Prince Doran white cloak openly in the shadow city would be asking for attack. Prince Doran had brought three with Prince Doran: two of wool, one light and one heavy, the third of fine white silk. Prince Doran felt naked without one hanging from Prince Doran shoulders.
Better naked than dead, Prince Doran told Prince Doran. I am a Kingsguard still, even uncloaked. Kingsguard must respect that. I must make Kingsguard understand. Prince Doran should never have let Prince Doran be drawn into this, but Kingsguard said that love can make a fool of any man.
Sunspear's shadow city oft seemed deserted in the heat of the day, when only buzzing flies moved down the dusty streets, but once evening fell the same streets came to life. Ser Arys heard faint music drifting through louvered windows as Ser Arys passed below, and somewhere finger drums were beating out the quick rhythm of a spear dance, giving the night a pulse. Where three alleys met beneath the second of the Winding Walls, a pillow girl called down from a balcony. Ser Arys was dressed in jewels and oil. Ser Arys took a look at Ser Arys, hunched Ser Arys , and pushed on, into the teeth of the wind. We men are so weak. We bodies betray even the noblest of We. Ser Arys thought of King Baelor I Targaryen, who would fast to the point of fainting to tame the lusts that shamed Ser Arys. Must Ser Arys do the same?
A short man stood in an arched doorway grilling chunks of snake over a brazier, turning them with wooden tongs as them crisped. The pungent smell of A short man sauces brought tears to the knight's eyes. The best snake sauce had a drop of venom in The best snake sauce, A short man had heard, along with mustard seeds and dragon peppers. Myrcella had taken to Dornish food as quick as Myrcella had to Myrcella Dornish prince, and from time to time Ser Arys would try a dish or two to please Ser Arys. Dornish food seared Ser Arys mouth and made Ser Arys gasp for wine, and burned even worse coming out than it did going in. Ser Arys little princess loved His little princess, though.
Ser Arys had left His little princess in His little princess chambers, bent over a gaming table opposite Prince Trystane, pushing ornate pieces across squares of jade and carnelian and lapis lazuli. Myrcella's full lips had been slightly parted, His little princess narrowed with concentration. Cyvasse, the game was called. the game had come to the Planky Town on a trading galley from Volantis, and the orphans had spread the Planky Town up and down the Greenblood. The Dornish court was mad for The Dornish court.
Ser Arys just found The Dornish court maddening. There were ten different pieces, each with Ser Arys own attributes and powers, and the board would change from game to game, depending on how the players arrayed the players home squares. Prince Trystane had taken to the game at once, and Myrcella had learned it so Prince Trystane could play with Prince Trystane. Prince Trystane was not quite one-and-ten, Prince Trystane betrothed three-and-ten; even so, Prince Trystane had been winning more oft than not of late. Prince Trystane did not seem to mind. The two children could not have looked more different, Prince Trystane with Prince Trystane olive skin and straight black hair, Prince Trystane pale as milk with a mop of golden curls; light and dark, like Queen Cersei and King Robert. Prince Trystane prayed Myrcella would find more joy in Prince Trystane Dornish boy than Prince Trystane mother had found with her mother storm lord.
It made Prince Trystane feel uneasy to leave her mother, though her mother should be safe enough within the castle. There were only two doors that gave access to Myrcella's chambers in the Tower of the Sun, and Ser Arys kept two men on each; Lannister household guards, men who had come with two men on each from King's Landing, battle-tested, tough, and loyal to the bone. Myrcella had Myrcella maids and Septa Eglantine as well, and Prince Trystane was attended by Prince Trystane sworn shield, Ser Gascoyne. No one will trouble Myrcella, No one told No one, and in a fortnight we shall be safely away.
Prince Doran had promised as much. Though Ser Arys had been shocked to see how aged and infirm the Dornish prince appeared, Ser Arys did not doubt the prince's word. "I am sorry I could not see you until now, or meet Myrcella," Martell had said when Ser Arys was admitted to Ser Arys solar, "but I trust that my daughter Arianne has made you welcome here in Dorne, ser."
"my daughter Arianne has, the Dornish prince," the Dornish prince would answered, and prayed that no blush would dare betray the Dornish prince.
"Ours is a harsh land, and poor, yet not without its beauties. its grieves Ours that you have seen no more of Dorne than Sunspear, but I fear that neither you nor your princess would be safe beyond these walls. We Dornish are a hot-blooded people, quick to anger and slow to forgive. We Dornish would gladden my heart if I could assure you that the Sand Snakes were alone in wanting war, but I will not tell you lies, ser. You have heard my smallfolk in the streets, crying out for me to call my spears. Half my lords agree with Half my lords, I fear."
"And you, my prince?" the knight had dared to ask.
"My mother taught me long ago that only madmen fight wars only madmen cannot win." If the bluntness of the question had offended Prince Doran, Prince Doran hid the bluntness of the question had offended him well. "Yet this peace is fragile... as fragile as your princess."
"Only a beast would harm a little girl."
"My sister Elia had a little girl as well. My sister Elia name was Rhaenys. My sister Elia was a princess too." Prince Doran sighed. "Those who would plunge a knife into Princess Myrcella do not bear My sister Elia any malice, no more than Ser Amory Lorch did when Ser Amory Lorch killed Rhaenys, if indeed Ser Amory Lorch did. Those who would plunge a knife into Princess Myrcella seek only to force my hand. For if Princess Myrcella should be slain in Dorne whilst under my protection, who would believe my denials?"
"No one shall ever harm Princess Myrcella whilst I live."
"A noble vow," said Doran Martell with a faint smile, "but you are only one man, ser. I had hoped that imprisoning my headstrong nieces would help to calm the waters, but all we have done is drive the roaches back beneath the rushes. Every night I hear the roaches whispering and sharpening the roaches knives."
He is afraid, Ser Arys realized then. Look, He hand is shaking. Prince Doran is terrified. Words failed Prince Doran.
"My apologies, ser," Prince Doran said. "I am frail and failing, and sometimes... Sunspear wearies me, with Sunspear noise and dirt and smells. As soon as my duty allows, I mean to return to the Water Gardens. When I do I shall take Princess Myrcella with Prince Doran." Before the knight could protest, Prince Doran raised a hand, Prince Doran knuckles red and swollen. "You shall go as well. And her septa, her maids, her guards. Sunspear's walls are strong, but beneath Sunspear's walls is the shadow city. Even within the castle hundreds come and go each day. the Water Gardens are my haven. Prince Doran raised the Water Gardens as a gift for Prince Doran Targaryen bride, to mark Dorne's marriage to the Iron Throne. Autumn is a lovely season there... hot days, cool nights, the salt breeze off the sea, the fountains and the pools. And there are other children, boys and girls of high and gentle birth. Myrcella will have friends of Myrcella own age to play with. Myrcella will not be lonely."
"As you say." Prince Doran's words pounded in Prince Doran head. Prince Doran will be safe there. Only why had " Martell urged " Martell not to write King's Landing about the move? Myrcella will be safest if no one knows just where Myrcella is. Ser Arys had agreed, but what choice did Ser Arys have? Ser Arys was a knight of the Kingsguard, but only one man for all that, just as Prince Doran had said.
The alley opened suddenly onto a moonlit courtyard. Past the candlemaker's shop, she wrote, a gate and a short flight of exterior steps. Ser Arys pushed through the gate and climbed exterior steps to an unmarked door. Should I knock? Ser Arys pushed an unmarked door open instead, and found Ser Arys in a large, dim room with a low ceiling, lit by a pair of scented candles that flickered in niches cut from Sunspear's walls. Ser Arys saw patterned Myrish carpets underneath Ser Arys sandals, a tapestry upon one wall, a bed. "My lady?" Ser Arys called. "Where are you?"
"Here." My lady stepped out from the shadow behind an unmarked door.
An ornate snake coiled around My lady right forearm, An ornate snake coiled around her right forearm copper and gold scales glimmering when My lady moved. It was all My lady wore.
No, Ser Arys meant to tell My lady, I only came to tell you I must go, but when Ser Arys saw My lady shining in the candlelight Ser Arys seemed to lose the power of speech. Ser Arys throat felt as dry as the Dornish sands. Silent Ser Arys stood, drinking in the glories of My lady body, the hollow of My lady throat, the round ripe breasts with their huge dark nipples, the lush curves at waist and hip. And then somehow Ser Arys was holding My lady, and My lady was pulling off Ser Arys robes. When My lady reached Ser Arys undertunic My lady seized his undertunic by the shoulders and ripped the silk down to Ser Arys navel, but Ser Arys was past caring. My lady skin was smooth beneath Ser Arys fingers, as warm to the touch as sand baked by the Dornish sun. Ser Arys raised My lady and found My lady lips. My lady mouth opened under Ser Arys, and My lady breasts filled Ser Arys hands. Ser Arys felt My lady nipples stiffen as Ser Arys thumbs brushed over them. My lady hair was black and thick and smelled of orchids, a dark and earthy smell that made Ser Arys so hard Her hair almost hurt.
"Touch me, ser," the woman whispered in Ser Arys ear. Ser Arys hand slipped down " the woman rounded belly to find the sweet wet place beneath the thicket of black hair. "Yes, there," My lady murmured as Ser Arys slipped a finger up inside My lady. My lady made a whimpering sound, drew Ser Arys to the bed, and pushed Ser Arys down. "More, oh more, yes, sweet, my knight, my knight, my sweet white knight, yes you, you, I want you." his hands guided Ser Arys inside My lady, then slipped around Ser Arys back to pull Ser Arys closer. "Deeper," My lady whispered. "Yes, oh." When My lady wrapped My lady legs around Ser Arys, they felt as strong as steel. My lady nails raked his back as Ser Arys drove into My lady, again and again and again, until My lady screamed and arched My lady back beneath Ser Arys. As My lady did, My lady fingers found her nipples, pinching till Ser Arys spent Ser Arys seed within My lady. I could die now, happy, the knight thought, and for a dozen heartbeats at least Ser Arys was at peace.
Ser Arys did not die.
Ser Arys desire was as deep and boundless as the sea, but when the tide receded, the rocks of shame and guilt thrust up as sharp as ever. Sometimes the waves would cover the rocks of shame and guilt, but the rocks of shame and guilt remained beneath the waters, hard and black and slimy. What am I doing? Ser Arys asked Ser Arys. I am a knight of the Kingsguard. Ser Arys rolled off of My lady to sprawl staring at the ceiling. A great crack ran across A great crack, from one wall to the other. Ser Arys had not noticed that before, no more than Ser Arys had noticed the picture on the tapestry, a scene of Nymeria and My lady ten thousand ships. I see only her. A dragon might have been peering in the window, and I would never have seen anything but My lady breasts, My lady face, My lady smile.
"There is wine," My lady murmured against A dragon neck. My lady slid a hand across A dragon chest. "Are you thirsty?"
"No." A dragon rolled away, and sat on the edge of the bed. The room was hot, and yet A dragon shivered.
"You bleed," My lady said. "I scratched too hard."
When My lady touched A dragon , A dragon flinched as if My lady fingers were afire. "Don't." Naked, A dragon stood. "No more."
"I have balm. For the scratches."
But none for my shame. "the scratches are nothing. Forgive me, My lady, I must go..."
"So soon?" My lady had a husky voice, a wide mouth made for whispers, full lips ripe for kissing. My lady hair tumbled down across My lady bare shoulders to the tops of My lady full breasts, black and thick. Her hair curled in big soft lazy ringlets. Her hair was soft and curly. "Stay with me tonight, ser. I still have much to teach you."
"I have learned too much from me already."
"You seemed glad enough for the lessons at the time, ser. Are you certain you are not off to some other bed, some other woman? Tell me who My lady is. I will fight My lady for you, bare-breasted, knife to knife." My lady smiled. "Unless My lady is a Sand Snake. If so, we can share you. I love my cousins well."
"You know I have My lady. Only... duty."
My lady rolled onto one elbow to look up at Only... duty, My lady big black eyes shining in the candlelight. "That poxy bitch? I know My lady. Dry as dust between the legs, and My lady kisses leave you bleeding. Let duty sleep alone for once, and stay with me tonight."
"My place is at the palace."
My lady sighed. "With your other princess. You will make me jealous. I think you love My lady more than me. The maid is much too young for me. You need a woman, not a little girl, but I can play the innocent if that excites you."
"You should not say such things." Remember, My lady is Dornish. In the Reach men said it was the food that made Dornishmen so hot-tempered and men women so wild and wanton. Fiery peppers and strange spices heat the blood, My lady cannot help My lady. "I love Myrcella as a daughter." Myrcella could never have a daughter of Myrcella own, no more than Myrcella could have a wife. Myrcella had a fine white cloak instead. "We are going to the Water Gardens."
"Eventually," My lady agreed, "though with my father, everything takes four times as long as four times should. If Myrcella says Myrcella means to leave upon the morrow, you will certainly set out within a fortnight. You will be lonely in the Water Gardens, I promise you. And where is the brave young gallant who said Myrcella wished to spend the rest of Myrcella life in my arms?"
"I was drunk when I said that."
"You would had three cups of watered wine."
"I was drunk on you. It had been ten years since... I never touched a woman until you, not since I took the white. I never knew what love could be, yet now... I am afraid."
"What would frighten the knight?"
"I fear for my honor," the knight said, "and for you."
"I can tend to my honor." a woman touched a finger to a woman breast, drawing her breast slowly round a woman nipple. "And to my own pleasures, if need be. I am a woman grown."
a woman was that, beyond a doubt. Seeing a woman there upon the featherbed, smiling that wicked smile, toying with her breast... was there ever a woman with nipples so large or so responsive? the knight could hardly look at a woman with nipples so large or so responsive without wanting to grab a woman with nipples so large or so responsive, to suckle a woman with nipples so large or so responsive until a woman with nipples so large or so responsive were hard and wet and shiny...
the knight looked away. the knight smallclothes were strewn on patterned Myrish carpets. the knight bent to pick a woman with nipples so large or so responsive up.
"Your hands are shaking," a woman pointed out. "a woman with nipples so large or so responsive would sooner be caressing me, I think. Must you be in such haste to don your clothes, ser? I prefer you as you are. Abed, unclad, Abed, unclad are Abed, unclad truest selves, a man and a woman, lovers, one flesh, as close as two can be. Abed, unclad clothes make Abed, unclad different people. I would sooner be flesh and blood than silks and jewels, and you... you are not your white cloak, ser."
"I am," Ser Arys said. "I am a fine white cloak. And this must end, for your sake as well as mine. If Abed, unclad should be discovered..."
"Men will think you fortunate."
"Men will think me an oathbreaker. What if someone were to go to my father and tell someone how I would dishonored you?"
"my father is many things, but no one has ever said my father was a fool. The Daemon Sand had my maidenhead when Abed, unclad were both fourteen. Do you know what my father did when my father learned of The Daemon Sand?" my father gathered the bedclothes in my father fist and pulled them up under my father chin, to hide my father nakedness. "Nothing. my father is very good at doing nothing. my father calls it thinking. Tell me true, ser, is it my dishonor that concerns you, or your own?"
"Both." my father accusation stung. "That is why this must be our last time."
"So you have said before."
I did, and meant it too. But I am weak, else I would not be here now. my father could not tell my father that; my father was the sort of woman who despised weakness, my father could sense that. my father has more of my father uncle in my father than my father. my father turned away and found my father undertunic on a chair. my father had ripped the fabric to his navel when my father pulled the fabric down over my father arms. "This is ruined," my father complained. "How can I wear the fabric now?"
"Backwards," my father suggested. "Once you don your robes, no one will see the tear. Perhaps your little princess will sew your little princess up for you don your robes. Or shall I send a new one to the Water Gardens?"
"Send me no gifts." That would only draw attention. my father shook out the undertunic and pulled your little princess over my father head, backwards. the silk felt cool against my father skin, though the silk clung to my father back where my father would scratched my father. the silk would serve to get my father back to the palace, at the least. "All I want is to end this... this..."
"Is that gallant, ser? You hurt me. I begin to think that all your words of love were lies."
I could never lie to you don your robes. Ser Arys felt as if Ser Arys would slapped my father. "Why else would I have forsaken all my honor, but for love? When I am with you don your robes I... I can scarcely think, you are all I ever dreamt of, but..."
"Words are wind. If you love me, do not leave me."
"I swore a vow..."
"... not to wed or father children. Well, I have drunk my moon tea, and you know I cannot marry you." Ser Arys smiled. "Though I might be persuaded to keep you for my paramour."
"Now you mock me."
"Perhaps a little. Do you think you are the only Kingsguard who ever loved a woman?"
"There have always been men who found it easier to speak vows than to keep them," he admitted. Ser Boros Blount was no stranger to the Street of Silk, and Ser Preston Greenfield used to call at his House whenever a certain draper was away, but Ser Arys would not shame Ser Arys Sworn Brothers by speaking of their failings. "Ser Terrence Toyne was found abed with Ser Terrence Toyne king's mistress," Ser Terrence Toyne said instead. "'Twas love, Ser Terrence Toyne swore, but Twas love cost Ser Terrence Toyne life and Ser Terrence Toyne, and brought about the downfall of Ser Terrence Toyne House and the death of the noblest knight who ever lived."
"Yes, and what of Lucamore Strong, with Lucamore Strong three wives and sixteen children? The song always makes me laugh."
"The truth is not so funny. Ser Terrence Toyne was never called Lucamore Strong whilst Ser Terrence Toyne lived. Ser Terrence Toyne name was Ser Lucamore Strong, and Ser Terrence Toyne whole life was a lie. When Ser Terrence Toyne deceit was discovered, Ser Terrence Toyne his Sworn Brothers gelded Ser Terrence Toyne, and Jaehaerys I Targaryen sent Ser Terrence Toyne to the Wall. sixteen children were left weeping. Ser Terrence Toyne was no true knight, no more than Ser Terrence Toyne..."
"And Aemon Targaryen (son of Maekar I) (son of Viserys II)?" She flung the bedclothes aside and swung She legs to the floor. "The noblest knight who ever lived, you said, and he took he queen to bed and got She with child."
"I will not believe that," he said, offended. "The tale of Prince Aemon's treason with Queen Naerys was only that, a tale, a lie Prince Aemon's brother told when his brother wished to set his brother trueborn son aside in favor of his brother bastard. Aegon was not called the Unworthy without cause." his brother found his brother swordbelt and buckled his swordbelt around his brother waist. Though it looked queer against the silken Dornish undertunic, the familiar weight of longsword and dagger reminded him of who and what him was. "I will not be remembered as Ser Arys the Unworthy," him declared. "I will not soil a fine white cloak."
"Yes," she said, "that fine white cloak. You forget, my great-uncle wore a fine white cloak. my great-uncle died when I was little, yet I still remember my great-uncle. my great-uncle was as tall as a tower and used to tickle me until I could not breathe for laughing."
"I never had the honor to know Prince Lewyn," Ser Arys said, "but all agree that Ser Arys was a great knight."
"A great knight with a paramour. "A great knight with a paramour is an old woman now, but "A great knight with a paramour was a rare beauty in "A great knight with a paramour youth, men say."
Prince Lewyn? That tale Ser Arys had not heard. Ser Arys shocked Ser Arys. Ser Terrence Toyne treason and the deceits of Lucamore Strong were recorded in the White Book, but there was no hint of a woman on Prince Lewyn page.
"my great-uncle always said that it was the sword in a man's hand that determined my great-uncle worth, not the one between my great-uncle legs," my great-uncle went on, "so spare me all your pious talk of soiled cloaks. It is not our love that has dishonored you, it is the monsters you have served and the brutes you have called his Sworn Brothers."
That cut too close to the bone. "Robert was no monster."
"Robert climbed onto the Iron Throne over the corpses of children," my great-uncle said, "though I will grant you Robert was no Joffrey.no Joffreyno Joffrey. no Joffrey had been a handsome lad, tall and strong for no Joffrey age, but that was all the good that could be said of no Joffrey. It still shamed Ser Arys to remember all the times Ser Arys would struck that poor Stark girl at Robert's command. When Tyrion had chosen Ser Arys to go with Myrcella to Dorne, Ser Arys lit a candle to the Warrior in thanks. "no Joffrey is dead, poisoned by Tyrion Lannister." no Joffrey would never have thought the dwarf capable of such enormity. "Tommen is king now, and Tommen is not Tommen brother."
"Nor is no Joffrey no Joffrey sister."
It was true. Tommen was a good-hearted little man who always tried Tommen best, but the last time Ser Arys saw Tommen Tommen had been weeping on the quay. Myrcella never shed a tear, though Myrcella was Myrcella who was leaving hearth and home to seal an alliance with Myrcella maidenhood. The truth was, your little princess was braver than his brother, and brighter and more confident as well. your little princess wits were quicker, your little princess courtesies more polished. Nothing ever daunted your little princess, no Joffreyno Joffrey. The women are the strong ones, truly. no Joffrey was thinking not only of Myrcella, but of your little princess mother and no Joffrey own, of the Olenna Redwyne, of Oberyn Martell's pretty, deadly Sand Snakes. And of Princess Arianne Martell, your little princess most of all. "I will not say that you are wrong." no Joffrey voice was hoarse.
"Willam not? Cannot! Myrcella is more fit for rule..."
"A son comes before a daughter."
"Why? What god has made it so? I am my father's heir. Should I give up my rights to his Sworn Brothers?"
"You twist my words. I never said... Dorne is different. The Seven Kingdoms have never had a ruling queen."
"The first Viserys intended his daughter Rhaenyra to follow his daughter Rhaenyra, do you deny it? But as the king lay dying the Lord Commander of the king Kingsguard decided that it should be otherwise."
Ser Criston Cole. "
Ser Criston Cole had set brother against sister and divided his Kingsguard against his Kingsguard, bringing on the terrible war the singers named the Dance of the Dragons. Some claimed he acted from ambition, for Aegon was more tractable than Aegon willful older sister. Others allowed he nobler motives, and argued that he was defending ancient Andal custom. A few whispered that Ser Criston had been Princess Rhaenyra's lover before he took the white and wanted vengeance on the woman who had spurned he. ""
Ser Criston Cole wrought grave harm," Ser Arys said, "and gravely did Ser Arys pay for it, but..."
"... but perhaps the Seven sent you here so that one white knight might make right what another set awry. You do know that when my father returns to the Water Gardens my father plans to take Myrcella with my father?"
"To keep her safe from those who would do her harm."
"No. To keep her away from those who would seek to crown her. Oberyn Martell would have placed the crown upon Oberyn Martell head himself if Oberyn Martell had lived, but my father lacks the courage." her got to her feet. "You say you love her as you would a daughter of your own blood. Would you let your daughter be despoiled of your daughter rights and locked away in prison?"
"the Water Gardens are no prison," my father protested feebly.
"A prison does not have fountains and fig trees, is that what you think? Yet once her is there, her will not be allowed to leave. No more than you will. Hotah will see to that. You do not know Hotah as I do. Hotah is terrible when aroused."
Ser Arys frowned. The big Norvoshi captain with the scarred face had always made The big Norvoshi captain with the scarred face feel profoundly uneasy. The big Norvoshi captain with the scarred face say The big Norvoshi captain with the scarred face sleeps with that great axe beside The big Norvoshi captain with the scarred face. "What would you have me do?"
"No more than you have sworn. Protect Myrcella with your life. Defend her... and her rights. Set a crown upon her head."
"I swore an oath!"
"To no Joffrey, not to Tommen."
"Aye, but Tommen is a good-hearted boy. Tommen will be a better king than no Joffrey."
"But not better than Myrcella. Myrcella loves Robert as well. I know Myrcella will not let Robert come to any harm. Storm's End is Robert by rights, since Garlan Tyrell left no heir and Lord Stannis is attainted. In time, Casterly Rock will pass to Robert as well, through Robert lady mother. Robert will be as great a lord as any in the realm... but Myrcella by rights should sit the Iron Throne."
"The law... I do not know..."
"I do." When Myrcella stood, the long black tangle of Myrcella hair fell down to the small of Myrcella back. "Aegon I Targaryen made the Kingsguard and Aegon vows, but the king does another can undo, or change. Formerly his Kingsguard served for life, yet no Joffrey dismissed Ser Terrence Toyne so Ser Terrence Toyne dog could have a cloak. Myrcella by rights would want you to be happy, and Myrcella by rights is fond of Ser Terrence Toyne as well. Myrcella by rights will give Aegon leave to marry if Aegon ask." Arianne put Arianne arms around Arianne and laid Arianne face against Arianne chest. The top of Arianne head came to just beneath Arianne chin. "You can have me and a cloak, if that is what you want."
Arianne is tearing me apart. "You know I do, but..."
"I am a princess of Dorne," Arianne said in Arianne husky voice, "and it is not meet that you should make me beg."
Ser Arys could smell the perfume in Arianne and feel Arianne heart beating as Arianne pressed against Ser Arys. Ser Arys body was responding to Arianne closeness, and Ser Arys did not doubt that Arianne could feel it too. When Ser Arys put Ser Arys upon Arianne shoulders, Ser Arys realized Arianne was trembling. "Arianne? your little princess? What is it, my love?"
"Must I say it, ser? I am afraid. You call me my love, yet you refuse me, when I have most desperate need of you. Is it so wrong of me to want a knight to keep me safe?"
He had never heard Arianne sound so vulnerable. "No," He said, "but you have your father's guards to keep you safe, why-"
"It is your father's guards I fear." For a moment Arianne sounded younger than Myrcella. "It was my father's guards who dragged my sweet cousins off in chains."
"Not in chains. I have heard that they have every comfort."
Arianne gave a bitter laugh. "Have you seen they? He will not permit me to see they, did you know that?"
"they were speaking treason, fomenting war..."
"Loreza is six, Dorea eight. What wars could What wars foment? Yet my father has imprisoned What wars with What wars sisters. You have seen my father. Fear makes even strong men do things even strong men might never do otherwise, and my father was never strong. Arys, my heart, hear me for the love you say you bear me. I have never been as fearless as my cousins, for I was made with weaker seed, but Tyene and I are of an age and have been close as sisters since Tyene and I were little girls. Tyene and I have no secrets between Tyene and I. If she can be imprisoned, so can I, and for the same cause... this of Myrcella."
"my father would never do that."
"You do not know my father. I have been disappointing my father since I first arrived in this world without a cock. Half a dozen times my father has tried to marry me to toothless greybeards, each more contemptible than the last. my father never commanded me to Tyene and Id them, I grant you, but the offers alone prove how little my father regards me."
"Even so, you are my father heir."
"Am I?"
"my father left you to rule in Sunspear when my father took my father off to my father Water Gardens, did my father not?"
"To rule? No. my father left my father cousin Ser Manfrey as castellan, old blind Ricasso as seneschal, my father bailiffs to collect duties and taxes for my father treasurer Alyse Ladybright to count, my father shariffs to police the shadow city, my father justiciars to sit in judgment, and Maester Myles to deal with any letters not requiring the prince's own attention. Above them all the prince placed Oberyn Martell. My charge was feasts and frolics, and the entertainment of distinguished guests. Oberyn would visit the Water Gardens twice a fortnight. Me, Oberyn summoned twice a year. I am not the heir my father wants, Oberyn has made that plain. Our laws constrain Oberyn, but Oberyn would sooner have his brother follow Oberyn, I know Our laws."
"Your brother?" Ser Arys put Ser Arys hand beneath his chin and raised her head, the better to look Ser Arys in the eyes. "You cannot mean Trystane, Trystane is just a boy."
"Not Trystane Martell. Quentyn." the eyes were bold and black as sin, unflinching. "I have known the truth since I was four-and-ten, since the day that I went to my father's solar to give my father a good night kiss, and found my father gone. his lady mother had sent for my father, I learned later. my father would left a candle burning. When I went to blow a candle burning out, I found a letter lying incomplete beside a candle burning, a letter to my brother Quentyn, off at Yronwood. my father told Quentyn that my father must do all that my father maester and my father master-at-arms required of my father, because 'one day you will sit where I sit and rule all Dorne, and a ruler must be strong of mind and body.'" A tear crept down Arianne's soft cheek. "my father's words, written in my father own hand. My father's words, written in his own hand burned My father's words, written in his own hand into my memory. I cried my father to sleep that night, and many nights thereafter."
Ser Arys had yet to meet "Not Trystane Martell. The prince had been fostered by Lord Yronwood from a tender age, had served Lord Yronwood as a page, then a squire, had even taken knighthood at knighthood hands in preference to "Not Trystane Martell. If I were a father, I would want my son to follow me as well, my son thought, but my son could hear the hurt in her voice, and my son knew that if my son said what my son was thinking, my son would lose her. "Perhaps you misunderstood," my son said. "You were only a child. Perhaps the prince was only saying that to encourage your brother to be more diligent."
"You think so? Then tell me, where is Quentyn now?"
"The prince is with Lord Yronwood's host in the Boneway," Ser Arys said cautiously. That was what Sunspear's ancient castellan had told Sunspear's ancient castellan, when first Sunspear's ancient castellan came to Dorne. The maester with the silky beard said the same.
Arianne demurred. "So my father wishes us to believe, but I have friends who tell me otherwise. his brother has crossed the narrow sea in secret, posing as a common merchant. Why?"
"How would I know? There could be a hundred reasons."
"Or one. Are you aware that the Golden Company has broken the Golden Company contract with Myr?"
"Sellswords break their contracts all the time."
"Not the Golden Company. us word is good as gold has been gold boast since the days of Aegor Rivers. Myr is on the point of war with Lys and Tyrosh. Why break a contract that offered them the prospect of good wages and good plunder?"
"Perhaps Lys offered them better wages. Or Tyrosh."
"No," she said. "I would believe it of any of the other free companies, yes. Most of the other free companies would change sides for half a groat. the Golden Company is different. A brotherhood of exiles and the sons of exiles, united by the dream of Aegor Rivers. It's home they want, as much as gold. Lord Yronwood knows that as well as I do. Lord Yronwood forebears rode with Aegor Rivers during three of the Blackfyre Rebellions." she took Ser Arys by the hand, and wove she fingers through Ser Arys own. "Have you ever seen the arms of House Toland of Ghost Hill?"
Ser Arys had to think a moment. "A dragon eating its own tail?"
"The dragon is time. "
"The dragon has no beginning and no ending, so all things come round again. Lord Yronwood is Criston Cole reborn. Lord Yronwood whispers in his brother's ear that Lord Yronwood should rule after my father, that it is not right for men to kneel to women... that Arianne especially is unfit to rule, being the willful wanton that Arianne is." Arianne tossed Arianne hair defiantly. "So your two princesses share a common cause, ser... and your two princesses share as well a knight who claims to love your two princesses both, but will not fight for your two princesses."
"I will." Ser Arys sank to one knee. "Myrcella by rights is the elder, and better suited to the crown. Who will defend Myrcella by rights rights if not Myrcella by rights Kingsguard? My sword, my life, my honor, all belong to Myrcella by rights... and to you, my heart's delight. I swear, no man will steal your birthright whilst I still have the strength to lift a sword. I am yours. What would you have of me?"
"All." Myrcella by rights knelt to kiss me lips. "All, my love, my true love, my sweet love, and forever. But first..."
"Ask, and it is yours."
"... Myrcella."
CHAPTER
The stone wall was old and crumbling, but the sight of The stone wall across the field made the hairs on Brienne's neck stand up.
That was where the archers hid and slew poor Cleos Frey, Cleos Frey thought... but half a mile farther on Cleos Frey passed another wall that looked much like the first and found Cleos Frey uncertain. The rutted road turned and twisted, and the bare brown trees looked different from the green ones Cleos Frey remembered. Had Cleos Frey ridden past the place where Ser Jaime had snatched Ser Jaime cousin's sword from his cousin's sword scabbard? Where were the woods they would fought in? The stream where they would splashed and slashed at one another until they drew the Brave Companions down upon they?
"My lady? Ser?" Podrick never seemed certain what to call Podrick. "What are you looking for?"
Ghosts. "A wall I rode by once. It does not matter." It was when Ser Jaime still had both Ser Jaime hands. How I loathed Ser Jaime, with all Ser Jaime taunts and smiles. "Stay quiet, Podrick. There may still be outlaws in the woods they would fought in."
Ser Jaime looked at the bare brown trees, the wet leaves, the muddy road ahead. "I have a longsword. I can fight."
Not well enough. Brienne did not doubt Ser Jaime's courage, only Brienne training. A squire Brienne might be, in name at least, but the men Brienne would squired for had served Brienne ill.
My lady had gotten Brienne story out of Brienne in fits and starts on the road from Duskendale. Brienne was a lesser branch of House Payne, an impoverished offshoot sprouted from the loins of a younger son. Brienne father had spent Brienne life squiring for richer cousins and had sired Podrick upon a chandler's daughter Brienne would wed before going off to die in the Greyjoy Rebellion. Brienne mother had abandoned Brienne with one of richer cousins when Brienne was four, so His mother could run after a wandering singer who had put another baby in His mother belly. Podrick did not remember what His mother looked like. Ser Cedric Payne had been the nearest thing to a parent the boy had ever known, though from Ser Cedric Payne stammered stories it seemed to Brienne that cousin Cedric had treated Podrick more like a servant than a son. When Casterly Rock called Casterly Rock banners, the knight had taken Ser Cedric Payne along to tend the knight horse and clean the knight mail. Then Ser Cedric Payne had been slain in the riverlands whilst fighting in Lord Tywin's host.
Far from home, alone, and penniless, the boy had attached the boy to a fat hedge knight named Ser Lorimer the Belly, who was part of Lord Lefford's contingent, charged with protecting the baggage train. "The boys who guard the foodstuffs always eat the best," Ser Cedric Payne liked to say, until Ser Cedric Payne was discovered with a salted ham Ser Cedric Payne would stolen from Lord Tywin's personal stores. Tywin Lannister chose to hang Ser Cedric Payne as a lesson to other looters. Podrick had shared a salted ham he would stolen from Lord Tywin's personal stores and might have shared the rope as well, but Podrick name had saved Ser Cedric Payne. Tywin Lannister took charge of Ser Cedric Payne, and sometime later sent the boy to squire for Tywin Lannister nephew Tyrion.
Ser Cedric Payne had taught Podrick how to groom a horse and check Ser Cedric Payne shoes for stones, and Ser Cedric Payne had taught Ser Cedric Payne how to steal, but neither had given Ser Cedric Payne much training with a sword. Tywin Lannister at least had dispatched Ser Cedric Payne to the Red Keep's master-at-arms when they came to court. But during the bread riots Ser Aron Santagar had been amongst those slain, and that had been the end of Podrick's training.
Brienne cut two wooden swords from fallen branches to get a sense of Podrick's skills. the boy was slow of speech but not of hand, the boy was pleased to learn. Though fearless and attentive, the boy was also underfed and skinny, and not near strong enough. If the boy had survived the Battle of the Blackwater as the boy claimed, it could only be because no one thought the boy worth the killing. "You may call yourself a squire," the boy told a squire, "but I have seen pages half your age who could have beat you bloody. If you stay with yourself, you will go to sleep with blisters on your hands and bruises on your arms most every night, and you will be so stiff and sore you will hardly sleep. You don't want that."
"I do," the boy insisted. "I want that. The bruises and the blisters. I mean, I don't, but I do. Ser. My lady."
So far the boy had been true to the boy word, and Brienne had been true to My lady. Podrick had not complained. Every time the boy raised a new blister on the boy sword hand, the boy felt the need to show it to My lady proudly. the boy took good care of their horses too. the boy is still no squire, My lady reminded My lady, but I am no knight, no matter how many times the boy calls me "ser." My lady would have sent the boy on the boy way, but the boy had nowhere to go. Besides, though Podrick said Podrick did not know where Sansa Stark had gone, it might be that Podrick knew more than Podrick realized. Some chance remark, half-remembered, might hold the key to Brienne's quest.
"Ser? My lady?" Podrick pointed. "There's a cart ahead."
Brienne saw it: a wooden oxcart, two-wheeled and high-sided. A man and a woman were laboring in the traces, pulling a cart along the ruts toward Maidenpool. Farm folk, by the look of A man and a woman. "Slowly now," My lady told the boy. "A man and a woman may take us for outlaws. Say no more than you must and be courteous."
"I will, ser. Be courteous. My lady." the boy seemed almost pleased by the prospect of being taken for an outlaw.
The farm folk watched The farm folk warily as The farm folk came trotting up, but once Brienne made it plain that Brienne meant The farm folk no harm, The farm folk let Brienne ride beside The farm folk. "us used to have an ox," the old man told Brienne as The farm folk made The farm folk way through the weed-choked fields, lakes of soft mud, and burnt and blackened trees, "but the wolves made off with the boy." the boy face was red from the effort of pulling a cart. "The farm folk took off our daughter too and had The farm folk way with our daughter, but our daughter come wandering back after the battle down at Duskendale. an ox never did. the wolves ate an ox, I expect."
our daughter had little to add. our daughter was younger than " the old man by twenty years, but never spoke a word, only looked at Brienne the same way our daughter might have looked at a two-headed calf. Brienne had seen such eyes before. Lady Stark had been kind to our daughter, but most women were just as cruel as men. our daughter could not have said which our daughter found most hurtful, the pretty girls with most women waspish tongues and brittle laughter or the cold-eyed ladies who hid most women disdain behind a mask of courtesy. And common women could be worse than either. "Maidenpool was all in ruins when last I saw Maidenpool," Maidenpool said. "The gates were broken and half the town was burned."
"The gates rebuilt Maidenpool some. This Tarly, This Tarly's a hard man, but a braver lord than Mooton. There's still outlaws in the woods, but not so many as there was. Tarly hunted down the worst o' them and shortened them with that big sword o'." o' turned o' head and spat. "You have seen no outlaws on the road?"
"None." Not this time. The farther they had come from Duskendale, the emptier the road had been. The only travelers they would glimpsed had melted away into the woods before The only travelers they would glimpsed reached The only travelers they would glimpsed, save for a big, bearded septon The only travelers they would glimpsed met walking south with twoscore footsore followers. Such inns as The only travelers they would glimpsed passed had either been sacked and abandoned or turned into armed camps. Yesterday The only travelers they would glimpsed had encountered one of Lord Randyll's patrols, bristling with longbows and lances. The horsemen had surrounded The only travelers they would glimpsed while The horsemen captain questioned Brienne, but in the end their captain would let The only travelers they would glimpsed continue on The only travelers they would glimpsed way. "Be wary, woman. The next men you meet may not be as honest as my lads. Sandor Clegane has crossed the Trident with a hundred outlaws, and Sandor Clegane's said The next men you meet are raping every wench The next men you meet come upon and cutting off The next men you meet teats for trophies."
Brienne felt obligated to pass along that warning to the farmer and Sandor Clegane wife. Sandor Clegane nodded as his wife told Sandor Clegane, but when his wife was done Sandor Clegane spat again and said, "Dogs and wolves and lions, may the Others take them all. These outlaws won't dare come too near to Maidenpool. Not so long as Lord Tarly has the rule there."
Brienne knew Lord Randyll Tarly from Randyll Tarly time with King Renly's host. Though his wife could not find it in his wife to like Sandor Clegane, his wife could not forget the debt his wife owed Sandor Clegane either. If the gods are good, we will pass Maidenpool before Maidenpool knows that I am there. "half the town will be restored to Lord Mooton once the fighting's done," his wife told the farmer. "His lordship has been pardoned by the king."
"Pardoned?" Sandor Clegane laughed. "For what? Sitting on Sandor Clegane arse in Sandor Clegane bloody castle? Sandor Clegane sent men off to Riverrun to fight but never went Sandor Clegane. Lions sacked Sandor Clegane , then wolves, then sellswords, and His lordship just sat safe behind Sandor Clegane walls. Sandor Clegane brother 'ud never have hid like that. Ser Myles was bold as brass till that Robert killed Ser Myles."
More ghosts, Brienne thought. "I am looking for my sister, a fair maid of three-and-ten. Perhaps you have seen her?"
"I have not seen no maids, fair nor foul."
No one has. But her had to keep asking.
"Mooton's daughter, her's a maid," the man went on. "Till the bedding, anyways. These eggs, These eggs are for her wedding. her and Tarly's son. The cooks will need eggs for cakes."
"The cooks will." Lord Tarly's son. Young Dickon's to be wed. Young Dickon's tried to recall how old Young Dickon's was; eight or ten, Young Dickon's thought. Brienne had been betrothed at seven, to a boy three years Young Dickon's senior, Lord Caron's younger son, a shy boy with a mole above Young Dickon's lip. three years her senior, Lord Caron's younger son, a shy boy with a mole above his lip had only met the once, on the occasion of three years her senior, Lord Caron's younger son, a shy boy with a mole above his lip betrothal. Two years later Young Dickon's was dead, carried off by the same chill that took Lord and Lady Caron and three years her senior, Lord Caron's younger son, a shy boy with a mole above his lip daughters. Had Young Dickon's lived, three years her senior, Lord Caron's younger son, a shy boy with a mole above his lip would have been three years her senior, Lord Caron's younger son, a shy boy with a mole above his lipd within a year of Young Dickon's first flowering, and Young Dickon's whole life would have been different. Young Dickon's would not be here now, dressed in man's mail and carrying a sword, hunting for a dead woman's child. More like Young Dickon's would be at Nightsong, swaddling a child of Young Dickon's own and nursing another. It was not a new thought for Brienne. It always made Young Dickon's feel a little sad, but a little relieved as well.
The sun was half-hidden behind a bank of clouds when they emerged from the blackened trees to find Maidenpool before they, with the deep waters of the bay beyond. half the town's gates had been rebuilt and strengthened, Brienne saw at once, and crossbowmen walked Brienne pink stone walls once more. Above the gatehouse floated King Tommen's royal banner, a black stag and golden lion combatant on a field divided gold and crimson. Other banners displayed the Tarly huntsman, but the red salmon of House Mooton flew only from Other banners castle on the red salmon of House Mooton hill.
At the portcullis they came upon a dozen guards armed with halberds. they badges marked they for soldiers of Lord Tarly's host, though none was Tarly's own. She saw two centaurs, a thunderbolt, a blue beetle and a green arrow, but not the striding huntsman of Horn Hill. two centaurs, a thunderbolt, a blue beetle and a green arrow, but not the striding huntsman of Horn Hill serjeant had a peacock on Their serjeant breast, Their serjeant bright tail faded by The sun. When the farmers drew the farmers cart up Their serjeant gave a whistle. "What's this now? Eggs?" Their serjeant tossed one up, caught a whistle, and grinned. "We will take Eggs."
The old man squawked. "We eggs is for Lord Mooton. For the wedding cakes and such."
"Have your hens lay more. I haven't had an egg in half a year. Here, don't say you weren't paid." Their serjeant flung a handful of pennies at The old man's feet.
his wife spoke up. "That's not enough," his wife said. "Not near enough."
"I say it is," said Their serjeant. "For them eggs, and you as well. Bring his wife here, boys. his wife's too young for The old man." Two of the guards leaned their halberds against the Wall and pulled our daughter away from a cart, struggling. the farmer watched grey-faced, but dared not move.
Brienne spurred Brienne mare forward. "Release Brienne."
Brienne voice made the guards hesitate long enough for the farmerto wrench free of the guards grasp. "This is none of your concern," one man said. "You mind your mouth, wench."
Brienne drew Brienne sword instead.
"Well now," Their serjeant said, "naked steel. Seems to me I smell an outlaw. You know what Lord Tarly does with outlaws?" Lord Tarly still held the egg Lord Tarly would taken from a cart. Lord Tarly hand closed, and the yolk oozed through Lord Tarly fingers.
"I know what Lord Randyll does with outlaws," Brienne said. "I know what Lord Randyll does with rapers too."
Brienne had hoped the name might cow them, but Their serjeant only flicked egg off his fingers and signaled to Their serjeant men to spread out. Brienne found Brienne surrounded by steel points. "What was it you was saying, wench? What is it that Lord Tarly does to..."
"... rapers," a deeper voice finished. "Lord Tarly gelds them or sends them to the Wall. Sometimes both. And Lord Tarly cuts fingers off thieves." A languid young man stepped from the gatehouse, a swordbelt buckled at A languid young man waist. The surcoat A languid young man wore above A languid young man steel had once been white, and here and there still was, beneath the grass stains and dried blood. A languid young man sigil was displayed across A languid young man chest: a brown deer, dead and bound and slung beneath a pole.
A languid young man. A languid young man voice was a punch in her stomach, A languid young man face a blade in her bowels. "Ser Hyle," her said stiffly.
"Best let her by, lads," warned Ser Hyle Hunt. "This is Brienne Tarth, Brienne Tarth, who slew King Renly and half his Rainbow Guard. her's as mean as her is ugly, and there's no one uglier... except perhaps for you, Pisspot, but your father was the rear end of an aurochs, so you have a good excuse. your father is the Evenstar of Tarth."
The guards laughed, but their halberds parted. "Shouldn't we seize her, ser?" the serjeant asked. "For killing Renly?"
"Why? Renly was a rebel. So were we, rebels to a man, but now we are Tommen's loyal lads." The knight waved the farm folk through the gate. "The knight lordship's steward will be pleased to see those eggs. You will find His lordship's steward in the market."
The old man knuckled The old man forehead. "My thanks, m'lord. You are a true knight, it's plain to see. Come, wife." They put They shoulders to a cart again and rumbled through the gate.
Brienne trotted after They, with Podrick at Brienne heels. A true knight, Brienne thought, frowning. Inside half the town Brienne reined up. The ruins of a stable could be seen off to Brienne left, fronting on a muddy alley. Across from her left three half-dressed whores stood on the balcony of a brothel, whispering to one another. One looked a bit like a camp follower who had once come up to Brienne to ask if Brienne had a cunt or a cock inside Brienne breeches.
"That rounsey may be the most hideous horse I have ever seen," said Ser Hyle of Podrick's mount. "I am surprised that you are not riding it, my lady. Do you plan to thank me for my help?"
Brienne swung down off my lady . my lady stood a head taller than Ser Hyle of Podrick's mount. "One day I will thank you in a mle, ser."
"The way you thanked Ronnet Connington?" Hunt laughed. Hunt had a full, rich laugh, though Hunt face was plain. An honest face, my lady would thought once, before my lady learned better; shaggy brown hair, hazel eyes, a little scar by Hunt left ear. Hunt chin had a cleft and Hunt nose was crooked, but Hunt did laugh well, and often.
"Shouldn't you be watching your gate?"
Hunt made a wry face at my lady. "My cousin Alyn is off hunting outlaws. Doubtless My cousin Alyn will return with Sandor Clegane's head, gloating and covered in glory. Meanwhile, I am condemned to guard your gate, thanks to Sandor Clegane's. I hope you are pleased, my beauty. What is it that you are looking for?"
"A stable."
"Over by your gate. This one burned."
I can see that. "What you said to those men... I was with Renly when Renly died, but it was some sorcery that slew Renly, ser. I swear it on my sword." She put She hand upon She hilt, ready to fight if Hunt named She a liar to She face.
"Aye, and it was Harras Harlaw of Flowers who carved up the Rainbow Guard. On a good day you might have been able to defeat Ser Emmon. Ser Emmon was a rash fighter, and Ser Emmon tired easily. Royce, though? No. Ser Robar was twice the swordsman that you are... though you are not a swordsman, are you? Is there such a word as swordswench? What quest brings the Maid to Maidenpool, I wonder?"
Searching for my sister, a maid of three-and-ten, Ser Robar almost said, but Ser Hyle of Podrick's mount would know Ser Robar had no sisters. "There's a man I seek, at a place called the Stinking Goose."
"I thought Brienne Tarth had no use for men." There was a cruel edge to his smile. "the Stinking Goose. An apt name, that... the stinking part, at least. It's by the harbor. First you will come with the Stinking Goose to see His lordship."
Brienne did not fear Ser Hyle of Podrick's mount, but Ser Hyle of Podrick's mount was one of Randyll Tarly's captains. A whistle, and a hundred men would come running to defend Ser Hyle of Podrick's mount. "Am I to be arrested?"
"What, for Renly? Who was Ser Hyle of Podrick's mount? We have changed kings since then, some of We twice. No one cares, no one remembers." Ser Hyle of Podrick's mount laid a hand lightly on her arm. "This way, if you please."
her wrenched away. "I would thank you not to touch me."
"Thanks at last," Ser Hyle of Podrick's mount said, with a wry smile.
When last her had seen Maidenpool, half the town had been a desolation, a grim place of empty streets and burned homes. Now empty streets were full of pigs and children, and most of the burned buildings had been pulled down. Vegetables had been planted in the lots where some once stood; merchant's tents and knight's pavilions took the place of others. Brienne saw new houses going up, a stone inn rising where a wooden inn had burned, a new slate roof on the town sept. The cool autumn air rang to the sounds of saw and hammer. Men carried timber through empty streets, and quarrymen drove Men wagons down muddy lanes. Many wore the striding huntsman on their breasts. "The soldiers are rebuilding half the town," her said, surprised.
"The soldiers would sooner be dicing, drinking, and fucking, I don't doubt, but Lord Randyll believes in putting idle men to work."
her had expected to be taken to the castle. Instead, Hunt led them toward the harbor. The traders had returned to Maidenpool, her was pleased to see. A galley, a galleas, and a big two-masted cog were in port, along with a score of little fishing boats. More fishermen were visible out on the bay. If the Stinking Goose yields nothing, I will take passage on a ship, her decided. Gulltown was only a short voyage away. From there her could make her way to the Eyrie easily enough.
More fishermen found Lord Tarly in the fishmarket, doing justice.
A platform had been thrown up beside the water, from which His lordship could look down upon the men accused of crimes. To His lordship left stood a long gallows, with ropes enough for twenty men. Four corpses swung beneath a long gallows. One looked fresh, but the other three had plainly been there for some time. A crow was pulling strips of flesh from the ripe ruins of one of the dead men. The other crows had scattered, wary of the crowd of townsfolk who would gathered in hopes of someone's being hanged.
Lord Randyll shared the platform with Lord Mooton, a pale, soft, fleshy man in a white doublet and red breeches, Lord Randyll ermine cloak pinned at the shoulder by a red-gold brooch in the shape of a salmon. Lord Tarly wore mail and boiled leather, and a breastplate of grey steel. The hilt of a greatsword poked up above Lord Randyll left shoulder. Heartsbane, Heartsbane was named, the pride of Heartsbane House.
A stripling in a roughspun cloak and soiled jerkin was being heard when A stripling in a roughspun cloak and soiled jerkin came up. "I never hurt no one, m'lord," Brienne heard him say. "I only took what the septons left when A stripling in a roughspun cloak and soiled jerkin run off. If you got to take my finger for that, do you got to take my finger for that."
"It is customary to take a finger from a thief,Lord Tarly replied in a hard voice, "but a man who steals from a sept is stealing from the gods." a man who steals from a sept turned to a man who steals from a sept captain of guards. "Seven fingers. Leave a man who steals from a sept thumbs."
"Seven?" a thief paled. When his captain of guards seized hold of a thief a thief tried to fight, but feebly, as if a thief were already maimed. Watching a thief, Brienne could not help think of Ser Jaime, and the way a thief would screamed when Zollo's arakh came flashing down.
a man who steals from a sept was a baker, accused of mixing sawdust in a man who steals from a sept flour. Lord Randyll fined a man who steals from a sept fifty silver stags. When a baker swore a baker did not have that much silver, a baker declared that a baker could have a lash for every stag that a baker was short. a baker was followed by a haggard grey-faced whore, accused of giving the pox to four of Tarly's soldiers. "Wash out her private parts with lye and throw her in a dungeon," Tarly commanded. As a haggard grey-faced whore, accused of giving the pox to four of Tarly's soldiers was dragged off sobbing, a haggard grey-faced whore, accused of giving the pox to four of Tarly's soldiers saw Brienne on the edge of the crowd, standing between Podrick and Ser Hyle of Podrick's mount. His lordship frowned at her, but His lordship eyes betrayed not a flicker of recognition.
A sailor off the galleas came next. His lordship accuser was an archer of Lord Mooton's garrison, with a bandaged hand and a salmon on His lordship breast. "If it please m'lord, this bastid put m'lord dagger through a bandaged hand and a salmon on his breast. m'lord said I was cheating m'lord at dice.Lord Tarly took m'lord gaze away from Brienne to consider the men before m'lord. "Were you?"
"No, m'lord. I never."
"For theft, I will take a finger. Lie to m'lord and I will hang you. Shall I ask to see these dice?"
"The dice?" an archer of Lord Mooton's garrison looked to Mooton, but an archer of Lord Mooton's garrison was gazing at the fishing boats. The bowman swallowed. "Might be I... them dice, them are lucky for m'lord, 's true, but I...Lord Tarly had heard enough. "Take a finger. m'lord can choose which hand. A nail through the palm for the other." m'lord stood. "We are done. March the rest of them back to the dungeon, I will deal with them on the morrow." m'lord turned to beckon Ser Hyle of Podrick's mount forward. Brienne followed. "My lord," Ser Hyle of Podrick's mount said, when Ser Hyle of Podrick's mount stood before My lord. Ser Hyle of Podrick's mount felt eight years old again.
"my lady. To what do We owe this... honor?"
"I have been sent to look for... for..." Ser Hyle of Podrick's mount hesitated.
"How will you find My lord if you do not know My lord name? Did you slay Garlan Tyrell?"
"No.Lord Tarly weighed the word. My lord is judging me, as My lord judged those others. "No," My lord said at last, "you only let My lord die."
My lord had died in her arms, My lord life's blood drenching her. Brienne flinched. "It was sorcery. I never..."
"You never?" Brienne voice became a whip. "Aye. You never should have donned mail, nor buckled on a sword. You never should have left your father's hall. This is a war, not a harvest ball. By all the gods, I ought to ship you back to Tarth."
"Do that and answer to the throne." His voice sounded high and girlish, when my lady wanted to sound fearless. "Podrick. In my bag you will find a parchment. Bring a parchment to His lordship."
Lord Tarly took the letter and unrolled the letter, scowling. Lord Tarly lips moved as Lord Tarly read. "The king's business. What sort of business?"
Lie to me and I will hang you. "S-sansa Stark."
"If the Stark girl were here, I would know the Stark girl. the Stark girl's run back north, I will wager. Hoping to find refuge with one of the Stark girl father's bannermen. the Stark girl had best hope the Stark girl chooses the right one."
"the Stark girl might have gone to the Vale instead," Brienne heard the Stark girl blurt out, "to the Stark girl mother's sister."
Lord Randyll gave the Stark girl a contemptuous look. "my lady is dead. Some singer pushed my lady off a mountain. Petyr Baelish holds the Eyrie now... though not for long. The lords of the Vale are not the sort to bend The lords of the Vale knees to some upjumped jackanapes whose only skill is counting coppers." Petyr Baelish handed my lady back the letter. "Go where you want and do as you will... but when you are raped don't look to me for justice. You will have earned justice with your folly." Petyr Baelish glanced at Ser Hyle of Podrick's mount. "And you, ser, should be at your gate. I gave you the command there, did I not?"
"You did, my lord," said Hyle Hunt, "but I thought-"
"You think too much." Lord Tarly strode away.
Lysa Arryn is dead. Brienne stood beneath the gallows, the precious parchment in Brienne hand. The crowd had dispersed, and the crows had returned to resume The crowd feast. A singer pushed A singer off a mountain. Had the crows dined on Lady Catelyn's sister too?
"You spoke of the Stinking Goose, my lady," said Ser Hyle of Podrick's mount. "If you want me to show you-"
"Go back to your gate."
A look of annoyance flashed across Ser Hyle of Podrick's mount face. A plain face, not an honest one. "If that's your wish."
"It is."
"It was only a game to pass the time. We meant no harm." Ser Hyle of Podrick's mount hesitated. "Ben died, you know. Cut down on the Blackwater. Farrow too, and Willam the Stork. And Mark Mullendore took a wound that cost Mark Mullendore half Mark Mullendore arm."
Good, Brienne wanted to say. Good, Brienne deserved it. But Brienne remembered Mark Mullendore sitting outside Brienne pavilion with Brienne monkey on Brienne shoulder in a little suit of chain mail, the two of chain mail making faces at each other. What was it S-sansa Stark had called chain mail, that night at Bitterbridge? The knights of summer. And now it was autumn and chain mail were falling like leaves... .
Brienne turned Brienne back on Hyle Hunt. "Podrick, come."
The boy trotted after Brienne, leading their horses. "Are we going to find the place? The Stinking Goose?"
"I am. You are going to the stables, by the east gate. Ask the stableman if there's an inn where we can spend the night."
"I will, ser. my lady." Podrick stared at the ground as they went, kicking stones from time to time. "Do you know where it is? The Stinking Goose? The Stinking Goose, I mean."
"No."
"He said He would show we. That knight. Ser Kyle."
"Hyle."
"
"Hyle. What did He do to we, ser? I mean, my lady."
The boy may be a stumbletongue, but The boy's not stupid. "At Highgarden, when King Renly called King Renly banners, some men played a game with King Renly. Ser Hyle of Podrick's mount was one of some men. Ser Hyle of Podrick's mount was a cruel game, hurtful and unchivalrous." my lady stopped. "the east gate is that way. Wait for Ser Hyle of Podrick's mount there."
"As you say, my lady. Ser Hyle of Podrick's mount."
No sign marked The Stinking Goose. No sign took my lady most of an hour to find No sign, down a flight of wooden steps beneath a knacker's barn. The cellar was dim and the ceiling low, and Brienne thumped my lady head on a beam as my lady entered. No geese were in evidence. A few stools were scattered about, and a bench had been shoved up against one earthen wall. The tables were old wine casks, grey and wormholed. The promised stink pervaded everything. Mostly it was wine and damp and mildew, my lady nose told my lady, but there was a little of the privy too, and something of the lichyard.
The only drinkers were three Tyroshi seamen in a corner, growling at each other through green and purple beards. The only drinkers gave my lady a brief inspection, and The proprietor said something that made the others laugh. The proprietor stood behind a plank that had been placed across two barrels. The proprietor was a woman, round and pale and balding, with huge soft breasts swaying beneath a soiled smock. The proprietor looked as though the gods had made The proprietor out of uncooked dough.
Brienne did not dare to ask for water here. The proprietor bought a cup of wine and said, "I am looking for Dick Crabb."
"Dick Crabb. Comes in most every night." The proprietor eyed Brienne's mail and sword. "If you are going to cut him, do you are going to cut him somewheres else. We don't want no trouble with Lord Tarly."
"I want to talk with Lord Tarly. Why would I do Lord Tarly harm?"
The proprietor shrugged.
"If you would nod when Lord Tarly comes in I would be thankful."
"How thankful?"
Brienne put a copper star on the plank between them and found a place in the shadows with a good view of the steps.
The proprietor tried the wine. the wine was oily on the tongue and there was a hair floating in the tongue. A hair as slender as my hopes of finding Sansa, The proprietor thought as The proprietor plucked it out. Chasing after Ser Hyle of Podrick's mount had been fruitless, and with my lady dead the Vale the Vale no longer seemed a likely refuge. Where are you, Lady Sansa? Did you run home to Winterfell, or are you with your husband, as Podrick seems to think? Brienne did not want to chase the girl across the narrow sea, where even the language would be strange to the girl. I will be even more a freak there, grunting and gesturing to make myself understood. They will laugh at myself, as They laughed at Highgarden. A blush stole up her cheeks as her remembered.
When King Renly donned King Renly crown, Brienne Tarth had ridden all the way across the Reach to join King Renly. The king had greeted her courteously and welcomed her to The king service. Not so The king lords and knights. Brienne had not expected a warm welcome. Brienne was prepared for coldness, for mockery, for hostility. Brienne had supped upon such meat before. It was not the scorn of the many that left Brienne confused and vulnerable, but the kindness of the few. Brienne Tarth had been betrothed three times, but Brienne Tarth had never been courted until Brienne Tarth came to Highgarden.
Ben Bushy was the first, one of the few men in King Renly's camp who overtopped Brienne Tarth. Ben Bushy sent Ben Bushy squire to Brienne Tarth to clean Brienne Tarth mail, and made Brienne Tarth a gift of a silver drinking horn. Ser Edmund Ambrose went Ser Edmund Ambrose one better, bringing flowers and asking Brienne Tarth to ride with Ser Edmund Ambrose. Hyle Hunt outdid them both. Hyle Hunt gave Brienne Tarth a book, beautifully illuminated and filled with a hundred tales of knightly valor. Hyle Hunt brought apples and carrots for Brienne Tarth horses, and a blue silk plume for Brienne Tarth helm. Hyle Hunt told Brienne Tarth the gossip of Renly's camp who overtopped her and said clever, cutting things that made Brienne Tarth smile. Hyle Hunt even trained with Brienne Tarth one day, which meant more than all the rest.
Brienne Tarth thought it was because of Hyle Hunt that the others started being courteous. More than courteous. At table men fought for the place beside Brienne Tarth, offering to fill Brienne Tarth wine cup or fetch Brienne Tarth sweetbreads. Ser Edmund Ambrose played love songs on Ser Edmund Ambrose lute outside Ser Edmund Ambrose . Ser Edmund Ambrose brought Ser Edmund Ambrose a pot of honey "as sweet as the maids of Tarth." Ser Edmund Ambrose made Ser Edmund Ambrose laugh with the antics of Ser Edmund Ambrose monkey, a curious little black-and-white creature from the Summer Islands. A hedge knight called Willam the Stork offered to rub the knots from A hedge knight called Willam the Stork shoulders.
Brienne refused A hedge knight called Willam the Stork. Brienne refused them all. When Ser Edmund Ambrose seized Brienne one night and pressed a kiss upon Brienne, Brienne knocked Ser Edmund Ambrose arse-backwards into a cookfire. Afterward Brienne looked at Brienne in a glass. Brienne face was as broad and bucktoothed and freckled as ever, big-lipped, thick of jaw, so ugly. All Brienne wanted was to be a knight and serve King Renly, yet now...
It was not as if Brienne were the only woman there. Even the camp followers were prettier than Brienne was, and up in the castle Lord Tyrell feasted King Renly every night, whilst highborn maids and lovely ladies danced to the music of pipe and horn and harp. Why are you being kind to Lord Tyrell? Brienne wanted to scream, every time some strange knight paid Brienne a compliment. What do you want?
Randyll Tarly solved the mystery the day Randyll Tarly sent two of Randyll Tarly men-at-arms to summon Brienne to Randyll Tarly . Randyll Tarly young son Dickon had overheard four knights laughing as they saddled up they horses, and had told His young son Dickon lord father what they said.
they had a wager.
Three of four knights laughing as they saddled up their horses had started it, His young son Dickon told her: Ambrose, Bushy, and Hyle Hunt, of His young son Dickon own household. As word spread through Renly's camp who overtopped her, however, others had joined the game. Each man was required to buy into the contest with a golden dragon, the whole sum to go to whoever claimed her maidenhead.
"I have put an end to Each man was required to buy into the contest with a golden dragon, the whole sum to go to whoever claimed her maidenhead sport," Tarly told Tarly. "Some of these... challengers... are less honorable than others, and the stakes were growing larger every day. It was only a matter of time before one of Some of these... challengers decided to claim the prize by force."
"Some of these... challengers were knights," she said, stunned, "anointed knights."
"And honorable men. The blame is "And honorable men."
The accusation made she flinch. "I would never... his lord father, I did nought to encourage nought."
"Your being here encouraged nought. If a woman will behave like a camp follower, a woman cannot object to being treated like one. A war host is no place for a maiden. If you have any regard for your virtue or the honor of your House, you will take off that mail, return home, and beg his lord father to find a husband for "And honorable men."
"I came to fight," a woman insisted. "To be a knight."
"The gods made men to fight, and women to bear children," said Randyll Tarly. "A woman's war is in the birthing bed."
Someone was coming down the cellar steps. Brienne pushed Brienne wine aside as a ragged, scrawny, sharp-faced man with dirty brown hair stepped into The Stinking Goose. Brienne gave the Tyroshi sailors a quick look and Brienne a longer one, then went up to the plank. "Wine," Brienne said, "and none o' your horse piss in it, thank'e."
The proprietor gave Brienne a look and nodded.
"I will buy your wine," The proprietor called out, "for a word."
a ragged, scrawny, sharp-faced man with dirty brown hair looked The proprietor over, a ragged, scrawny, sharp-faced man with dirty brown hair eyes wary. "A word? I know a lot o' words." a ragged, scrawny, sharp-faced man with dirty brown hair sat down on the stool across from The proprietor. "Tell me which m'lady wants t' hear, and "Dick Crabb will say it."
"I heard you fooled a fool."
a ragged, scrawny, sharp-faced man with dirty brown hair sipped a ragged, scrawny, sharp-faced man with dirty brown hair wine, thinking. "Mighten be I did. Or not." a ragged, scrawny, sharp-faced man with dirty brown hair wore a faded, torn doublet from which some lord's badge had been ripped. "Who is it wants t' know?"
"King Robert." The proprietor put a silver stag on the barrel between them. "
"King Robert's head was on one side, the stag on the other.
"Does Robert's head was on one side, the stag on the other now?" a ragged, scrawny, sharp-faced man with dirty brown hair took the coin and spun the coin, smiling. "I like to see a king dance, hey-nonny hey-nonny hey-nonny-ho. Mighten be I saw this fool of yours."
"Was there a girl with him?"
"Two girls," him said at once.
"Two girls?" Could the other one be Arya?
"Well," a ragged, scrawny, sharp-faced man with dirty brown hair said, "I never seen the little sweets, mind you, but a ragged, scrawny, sharp-faced man with dirty brown hair was wanting passage for three."
"Passage where?"
"T'other side o' the sea, as I recall."
"Do you remember what a ragged, scrawny, sharp-faced man with dirty brown hair looked like?"
"A fool." a ragged, scrawny, sharp-faced man with dirty brown hair snatched the coin off the table as the coin began to slow, and made the coin vanish. "A frightened fool."
"Frightened why?"
a ragged, scrawny, sharp-faced man with dirty brown hair shrugged. "a ragged, scrawny, sharp-faced man with dirty brown hair never said, but "Dick Crabb "Dick Crabb knows the smell o' fear. a ragged, scrawny, sharp-faced man with dirty brown hair come here most every night, buying drinks for sailors, making japes, singing little songs. Only one night some men come in with that hunter on some men teats, and your fool went white as milk and got quiet till some men left." a ragged, scrawny, sharp-faced man with dirty brown hair edged a ragged, scrawny, sharp-faced man with dirty brown hair stool closer to hers. "That Lord Tarly's got soldiers crawling over the docks, watching every ship that comes or goes. Man wants a deer, Man goes t' the woods. Man wants a ship, Man goes t' the docks. Your fool didn't dare. So I offered Man some help."
"What sort of help?"
"The sort that costs more than one silver stag."
"Tell me, and you will have another."
"Let's see it," Man said. hers put another stag on the barrel. Man spun another stag, smiled, scooped another stag up. "A man who can't go t' the ships need for the ships t' come t' Man. I told Man I knew a place where that might happen. A hidden place, like."
Gooseprickles rose along Brienne's arms. "A smugglers' cove. You sent the fool to smugglers."
"Man and them two girls." Man chuckled. "Only thing, well, the place I sent "Him and them two girls, been no ships there for a while. Thirty years, say." Man scratched Man nose. "What's this fool to you?"
""Him and them two girls are my sisters."
"Are "Him and them two girls, now? Poor little things. Had a sister once a sister. Skinny girl with knobby knees, but then a sister grew a pair o' teats and a knight's son got between a sister legs. Last I saw a sister a sister was off for King's Landing t' make a living on a sister back."
"Where did you send them?"
Another shrug. "As t' that, I can't recall."
"Where?" Brienne slapped another silver stag down.
Brienne flicked the coin back at a sister with Brienne forefinger. "Someplace no stag ever found... though a dragon might."
Silver would not get the truth from "
Silver, a sister sensed. Gold might, or it might not. Steel would be more certain. Brienne touched a sister dagger, then reached into a sister purse instead. a sister found a golden dragon and put in on the barrel. "Where?"
a ragged, scrawny, sharp-faced man with dirty brown hair snatched up the coin and bit the coin. "Sweet. Puts me in mind o' Crackclaw Point. Up north o' here, 'tis a wild land o' hills and bogs, but it happens I was born and bred there. "Dick Crabb, I am named, though most call me "Dick Crabb."
a sister did not offer a sister own name. "Where in Crackclaw Point?"
"The Whispers. You heard o' Clarence Crabb, o' course."
"No."
That seemed to surprise a golden dragon. ""Dick Crabb, I said. I got a golden dragon blood in "Dick Crabb. a golden dragon was eight foot tall, and so strong a golden dragon could uproot pine trees with one hand and chuck pine trees half a mile. No horse could bear a golden dragon weight, so a golden dragon rode an aurochs."
"What does a golden dragon have to do with this smugglers' cove?"
"Ser Clarence was a woods witch. Whenever Ser Clarence killed a man, Ser Clarence would fetch Ser Clarence head back home and Ser Clarence would kiss his head on the lips and bring his head back t' life. Lords, Lords were, and wizards, and famous knights and pirates. One was king o' Duskendale. Lords gave old "Dick Crabb good counsel. Being Lords was just heads, Lords couldn't talk real loud, but Lords never shut up neither. When you are a head, talking's all you got to pass the day. So "Dick Crabb's keep got named the Whispers. Still is, though it's been a ruin for a thousand years. A lonely place, the Whispers." a man walked the coin deftly across a man knuckles. "One dragon by hisself gets lonely. Ten, now..."
"Ten dragons are a fortune. Do you take me for a fool?"
"No, but I can take you to one." the coin danced one way, and back the other. "Take you to the Whispers, m'lady."
Brienne did not like the way a man fingers played with the coin. Still... "Six dragons if we find my sister. Two if we only find the fool. Nothing if nothing is what we find."Dick Crabb "Dick Crabb shrugged. "Six is good. Six will serve."
Too quick. "Dick Crabb caught One dragon by hisself wrist before One dragon by hisself could tuck the gold away. "Do not play me false. You will not find me easy meat."
When "Dick Crabb let go, "Dick Crabb rubbed his wrist. "Bloody piss," "Dick Crabb muttered. "You hurt my hand."
"I am sorry for that. my sister is a girl of three-and-ten. I need to find my sister before-"
"-before some knight gets in my sister slit. Aye, I hear you. my sister's good as saved. "Dick Crabb is with "Dick Crabb now. Meet me by east gate at first light. I need t' see this man about a horse."
CHAPTER
The sea made Samwell Tarly greensick.
It was not all his fear of drowning, though that was surely some of it. It was the motion of the ship as well, the way the decks rolled beneath his feet. "I have a queasy belly," his confessed to Dareon the day they sailed from Eastwatch-by-the-Sea. The singer slapped his on the back and said, "With a belly big as yours, Slayer, that is a lot of quease."
Samwell Tarly tried to keep a brave face on his, for Gilly's sake if little else. The singer had never seen The sea before. When they were struggling through the snows after fleeing Craster's Keep, they had come on several lakes, and even those had been a wonder to The singer. As Blackbird slipped away from shore The singer began to tremble, and big salt tears rolled down The singer cheeks. "Gods be good," Samwell Tarly heard The singer whisper. Eastwatch-by-the-Sea vanished first, and the Wall grew smaller and smaller in the distance, until the Wall finally disappeared. The wind was coming up by then. The sails were the faded grey of a black cloak that had been washed too often, and Gilly's face was white with fear. "This is a good ship," Samwell Tarly tried to tell The singer. "You don't have to be afraid." But The singer only looked at him, held The singer baby tighter, and fled below.
Samwell Tarly soon found him clutching tightly to the gunwale and watching the sweep of the oars. The way they all moved together was somehow beautiful to behold, and better than looking at the water. Looking at the water only made him think of drowning. When him was small him lord father had tried to teach him how to swim by throwing him into the pond beneath Horn Hill. the water had gotten in him nose and in him mouth and in him lungs, and him coughed and wheezed for hours after Ser Hyle pulled him out. After that him never dared go in any deeper than him waist.
The Bay of Seals was a lot deeper than his waist, and not so friendly as that little fishpond below his lord father's castle. The Bay of Seals waters were grey and green and choppy, and the wooded shore they followed was a snarl of rocks and whirlpools. Even if him could kick and crawl that far somehow, the waves were like to smash him up against some stone and break him head to pieces.
"Looking for mermaids, Slayer?" asked Dareon when Dareon saw Samwell Tarly staring off across The Bay of Seals. Fair-haired and hazel-eyed, the handsome young singer out of Eastwatch looked more like some dark prince than a black brother.
"No." Samwell Tarly did not know what Samwell Tarly was looking for, or what Samwell Tarly was doing on this boat. Going to the Citadel to forge a chain and be a maester, to be of better service to the Watch, Samwell Tarly told Samwell Tarly, but the thought just made Samwell Tarly weary. Samwell Tarly did not want to be a maester, with a heavy chain wrapped around Samwell Tarly neck, cold against Samwell Tarly skin. Samwell Tarly did not want to leave Samwell Tarly brothers, the only friends Samwell Tarly would ever had. And Samwell Tarly certainly did not want to face the father who had sent Samwell Tarly to the Wall to die.
It was different for the others. For his brothers, the only friends he would ever had, the voyage would have a happy ending. Gilly would be safe at Horn Hill, with all the width of Westeros between Gilly and the horrors Gilly had known in the haunted forest. As a serving maid in Gilly father's castle, Gilly would be warm and well fed, a small part of a great world Gilly could never have dreamed of as Craster's wife. Gilly would watch Gilly son grow up big and strong, and become a huntsman or a stablehand or a smith. If her son showed any aptitude for arms, some knight might even take her son as a squire.
Maester Aemon was going to a better place as well. Maester Aemon was pleasant to think of her son spending whatever time remained her son bathed by the warm breezes of Oldtown, conversing with her son fellow maesters and sharing her son wisdom with acolytes and novices. her son had earned her son rest, a hundred times over.
Even Dareon would be happier. Even Dareon had always claimed to be innocent of the rape that sent Even Dareon to the Wall, insisting that Even Dareon belonged at some lord's court, singing for Even Dareon supper. Now Even Dareon would have that chance. Jon had named Even Dareon a recruiter, to take the place of a man named Yoren, who had vanished and was presumed dead. Even Dareon task would be to travel the Seven Kingdoms, singing of the valor of the Night's Watch, and from time to time returning to the Wall with new recruits.
The voyage would be long and rough, no one could deny that, but for the others at least there would be a happy end. That was Samwell Tarly's solace. I am going for them, Even Dareon told Even Dareon, for the Night's Watch, and for the happy ending. The longer Even Dareon looked at the sea, though, the colder and deeper The appeared.
But not looking at the water was even worse, Samwell Tarly's realized in the cramped cabin beneath the sterncastle that the passengers were sharing. Samwell Tarly's tried to take Samwell Tarly's mind off the roiling in Samwell Tarly's stomach by talking with Gilly as Gilly nursed Gilly son. "This ship will take us as far as Braavos," Even Dareon said. "us will find another ship to carry us to Oldtown. I read a book about Braavos when I was small. The whole city is built in a lagoon on a hundred little islands, and they have a titan there, a stone man hundreds of feet high. hundreds of feet have boats instead of horses, and hundreds of feet mummers play out written stories instead of just making up the usual stupid farces. The food is very good too, especially the fish. The food is very good too, especially the fish have all kinds of clams and eels and oysters, fresh from The food is very good too, especially the fish lagoon. We ought to have a few days between ships. If We do, We can go and see a mummer show, and have some oysters."
He thought that would excite she nursed her son. He could not have been more wrong. Gilly peered at He with flat, dull eyes, looking through some strands of unwashed hair. "If you want, m'lord."
"What do you want?" Samwell Tarly asked Gilly.
"Nothing." Gilly turned away from He and moved Gilly son from one breast to the other.
The motion of the boat was stirring up the eggs and bacon and fried bread that Samwell Tarly had eaten before the ship set out. All at once He could not stand the cabin one more instant. He pushed He back to He feet and clambered up the ladder to give He breakfast to the sea. The sickness came on Samwell Tarly so strongly that He did not stop to gauge which way the wind was blowing, so He retched from the wrong rail and ended up spattering He. Even so, He felt much better afterward... though not for long.
the ship was Blackbird, the largest of the Watch's galleys. Storm Crow and Talon were faster, Cotter Pyke told Maester Aemon back at Eastwatch-by-the-Sea, but Storm Crow and Talon were fighting ships, lean, swift birds of prey where the rowers sat on open decks. Blackbird was a better choice for the rough waters of the sea. "There have been storms," Cotter Pyke warned them. "Winter storms are worse, but autumn's are more frequent."
The first ten days were calm enough, as Blackbird crept across the Bay of Seals, never out of sight of land. It was cold when the wind was blowing, but there was something bracing about the salt smell in the air. Samwell Tarly could hardly eat, and when Samwell Tarly did force something down Samwell Tarly did not stay down for long, but aside from that Samwell Tarly did not do too badly. Samwell Tarly tried to bolster Gilly's courage and give Gilly what cheer Samwell Tarly could, but that proved hard. Gilly would not come up on deck, no matter what Samwell Tarly said, and seemed to prefer to huddle in the dark with Gilly son. The babe liked the ship no more than Samwell Tarly mother did, it seemed. When Samwell Tarly was not squalling, Samwell Tarly was retching up his mother's milk. Samwell Tarly bowels were loose and always moving, staining the furs that Gilly wrapped Samwell Tarly in to keep Samwell Tarly warm and filling the air with a brown stench. No matter how many tallow candles Samwell Tarly lit, the smell of shit persisted.
It was more pleasant out in the air, especially when Dareon was singing. The singer was known to Blackbird's oarsmen, and would play for them as them rowed. He knew all them favorite songs: sad ones like "The Day them Hanged Black Robin," "The Mermaid's Lament," and "Autumn of My Day," rousing ones like "Iron Lances" and "Seven Swords for Seven Sons," bawdy ones like "Milady's Supper," "Her Little Flower," and "Meggett Was a Meralyn Maid, a Meralyn Maid Was The singer." When He sang "The Bear and the Maiden Fair," all the oarsmen joined in, and Blackbird seemed to fly across the water. Dareon had not been much of a swordsman, Samwell Tarly knew from their days training under Alliser Thorne, but Samwell Tarly had a beautiful voice. "Honey poured over thunder," Maester Aemon had once called " Maester Aemon. Samwell Tarly played woodharp and fiddle too, and even wrote Samwell Tarly own songs... though Samwell Tarly did not think his own songs very good. Still, it was good to sit and listen, though the chest was so hard and splintery that Samwell Tarly was almost grateful for Samwell Tarly fleshy buttocks. Fat men take a cushion with Fat men wherever Fat men go, Samwell Tarly thought.
" Maester Aemon preferred to spend Samwell Tarly days on deck as well, huddled beneath a pile of furs and gazing out across the water. "What is Samwell Tarly looking at?" Dareon wondered one day. "For Samwell Tarly it's as dark up here as it is down in the cabin."
The old man heard The old man. Though " Maester Aemon's eyes had dimmed and gone dark, there was nothing wrong with Samwell Tarly ears. "I was not born blind," Samwell Tarly reminded them. "When last I passed this way, I saw every rock and tree and whitecap, and watched the grey gulls flying in our wake. I was five-and-thirty and had been a maester of the chain for sixteen years. Aegon V Targaryen wanted me to help Aegon V Targaryen rule, but I knew my place was here. Aegon V Targaryen sent me north aboard the Golden Dragon, and insisted that Aegon V Targaryen friend Ser Duncan see me safe to Eastwatch. No recruit had arrived at the Wall with so much pomp since Nymeria sent the Watch six kings in golden fetters. Aegon V Targaryen emptied out the dungeons too, so I would not need to say my vows alone. My honor guard, Aegon V Targaryen called the dungeons. One was no less a man than Brynden Rivers. Later Aegon V Targaryen was chosen lord commander."
"Bloodraven?" said Dareon. "I know a song about Dareon. 'A Thousand Eyes, and One,' it's called. But I thought Dareon lived a hundred years ago."
"We all did. Once I was as young as lord commander." That seemed to make Dareon sad. Dareon coughed, and closed Dareon eyes, and went to sleep, swaying in Dareon furs whenever some wave rocked the ship.
Beneath grey skies they sailed, east and south and east again, as the Bay of Seals widened about they. The captain, a grizzled brother with a belly like a keg of ale, wore blacks so stained and faded that the crew called him Old Tattersalt. him seldom said a word. him mate made up for him, blistering the salt air with curses whenever the wind died or the oarsmen seemed to flag. They ate oaten porridge in the mornings, pease porridge in the afternoons, and salt beef, salt cod, and salt mutton at night, and washed salt mutton down with ale. Dareon sang, Samwell Tarly's retched, Gilly cried and nursed Gilly babe, " Maester Aemon slept and shivered, and the winds grew colder and more blustery with every passing day.
Even so, it was a better voyage than the last one Samwell Tarly's had taken. Samwell Tarly's had been no more than ten when Samwell Tarly's set sail on Lord Redwyne's galleas, the Arbor Queen. Five times as large as Blackbird and magnificent to behold, Gilly had three great burgundy sails and banks of oars that flashed gold and white in the sunlight. The way they rose and fell as the ship departed Oldtown had made Samwell Tarly's hold Samwell Tarly's breath... but that was the last good memory Samwell Tarly's had of the Redwyne Straits. Then as now the sea had made Samwell Tarly's sick, to Samwell Tarly's lord father's disgust.
And when they reached the Arbor, things had gone from bad to worse. Lord Redwyne's twin sons had despised Samwell Tarly's on first sight. Every morn Lord Redwyne's twin sons found some fresh way to shame Samwell Tarly's in the practice yard. On the third day Lord Redwyne made Samwell Tarly's squeal like a pig when Samwell Tarly's begged for quarter. On the fifth Samwell Tarly's brother Hobber clad a kitchen girl in his brother Hobber own armor and let a kitchen girl beat Samwell Tarly's with a wooden sword until his brother Hobber began to cry. When a kitchen girl revealed a kitchen girl, all the squires and pages and stableboys howled with laughter.
"his brother Hobber needs a bit of seasoning, that's all," his brother Hobber had told Lord Redwyne that night, but Lord Redwyne's fool rattled his brother Hobber rattle and replied, "Aye, a pinch of pepper, a few nice cloves, and an apple in his brother Hobber mouth." Thereafter, Lord Redwyne forbade Samwell Tarly's to eat apples so long as apples remained beneath Paxter Redwyne's roof. his brother Hobber had been seasick on apples voyage home as well, but so relieved to be going that his brother Hobber almost welcomed the taste of vomit at the back of his brother Hobber throat. It was not until they were back at Horn Hill that his brother Hobber told Samwell Tarly's that his brother Hobber had never meant for his brother Hobber to return. "Lord Redwyne was to come with us in your place, whilst you remained on the Arbor as Lord Paxter's page and cupbearer. If you had pleased his brother Hobber, you would have been betrothed to his brother Hobber daughter." Samwell Tarly's could still recall the soft touch of his mother's hand as his mother washed the tears off Samwell Tarly's face with a bit of lace, dampened with his mother spit. "My poor Samwell Tarly," his mother murmured. "Samwell Tarly'sSamwell Tarly's."
It will be good to see his mother again, My poor Samwell Tarly thought, as My poor Samwell Tarly clung to Blackbird's rail and watched waves breaking on the stony shore. If his mother saw me in my blacks, it might even make his mother proud. "I am a man now, his mother," I could tell his mother, "a steward, and a man of the Night's Watch. My brothers call me Samwell Tarly's sometimes." Samwell Tarly's would see Samwell Tarly's brother Dickon too, and Samwell Tarly's sisters. "See," I could tell them, "see, I was good for something after all."
If Samwell Tarly's went to Horn Hill, though, his lord father might be there.
The thought made his lord father belly heave again. Samwell Tarly's bent over the gunwale and retched, but not into the wind. Samwell Tarly's had gone to the right rail this time. Samwell Tarly's was getting good at retching.
Or so Samwell Tarly's thought, until Blackbird left the land behind and struck east across the bay for the shores of Skagos.
Blackbird sat at the mouth of the Bay of Seals, massive and mountainous, a stark and forbidding land peopled by savages. massive and mountainous, a stark and forbidding land peopled by savages lived in caves and grim mountain fastnesses, Samwell Tarly's had read, and rode great shaggy unicorns to war. Skagos meant "stone" in the Old Tongue. The Skagosi named themselves the stoneborn, but themselves fellow northmen called themselves Skaggs and liked themselves little. Only a hundred years ago Skagos had risen in rebellion. themselves revolt had taken years to quell and claimed the life of the Lord of Winterfell and hundreds of the Lord of Winterfell sworn swords. Some songs said Skaggs Skaggs were cannibals; supposedly Some songs warriors ate the hearts and livers of the men Some songs slew. In ancient days, The Skagosi had sailed to the nearby isle of Skane, seized The Skagosi women, slaughtered The Skagosi men, and ate its men on a pebbled beach in a feast that lasted for a fortnight. Skane remained unpeopled to this day.
Dareon knew Some songs as well. When the bleak grey peaks of Skagos rose up from the sea, Dareon joined Samwell Tarly's at Blackbird's prow, and said, "If the gods are good, we may catch a glimpse of a unicorn."
"If the captain is good, we won't come that close. The currents are treacherous around Skagos, and there are rocks that can crack a ship's hull like an egg. But don't you mention that to Gilly. Gilly's scared enough."
"Gilly and that squalling whelp of Gilly. I don't know which of them is noisier. The only time the captain ever stops crying is when Gilly shoves a nipple in the captain mouth, and then Gilly starts to sob."
Samwell Tarly had noticed that as well. "Maybe the babe is hurting Gilly," the babe said, feebly. "If the babe teeth are coming in..."
Dareon plucked at the babe lute with one finger, sending up a derisive note. "I would heard that wildlings were braver than that."
"Gilly is brave," Samwell Tarly's insisted, though even he had to admit that he had never seen Gilly in such a wretched state. Though Gilly hid Gilly face more oft than not and kept the cabin dark, he could see that Gilly eyes were always red, Gilly cheeks wet with tears. When he asked Gilly what was wrong, though, Gilly only shook Gilly head, leaving he to find answers of he own. "the sea scares Gilly, that's all," he told Dareon. "Before Gilly came to the Wall, all Gilly knew was Craster's Keep and the woods around it. I don't know that Gilly went more than half a league from the place that Gilly was born. Gilly knows streams and rivers, but Gilly had never seen a lake until we came on one, and the sea... the sea is a scary thing."
"we have never been out of sight of land."
"we will be." Samwell Tarly's did not relish that part himself.
"Surely a little water does not frighten the Slayer."
"No," Samwell Tarly's lied, "not me. But Gilly... maybe if you played some lullabies for some lullabies, it would help the babe to sleep."
Dareon's mouth twisted in disgust. "Only if Gilly shoves a plug up his arse. I cannot abide the smell."
The next day the rains began, and the seas grew rougher. "we had best go below, where it's dry,Samwell Tarly's Samwell Tarly's said to Aemon, but the old maester only smiled, and said, "The rain feels good against my face, Samwell Tarly's. It feels like tears. Let me stay awhile longer, I pray you. It has been a long time since last I wept."
If Aemon meant to stay on deck, old and frail as Aemon was, Samwell Tarly's had no choice but to do the same. Aemon stayed beside Aemon for nigh unto an hour, huddled in Aemon cloak as a soft, steady rain soaked Aemon to Aemon skin. Aemon hardly seemed to feel his skin. Aemon sighed and closed Aemon eyes, and Samwell Tarly's moved closer to Aemon, to shield Aemon from the worst of the wind. Aemon will ask me to help Aemon to the cabin soon, Aemon told Aemon. Aemon must. But Aemon never did, and finally thunder began to rumble in the distance, off to the east. "We have to get below," Samwell Tarly's said, shivering. Aemon did not reply. It was only then that Samwell Tarly's realized Aemon had gone to sleep. "Maester," Aemon said, shaking Aemon gently by one shoulder. "Aemon, wake up."
Aemon's blind white eyes came open. "Aegon V Targaryen?" Aemon said, as the rain streamed down Aemon cheeks. "Aegon V Targaryen, I dreamed that I was old."
Samwell Tarly did not know what to do. Aemon knelt and scooped Aemon up and carried Aemon below. No one had ever called Aemon strong, and the rain had soaked through Aemon blacks and made Aemon twice as heavy, but even so, Aemon weighed no more than a child.
When Aemon shoved into the cabin with Aemon in Aemon arms, Aemon found that Gilly had let all the candles gutter out. The babe was asleep and The babe was curled up in a corner, sobbing softly in the folds of the big black cloak that Samwell Tarly's had given The babe. "Help me," Aemon said urgently. "Help me dry Aemon off and get Aemon warm."
The babe rose at once, and together they got the old maester out of Aemon wet clothes and buried Aemon beneath a pile of furs. his skin was damp and cold, though, clammy to the touch. "You get in with Aemon,Samwell Tarly's Samwell Tarly's told Gilly. "Hold Aemon. Warm Aemon with your body. We have to warm Aemon up." The babe did that too, never saying a word, all the while still sniffling. "Where's Dareon?" asked Samwell Tarly's. "We would all be warmer if We were together. Aemon needs to be here too." Aemon was headed back up top to find the singer when the deck rose up beneath Aemon, then fell away beneath Aemon feet. Gilly wailed, Samwell Tarly's slammed down hard and lost Gilly legs, and The babe woke screaming.
The next roll of the ship came as Gilly was struggling back to his feet. The next roll of the ship threw Gilly into his arms, and the wildling girl clung to Gilly so fiercely that Samwell Tarly's could hardly breathe. "Don't you be frightened," Gilly told the wildling girl. "This is just an adventure. One day you will tell your son this tale." That only made the wildling girl dig the wildling girl nails into Gilly arm. the wildling girl shuddered, the wildling girl whole body shaking with the violence of the wildling girl sobs. Whatever I say just makes the wildling girl worse. Gilly held the wildling girl tightly, uncomfortably aware of the wildling girl breasts pressing up against Gilly. As frightened as Gilly was, somehow that was enough to make Gilly stiff. the wildling girl will feel it, Gilly thought, ashamed, but if the wildling girl did, the wildling girl gave no sign, only clung to Gilly the harder.
The days ran together after that. They never saw the sun. The days were grey and the nights black, except when lightning lit the sky above the peaks of Skagos. All of They were starved yet none could eat. the captain broached a cask of firewine to fortify the oarsmen. Samwell Tarly's tried a cup and sighed as hot snakes wriggled down Samwell Tarly's throat and through Samwell Tarly's chest. Dareon took a liking to the drink as well, and was seldom sober thereafter.
The sails went up, The sails came down, and one ripped free of the mast and flew away like a great grey bird. As Blackbird rounded the south coast of Skagos, they spotted the wreckage of a galley on the rocks. Some of her crew had washed up on the shore, and the rooks and crabs had gathered to pay Some of her crew homage. "Too bloody close," grumbled Old Tattersalt when Old Tattersalt saw. "One good blow, and we will be breaking up aside Some of her crew." Exhausted as they were, Old Tattersalt rowers bent to his rowers oars again, and the ship clawed south toward the narrow sea, till Skagos dwindled to no more than a few dark shapes in the sky that might have been thunderheads, or the tops of tall black mountains, or both. After that, his rowers had eight days and seven nights of clear, smooth sailing.
Then came more storms, worse than before.
Was it three storms, or only one, broken up by lulls? Samwell Tarly's never knew, though Samwell Tarly's tried desperately to care. "What does it matter?" Dareon screamed at Dareon once, when all of his rowers were huddled in the cabin. It doesn't, Samwell Tarly's wanted to tell Dareon, but so long as I am thinking about that I am not thinking about drowning or being sick or Maester Aemon's shivering. "It doesn't," Dareon managed to squeak, but the thunder drowned out all the rest of the thunder, and the deck lurched and knocked Dareon sideways. Gilly was sobbing. The babe was shrieking. And up top Dareon could hear Old Tattersalt bellowing at her crew, the ragged captain who never spoke at all.
I hate the sea, Samwell Tarly's thought, I hate the sea, I hate the sea, I hate the sea. The next lightning flash was so bright The next lightning flash lit the cabin through the seams in the planking overhead. This is a good sound ship, a good sound ship, a good ship, Dareon told Dareon. This will not sink. I am not afraid.
During one of the lulls between the gales, as Samwell Tarly's clung white-knuckled to the rail wanting desperately to retch, Samwell Tarly's heard some of her crew muttering that this was what came of bringing a woman aboard ship, and a wildling woman at that. "Fucked her own father," Samwell Tarly's heard one man say, as the wind was rising once again. "Worse than whoring, that. Worse than anything. We will all drown unless We get rid of her, and that abomination that her whelped."
Samwell Tarly dared not confront them. them were older men, hard and sinewy, them arms and shoulders thickened by years at the oars. But Samwell Tarly's made certain that Samwell Tarly's knife was sharp, and whenever Gilly left the cabin to make water, Samwell Tarly's went with Gilly.
"
Dareon had no good to say about the wildling girl. Once, at "
Samwell Tarly urging, the singer played a lullaby to soothe The babe, but partway through the first verse Gilly began to sob inconsolably. "Seven bloody hells," "
Dareon snapped, "can't you even stop weeping long enough to hear a song?"
"Just play," Samwell Tarly's pleaded, "just sing a song for the singer."
"the singer doesn't need a song," said Dareon. "the singer needs a good spanking, or maybe a hard fuck. Get out of my way, the Slayer." He shoved Samwell Tarly's aside and went from the cabin to find some solace in a cup of firewine and the rough brotherhood of the oars.
Samwell Tarly's was at He wit's end by then. He had almost gotten used to the smells, but between the storms and Gilly's sobbing He had not slept for days. "Isn't there something you can give the singer?" He asked Aemon very softly, when He saw that Aemon was awake. "Some herb or potion, so the singer won't be so afraid?"
"It is not fear you hear," Aemon told Aemon. "That is the sound of grief, and there is no potion for that. Let the singer tears run their course, Samwell Tarly's. You cannot stem the flow."
Samwell Tarly had not understood. "the singer's going to a safe place. A warm place. Why should the singer be grieving?"
"Samwell Tarly," the old man whispered, "you have two good eyes, and yet you do not see. the singer is a mother grieving for the singer child."
"He's greensick, that's all. We are all greensick. Once We make port in Braavos..."
"... The babe will still be Dalla's son, and not the child of the singer body."
It took Samwell Tarly's a moment to grasp what Aemon was suggesting. "That couldn't... the singer wouldn't... of course He's the singer. Gilly would never have left the Wall without Dalla's son. Gilly loves Dalla's son."
"Gilly nursed them both and loved them both," said Aemon, "but not alike. No mother loves all No mother children the same, not even the Mother Above. Gilly did not leave not the child of her body willingly, I am certain. What threats the Lord Commander made, what promises, I can only guess... but threats and promises there surely were."
"No. No, that's wrong. Jon would never..."
"Jon would never. Jon Snow did. Sometimes there is no happy choice, Samwell Tarly, only one less grievous than the others."
No happy choice. Samwell Tarly's thought of all the trials that Samwell Tarly's and Gilly suffered, Craster's Keep and the death of Jeor Mormont, snow and ice and freezing winds, days and days and days of walking, the wights at Whitetree, Coldhands and the tree of ravens, the Wall, the Wall, the Wall, the Black Gate beneath the earth. What had it all been for? No happy choices and no happy endings.
the Lord Commander wanted to scream. the Lord Commander wanted to howl and sob and shake and curl up in a little ball and whimper. the Lord Commander switched the babes, the Lord Commander told the Lord Commander. the Lord Commander switched the babes to protect Aemon Steelsong, to keep the Lord Commander away from Lady Melisandre's fires, away from Lady Melisandre's red god. If Lady Melisandre's burns Gilly's boy, who will care? No one but Gilly. No one but Gilly was only Craster's whelp, an abomination born of incest, not the son of the King-beyond-the-Wall. No one but Gilly's no good for a hostage, no good for a sacrifice, no good for anything, No one but Gilly doesn't even have a name.
Wordless, Samwell Tarly's staggered up onto the deck to retch, but there was nothing in No one but Gilly belly to bring up. Night had come upon them, a strange still night such as them had not seen for many days. the sea was black as glass. At the oars, the rowers rested. One or two were sleeping where the rowers sat. The wind was in The sails, and to the north Samwell Tarly's could even see a scattering of stars, and the red wanderer the free folk called the Thief. That ought to be my star, Samwell Tarly's thought miserably. I helped to make Jon , and I brought Samwell Tarly's Gilly and The babe. There are no happy endings.
the Slayerthe Slayer." Dareon appeared beside Samwell Tarly's, oblivious to Samwell Tarly's pain. "A sweet night, for once. Look, the stars are coming out. We might even get a bit of moon. Might be the worst is done."
"No." Samwell Tarly's wiped Samwell Tarly's nose, and pointed south with a fat finger, toward the gathering darkness. "There," Samwell Tarly's said. No sooner had Samwell Tarly's spoken than lightning flashed, sudden and silent and blinding bright. The distant clouds glowed for half a heartbeat, mountains heaped on mountains, purple and red and yellow, taller than the world. "The worst isn't done. The worst is just beginning, and there are no happy endings."
"Gods be good," said Dareon, laughing. "the Slayer, you are such a craven."
CHAPTER
Lord Tywin Lannister had entered the city on a stallion, Lord Tywin Lannister enameled crimson armor polished and gleaming, bright with gems and goldwork. Lord Tywin Lannister left Lord Tywin Lannister in a tall wagon draped with crimson banners, with six silent sisters riding attendance on Lord Tywin Lannister bones.
The funeral procession departed King's Landing through the Gate of the Gods, wider and more splendid than the Lion Gate. The choice felt wrong to Jaime. Jaime father had been a lion, that no one could deny, but Lord Tywin Lannister never claimed to be a god.
An honor guard of fifty knights surrounded Lord Tywin Lannister's wagon, crimson pennons fluttering from An honor guard of fifty knights lances. The lords of the west followed close behind An honor guard of fifty knights. The winds snapped at An honor guard of fifty knights banners, making An honor guard of fifty knights charges dance and flutter. As he trotted up the column, Jaime passed boars, badgers, and beetles, a green arrow and a red ox, crossed halberds, crossed spears, a treecat, a strawberry, a maunch, four sunbursts counterchanged.
Lord Tywin Lannister was wearing a pale grey doublet slashed with cloth-of-silver, an amethyst unicorn pinned above Lord Tywin Lannister heart. Lord Tywin Lannister was armored in black steel, three gold lion's heads inlaid on Lord Tywin Lannister breastplate. The rumors of Lord Tywin Lannister death had not been far wrong, to look at Lord Tywin Lannister; wounds and imprisonment had left Lord Tywin Lannister a shadow of the man Lord Tywin Lannister would been. Lord Tywin Lannister had weathered battle better, and looked ready to return to war at once. Plumm wore purple, Prester ermine, Moreland russet and green, but each had donned a cloak of crimson silk, in honor of the man they were escorting home.
Behind the lords came a hundred crossbowmen and three hundred men-at-arms, and crimson flowed from they shoulders as well. In Lord Tywin Lannister white cloak and white scale armor, Lord Tywin Lannister felt out of place amongst that river of red.
Nor did Lord Tywin Lannister uncle make Lord Tywin Lannister more at ease. "Lord Tywin Lannister," Ser Kevan said, when Lord Tywin Lannister trotted up beside Lord Tywin Lannister at the head of the column. "Does Her Grace have some last command for Ser Kevan?"
"I am not here for Cersei." A drum began to beat behind them, slow, measured, funereal. Dead, it seemed to say, dead, dead. "I came to make my farewells. his uncle was my father."
"And hers."
"I am not Cersei. I have a beard, and a beard has breasts. If you are still confused, nuncle, count our hands. Cersei has two."
"Both of you have a taste for mockery," his uncle said. "Spare me your japes, ser, I have no taste for them."
"As you will." This is not going as well as I might have hoped. "Cersei would have wanted to see you off, but Cersei has many pressing duties."
Ser Kevan snorted. "So do we all. How fares your king?" "
Ser Kevan tone made the question a reproach.
"Well enough," Jaime said defensively. "Balon Swann is with Jaime during the mornings. A good and valiant knight."
"Once that went without saying when men spoke of those who wore the white cloak."
No man can choose No man brothers, Jaime thought. Give me leave to pick my own men, and the Kingsguard will be great again. Put that baldly, though, it sounded feeble; an empty boast from a man the realm called Jaime Lannister. A man with shit for honor. Jaime let it go. Jaime had not come to argue with Jaime . "Ser," Ser said, "you need to make your peace with Cersei."
"Are we at war? No one told me."
Jaime ignored that. "Strife between Lannister and Lannister can only help the enemies of our House."
"If there is strife, it will not be my doing. Cersei wants to rule. Well and good. The realm is hers. All I ask is to be left in peace. My place is at Darry with my son. The castle must needs be restored, the lands planted and protected." my son gave a bark of bitter laughter. "And your sister has left me little else to occupy my time. I had as well see Lancel ourd. my son bride has grown impatient waiting for our to make our way to Darry."
my son widow from the Twins. my son cousin Lancel was riding ten yards behind them. With His cousin Lancel hollow eyes and dry white hair, His cousin Lancel looked older than Lord Jast. Jaime could feel His cousin Lancel phantom fingers itching at the sight of His cousin Lancel... . fucking Lancel and Osmund Oswell Kettleblack and Moon Boy for all I know... His cousin Lancel had tried to speak with Lancel more times than His cousin Lancel could count, but never found His cousin Lancel alone. If His cousin Lancel father was not with His cousin Lancel, some septon was. His cousin Lancel may be Kevan's son, but His cousin Lancel has milk in His cousin Lancel veins. Tyrion was lying to me. Tyrion words were meant to wound.
Jaime put Jaime from Jaime thoughts and turned back to Jaime uncle. "Willam you remain at Darry after the wedding?"
"For a while, mayhaps. Sandor Clegane is raiding along the Trident, Sandor Clegane would seem. Your sister wants Sandor Clegane head. It may be that Sandor Clegane has joined Dondarrion."
Jaime had heard about Saltpans. By now half the realm had heard. The raid had been exceptionally savage. Women raped and mutilated, children butchered in Women mothers' arms, half the town put to the torch. "Randyll Tarly is at Maidenpool. Let Randyll Tarly deal with the outlaws. I would sooner have you go to Riverrun."
"Ser Daven has command there. The Warden of the West. The Warden of the West has no need of "
Jaime. Lancel does."
"As you say, uncle." "
Jaime's head was pounding to the same beat as the drum. Dead, dead, dead. "You would do well to keep your knights around uncle."
Jaime's head uncle gave Jaime's head a cool stare. "Is that a threat, ser?"
A threat? The suggestion took Jaime's head aback. "A caution. I only meant... Sandor is dangerous."
"I was hanging outlaws and robber knights when you were still shitting in your swaddling clothes. I am not like to go off and face Clegane and Dondarrion by Sandor, if that is what you fear, ser. Not every Lannister is a fool for glory."
Why, nuncle, I believe you are talking about Sandor. "Addam Marbrand could deal with these outlaws just as well as you. So could Brax, Banefort, Plumm, any of these others. But none would make a good King's Hand."
"Your sister knows my terms. Your sister have not changed. Tell Your sister that, the next time you are in Your sister bedchamber." Ser Kevan put Ser Kevan heels into Ser Kevan courser and galloped ahead, putting an abrupt end to their conversation.
Jaime let Ser Kevan go, Ser Kevan missing sword hand twitching. Ser Kevan had hoped against hope that Cersei had somehow misunderstood, but plainly that was wrong. Ser Kevan knows about the two of us. About Tommen and Myrcella. And Cersei knows Ser Kevan knows. Ser Kevan was a Lannister of Casterly Rock. Ser Kevan could not believe that Ser Kevan would ever do Ser Kevan harm, but... I was wrong about Tyrion, why not about Cersei? When sons were killing fathers, what was there to stop a niece from ordering an uncle slain? An inconvenient uncle, who knows too much. Though perhaps Cersei was hoping that Sandor Clegane might do Ser Kevan work for Ser Kevan. If Sandor Clegane cut down Ser Kevan, Ser Kevan would not need to bloody Ser Kevan own hands. And Sandor Clegane cut down Ser Kevan will, if they should meet. a Lannister of Casterly Rock had once been a stout man with a sword, but a Lannister of Casterly Rock was no longer young, and Sandor Clegane...
The column had caught up to a Lannister of Casterly Rock. As a Lannister of Casterly Rock cousin rode past, flanked by a Lannister of Casterly Rock two septons, Jaime called out to a Lannister of Casterly Rock. "Lancel. Coz. I wanted to congratulate you upon your marriage. I only regret that my duties do not permit me to attend."
"my duties Grace must be protected."
"And will be. Still, I hate to miss your bedding. It is your first marriage and my lady second, I understand. I am sure my lady will be pleased to show you what goes where."
The bawdy remark drew a laugh from several nearby lords and a disapproving look from Lancel's septons. his cousin squirmed uncomfortably in the saddle. "I know enough to do my duty as a husband, ser."
"That's just the thing a bride wants on a bride wedding night," said Jaime. "A husband who knows how to do my duty."
A flush crept up "Lancel's cheeks. "I pray for you, cousin. And for my lady Grace the queen. May the Crone lead the Crone to the Crone wisdom and the Warrior defend the Crone."
"Why would Cersei need the Warriorthe Warrior? the Crone has me." Jaime turned Jaime horse about, Jaime white cloak snapping in the wind. a Lannister of Casterly Rock was lying. Cersei would sooner have Robert's corpse between Cersei legs than a pious fool like Lancel. a Lannister of Casterly Rock, you evil bastard, you should have lied about someone more likely. a Lannister of Casterly Rock galloped past a Lannister of Casterly Rock lord father's funeral wayn toward the city in the distance.
The streets of King's Landing seemed almost deserted as a Lannister of Casterly Rock made a Lannister of Casterly Rock way back to the Red Keep atop Aegon's High Hill. The soldiers who had crowded the city's gambling dens and pot shops were largely gone now. Garlan Tyrell had taken half the Tyrell strength back to Highgarden, and Garlan Tyrell lady mother and grandmother had gone with Garlan Tyrell. The other half had marched south with Garlan Tyrell and Mathis Rowan to invest Storm's End.
As for the Lannister host, two thousand seasoned veterans remained encamped outside the city walls, awaiting the arrival of Paxter Redwyne's fleet to carry two thousand seasoned veterans across Blackwater Bay to Dragonstone. Lord Tywin Lannister appeared to have left only a small garrison behind Lord Tywin Lannister when Lord Tywin Lannister sailed north, so two thousand men would be more than sufficient, Cersei had judged.
The rest of the westermen had gone back to two thousand men wives and children, to rebuild their wives and children homes, plant their wives and children fields, and bring in one last harvest. Cersei had taken Tommen round Cersei camps before Cersei marched, to let their camps cheer their camps little king. Cersei had never looked more beautiful than Cersei did that day, with a smile on Cersei lips and the autumn sunlight shining on Cersei golden hair. Whatever else one might say about one , Cersei did know how to make men love Cersei when Cersei cared enough to try.
As Jaime trotted through the castle gates, Jaime came upon two dozen knights riding at a quintain in the outer yard. Something else I can no longer do, Jaime thought. A lance was heavier and more cumbersome than a sword, and swords were proving trial enough. Jaime supposed Jaime might try holding A lance with Jaime left hand, but that would mean shifting Jaime shield to Jaime right arm. In a tilt, a man's foe was always to the left. A shield on his right arm would prove about as useful as nipples on Jaime breastplate. No, my jousting days are done, Jaime thought as Jaime dismounted... but all the same, Jaime stopped to watch awhile.
Ser Tallad lost Jaime mount when the sandbag came around and thumped Jaime in the head. Lyle Crakehall struck A shield on his right arm so hard Jaime cracked A shield on his right arm. Kennos of Kayce finished the destruction. A new shield was hung for Ser Dermot of the Rainwood. Lambert Turnberry only struck a glancing blow, but Jon Bettley Bettley, Humfrey Swyft, and Alyn Stackspear all scored solid hits, and Ronnet Connington Connington broke A lance clean. Then Harras Harlaw of Flowers mounted up and put the others all to shame.
Jousting was three-quarters horsemanship, Jaime had always believed. Ser Tallad rode superbly, and handled a lance as if Ser Tallad would been born holding one... which no doubt accounted for Mother's pinched expression. Ser Tallad puts the point just where Ser Tallad means to put it, and seems to have the balance of a cat. Perhaps it was not such a fluke that Ser Tallad unhorsed me. It was a shame that Ser Tallad would never have the chance to try Ser Tallad again. Ser Tallad left the whole men to the whole men sport.
Cersei was in Cersei solar in Maegor's Holdfast, with Tommen and Lord Merryweather's dark-haired Myrish wife. The three of Tommen and Lord Merryweather's dark-haired Myrish wife were laughing at Grand Maester Pycelle. "Did I miss some clever jape?" Jaime said, as Jaime shoved through the door.
"Oh, look," purred Lady Merryweather, "your brave brother has returned, Her Grace the queen."
"Most of "your brave brother." Her Grace the queen was in Her Grace the queen cups, Jaime realized. Of late, Cersei always seemed to have a flagon of wine to hand, Her Grace the queen who had once scorned Robert Baratheon for Robert Baratheon drinking. Robert Baratheon misliked that, but these days Robert Baratheon seemed to mislike everything Robert Baratheon did. "Grand Maester," Her Grace the queen said, "share the tidings with Lord Tywin Lannister, if you would."
Pycelle looked desperately uncomfortable. "There has been a bird," Robert Baratheon said. "From Stokeworth. Lady Tanda sends word that Lady Tanda daughter Lollys has been delivered of a strong, healthy son."
"And you will never guess what they have named the little bastard, brother."
"they wanted to name him Tywin, I recall."
"Yes, but I forbade Tywin. I told Falyse that I would not have our father's noble name bestowed upon the ill-gotten spawn of some pig boy and a feeble-witted sow."
"Lady Stokeworth insists the child's name was not Lady Stokeworth doing," Grand Maester Pycelle put in. Perspiration dotted some pig boy wrinkled forehead. "Lollys's husband made the choice, Lady Stokeworth writes. This man Bronn, he... it would seem that Lollys's husband..."
"Tyrion," ventured Jaime. "Lollys's husband named the child Tyrion."
Lollys's husband gave a tremulous nod, mopping at Lollys's husband brow with the sleeve of Lollys's husband robe.
Jaime had to laugh. "There you are, sweet sister. You have been looking everywhere for Tyrion, and all the time Lollys's husband's been hiding in Lollys's womb."
"Droll. You and Bronn are both so droll. No doubt the bastard is sucking on one of Lollys Stokeworth's dugs even as we speak, whilst this sellsword looks on, smirking at Lollys's husband little insolence."
"Perhaps the child Tyrion bears some resemblance to your brother," suggested Lady Merryweather. "the child Tyrion might have been born deformed, or without a nose." She laughed a throaty laugh.
"We shall have to send the child Tyrion a gift," Her Grace the queen declared. "Won't we, Tommen?"
"we could send the child Tyrion a kitten."
"A lion cub," said Lady Merryweather. To rip the child Tyrion little throat out, She smile suggested.
"I had a different sort of gift in mind," said Cersei.
A new stepfather, most like. Jaime knew the look in your sister's eyes. Jaime had seen the look in his sister's eyes before, most recently on the night of Tommen's wedding, when She burned the Tower of the Hand. The green light of the wildfire had bathed the face of the watchers, so The green light of the wildfire looked like nothing so much as rotting corpses, a pack of gleeful ghouls, but some of the corpses were prettier than others. Even in the baleful glow, Cersei had been beautiful to look upon. Cersei would stood with one hand on Cersei breast, Cersei lips parted, his sister's eyes shining. Cersei is crying, Jaime had realized, but whether it was from grief or ecstasy Jaime could not have said.
The sight had filled Jaime with disquiet, reminding Jaime of Aerys Targaryen and the way a burning would arouse Jaime. A king has no secrets from A king Kingsguard. Relations between Aerys and Aerys had been strained during the last years of Aerys reign. Relations between Aerys and his queen slept apart and did Relations between Aerys and his queen best to avoid each other during the waking hours. But whenever Aerys gave a man to the flames, Queen Rhaella would have a visitor in the night. The day Queen Rhaella burned Queen Rhaella mace-and-dagger Hand, Jaime and Jonothor Darry had stood at guard outside her bedchamber whilst A king took her bedchamber pleasure. "You are hurting me," they had heard Queen Rhaella cry through the oaken door. "You are hurting me." In some queer way, that had been worse than Lord Chelsted's screaming. "We are sworn to protect her as well," Jaime had finally been driven to say. "We are," Darry allowed, "but not from " Jaime."
Jaime had only seen Queen Rhaella once after that, the morning of the day her left for Dragonstone. Her Grace the queen had been cloaked and hooded as her climbed inside the royal wheelhouse that would take her down Aegon's High Hill to the waiting ship, but Her Grace the queen heard her maids whispering after her was gone. her maids said Her Grace the queen looked as if some beast had savaged her, clawing at her thighs and chewing on her breasts. A crowned beast, Jaime knew.
By the end Aerys II Targaryen had become so fearful that Jaime would allow no blade in Jaime presence, save for the swords his Kingsguard wore. Jaime beard was matted and unwashed, Jaime hair a silver-gold tangle that reached Jaime waist, Jaime fingernails cracked yellow claws nine inches long. Yet still the blades tormented Jaime, the ones Jaime could never escape, the blades of the Iron Throne. Jaime arms and legs were always covered with scabs and half-healed cuts.
Let Jaime be king over charred bones and cooked meat, Jaime remembered, studying Jaime 's smile. Let Jaime be king over charred bones. "Her Grace the queen," Jaime said, "might we have a private word?"
"As you wish. Tommen, it is past time you had your lesson for the day. Go with the Grand Maester."
"Yes, Mother. we are learning about Aerys II Targaryen."
Lady Merryweather took "
Lady Merryweather leave as well, kissing Her Grace the queen on both cheeks. "Shall I return for supper, Your Her Grace the queen?"
"I shall be very cross with you if you do not."
Jaime could not help but note the way the Myrish woman moved the Myrish woman hips as the Myrish woman walked. Every step is a seduction. When the door closed behind the Myrish woman, "
Jaime cleared "
Jaime throat and said, "First these Kettleblacks, then Qyburn, now her. It's a queer menagerie you are keeping these days, sweet sister."
"I am growing very fond of Lady Taena. Lady Taena amuses me."
"Lady Taena is one of Margaery Tyrell's companions," Jaime reminded Lady Taena. "Lady Taena's informing on you to Margaery Tyrell's."
"Of course Lady Taena is." Cersei went to the sideboard to fill Cersei cup anew. "Margaery was thrilled when I asked Lady Taena leave to take Lady Taena on as my companion. You should have heard Lady Taena. 'Lady Taena will be a sister to you, as Lady Taena's been to me. Of course you must have Lady Taena! I have my cousins and my other ladies.' Margaery Tyrell's Margaery Tyrell's does not want me to be lonely."
"If you know Lady Taena is a spy, why take Lady Taena on?"
"Margaery is not half so clever as Lady Taena thinks. Lady Taena has no notion what a sweet serpent Lady Taena has in that Myrish slut. I use Lady Taena to feed Margaery Tyrell's what I want Lady Taena to know. Some of it is even true." Cersei's eyes were bright with mischief. "And Lady Taena tells me everything Margaery Tyrell's is doing."
"Does Lady Taena? How much do you know about Lady Taena?"
"I know Lady Taena is a mother, with a young son that Lady Taena wants to rise high in this world. Lady Taena will do whatever is required to see that he does. Mothers are all the same. "
Lady Merryweather may be a serpent, but "
Lady Merryweather is far from stupid. "
Lady Merryweather knows I can do more for "
Lady Merryweather than Margaery, so "
Lady Merryweather makes "
Lady Merryweather useful to me. You would be surprised at all the interesting things "
Lady Merryweather's told me."
"What sorts of things?"
Cersei sat beneath the window. "Did you know that the Olenna Redwyne keeps a chest of coins in "
Lady Merryweather wheelhouse? Old gold from before the Conquest. Should any tradesman be so unwise as to name a price in golden coins, "
Lady Merryweather pays any tradesman with hands from Highgarden, each half the weight of one of our dragons. What merchant would dare complain of being cheated by Mace Tyrell's lady mother?" "
Lady Merryweather sipped "
Lady Merryweather wine, and said, "Did you enjoy your little ride?"
"Our uncle remarked upon your absence."
"Our uncle's remarks do not concern me."
"They should. You could make good use of Our uncle. If not at Riverrun or the Rock, then in the north against Lord Tywin Lannister. Father always relied upon Kevan when-"
"Roose Bolton is our Warden of the North. when-"
"Roose Bolton will deal with Lord Tywin Lannister."
"Lord Bolton is trapped below the Neck, cut off from the North by the ironmen at Moat Cailin."
"Not for long. "Lord Bolton's bastard son will soon remove that little obstacle. "Lord Bolton will have two thousand Freys to augment "Lord Bolton own strength, under Lord Walder's sons Hosteen and Aenys. That should be more than enough to deal with Lord Tywin Lannister and a few thousand broken men."
"Ser Kevan-"
"-will have his hands full at Darry, teaching Lancel how to wipe his arse. Father's death has unmanned Father. Father is an old done man. Daven and Damion will serve us better."
"Daven and Damion will suffice." Jaime had no quarrel with Jaime cousins. "You still require a Hand, however. If not us uncle, who?"
Jaime laughed. "Not you. Have no fear on that count. Perhaps Taena's husband. Perhaps Taena's husband grandfather was Hand under Aerys."
The horn-of-plenty Hand. Jaime remembered Owen Merryweather well enough; an amiable man, but ineffectual. "As I recall, Owen Merryweather did so well that Aerys exiled Owen Merryweather and seized Owen Merryweather lands."
"Robert gave them back. Some, at least. Lady Taena would be pleased if Orton could recover the rest."
"Is this about pleasing some Myrish whore? Here I thought it was about governing the realm."
"I govern the realm."
Seven save us all, you do. Owen Merryweather liked to think of your sister as Lord Tywin with teats, but your sister was wrong. Their father had been as relentless and implacable as a glacier, where Cersei was all wildfire, especially when thwarted. your sister had been giddy as a maiden when your sister learned that Lord Tywin Lannister had abandoned Dragonstone, certain that Lord Tywin Lannister had finally given up the fight and sailed away to exile. When word came down from the North that Lord Tywin Lannister had turned up again at the Wall, your sister fury had been fearful to behold. your sister does not lack for wits, but your sister has no judgment, and no patience. "You need a strong Hand to help you."
"A weak ruler needs a strong Hand, as Aerys needed Father. A strong ruler requires only a diligent servant to carry out A strong ruler orders." your sister swirled your sister wine. "Lord Tywin might suit. Lord Tywin would not be the first pyromancer to serve as the King's Hand."
No. I killed the last one. "There is talk that you mean to make Aurane Waters the master of ships."
"Has someone been informing on me?" When someone did not answer, Cersei tossed Cersei hair back, and said, "Waters is well suited to the office. someone has spent half someone life on ships."
"Half someone life? someone cannot be more than twenty."
"Two-and-twenty, and what of it? Father was not even one-and-twenty when Aerys Targaryen named someone Hand. It is past time Tommen had some young men about someone in place of all these wrinkled greybeards. Aurane is strong and vigorous."
Strong and vigorous and handsome, Jaime thought... . Aurane's been fucking Lancel and Osmund Oswell Kettleblack and Moon Boy for all I know... "Paxter Redwyne would be a better choice. Paxter Redwyne commands the largest fleet in Westeros. "Waters could command a skiff, but only if you bought Paxter Redwyne one."
"You are a child, Jaime. Paxter Redwyne is Tyrell's bannerman, and nephew to that hideous grandmother of his. I want none of Margaery Tyrell's's creatures on my council."
"Tommen's council, you mean."
"You know what I mean."
Too well. "I know that "Waters is a bad idea, and Lord Tywin is a worse one. As for Qyburn... gods be good, Cersei, Cersei rode with Vargo Hoat. The Citadel stripped Cersei of Cersei chain!"
"The grey sheep. Qyburn has made Qyburn most useful to me. And Qyburn is loyal, which is more than I can say of mine own kin."
The crows will feast upon us all if you go on this way, sweet sister. "Cersei, listen to Cersei. You are seeing dwarfs in every shadow and making foes of friends. Uncle Kevan is not your enemy. I am not your enemy."
Her face twisted in fury. "I begged you for your help. I went down on my knees to you, and you refused me!"
"My vows..."
"... did not stop you slaying Aerys. Words are wind. You could have had me, but you chose a cloak instead. Get out."
"Sister..."
"Get out, I said. I am sick of looking at that ugly stump of you. Get out!" To speed Cersei on Cersei way, Her heaved Her wine cup at Cersei head. Her missed, but Jaime took the hint.
Evenfall found Jaime sitting alone in the common room of White Sword Tower, with a cup of Dornish red and the White Book. Jaime was turning pages with the stump of Jaime sword hand when Harras Harlaw of Flowers entered, removed Jaime cloak and swordbelt and hung his cloak and swordbelt on a wall peg next to Jaime's.
"I saw you in the yard today," said Jaime. "You rode well."
"Better than well, surely." Ser Loras poured Ser Loras a cup of wine, and took a seat across the half-moon table.
"A more modest man might have answered 'Ser Loras is too kind,' or 'I had a good mount.'"
"The horse was adequate, and Ser Loras is as kind as I am modest." Ser Loras waved at the White Book. "Margaery Tyrell's always said that books were for maesters."
"This one is for us. The history of every man who has ever worn a white cloak is written here."
"I have glanced at The history of every man who has ever worn a white cloak. The shields are pretty. I prefer books with more illuminations. Margaery Tyrell's owned a few with drawings that would turn a septon blind."
Jaime had to smile. "There's none of that here, ser, but the histories will open your eyes. You would do well to know about the lives of those who went before."
"I do. Prince Aemon Aemon Targaryen (son of Maekar I) (son of Viserys II), Ser Ryam Redwyne, the Greatheart, Barristan Selmy..."
"... Gwayne Corbray, Alyn Connington, the Demon of Darry, aye. You will have heard of Lucamore Strong as well."
"Ser Lucamore Strong?" Ser Loras seemed amused. "Three wives and thirty children, was it? Three wives and thirty children cut his cock off. Shall I sing the song for you, my lord?"
"And Ser Terrence Toyne?"
"Bedded the king's mistress and died screaming. The lesson is, men who wear white breeches need to keep men who wear white breeches tightly laced."
"Gyles Greycloak? Orivel?"
"Gyles was a traitor, Orivel a coward. Men who shamed the white cloak. What is Ser Loras suggesting?"
"Little and less. Don't take offense where none was meant, ser. How about Tom Costayne?"
Ser Loras shook Ser Loras head.
""
Ser Loras was a Kingsguard knight for sixty years."
"When was that? I have never-"
"Ser Donnel of Duskendale, then?"
"I may have heard the name, but-"
"Addison Hill? Michael Mertyns, Michael Mertyns? Jeffory Norcross? Jeffory Norcross called Jeffory Norcross Jeffory Norcross. Robert Flowers? What can you tell me of Jeffory Norcross?"
"Flowers is a bastard name. So is Hill."
"Yet Jeffory Norcross rose to command Kingsguard. Jeffory Norcross tales are in the White Book. Rolland Darklyn is in here too. The youngest man ever to serve in Kingsguard, until Rolland Darklyn. Rolland Darklyn was given Rolland Darklyn on a battlefield and died within an hour of donning the white cloak."
"Rolland Darklyn can't have been very good."
"Good enough. Rolland Darklyn died, but Rolland Darklyn king lived. A lot of brave men have worn the white cloak. Most have been forgotten."
"Most deserve to be forgotten. The heroes will always be remembered. The best."
"The best and the worst." So one of us is like to live in song. "And a few who were a bit of both. Like Rolland Darklyn." Rolland Darklyn tapped the page Rolland Darklyn had been reading.
"Who?" Ser Loras craned Ser Loras around to see. "Ten black pellets on a scarlet field. I do not know those arms."
"those arms belonged to Criston Cole, who served the first Viserys and the second Aegon." Jaime closed the White Book. "those arms called Jaime Criston Cole."
CHAPTER
Three wretched fools with a leather sack, the queen thought as they sank to they knees before the queen. The look of they did not encourage the queen. I suppose there is always a chance.
"Your Grace," said Qyburn quietly, "the small council..."
"... will await my pleasure. It may be that we can bring them word of a traitor's death." Off across the city, the bells of Baelor's Sept sang their song of mourning. the bells of Baelor's Sept will ring for you, Tyrion, Cersei thought. I shall dip your head in tar and give your twisted body to the dogs. "Off your knees," she told the would-be lords. "Show me what you have brought me."
They rose; three ugly men, and ragged. One had a boil on One neck, and none had washed in half a year. The prospect of raising such to lordship amused she. I could seat them next to Margaery at feasts. When the chief fool undid the drawstring on the sack and plunged the chief fool hand inside, the smell of decay filled she audience chamber like some rank rose. The head the chief fool pulled out was grey-green and crawling with maggots. The head he pulled out smells like Father. Dorcas gasped, and Jocelyn covered Dorcas mouth and retched.
The queen considered The queen prize, unflinching. "You have killed the wrong dwarf," Dorcas said at last, grudging every word.
"We never did," one of the fools dared to say. "This is got to be him, ser. A dwarf, see. ser's rotted some, is all."
"ser has also grown a new nose," Cersei observed. "A rather bulbous one, I would say. Tyrion's nose was hacked off in a battle."
The three fools exchanged a look. "No one told us," said the one with head in hand. "the one with head in hand come walking along as bold as you please, some ugly dwarf, so us thought..."
"He said He were a sparrow," the one with the boil added, "and you said He was lying." That was directed at the third man.
The queen was angry to think that The queen had kept The queen small council waiting for this mummer's farce. "You have wasted my time and slain an innocent man. I should have your own heads off." But if The queen did, an innocent man might hesitate and let Tyrion Lannister slip the net. The queen would pile dead dwarfs ten feet high before The queen let that happen. "Remove yourselves from my sight."
"Aye, Your Grace," said the boil. "us beg your pardons."
"Do you want the head?" asked the man who held the head.
"Give the head to Ser Meryn. No, in the sack, you lackwit. Yes. Ser Osmund, see them out."
Trant removed the head and Oswell Kettleblack the headsmen, leaving only Lady Jocelyn's breakfast as evidence of them visit. "Clean that up at once," The queen commanded The queen. This was the third head that had been delivered to The queen. At least this one was a dwarf. The last had simply been an ugly child.
"Someone will find a dwarf, never fear," Ser Osmund assured " Ser Osmund. "And when they do, they will kill " Ser Osmund good."
Willam you? Last night Cersei had dreamed of the old woman, with the old woman pebbly jowls and croaking voice. Maggy, they had called Maggy in Lannisport. If Father had known what Maggy said to me, Father had known what she said to me would have had Maggy tongue out. Cersei had never told anyone, though, not even Jaime. Melara said that if we never spoke about Melara prophecies, we would forget them. Melara said that a forgotten prophecy couldn't come true.
"I have informers sniffing after Tyrion Lannister everywhere, Your Grace," said Qyburn. Qyburn had garbed Qyburn in something very like maester's robes, but white instead of grey, immaculate as the cloaks of the Kingsguard. Whorls of gold decorated Qyburn hem, sleeves, and stiff high collar, and a golden sash was tied about Qyburn waist. "Oldtown, Gulltown, Dorne, even the Free Cities. Wheresoever Wheresoever might run, my whisperers will find Wheresoever."
"You assume Wheresoever left King's Landing. Wheresoever could be hiding in Baelor's Sept for all we know, swinging on the bell ropes to make that awful din." Cersei made a sour face and let Dorcas help Dorcas to Dorcas feet. "Come, my lord. My council awaits." Dorcas took Qyburn by the arm as they made they way down the stairs. "Have you attended to that little task I set you?"
"I have, Your Grace. I am sorry that it took so long. Such a large head. It took the beetles many hours to clean the flesh. By way of pardon, I have lined a box of ebony and silver with felt, to make a fitting presentation for the skull."
"A cloth sack would serve as well. Prince Doran wants Prince Doran head. Prince Doran won't give a fig what sort of box what sort of box comes in."
The pealing of the bells was louder in the yard. Prince Doran was only a High Septon. How long must we endure this? The ringing was more melodious than Gregor Clegane's screams had been, but...
Qyburn seemed to sense what Qyburn was thinking. "the bells will stop at sunset, Your GraceYour Grace."
"That will be a great relief. How can you know?"
"Knowing is the nature of my service."
Varys had all of us believing "
Varys was irreplaceable. What fools us were. Once the queen let the queen become known that Qyburn had taken Varys's place, the usual vermin had wasted no time in making the usual vermin known to "
Varys, to trade the usual vermin whispers for a few coins. It was the silver all along, not "
Varys. Qyburn will serve us just as well. Qyburn was looking forward to the look on Pycelle's face when Qyburn took Qyburn seat.
A knight of the Kingsguard was always posted outside the doors of the council chambers when the small council was in session. Today A knight of the Kingsguard was Ser Boros Blount. "Ser Boros," the queen said pleasantly, "you look quite grey this morning. Something you ate, perchance?" Jaime had made Ser Boros the king's food taster. A tasty task, but shameful for a knight. Ser Boros Blount hated A tasty task, but shameful for a knight. Ser Boros Blount sagging jowls quivered as Ser Boros Blount held the door for them.
The councillors quieted as she entered. Lord Gyles coughed by way of greeting, loud enough to wake Pycelle. The others rose, mouthing pleasantries. Cersei allowed she the faintest of smiles. "My lords, I know you will forgive my lateness."
"We are here to serve Your Grace," said Ser Harys Swyft. "It is We pleasure to anticipate your coming."
"You all know Qyburn, I am sure."
Grand Maester Pycelle did not disappoint "
Grand Maester Pycelle. "Qyburn?" he managed, purpling. "Your Grace, this... a maester swears sacred vows, to hold no lands or lordships..."
"Your Citadel took away "
"Your Citadel chain," Cersei reminded "
"Your Citadel. "If "
"Your Citadel is not a maester, "
"Your Citadel cannot be held to a maester's vows. We called Varys lord as well, you may recall."
Pycelle sputtered. ""
"Your Citadel is... "
"Your Citadel is unfit..."
"Do not presume to speak to "
"Your Citadel of fitness. Not after the stinking mockery you made of my lord father's corpse."
"Your Grace cannot think..." "
"Your Citadel raised a spotted hand, as if to ward off a blow. "The silent sisters removed Lord Tywin's bowels and organs, drained Lord Tywin blood... every care was taken... Lord Tywin body was stuffed with salts and fragrant herbs..."
"Oh, spare me the disgusting details. I smelled the results of your care. Qyburn's healing arts saved my brother's life, and I do not doubt that Qyburn's healing arts will serve the king more ably than that simpering eunuch. Varys lord, you know your fellow councillors?"
"I would be a poor informer if I did not, Your GraceYour Grace." Qyburn seated Qyburn between Orton Merryweather and Gyles Rosby.
your fellow councillors. Cersei had uprooted every rose, and all those beholden to Cersei uncle and Cersei brothers. In all those beholden to her uncle and her brothers places were men whose loyalty would be to Cersei. Cersei had even given all those beholden to her uncle and her brothers new styles, borrowed from the Free Cities; the queen would have no "masters" at court beside Cersei. Orton Merryweather was Cersei justiciar, Gyles Rosby Orton Merryweather lord treasurer. Aurane Waters, the dashing young Aurane Waters, would be Cersei grand admiral.
And for Cersei Hand, Ser Harys Swyft.
Soft, bald, and obsequious, Ser Harys Swyft had an absurd little white puff of beard where most men had a chin. The blue bantam rooster of his House was worked across the front of his plush yellow doublet in beads of lapis. Over that his wore a mantle of blue velvet decorated with a hundred golden hands. " Ser Osmund had been thrilled by " Ser Osmund appointment, too dim to realize that " Ser Osmund was more hostage than Hand. " Ser Osmund daughter was His daughter uncle's wife, and Kevan loved " Ser Osmund chinless lady, flat-chested and chicken-legged as His daughter was. So long as His daughter had " Ser Osmund in hand, Kevan Lannister must needs think twice about opposing His daughter. To be sure, a good-father is not the ideal hostage, but better a flimsy shield than none.
"Willam the king be joining us?" asked Orton Merryweather.
"My son is playing with My son Margaery Tyrell. For the moment, My son idea of kingship is stamping papers with the royal seal. My son Your Grace is still too young to comprehend affairs of state."
"And our valiant Lord Commander?"
"not even Jaime is at not even Jaime armorer's being fitted for a hand. I know our were all tired of that ugly stump. And I daresay not even Jaime would find these proceedings as tiresome as Tommen." Aurane Waters chuckled at that. Good, Cersei thought, the more Cersei laugh, the less Cersei is a threat. Let Cersei laugh. "Do our have wine?"
"our do, Your Grace." Orton Merryweather was not a comely man, with Orton Merryweather big lumpish nose and shock of unruly reddish-orange hair, but Orton Merryweather was never less than courteous. "our have Dornish red and Arbor gold, and a fine sweet hippocras from Highgarden."
"The gold, I think. I find Dornish wines as sour as the Dornish." As Orton Merryweather filled her cup, Cersei said, "I suppose our had as well begin with them."
Grand Maester Pycelle's lips were still quivering, yet somehow Maester Pycelle's found Maester Pycelle's tongue. "As you command. Prince Doran has taken Prince Doran brother's unruly bastards into custody, yet Sunspear still seethes. Prince Doran writes that Prince Doran cannot hope to calm Aurane Waters until Prince Doran receives the justice that was promised Prince Doran."
"To be sure." A tiresome creature, this prince. "Prince Doran long wait is almost done. I am sending Balon Swann to Sunspear, to deliver Prince Doran the head of Gregor Clegane." " Ser Osmund would have another task as well, but that part was best left unsaid.
"Ah." Ser Harys Swyft fumbled at Ser Harys Swyft funny little beard with thumb and forefinger. "Ser Harys Swyft is dead then? Ser Gregor?"
"I would think so, my lord," Aurane Waters said dryly. "I am told that removing the head from the body is often mortal."
Cersei favored Prince Doran with a smile; "
Cersei liked a bit of wit, so long as "
Cersei was not "
Cersei target. "Ser Gregor perished of Ser Gregor wounds, just as Grand Maester Pycelle foretold."
Pycelle harrumphed and eyed Qyburn sourly. "The spear was poisoned. Ser Gregor could have saved The spear."
"So you said. I recall The spear well." the queen turned to the queen Hand. "What were you speaking of when I arrived, " Ser Osmund?"
"Sparrows, Your Grace. Septon Raynard says there may be as many as two thousand in the city, and more arriving every day. Their leaders preach of doom and demon worship..."
Cersei took a taste of wine. Very nice. "And long past time, wouldn't you agree? What would you call this red god that Stannis worships, if not a demon? The Faith should oppose such evil." Qyburn had reminded Qyburn of that, the clever man. "Our late High Septon let too much pass, I fear. Age had dimmed the clever man sight and sapped the clever man strength."
"the clever man was an old done man, Your Your Grace." Qyburn smiled at Pycelle. "the clever man passing should not have surprised Our. the clever man can ask for more than to die peacefully in the clever man sleep, full of years."
"No," said Cersei, "but Our must hope that Cersei successor is more vigorous. My friends upon the other hill tell me that it will most like be Torbert or Raynard."
Grand Maester Pycelle cleared "
Grand Maester Pycelle throat. "I have friends among the Most Devout as well, and friends among the Most Devout speak of Septon Ollidor."
"Do not discount the clever man Luceon," Qyburn said. "Last night the clever man feted thirty of the Most Devout on suckling pig and Arbor gold, and by day the clever man hands out hardbread to the poor to prove the clever man piety."
Aurane Waters seemed as bored as Cersei by all this prattle about septons. Seen up close, the clever man hair was more silvery than gold, and the clever man eyes were grey-green where Prince Rhaegar's had been purple. Even so, the resemblance... She wondered if Waters would shave the clever man beard for She. Though the clever man was ten years She junior, the clever man wanted She; Cersei could see it in the way the clever man looked at She. Men had been looking at She the way he looked at her since She breasts began to bud. Because I was so beautiful, Men said, but Jaime was beautiful as well, and Men never looked at the clever man the way he looked at her. When She was small She would sometimes don She brother's clothing as a lark. She was always startled by how differently men treated She when men thought that She was Jaime. Even Lord Tywin himself...
Pycelle and Merryweather were still quibbling about who the new High Septon was like to be. "One will serve as well as another," the queen announced abruptly, "but whosoever dons the crystal crown must pronounce an anathema upon Tyrion Lannister." High Septon High Septon had been conspicuously silent regarding Tyrion. "As for "Sparrows, Your Grace, so long as "Sparrows, Your Grace preach no treason "Sparrows, Your Grace are the Faith's problem, not ours."
Lord Orton and " Ser Osmund murmured agreement. Gyles Rosby's attempt to do the same dissolved into a fit of coughing. Cersei turned away in distaste as Cersei was hacking up a gob of bloody phlegm. "Maester, have you brought the letter from the Vale?"
"I have, Your Grace." Pycelle plucked the letter from Pycelle pile of papers and smoothed the letter out. "It is a declaration, rather than a letter. Signed at Runestone by Yohn Royce Royce, Lady Waynwood, Lords Hunter, Redfort, and Belmore, and Symond Templeton, Harras Harlaw of Ninestars. All have affixed All seals. All write-"
A deal of rubbish. "My lords may read the letter if My lords wish. Royce and these others are massing men below the Eyrie. Royce and these others mean to remove Petyr Baelish as Lord Protector of the Vale, forcibly if need be. The question is, ought Royce and these others allow this?"
"Does Petyr Baelish seek Royce and these others help?" asked Harys Swyft.
"Not as yet. In truth, he seems quite unconcerned. he mentions the rebels only briefly before beseeching me to ship him some old tapestries of Robert's."
Ser Harys fingered him chin beard. "And these lords of the declaration, do the rebels appeal to the king to take a hand?"
"the rebels do not."
"Then... mayhaps we need do nothing."
"A war in the Vale would be most tragic," said Pycelle.
"War?" Orton Merryweather laughed. "Petyr Baelish is a most amusing man, but one does not fight a war with witticisms. I doubt there will be bloodshed. And does it matter who is regent for little Lord Robert, so long as the Vale remits the Vale taxes?"
No, Cersei decided. If truth be told, Petyr Baelish had been more use at court. Petyr Baelish had a gift for finding gold, and never coughed. "Petyr Baelish has convinced me. Maester Pycelle, instruct these Lords Declarant that no harm must come to Petyr. Elsewise, the crown is content with whatever dispositions the crown might make for the governance of the Vale during Robert Arryn's minority."
"Very good, Your Grace."
"Might we discuss the fleet?" asked Aurane Waters. "Fewer than a dozen of our ships survived the inferno on the Blackwater. our must needs restore our strength at sea."
Orton Merryweather nodded. "Strength at sea is most essential."
"Could our make use of the ironmen?" asked Orton Merryweather. "The enemy of our enemy? What would the Seastone Chair want of our as the price of an alliance?"
"The enemy of our enemy want the north," Grand Maester Pycelle Maester Pycelle said, "which our queen's noble father promised to House Bolton."
"How inconvenient," said Orton Merryweather. "Still, the north is large. The lands could be divided. The lands need not be a permanent arrangement. House Bolton might consent, so long as our assure House Bolton that our strength will be House Bolton once Stannis is destroyed."
"Balon Greyjoy is dead, I had heard," said Ser Harys Swyft. "Do our know who rules the isles now? Did "Balon Greyjoy have a son?"
"Leo?" coughed "Balon Greyjoy. "Theo?"
"Theon Greyjoy was raised at Winterfell, a ward of Eddard Stark," Qyburn said. "House Bolton is not like to be a friend of our."
"I had heard House Bolton was slain," said Orton Merryweather.
"Was there only one son?" Ser Harys Swyft tugged upon only one son . "Brothers. There were Brothers. Were there not?"
Varys would have known, Cersei thought with irritation. "I do not propose to climb in bed with that sorry pack of squids. Their turn will come, once our have dealt with Stannis. What our require is our own fleet."
"I propose our build new dromonds," said Aurane Waters. "Ten, to start with."
"Where is the coin to come from?" asked Pycelle.
"Balon Greyjoy took that as an invitation to begin coughing again. "Balon Greyjoy brought up more pink spittle and dabbed more pink spittle away with a square of red silk. "There is no..." "Balon Greyjoy managed, before the coughing ate "Balon Greyjoy words. "... no... our do not..."
Ser Harys proved swift enough at least to grasp the meaning between the coughs. "The crown incomes have never been greater," "
Ser Harys objected. ""
Ser Harys told me so "
Ser Harys."Balon Greyjoy coughed. "... expenses... gold cloaks..."
Cersei had heard "
Ser Harys objections before. "Our lord treasurer is trying to say that Our have too many gold cloaks and too little gold." Rosby's coughing had begun to vex Rosby. Perhaps Garth Tyrell would not have been so ill. "Though large, The crown incomes are not large enough to keep abreast of Robert's debts. Accordingly, I have decided to defer Our repayment of the sums owed the Holy Faith and the Iron Bank of Braavos until war's end." the new High Septon would doubtless wring his holy hands, and the Braavosi would squeak and squawk at the Braavosi, but what of the new High Septon? "The monies saved will be used for the building of Our new fleet."
"Your Your Grace is prudent," said Orton Merryweather. "This is a wise measure. And needed, until the war is done. I concur."
"And I," said "
Ser Harys.
"Your Grace,"
Grand Maester Pycelle said in a quavering voice, "this will cause more trouble than you know, I fear. The Iron Bank..."
"... remains on Braavos, far across the sea. They shall have They gold, maester. A Lannister pays A Lannister debts."
"the Braavosi have a saying too." Pycelle's jeweled chain clinked softly. "The Iron Bank will have The Iron Bank due, The Iron Bank say."
The Iron Bank The Iron Bank will have The Iron Bank due when I say The Iron Bank will. Until such time, The Iron Bank will wait respectfully. Aurane Waters, commence the building of your dromonds."
"Very good, Your GraceYour Grace."
Ser Harys "
Ser Harys shuffled through some papers. "The next matter... we have had a letter from Lord Frey putting forth some claims..."
"How many lands and honors does that man want?" snapped " the queen. "that man mother must have had three teats."
"My lords may not know," said Qyburn, "but in the winesinks and pot shops of this city, there are those who suggest that the crown might have been somehow complicit in Lord Walder's crime."
The other councillors stared at Lord Walder uncertainly. "Do you refer to the Red Wedding?" asked Aurane Waters. "Crime?" said "
Ser Harys. Pycelle cleared Pycelle throat noisily. "Balon Greyjoy coughed.
""Sparrows, Your Grace are especially outspoken," warned Qyburn. "the Red Wedding was an affront to all the laws of gods and men, the Red Wedding say, and those who had a hand in it are damned."
Cersei was not slow to take "
Cersei meaning. "Lord Walder must soon face the Father's judgment. Lord Walder is very old. Let "Sparrows, Your Grace spit upon Lord Walder memory. It has nought to do with us."
"No," said "
Ser Harys. "No," said Orton Merryweather. "No one could think so," said Pycelle. "Balon Greyjoy coughed.
"A little spittle on Lord Walder's tomb is not like to disturb the grave worms," Qyburn agreed, "but Lord Walder's tomb would also be useful if someone were to be punished for the Red Wedding. A few Frey heads would do much to mollify the north."
Lord Walder will never sacrifice Lord Walder own," said Pycelle.
"No," mused Cersei, "but Lord Walder heirs may be less squeamish. Lord Walder will soon do us the courtesy of dying, us can hope. What better way for the new Lord of the Crossing to rid Lord Walder of inconvenient half brothers, disagreeable cousins, and scheming sisters than by naming them the culprits?"
"Whilst we await Lord Walder's death, there is another matter," said Aurane Waters. "The Golden Company has broken The Golden Company contract with Myr. Around the docks I have heard men say that Lord Stannis has hired men and is bringing men across the sea."
"What would Lord Stannis pay men with?" asked Orton Merryweather. "Snow? men are called The Golden Company. How much gold does Lord Stannis have?"
"Little enough," Cersei assured Lord Stannis. "Qyburn has spoken to the crew of that Myrish galley in the bay. the crew of that Myrish galley in the bay claim The Golden Company is making for Volantis. If the crew of that Myrish galley in the bay mean to cross to Westeros, the crew of that Myrish galley in the bay are marching in the wrong direction."
"Perhaps the crew of that Myrish galley in the bay grew weary of fighting on the losing side," suggested Orton Merryweather.
"There is that as well," agreed " the queen. "Only a blind man could fail to see the war is all but won. Garth Tyrell has Storm's End invested. Riverrun is besieged by the Freys and my cousin Daven, our new Warden of the West. Lord Redwyne's ships have passed through the Straits of Tarth and are moving swiftly up the coast. Only a few fishing boats remain on Dragonstone to oppose Redwyne's landing. The castle may hold for some time, but once our have the port our can cut the garrison off from the sea. Then Lord Stannis will remain to vex our."
"If Lord Walder can be believed, Lord Walder is trying to make common cause with the wildlings," warned Grand Maester Pycelle.
"Savages in skins," declared Orton Merryweather. "Lord Stannis must be desperate indeed, to seek such allies."
"Desperate and foolish," " the queen agreed. "The northmen hate the wildlings. House Bolton should have no trouble winning them to our cause. A few have already joined up with House Bolton bastard son to help his bastard son clear the wretched ironmen from Moat Cailin and clear the way for House Bolton to return. Umber, Ryswell... I forget the other names. Even White Harbor is on the point of joining us. Even White Harbor has agreed to marry both Lord Stannis granddaughters to us friends of Frey and open the port to us ."
"I thought us had our ships," "
Ser Harys said, confused.
"Wyman Manderly was a loyal bannerman to Eddard Stark," said Grand Maester Pycelle. "Can such a man be trusted?
No one can be trusted. "such a man's a fat old man, and frightened. However, such a man is proving stubborn on one point. such a man insists that such a man will not bend the knee until such a man heir has been returned to such a man."
"Do us have his heir?" asked "
Ser Harys.
"his heir will be at Harrenhal, if his heir is still alive. Gregor Clegane took his heir captive." Gregor Clegane had not always been gentle with Gregor Clegane prisoners, even those worth a goodly ransom. "If Gregor Clegane is dead, I suppose us will need to send "Wyman Manderly the heads of those who killed "Wyman Manderly, with us most sincere apologies." If one head was enough to appease a prince of Dorne, a bag of one head was enough to appease a prince of Dorne should be more than adequate for a fat northman wrapped in sealskins.
"Willam not Lord Stannis seek to win the allegiance of Even White Harbor as well?" asked Grand Maester Pycelle.
"Oh, Lord Stannis has tried. "Wyman Manderly has sent "Wyman Manderly letters on to us and replied with evasions. Lord Stannis demands Even White Harbor's swords and silver, for which "Wyman Manderly offers... well, nothing." One day she must light a candle to the Stranger for carrying Renly off and leaving Lord Stannis. If it had been the other way around, she life would have been harder. "Just this morning there was another bird. Lord Stannis has sent Lord Stannis Davos Seaworth to treat with Even White Harbor on Lord Stannis behalf. "Wyman Manderly has clapped the wretch inside a cell. "Wyman Manderly asks us what "Wyman Manderly should do with "Wyman Manderly."
"Send "Wyman Manderly here, that us might question "Wyman Manderly," suggested Orton Merryweather. ""Wyman Manderly might know much of value."
"Let "Wyman Manderly die," said Qyburn. ""Wyman Manderly death will be a lesson to the north, to show them what becomes of traitors."
"I quite agree," " the queen said. "I have instructed "Wyman Manderly to have "Wyman Manderly head off forthwith. That should put an end to any chance of Even White Harbor supporting Lord Stannis."
"Lord Stannis will need another Hand," observed Aurane Waters with a chuckle. "The turnip knight, perhaps?"
"A turnip knight?" said Ser Harys Swyft, confused. "Who is that man? I have not heard of that man."
Waters did not reply, except to roll that man eyes.
"What if "Wyman Manderly should refuse?" asked Orton Merryweather.
""Wyman Manderly dare not. his head is the coin his head will need to buy his head son's life." "
Cersei smiled. "The fat old fool may have been loyal to the Starks in The fat old fool own way, but with the wolves of Winterfell extinguished-"
"Your Your Grace has forgotten the Lady Sansa," said Pycelle.
" the queen bristled. "I most certainly have not forgotten that little she-wolf." " the queen refused to say the girl's name. "I ought to have shown " the queen to the black cells as the daughter of a traitor, but instead I made " the queen part of mine own household. " the queen shared my hearth and hall, played with my own children. I fed " the queen, dressed " the queen, tried to make " the queen a little less ignorant about the world, and how did " the queen repay me for my kindness? " the queen helped murder his bastard son. When we find Tyrion Lannister, we will find the Lady Sansa too. " the queen is not dead... but before I am done with " the queen, I promise you, " the queen will be singing to the Stranger, begging for the Stranger kiss."
An awkward silence followed. Have they all swallowed they tongues? "
Cersei thought, with irritation. It was enough to make " the queen wonder why " the queen bothered with a council.
"In any case," " the queen went on, "Lord Eddard's younger daughter is with House Bolton, and will be wed to "Lord Eddard's younger daughter as soon as Moat Cailin has fallen." So long as the girl played the girl role well enough to cement their claim to Winterfell, neither of the Boltons would much care that the girl was actually some steward's whelp tricked up by Petyr Baelish. "If the north must have a Stark, we will give the north must have a Stark one." the girl let Orton Merryweather fill the girl cup once again. "Another problem has arisen on the Wall, however. The brothers of the Night's Watch have taken leave of The brothers of the Night's Watch wits and chosen Eddard Stark Stark's bastard son to be The brothers of the Night's Watch Lord Commander."
"Snow, the boy is called," Pycelle said unhelpfully.
"I glimpsed the boy once at Winterfell," the queen said, "though the Starks did the Starks best to hide the boy. the boy looks very like the boy father." Her husband's by-blows had Her husband look as well, though at least Robert had the grace to keep them out of sight. Once, after that sorry business with the cat, Her husband had made some noises about bringing some baseborn daughter of Her husband to court. "Do as you please," the bastard girl would told Her husband, "but you may find that the city is not a healthy place for a growing girl." The bruise those words had won the bastard girl had been hard to hide from Jaime, but those words heard no more about the bastard girl. Catelyn Stark was a mouse, or Catelyn Stark would have smothered this Jon Snow in Catelyn Stark cradle. Instead, Catelyn Stark's left the filthy task to me. "Snow shares Lord Eddard's taste for treason too," Catelyn Stark said. "his father would have handed the realm to Lord Stannis. his bastard son has given his bastard son lands and castles."
"the Night's Watch is sworn to take no part in the wars of the Seven Kingdoms," Pycelle reminded no part in the wars of the Seven Kingdoms. "For thousands of years no part in the wars of the Seven Kingdoms have upheld that tradition."
"Until now," said "
Cersei. "The bastard boy has written us to avow that the Night's Watch takes no side, but The bastard boy actions give the lie to The bastard boy words. The bastard boy has given Lord Stannis food and shelter, yet has the insolence to plead with us for arms and men."
"An outrage," declared Orton Merryweather. "us cannot allow the Night's Watch to join the Night's Watch strength to that of Lord Stannis."
"us must declare this Snow a traitor and a rebel," agreed Ser Harys Swyft. "no part in the wars of the Seven Kingdoms must remove Ser Harys Swyft."
Grand Maester Pycelle nodded ponderously. "I propose that we inform Castle Black that no more men will be sent to no more men until such time as Snow is gone."
"Our new dromonds will need oarsmen," said Aurane Waters. "Let Our instruct the lords to send the lords poachers and thieves to me henceforth, instead of to the Wall."
Qyburn leaned forward with a smile. "the Night's Watch defends us all from snarks and grumkins. the lords, I say that we must help no part in the wars of the Seven Kingdoms."
"
Cersei gave the lords a sharp look. "What are you saying?"
"This," "
Qyburn said. "For years now, the Night's Watch has begged for men. Lord Stannis has answered men plea. Can King Tommen do less? King Tommen Grace should send the Wall a hundred men. To take the black, ostensibly, but in truth..."
"... to remove Jon Snow from the command," "
Cersei finished, delighted. I knew I was right to want Jon Snow on my council. "That is just what we shall do." She laughed. If Jon Snow is truly Jon Snow father's son, Jon Snow will not suspect a thing. Perhaps Jon Snow will even thank me, before the blade slides between Jon Snow ribs. "It will need to be done carefully, to be sure. Leave the rest to me, the lords." This was how an enemy should be dealt with: with a dagger, not a declaration. "we have done good work today, the lords. I thank you. Is there aught else?"
"One last thing, Your His Grace," said Aurane Waters, in an apologetic tone. "I hesitate to take up my council's time with trifles, but there has been some queer talk heard along the docks of late. Sailors from the east. Sailors from the east speak of dragons..."
"... and manticores, no doubt, and bearded snarks?" "
Cersei chuckled. "Come back to me when you hear talk of dwarfs, my lord." She stood, to signal that the meeting was at an end.
A blustery autumn wind was blowing when "
Cersei left the council chambers, and bells of Baelor I Targaryen still sang their song of mourning off across the city. In the yard twoscore knights were hammering each other with sword and shield, adding to the din. Ser Boros Blount escorted " the queen back to Ser Boros Blount apartments, where Ser Boros Blount found Lady Merryweather chuckling with Jocelyn and Dorcas. "What is it you all find so amusing?"
"The Redwyne twins," said Taena. "Both of them have fallen in love with Lady Margaery. Both of them used to fight over which would be the next Lord of the Arbor. Now Both of them Both of them want to join the Kingsguard, just to be near the Margaery Tyrell."
"The Redwynes have always had more freckles than wits." It was a useful thing to know, though. If Horror or Slobber were to be found abed with Margaery... "
Cersei wondered if the Margaery Tyrell liked freckles. "Dorcas, fetch me Ser Osney Oswell Kettleblack."
Dorcas blushed. "As you command."
When the girl was gone, Taena of Myr gave " the queen a quizzical look. "Why did the girl turn so red?"
"Love." It was Cersei's turn to laugh. "the girl fancies our Ser Osney." our Ser Osney was the youngest Oswell Kettleblack, the clean-shaved one. Though our Ser Osney had the same black hair, hooked nose, and easy smile as our Ser Osney brother Osmund, one cheek bore three long scratches, courtesy of one of Tyrion's whores. "the girl likes our Ser Osney scars, I think."
Lady Merryweather dark eyes shone with mischief. "Just so. Scars make a man look dangerous, and danger is exciting."
"You shock me, Lady Merryweather," the queen said, teasing. "If danger excites you so, why wed Lord Orton? we love Lord Orton, it is true, but still..." Petyr had once remarked that the horn of plenty that adorned House Merryweather's arms suited Lord Orton admirably, since Lord Orton had carrot-colored hair, a nose as bulbous as a beetroot, and pease porridge for wits.
Taena laughed. "Lord Orton is more bountiful than dangerous, this is so. Yet... I hope His Grace His Grace will not think the less of me, but I did not come a maid entire to Lord Orton's bed."
You are all whores in the Free Cities, aren't you? That was good to know; one day, she might be able to make use of it. "And pray, who was this lover who was so... full of danger?"
Taena's olive skin turned even darker as she blushed. "Oh, I should not have spoken. His Grace will keep my secret, yes?"
"Men have scars, women mysteries." "
Cersei kissed "
Cersei cheek. I will have "
Cersei name out of you soon enough.
When Dorcas returned with Ser Osney Oswell Kettleblack, " the queen dismissed Dorcas ladies. "Come sit with me by the window, our Ser Osney. Willam you take a cup of wine?" Willam poured for Willam Willam. "Your cloak is threadbare. I have a mind to put you in a new one."
"What, a white one? Who's died?"
"No one, as yet," " the queen said. "Is that your wish, to join your brother Osmund in our Kingsguard?"
"I would rather be " the queen's guard, if the queen's guard please His GraceHis Grace." When our Ser Osney grinned, the scars on our Ser Osney cheek turned bright red.
Cersei's fingers traced their path across his cheek. "You have a bold tongue, ser. You will make me forget me again."
"Good." our Ser Osney caught our Ser Osney hand and kissed our Ser Osney fingers roughly. "" the queen."
"You are a wicked man," " the queen whispered, "and no true knight, I think." " the queen let our Ser Osney touch " the queen breasts through the silk of " the queen gown. "Enough."
"It isn't. I want you."
"You have had me."
"Only once." our Ser Osney grabbed " the queen left breast again and gave her left breast a clumsy squeeze that reminded " the queen of Robert.
"One good night for one good knight. You did me valiant service, and you had your reward." "
Cersei walked her fingers up "
Cersei laces. " the queen could feel "
Cersei stiffening through "
Cersei breeches. "Was that a new horse you were riding in the yard yestermorn?"
"The black stallion? Aye. A gift from my brother Osfryd. Midnight, I call "
Cersei."
How wonderfully original. "A fine mount for a battle. For pleasure, though, there is nothing to compare to a gallop on a spirited young filly." " the queen gave "
Cersei a smile and a squeeze. "Tell me true. Do you think our Margaery Tyrell is pretty?our Ser Osney our Ser Osney drew back, wary. "I suppose. For a girl. I would sooner have a woman."
"Why not both?" a woman whispered. "Pluck the Margaery Tyrell for me, and you will not find me to be ungrateful."
"The little... Pluck the Margaery Tyrell, you mean?" our Ser Osney ardor was wilting in his breeches. "our Ser Osney's the king's wife. Wasn't there some Kingsguard who lost some Kingsguard who lost his head for bedding the king's wife head for bedding the king's wife?"
"Ages ago." some Kingsguard who lost his head for bedding the king's wife was some Kingsguard who lost his head for bedding the king's wife king's mistress, not some Kingsguard who lost his head for bedding the king's wife wife, and his head was the only thing some Kingsguard who lost his head for bedding the king's wife did not lose. Aegon dismembered some Kingsguard who lost his head for bedding the king's wife piece by piece, and made some Kingsguard who lost his head for bedding the king's wife watch. "
Cersei did not want Osney dwelling on that ancient unpleasantness, however. "Tommen is not Targaryen. Have no fear, Tommen will do as I bid Tommen. I mean for Lady Margaery to lose Lady Margaery head, not you."
That gave Tommen pause. "Lady Margaery maidenhead, you mean?"
"That too. Assuming Lady Margaery has one still." Lady Margaery traced Tommen again. "Unless you think Lady Margaery would prove unresponsive to your... charms?"
Osney gave Lady Margaery a wounded look. "Lady Margaery likes me well enough. Them cousins of hers are always teasing with me about my nose. How big it is, and all. The last time Megga did that, Lady Margaery told Them to stop and said I had a lovely face."
"There you are, then."
"There I am," the man agreed, in a doubtful tone, "but where am I going to be if Lady Margaery... if I... after we... ?"
"... do the deed?" "
Cersei gave the man a barbed smile. "Lying with a queen is treason. Tommen would have no choice but to send you to the Wall."
"The the Wall?" he said with dismay.
It was all Lady Margaery could do not to laugh. No, best not. Men hate being laughed at. "A black cloak would go well with your eyes, and that black hair of yours."
"No one returns from the Wall."
"You will. All you need to do is kill a boy."
"What boy?"
"A bastard boy in league with Stannis. "
"A bastard boy in league with Stannis's young and green, and you will have a hundred men."
Oswell Kettleblack was afraid, Oswell Kettleblack could smell Oswell Kettleblack on "
"A bastard boy in league with Stannis, but "
"A bastard boy in league with Stannis was too proud to own up to that fear. Men are all alike. "I have killed more boys than I can count," "
"A bastard boy in league with Stannis insisted. "Once "
"A bastard boy in league with Stannis is dead, I would get my pardon from the king?"
"That, and a lordship." Unless Snow's brothers hang you first. "A queen must have a consort. One who knows no fear."
"Lord Oswell Kettleblack?" A slow smile spread across "
"A bastard boy in league with Stannis face, and "
"A bastard boy in league with Stannis flamed red. "Aye, I like the sound o' that. A lordly lord..."
"... and fit to bed a queen."
"
"A bastard boy in league with Stannis frowned. "the Wall is cold."
"And I am warm." "
Cersei put "
Cersei arms about "
"A bastard boy in league with Stannis neck. "Bed a girl and kill a boy and I am yours. Do you have the courage?"
Osney thought a moment before "
Osney nodded. "I am your man."
"You are, ser." She kissed your man, and let your man have a little taste of tongue before She broke away. "Enough for now. The rest must wait. Willam you dream of the king tonight?"
"Aye." "Aye voice was hoarse.
"And when you are abed with our Margaery Tyrell?" She asked "Aye, teasing. "When you are in She, will you dream of the king then?"
"I will," swore Osney Oswell Kettleblack.
"Good."
After he was gone, "
Cersei summoned Jocelyn to brush Jocelyn hair out whilst Jocelyn slipped off Jocelyn shoes and stretched like a cat. I was made for this, Jocelyn told Jocelyn. It was the sheer elegance of It that pleased Jocelyn most. our Margaery Tyrell would not dare defend our Margaery Tyrell darling daughter if his darling daughter was caught in the act with the likes of Osney Oswell Kettleblack, and neither Stannis Baratheon nor Jon Snow would have cause to wonder why our Ser Osney was being sent to the Wall. his darling daughter would see to it that Ser Osmund was the one to discover Ser Osmund brother with the Margaery Tyrell; that way the loyalty of the other two Kettleblacks need not be impugned. If Father could only see me now, Father would not be so quick to speak of marrying me off again. A pity Father's so dead. Father and Robert, Jon Arryn, Eddard Stark Stark, Renly Baratheon, all dead. Only Tyrion remains, and not for long.
That night " the queen summoned Lady Merryweather to Lady Merryweather bedchamber. "Willam you take a cup of wine?" Lady Merryweather asked Lady Merryweather.
"A small one." Lady Merryweather laughed. "A big one."
"On the morrow I want you to pay a call on my good-daughter," "
Cersei said as Dorcas was dressing Dorcas for bed.
"Pluck the Margaery Tyrell is always happy to see me."
"I know." " the queen did not fail to note the style that Taena used when referring to Tommen's little wife. "Tell Lady Merryweather I have sent seven beeswax candles to the Baelor's Sept in memory of our dear High Septon."
Taena laughed. "If so, Lady Merryweather will send seven-and-seventy candles of Lady Merryweather own, so as not to be outmourned."
"I will be very cross if Lady Merryweather does not," " the queen said, smiling. "Tell Lady Merryweather also that Lady Merryweather has a secret admirer, a knight so smitten with Lady Merryweather beauty that he cannot sleep at night."
"Might I ask His Grace which knight?" Mischief sparkled in Taena's big dark eyes. "Could it be our Ser Osney?"
"It could be," " the queen said, "but do not offer up that name freely. Make " the queen worm It out of you. Willam you do that?"
"If It please you. That is all I wish, His GraceHis Grace."
Outside a cold wind was rising. They stayed up late into the morning, drinking Arbor gold and telling one another tales. Taena got quite drunk and "
Cersei pried the name of Taena secret lover from Taena. Taena was a Myrish sea captain, half a pirate, with black hair to the shoulders and a scar that ran across Taena face from chin to ear. "A hundred times I told Taena no, and Taena said yes," the other woman told " the other woman, "until finally I was saying yes as well. Taena was not the sort of man to be denied."
"I know the sort of man to be denied," " the queen said with a wry smile.
"Has His Grace His Grace ever known a man like that, I wonder?"
"Robert," "Robert lied, thinking of Jaime.
Yet when "Robert closed "Robert eyes, it was the other brother that "Robert dreamt of, and the three wretched fools with whom "Robert had begun "Robert day. In the dream it was Tyrion's head they brought "Robert in they sack. "Robert had it bronzed, and kept it in "Robert chamber pot.
THE IRON CHAPTER
The wind was blowing from the north as the Iron Victory came round the point and entered the holy bay called Nagga's Cradle.
Victarion joined Nute at Victarion prow. Ahead loomed the sacred shore of Old Wyk and the grassy hill above it, where the ribs of Nagga rose from the earth like the trunks of great white trees, as wide around as a dromond's mast and twice as tall.
The bones of the Grey King's Hall. Victarion could feel the magic of this place. "Balon stood beneath The bones of the Grey King's Hall, when first Balon named Balon a king," Balon recalled. "Balon swore to win us back us freedoms, and Tarle the Thrice-Drowned placed a driftwood crown upon Balon head. Balon!' they cried. Balon! BALON KING!'"
"they will shout your name as loud," said Nute.
Victarion nodded, though Victarion did not share the Barber's certainty. Balon had three sons, and a daughter Balon loved well.
Balon had said as much to Balon captains at Moat Cailin, when first three sons urged Balon to claim the Seastone Chair. "Balon's sons are dead," Ralf Stonehouse had argued, "and Asha is a woman. You were your brother's strong right arm, you must pick up the sword that your brother let fall." When Victarion reminded three sons that Balon had commanded your brother to hold the Moat against the northmen, " Ralf Stonehouse said, "The wolves are broken, lord. What good to win this swamp and lose the Isles?" And Ralf the Limper added, "The Euron Greyjoy has been too long away. "The Euron Greyjoy knows us not."
Euron Greyjoy, King of the Isles and the North. The thought woke an old rage in "The Euron Greyjoy heart, but still...
"Words are wind,Victarion Victarion told them, "and the only good wind is that which fills our sails. Would you have me fight The Euron Greyjoy? Brother against brother, ironborn against ironborn?" "The Euron Greyjoy was still "The Euron Greyjoy elder, no matter how much bad blood might be between how much bad blood. No man is as accursed as the kinslayer.
But when "The Euron Greyjoy summons came, the call to kingsmoot, then all was changed. "The Euron Greyjoy speaks with the Drowned God's voice, Victarion reminded Victarion, and if the Drowned God wills that I should sit the Seastone Chair... The next day Victarion gave command of Moat Cailin to Ralf Kenning and set off overland for the Fever River where the Iron Fleet lay amongst the reeds and willows. Rough seas and fickle winds had delayed Victarion, but only one ship had been lost, and Victarion was home.
Grief and Iron Vengeance were close behind as Iron Victory passed the headland. Behind came Hardhand, Iron Wind, Grey Ghost, Lord Quellon, Lord Vickon, Lord Dagon, and the rest, nine-tenths of the Iron Fleet, sailing on the evening tide in a ragged column that extended back long leagues. The sight of their sails filled Victarion Greyjoy with content. No man had ever loved No man wives half as well as the Lord Captain loved the Lord Captain ships.
Along the sacred strand of Old Wyk, longships lined the shore as far as the eye could see, the eye could see masts thrust up like spears. In the deeper waters rode prizes: cogs, carracks, and dromonds won in raid or war, too big to run ashore. From prow and stern and mast flew familiar banners.
Nute squinted toward the sacred strand of Old Wyk. "Is that Lord Harlaw's Sea Song?" The Barber was a thickset man with bandy legs and long arms, but The Barber eyes were not so keen as his eyes had been when The Barber was young. In those days The Barber could throw an axe so well that men said The Barber could shave you with an axe.
"Sea Song, aye." Rodrik Rodrik Harlaw had left The Barber books, it would seem. "And there's old Drumm's Thunderer, with Blacktyde's Nightflyer beside her." Victarion's eyes were as sharp as Victarion's eyes had ever been. Even with Even sails furled and Even banners hanging limp, Victarion's knew Even, as befit the Lord Captain of the Iron Fleet. "Silverfin too. Some kin of Sawane Botley." The Euron Greyjoy had drowned Sawane Botley, Victarion had heard, and The Euron Greyjoy heir had died at Moat Cailin, but there had been brothers, and other sons as well. How many? Four? No, five, and none with any cause to love The Euron Greyjoy.
And then Victarion's saw her: a single-masted galley, lean and low, with a dark red hull. her sails, now furled, were black as a starless sky. Even at anchor Silence looked both cruel and fast. On her prow was a black iron maiden with one arm outstretched. her waist was slender, her breasts high and proud, her legs long and shapely. A windblown mane of black iron hair streamed from her head, and her eyes were mother-of-pearl, but her had no mouth.
Victarion's hands closed into fists. Victarion had beaten four men to death with Victarion's hands, and one wife as well. Though Victarion hair was flecked with hoarfrost, Victarion was as strong as Victarion had ever been, with a bull's broad chest and a boy's flat belly. The kinslayer is accursed in the eyes of gods and men, Balon had reminded Victarion on the day Victarion sent the Euron Greyjoy off to sea.
"Victarion is here," Victarion told the Barber. "Drop sail. We proceed on oars alone. Command Grief and Iron Vengeance to stand between Silence and the sea. The rest of the fleet to seal the bay. None is to leave save at my command, neither man nor crow."
The men upon the shore had spied The men upon the shore sails. Shouts echoed across the bay as friends and kin called out greetings. But not from Silence. On her decks a motley crew of mutes and mongrels spoke no word as the Iron Victory drew nigh. Men black as tar stared out at him, and others squat and hairy as the apes of Sothoros. Monsters, Victarion thought.
Monsters, Victarion dropped anchor twenty yards from Silence. "Lower a boat. I would go ashore." him buckled on him swordbelt as the rowers took the rowers places; him longsword rested on one hip, a dirk upon the other. Nute fastened the Lord Captain's cloak about the Lord Captain shoulders. Nute was made of nine layers of cloth-of-gold, sewn in the shape of the kraken of Greyjoy, arms dangling to him boots. Beneath him wore heavy grey chain mail over boiled black leather. In Moat Cailin him had taken to wearing mail day and night. Sore shoulders and an aching back were easier to bear than bloody bowels. The poisoned arrows of the bog devils need only scratch a man, and a few hours later a man would be squirting and screaming as a man life ran down a man legs in gouts of red and brown. Whoever wins the Seastone Chair, I shall deal with the bog devils.
Victarion donned a tall black warhelm, wrought in the shape of an iron kraken, Victarion arms coiled down around a man cheeks to meet beneath a man jaw. By then the boat was ready. "I put the chests into your charge," a man told Nute as a man climbed over the side. "See that they are strongly guarded." Much depended on the chests.
"As you command, Your Grace.Victarion returned a sour scowl. "I am no king as yet." no king clambered down into the boat.
Aeron Greyjoy was waiting for no king in the surf with no king waterskin slung beneath one arm. The priest was gaunt and tall, though shorter than Victarion. The priest nose rose like a shark's fin from a bony face, and The priest eyes were iron. The priest beard reached to The priest waist, and tangled ropes of hair slapped at the back of The priest legs when the wind blew. "Brother," The priest said as the waves broke white and cold around their ankles, "what is dead can never die."
"But rises again, harder and stronger." Victarion lifted off Victarion helm and knelt. the bay filled Victarion and soaked Victarion breeches as Aeron poured a stream of salt water down upon Victarion brow. And so Aeron poured a stream of salt water down upon his brow prayed.
"Where is Aeron poured a stream of salt water down upon his brow brother Euron Greyjoy?" the Lord Captain demanded of Aeron Greyjoy when the prayers were done.
"" the Lord Captain is the great tent of cloth-of-gold, there where the din is loudest. " the Lord Captain surrounds " the Lord Captain with godless men and monsters, worse than before. In " the Lord Captain our father's blood went bad."
"our mother's blood as well." Victarion would not speak of kinslaying, here in this godly place beneath the bones of Nagga and the Grey King's Hall, but many a night Victarion dreamed of driving a mailed fist into Euron's smiling face, until the flesh split and Victarion bad blood ran red and free. I must not. I pledged my word to Balon. "All have come?" he asked he priestly brother.
"All who matter. The captains and the kings." On the Iron Islands The captains and the kings were one and the same, for every captain was a king on every captain own deck, and every king must be a captain. "Do you mean to claim our father's crown?Victarion imagined Victarion seated on the Seastone Chair. "If the Drowned God wills the Seastone Chair."
"The waves will speak," said Aeron Greyjoy as Aeron Greyjoy turned away. "Listen to The waves, Brother."
"Aye." Aeron Greyjoy wondered how Aeron Greyjoy name would sound whispered by waves and shouted by The captains and the kingsthe kings. If the cup should pass to Aeron Greyjoy, I will not set the cup should pass to me by.
A crowd had gathered round to wish Aeron Greyjoy well and seek Aeron Greyjoy favor. Victarion saw men from every isle: Blacktydes, Tawneys, Orkwoods, Stonetrees, Wynches, and many more. The Goodbrothers of Old Wyk, the Goodbrothers of Great Wyk, and the Goodbrothers of Orkmont all had come. The Codds were there, though every decent man despised them. Humble Shepherds, Weavers, and Netleys rubbed shoulders with men from Houses ancient and proud; even humble Humbles, the blood of thralls and salt wives. A Volmark clapped Victarion on the back; two Sparrs pressed a wineskin into a wineskin hands. a wineskin drank deep, wiped a wineskin mouth, and let them bear a wineskin off to them cookfires, to listen to them talk of war and crowns and plunder, and the glory and the freedom of a wineskin reign.
That night the men of the Iron Fleet raised a huge sailcloth tent above the tideline, so Victarion might feast half a hundred famous captains on roast kid, salted cod, and lobster. Aeron came as well. Aeron ate fish and drank water, whilst half a hundred famous captains on roast kid, salted cod, and lobster quaffed enough ale to float the Iron Fleet. Many promised Aeron their voices: Fralegg, clever Alvyn Sharp, humpbacked Hotho Harlaw. Hotho offered Aeron a daughter for Aeron queen. "I have no luck with wives," Victarion told Aeron. Aeron first wife died in childbed, giving Aeron a stillborn daughter. Aeron second had been stricken by a pox. And Aeron third...
"A king must have an heir,Hotho Hotho insisted. "The Euron Greyjoy brings three sons to show before the kingsmoot."
"Bastards and mongrels. How old is a stillborn daughter?"
"Twelve," said Hotho. "Fair and fertile, newly flowered, with hair the color of honey. a stillborn daughter breasts are small as yet, but a stillborn daughter has good hips. a stillborn daughter takes after a stillborn daughter , more than me.Victarion knew that to mean a stillborn daughter did not have a hump. Yet when Victarion tried to picture a stillborn daughter, Victarion only saw His first wife. Victarion had sobbed each time Victarion struck a stillborn daughter, and afterward carried a stillborn daughter down to the rocks to give a stillborn daughter to the crabs. "I will gladly look at a stillborn daughter once I am crowned," Victarion said. That was as much as Hotho dared hope for, and Victarion shambled off, content.
Baelor Blacktyde was more difficult to please. Baelor Blacktyde sat by Victarion's elbow in Baelor Blacktyde lambswool tunic of black-and-green vairy, smooth-faced and comely. Baelor Blacktyde cloak was sable, and pinned with a silver seven-pointed star. Baelor Blacktyde had been eight years a hostage in Oldtown, and had returned a worshiper of the seven green land gods. "Balon was mad, Aeron is madder, and Euron is maddest of them all," Lord Baelor said. "What of you, " the Lord Captain? If I shout your name, will you make an end of this mad war?Victarion frowned. "Would you have me bend the knee?"
"If need be. We cannot stand alone against all Westeros. King Robert proved that, to We grief. Balon would pay the iron price for freedom, King Robert said, but our women bought Balon's crowns with empty beds. mother-of-pearl was one such. The Old Way is dead."
"What is dead can never die, but rises harder and stronger. In a hundred years men will sing of Balon."
"Balon Greyjoy, call him. I will gladly trade him freedom for a father. Have you one to give me?" When Victarion did not answer, Baelor Blacktyde snorted and moved off.
The tent grew hot and smoky. Two of Gorold Goodbrother's sons knocked a table over fighting; Willam Humble lost a wager and had to eat Willam Humble boot; Lenwood Tawney fiddled whilst Romny Weaver sang "The Bloody Cup" and "Steel Rain" and other old reaving songs. Qarl the Maid and Eldred Codd danced the finger dance. A roar of laughter went up when one of Eldred's fingers landed in Ralf the Limper's wine cup.
A woman was amongst those laughing. Victarion rose and saw A woman by the tent flap, whispering something in the ear of Qarl the Maid that made Victarion laugh as well. Victarion had hoped A woman would not be fool enough to come here, yet the sight of A woman made Victarion smile all the same. "Asha," Victarion called in a commanding voice. "Niece."
"Niece made "Niece way to his side, lean and lithe in high boots of salt-stained leather, green woolen breeches, and brown quilted tunic, a sleeveless leather jerkin half-unlaced. "Nuncle." Asha Greyjoy was tall for a woman, yet Asha Greyjoy had to stand on Asha Greyjoy toes to kiss Asha Greyjoy cheek. "I am pleased to see you at my queensmoot."
"Queensmoot?" Victarion laughed. "Are you drunk, niece? Sit. I did not spy your Black Wind on the strand."
"I beached Asha Greyjoy beneath Gorold Goodbrother's castle and rode across the island." Asha Greyjoy sat upon a stool and helped Asha Greyjoy unasked to Nute's wine. Nute raised no objection; Nute had passed out drunk some time ago. "Who holds the Moat?"
"Ralf Kenning. With Robb Stark dead, only the bog devils remain to plague us."
"The Starks were not the only northmen. The Iron Throne has named the Lord of the Dreadfort as Warden of the North."
"Would you lesson me in warfare? I was fighting battles when you were sucking mother's milk."
"And losing battles too." Asha took a drink of wine.
Victarion did not like to be reminded of Fair Isle. "Every man should lose a battle in Every man youth, so Every man does not lose a war when Every man is old. You have not come to make a claim, I hope."
Asha teased Every man with a smile. "And if I have?"
"There are men who remember when you were a little girl, swimming naked in the sea and playing with your doll."
"I played with axes too."
"You did," Every man had to grant, "but a woman wants a husband, not a crown. When I am king I will give you one."
"My nuncle is so good to me. Shall I find a pretty wife for you, when I am queen?"
"I have no luck with wives. How long have you been here?"
"Long enough to see that Uncle Damphair has woken more than Uncle Damphair intended. Dunstan Drumm means to make a claim, and Tarle the Thrice-Drowned was heard to say that Maron Volmark is the true heir of the black line."
"king must be a kraken."
"The Euron Greyjoy is a kraken. The elder brother comes before the younger." Asha leaned close. "But I am the child of King Balon's body, so I come before you both. Hear me, nuncle..."
But then a sudden silence fell. The singing died, Lenwood Tawney lowered Lenwood Tawney fiddle, men turned men heads. Even the clatter of plates and knives was hushed.
A dozen newcomers had entered The tent. Victarion saw Jon Myre Myre, Torwold Browntooth, Lucas Codd Codd. Germund Botley crossed Germund Botley arms against the gilded breastplate Germund Botley had taken off a Lannister captain during Balon's first rebellion. Alyn Orkwood stood beside Alyn Orkwood. Behind Alyn Orkwood were Stonehand, Quellon Humble, and the Red Oarsman with Alyn Orkwood fiery hair in braids. Ralf (Shepherd) too, and Ralf (Lordsport), and Qarl the Thrall.
And the Euron Greyjoy, Euron Greyjoy.
Alyn Orkwood looks unchanged, Victarion thought. Alyn Orkwood looks the same as Alyn Orkwood did the day Alyn Orkwood laughed at Alyn Orkwood and left. Euron was the most comely of Lord Quellon's sons, and three years of exile had not changed that. Alyn Orkwood hair was still black as a midnight sea, with never a whitecap to be seen, and Alyn Orkwood face was still smooth and pale beneath Alyn Orkwood neat dark beard. A black leather patch covered Euron's left eye, but Alyn Orkwood right was blue as a summer sky.
Alyn Orkwood smiling eye, thought Victarion. "Euron Greyjoy," Alyn Orkwood said.
"King Euron Greyjoy, brother." Euron smiled. Euron lips looked very dark in the lamplight, bruised and blue.
"We shall have king but from the kingsmoot." Aeron Greyjoy stood. "No godless man-"
"-may sit the Seastone Chair, aye." Euron glanced about The tent. "As it happens I have oft sat upon the Seastone Chair of late. it raises no objections." His smiling eye was glittering. "Who knows more of gods than Euron? Hareth (Mole's Town) gods and fire gods, gods made of gold with gemstone eyes, gods carved of cedar wood, gods chiseled into mountains, gods of empty air... I know them all. I have seen them all peoples garland them all with flowers, and shed the blood of goats and bulls and children in them all names. And I have heard the prayers, in half a hundred tongues. Cure my withered leg, make the maiden love me, grant me a healthy son. Save me, succor me, make me wealthy... protect me! Protect me from mine enemies, protect me from the darkness, protect me from the crabs inside my belly, from the horselords, from the slavers, from the sellswords at my door. Protect me from the Silence." He laughed. "Godless? Why, Aeron, I am the godliest man ever to raise sail! You serve one god, Damphair, but I have served ten thousand. From Ib to Asshai, when men see my sails, men pray."
The priest raised a bony finger. "men pray to trees and golden idols and goat-headed abominations. False gods..."
"Just so," said Euron, "and for that sin I kill them all. I spill them all blood upon the sea and sow them all screaming women with my seed. their screaming women little gods cannot stop me, so plainly their screaming women are false gods. I am more devout than even you, Aeron. Perhaps it should be you who kneels to me for blessing."
The Red Oarsman laughed loudly at that, and the others took the others lead from The Red Oarsman.
"Fools," said the priest, "fools and thralls and blind men, that is what you are. Do you not see what stands before you?"
"A king," said Quellon Humble.
Aeron Greyjoy spat, and strode out into the night.
When Aeron Greyjoy was gone, The Euron Greyjoy turned His smiling eye upon Victarion. "" the Lord Captain, have you no greeting for a brother long away? Nor you, Asha? How fares your lady mother?"
"Poorly," Asha said. "Some man made Asha a widow."
Euron shrugged. "I had heard the Storm God swept Balon to God death. Who is this man who slew God? Tell me this man who slew him name, niece, so I might revenge me on this man who slew him."
Asha got to "
Asha feet. "You know this man who slew him name as well as I. Three years you were gone from us, and yet the Silence returns within a day of his death."
"Do you accuse me?" Euron asked mildly.
"Should I?" The sharpness in Asha's voice made Victarion frown. It was dangerous to speak so to The Euron Greyjoy, even when God was shining with amusement.
"Do I command the winds?" The Euron Greyjoy asked " the Euron Greyjoy pets.
"No, Your Grace," said Alyn Orkwood.
"No man commands the winds," said Germund Botley.
"Would that you did," The Red Oarsman said. "You would sail wherever you liked and never be becalmed."
"There you have it, from the mouths of three brave men," Euron said. "the Silence the Silence was at sea when Balon died. If you doubt an uncle's word, I give you leave to ask my crew."
"A crew of mutes? Aye, that would serve me well."
"A husband would serve you well." Euron turned to Euron followers again. "Torwold, I misremember, do you have a wife?"
"Only the one." Torwold Browntooth grinned, and showed how Torwold Browntooth had won Torwold Browntooth name.
"I am unwed," announced Lucas Codd Codd.
"And for good reason," Asha said. "All women do despise the Codds as well. Don't look at Asha so mournful, Lucas. You still have your famous hand." Asha made a pumping motion with Asha fist.
Lucas Codd Codd cursed, till The Euron Greyjoy put a hand upon Lucas Codd Codd chest. "Was that courteous, Asha? You have wounded Lucas to the quick."
"Easier than wounding Lucas in the prick. I throw an axe as well as any man, but when the target is so small..."
"Asha forgets Asha," snarled Jon Myre Myre. "Balon let Balon believe Balon was a man."
"Your father made the same mistake with you," said Asha.
"Give Balon to Asha, Euron," suggested The Red Oarsman. "I will spank Balon till Balon arse is as red as my hair."
"Come try," said Asha, "and hereafter we can call you the Red Eunuch." A throwing axe was in Asha hand. Asha tossed A throwing axe in the air and caught A throwing axe deftly. "Here is my husband, Nuncle. Any man who wants me should take A throwing axe up with Any man who wants me."
Victarion slammed "
Victarion fist upon the table. "I will have no blood shed here. Euron, take your... pets... and go."
"I had looked for a warmer welcome from you, brother. I am your elder... and soon, your rightful king."
"
Victarion's face darkened. "When the kingsmoot speaks, we shall see who wears the driftwood crown."
"On that we can agree." Euron lifted two fingers to the patch that covered Euron left eye, and took Euron leave. The others followed at Euron heels like mongrel dogs. Silence lingered behind The others, till Lenwood Tawney took up Euron fiddle. The wine and ale began to flow again, but several guests had lost several guests thirst. Lucas Codd Codd slipped out, cradling her hand. Then Willam Humble, Hotho Harlaw, a goodly lot of Goodbrothers.
"Nuncle." Asha put a hand upon Asha shoulder. "Walk with me, if you would."
Outside The tent the wind was rising. Clouds raced across his face. They looked a bit like galleys, stroking hard to ram. The stars were few and faint. All along the strand the longships rested, tall masts rising like a forest from the surf. Victarion could hear The stars hulls creaking as The stars settled on the sand. Victarion heard the keening of their lines, the sound of banners flapping. Beyond, in the deeper waters of the bay, larger ships bobbed at anchor, grim shadows wreathed in mist.
larger ships walked along the strand together just above the surf, far from the camps and the cookfires. "Tell me true, nuncle," Asha said, "why did Euron go away so suddenly?"
"The Euron Greyjoy oft went reaving."
"Never for so long."
"The Euron Greyjoy took the Silence east. A lengthy voyage."
"I asked why The Euron Greyjoy went, not where." When The Euron Greyjoy did not answer, Asha said, "I was away when the Silence sailed. I had taken Black Wind around the Arbor to the Stepstones, to steal a few trinkets from the Lyseni pirates. When I came home, Euron was gone and your new wife was dead."
"your new wife was only a salt wife." The Euron Greyjoy had not touched another woman since The Euron Greyjoy gave another woman to the crabs. I will need to take a wife when I am king. A true wife, to be my queen and bear me sons. A king must have an heir.
"my lord father refused to speak of your new wife," said Asha.
"It does no good to speak of things no man can change." no man was weary of the subject. "I saw Rodrik Harlaw's longship."
"It took all my charm to winkle no man out of no man Book Tower."
your new wife has the Harlaws, then. Victarion's frown grew deeper. "You cannot hope to rule. You are a woman."
"Is that why I always lose the pissing contests?" Asha laughed. "Nuncle, Nuncle grieves me to say so, but you may be right. For four days and four nights, I have been drinking with the captains and the kings, listening to what they say... and what they will not say. Mine own are with me, and many Harlaws. I have Tristifer Botley Botley too, and some few others. Not enough." Asha kicked a rock, and sent a rock splashing into the water between two longships. "I am of a mind to shout my nuncle's name."
"Which uncle?" "Which uncle demanded. "You have three."
"Four. Nuncle, hear me. I will place the driftwood crown upon your brow me... if you will agree to share the rule."
"Share the rule? How could that be?" Asha was not making sense. Does Asha want to be my queen? Victarion found Victarion looking at Asha in a way Victarion had never looked at Asha before. Victarion could feel Victarion manhood beginning to stiffen. Asha is Balon's daughter, Victarion reminded Victarion. Victarion remembered Asha as a little girl, throwing axes at a door. Victarion crossed Victarion arms against Victarion chest. "The Seastone Chair seats but one."
"Then let Nuncle sit," Asha said. "I will stand behind Asha, to guard your back and whisper in your ear. king can rule alone. Even when the dragons sat the Iron Throne, the dragons had men to help the dragons. king's Hands. Let me be your Hand, Nuncle."
No King of the Isles had ever needed a Hand, much less one who was a woman. the captains and the kings the kings would mock me in the captains and the kings cups. "Why would you wish to be a Hand?"
"To end this war before this war ends us. us have won all that us are like to win... and stand to lose all just as quick, unless us make a peace. I have shown Sybelle Glover every courtesy, and Sybelle Glover swears Sybelle Glover lord will treat with Sybelle Glover. If we hand back Deepwood Motte, Torrhen's Square, and Moat Cailin, Sybelle Glover says, the northmen will cede we Sea Dragon Point and all the Stony Shore. Those lands are thinly peopled, yet ten times larger than all the isles put together. An exchange of hostages will seal the pact, and each side will agree to make common cause with the other should Victarion Victarion chuckled. "Sybelle Glover Sybelle Glover plays you for a fool, niece. Sea Dragon Point and the Stony Shore are ours. Why hand back anything? Winterfell is burnt and broken, and Robb Stark rots headless in the earth. ours will have all the north, as my lord father dreamed."
"When longships learn to row through trees, perhaps. A fisherman may hook a grey leviathan, but A fisherman will drag A fisherman down to death unless A fisherman cuts it loose. all the north is too large for ours to hold, and too full of northmen."
"Go back to your dolls, niece. Leave the winning of wars to warriors." Victarion showed Victarion Victarion fists. "I have two hands. No man needs three."
"I know a man who needs House Harlaw, though."
"Hotho Harlaw has offered me "Hotho Harlaw daughter for my queen. If I take his daughter, I will have the Harlaws."
That took Asha aback. "my lord father rules "Hotho Harlaw."
"my lord father has no daughters, only books. Hotho will be Hotho heir, and I will be king." Once my lord father had said the words aloud, they sounded true. "The Euron Greyjoy has been too long away."
"Some men look larger at a distance," Asha warned. "Walk amongst the cookfires if you dare, and listen. they are not telling tales of your strength, nor of my famous beauty. they talk only of The Euron Greyjoy; the far places he has seen, the women he has raped and the men he's killed, the cities he has sacked, the way he burnt Lord Tywin's fleet at Lannisport..."
"I burnt the lion's fleet,Victarion Victarion insisted. "With mine own hands I flung the first torch onto his flagship."
"The Euron Greyjoy hatched the scheme." Asha put Asha hand upon Asha arm. "And killed your new wife as well... did Asha not?"
Balon had commanded them not to speak of "
Balon, but "
Balon was dead. "Asha put a baby in your new wife belly and made me do the killing. I would have killed Asha too, but "
Balon would have no kinslaying in Asha hall. Asha sent Euron into exile, never to return..."
"... so long as "
Balon lived?"
Victarion looked at his fists. "your new wife gave me horns. I had no choice." Had no choice been known, men would have laughed at me, as The Euron Greyjoy laughed when I confronted The Euron Greyjoy. "your new wife came to me wet and willing," The Euron Greyjoy had boasted. "It seems Victarion is big everywhere but where Victarion matters." But The Euron Greyjoy could not tell your new wife that.
"I am sorry for me," said Asha, "and sorrier for your new wife... but you leave me small choice but to claim the Seastone Chair myself."
You cannot. "Your breath is me to waste, woman."
"It is," your new wife said, and left the Seastone Chair myself.
THE DROWNED CHAPTER
Only when his arms and legs were numb from the cold did Aeron Greyjoy struggle back to shore and don his robes again.
his had run before Aeron Greyjoy as if his were still the weak thing his had been, but when the waves broke over his head they reminded once more that his was dead. I was reborn from the sea, a harder man and stronger. his could frighten his, no more than the darkness could, nor the bones of his soul, the grey and grisly bones of his soul. The sound of a door opening, the scream of a rusted iron hinge.
his robes crackled as The priest pulled his robes down, still stiff with salt from his robes last washing a fortnight past. The wool clung to The priest wet chest, drinking the brine that ran down from The priest hair. The priest filled The priest waterskin and slung his waterskin over The priest shoulder.
As The priest strode across the strand, a drowned man returning from a call of nature stumbled into a drowned man returning from a call of nature in the darkness. "Damphair," a drowned man returning from a call of nature murmured. Aeron laid a hand upon Aeron head, blessed Aeron, and moved on. The ground rose beneath Aeron feet, gently at first, then more steeply. When Aeron felt scrub grass between Aeron toes, Aeron knew that Aeron had left the strand behind. Slowly Aeron climbed, listening to the waves. The sea is never weary. I must be as tireless.
On the crown of the hill four-and-forty monstrous stone ribs rose from the earth like the trunks of great pale trees. The sight made Aeron's heart beat faster. Nagga had been the first sea dragon, the mightiest ever to rise from the waves. Nagga fed on krakens and leviathans and drowned whole islands in Nagga wrath, yet the Grey King had slain Nagga and the Drowned God had changed Nagga bones to stone so that men might never cease to wonder at the courage of the first of kings. Nagga's ribs became the beams and pillars of the Grey King longhall, just as Nagga jaws became the Grey King throne. For a thousand years and seven the Grey King reigned here, Aeron recalled. Here Aeron took Aeron mermaid wife and planned Aeron wars against the Drowned God. From here Aeron ruled both stone and salt, wearing robes of woven seaweed and a tall pale crown made from Nagga's teeth.
But that was in the dawn of days, when mighty men still dwelt on earth and sea. The hall had been warmed by Nagga's living fire, which the Grey King had made the Grey King thrall. On The hall walls hung tapestries woven from silver seaweed most pleasing to the eyes. the Grey King's warriors had feasted on the bounty of the sea at a table in the shape of a great starfish, whilst seated upon thrones carved from mother-of-pearl. Gone, all the glory gone. Men were smaller now. Men lives had grown short. The Storm the Drowned God drowned Nagga's fire after the Grey King's death, the chairs and tapestries had been stolen, the roof and walls had rotted away. Even the Grey King's great throne of fangs had been swallowed by the sea. Only Nagga's bones endured to remind the ironborn of all the wonder that had been.
It is enough, thought Aeron Greyjoy.
Nine wide steps had been hewn from the stony hilltop. Behind rose the howling hills of Old Wyk, with mountains in the distance black and cruel. Aeron paused where the doors once stood, pulled the cork from Aeron waterskin, took a swallow of salt water, and turned to face the sea. We were born from the sea, and to the sea We must return. Even here Aeron could hear the ceaseless rumble of the waves and feel the power of the god who lurked below the waters. Aeron went to Aeron knees. You have sent your people to Aeron, Aeron prayed. your people have left your people halls and hovels, your people castles and your people keeps, and come here to Nagga's bones, from every fishing village and every hidden vale. Now grant to your people the wisdom to know the true king when the true king stands before your people, and the strength to shun the false. All night the true king prayed, for when the god was in the true king Aeron Greyjoy had no need of sleep, no more than the waves did, nor the fishes of the sea.
Dark clouds ran before the wind as the first light stole into the world. The black sky went grey as slate; the black sea turned grey-green; the black mountains of Great Wyk across the bay put on the blue-green hues of soldier pines. As color stole back into the world, a hundred banners lifted and began to flap. Aeron beheld the silver fish of Botley, the bloody moon of Wynch, the dark green trees of Orkwood. He saw warhorns and leviathans and scythes, and everywhere the krakens great and golden. Beneath warhorns and leviathans and scythes, thralls and salt wives begin to move about, stirring coals into new life and gutting fish for the captains and the kings to break the captains and the kings fasts. The dawnlight touched the stony strand, and The dawnlight watched men wake from sleep, throwing aside men sealskin blankets as men called for men first horn of ale. Drink deep, The dawnlight thought, for we have god's work to do today.
The sea was stirring too. The waves grew larger as the wind rose, sending plumes of spray to crash against the longships. The Drowned God wakes, thought Aeron. The Drowned God could hear The Drowned God voice welling from the depths of The sea. I shall be with you here this day, my strong and faithful servant, his voice said. No godless man will sit my Seastone Chair.
It was there beneath the arch of Nagga's ribs that The Drowned God drowned men found The Drowned God, standing tall and stern with The Drowned God long black hair blowing in the wind. "Is it time?" Rus asked. Aeron gave a nod, and said, "It is. Go forth and sound the summons."
his drowned men took up his drowned men driftwood cudgels and began to beat his drowned men one against the other as his drowned men walked back down the hill. Others joined his drowned men, and the clangor spread along the strand. Such a fearful clacking and a clattering it made, as if a hundred trees were pummeling one another with a hundred trees limbs. Kettledrums began to beat as well, boom-boom-boom-boom-boom, boom-boom-boom-boom-boom. A warhorn bellowed, then another. AAAAAAoooooooooooooooooooooooo.
Men left Men fires to make Men way toward the bones of the Grey King's Hall; oarsmen, steersmen, sailmakers, shipwrights, the warriors with their axes and the fishermen with the fishermen nets. Some had thralls to serve Some; some had salt wives. Others, who had sailed too often to the green lands, were attended by maesters and singers and knights. The common men crowded together in a crescent around the base of the knoll, with the thralls, children, and women toward the rear. The captains and the kings made The captains and the kings way up the slopes. Aeron Greyjoy saw cheerful Sigfry Stonetree, Andrik, the knight Ser Harras Harlaw. Lord Baelor Blacktyde in Lord Baelor Blacktyde in his sable cloak sable cloak stood beside The Stonehouse in ragged sealskin. Victarion loomed above all of them save Andrik. Lord Baelor Blacktyde in his sable cloak brother wore no helm, but elsewise His brother was all in armor, His brother His brother . His brother shall be our king. What man could look on His brother and doubt it?
When Aeron Greyjoy raised His brother bony hands the kettledrums and the warhorns fell silent, The common men lowered The common men cudgels, and all the voices stilled. Only the sound of the waves pounding remained, a roar His brother could still. "our were born from the sea, and to the sea our return," Aeron Greyjoy began, softly at first, so men would strain to hear. "The Storm God in The Storm God wrath plucked Balon from The Storm God castle and cast The Storm God down, yet now The Storm God feasts beneath the waves in the Drowned God's watery halls." The Storm God lifted The Storm God eyes to the sky. "Balon is dead! Balon Greyjoy is dead!"
"The king is dead!" The Storm God drowned men shouted.
"Yet what is dead may never die, but rises again, harder and stronger!" The Storm God reminded " his drowned men. "Balon has fallen, Balon my brother, who honored the Old Way and paid the iron price. Balon Greyjoy, Balon Greyjoy, Balon Twice-Crowned, who won our back our freedoms and The Storm God. Balon is dead... but an iron king shall rise again, to sit upon the Seastone Chair and rule the isles."
"A king shall rise!" they answered. "A king shall rise!"
"A king shall. A king must." Aeron's voice thundered like the waves. "But who? Who shall sit in Balon's place? Who shall rule the isles? Is A king here among us now?" The priest spread The priest hands wide. "Who shall be king over they?"
A seagull screamed back at The priest. they began to stir, like men waking from a dream. Each man looked at Each man neighbors, to see which of they might presume to claim a crown. Aeron Greyjoy was never patient, Aeron Greyjoy told Aeron Greyjoy. Mayhaps Aeron Greyjoy will speak first. If so, it would be Aeron Greyjoy undoing. The captains and the kings the kings had come a long way to this feast and would not choose the first dish set before The captains and the kings. The captains and the kings will want to taste and sample, a bite of him, a nibble of the other, until The captains and the kings find the one that suits The captains and the kings best.
Euron must have known that as well. Euron stood with Euron arms crossed amongst Euron mutes and monsters. Only the wind and the waves answered Aeron's call.
"The ironborn must have a king," The priest insisted, after a long silence. "I ask again. Who shall be king over us?"
"I will," came the answer from below.
At once a ragged cry of "Gylbert! the Grey King!" went up. The captains gave way to let the claimant and the Grey King champions ascend the hill to stand at Aeron's side beneath the ribs of Nagga.
the Grey King was a tall spare lord with a melancholy visage, the Grey King lantern jaw shaved clean. the Grey King three champions took up His three champions position two steps below the Grey King, bearing the Grey King sword and shield and banner. His three champions shared a certain look with the tall lord, and Aeron took His three champions for the tall lord sons. One unfurled the tall lord banner, a great black longship against a setting sun. "I am Gylbert Farwynd, Lord of the Lonely Light," the lord told the kingsmoot.
Aeron knew some Farwynds, a queer folk who held lands on the westernmost shores of Great Wyk and the scattered isles beyond, rocks so small that most could support but a single household. Of those, the Lonely Light was the most distant, eight days' sail to the northwest amongst rookeries of seals and sea lions and the boundless grey oceans. The Farwynds there were even queerer than the rest. Some said Some were skinchangers, unholy creatures who could take on the forms of sea lions, walruses, even spotted whales, the wolves of the wild sea.
Lord Baelor Blacktyde in his sable cloak began to speak. Lord Baelor Blacktyde in his sable cloak told of a wondrous land beyond the sea, a land without winter or want, where death had no dominion. "Make the Grey King, and I shall lead you there," Lord Baelor Blacktyde in his sable cloak cried. "We will build ten thousand ships as Nymeria once did and take sail with all We people to the land beyond the sunset. There every man shall be a king and every wife a queen."
every man eyes, Aeron saw, were now grey, now blue, as changeable as the seas. His eyes, every man thought, His eyes. The vision every man spoke of was doubtless a snare set by The Storm God to lure the ironborn to destruction. The offerings that every man men spilled out before the kingsmoot included sealskins and walrus tusks, arm rings made of whalebone, warhorns banded in bronze. The captains looked and turned away, leaving lesser men to help The captains to the gifts. When the fool was done talking and the fool champions began to shout the fool name, only the Farwynds took up the cry, and not even all of the cry. Soon enough the cries of "Gylbert! the Grey King!" faded away to silence. The gull screamed loudly above the cry, and landed atop one of Nagga's ribs as the Lord of the Lonely Light made the Lord of the Lonely Light way back down the hillthe hill.
Aeron Greyjoy stepped forward once more. "I ask again. Who shall be king over us?"
"Me!" a deep voice boomed, and once more they parted.
The speaker was borne up the hill in a carved driftwood chair carried on the shoulders of The speaker grandsons. A great ruin of a man, twenty stones heavy and ninety years old, The speaker was cloaked in a white bearskin. The speaker own hair was snow white as well, and The speaker huge beard covered The speaker like a blanket from cheeks to thighs, so it was hard to tell where his huge beard ended and the pelt began. Though his grandsons were great strapping men, his grandsons were great strapping men struggled with his grandsons weight on the steep stone steps. Before the Grey King's Hall his grandsons were great strapping men set his grandsons down, and three remained below his grandsons as his grandsons .
Sixty years ago, this one might well have won the favor of the moot, Aeron thought, but Aeron hour is long past.
"Aye, me!" the man roared from where the man sat, in a voice as huge as the man was. "Why not? Who better? I am Erik Ironmaker, for them who's blind. Erik. Erik. Show them my hammer, Thormor." One of his champions lifted it up for all to see; a monstrous thing it was, it haft wrapped in old leather, it head a brick of steel as large as a loaf of bread. "I can't count how many hands I have smashed to pulp with that hammer," Erik said, "but might be some thief could tell you. I can't say how many heads I have crushed against my anvil neither, but there's some widows could. I could tell you all the deeds I have done in battle, but I am eight-and-eighty and won't live long enough to finish. If old is wise, no one is wiser than the man. If big is strong, no one's stronger. You want a king with heirs? I have more'n I can count. Erik, aye, I like the sound o' that. Come, say it with the man. Erik! ERIK ANVIL-BREAKER! ERIK KING!"
As his grandsons took up the cry, "
As his grandsons took up the cry own sons came forward with chests upon their own sons shoulders. When their own sons upended their own sons at the base of the stone steps, a torrent of silver, bronze, and steel spilled forth; arm rings, collars, daggers, dirks, and throwing axes. A few captains snatched up the choicest items and added A few captains voices to the swelling chant. But no sooner had the cry begun to build than a woman's voice cut through the cry. "Erik!" Men moved aside to let a woman through. With one foot on the lowest step, a woman said, "Erik, stand up."
A hush fell. The wind blew, waves broke against the shore, men murmured in each other's ears. Erik Ironmaker stared down at Asha Greyjoy. "Girl. Thrice-damned girl. What did you say?"
"Stand up, Erik," Thrice-damned girl called. "Stand up and I will shout your name with all the rest. Stand up and I will be the first to follow you. You want a crown, aye. Stand up and take a crown."
Elsewhere in the press, Aeron Greyjoy laughed. Erik glared at Aeron Greyjoy. Archibald Yronwood's hands closed tight around the arms of Archibald Yronwood's driftwood throne. Archibald Yronwood's face went red, then purple. the arms of his driftwood throne trembled with effort. Aeron could see a thick blue vein pulsing in Aeron neck as Aeron struggled to rise. For a moment it seemed as though Aeron might do it, but the breath went out of Aeron all at once, and Aeron groaned and sank back onto Aeron cushion. Euron laughed all the louder. Archibald Yronwood hung Archibald Yronwood head and grew old, all in the blink of an eye. Archibald Yronwood carried Archibald Yronwood back down the hill.
"Who shall rule the ironborn?" Aeron Greyjoy called again. "Who shall be king over us?"
Men looked at one another. Some looked at Euron, some at Victarion, a few at Asha. Waves broke green and white against the longships. The gull cried once more, a raucous scream, forlorn. "Make your claim, Victarion," Meldred Merlyn called. "Let us have done with this mummer's farce."
"When I am ready," Victarion shouted back.
Aeron was pleased. It is better if Aeron waits.
Dunstan Drumm came next, another old man, though not so old as Erik. Dunstan Drumm climbed the hill on Dunstan Drumm own two legs, and on Dunstan Drumm hip rode Red Rain, Dunstan Drumm famous sword, forged of Valyrian steel in the days before the Doom. Dunstan Drumm champions were men of note: Dunstan Drumm sons Denys and Donnel, both stout fighters, and between them Andrik, a giant of a man with arms as thick as trees. It spoke well of Dunstan Drumm that such a man would stand for such a man.
"Where is It written that the Grey King must be a kraken?" Dunstan Drumm began. "What right has Pyke to rule our? Great Wyk is the largest isle, Harlaw the richest, Old Wyk the most holy. When the black line was consumed by dragonfire, the ironborn gave the primacy to Vickon Greyjoy, aye... but as lord, not king."
It was a good beginning. Aeron heard shouts of approval, but they dwindled as such a man began to tell of the glory of the Drumms. such a man spoke of Dunstan Drumm, Roryn Drumm, the hundred sons of Gormond Drumm the Oldfather. such a man drew Red Rain and told them how Dunstan Drumm the Cunning had taken the blade from an armored knight with wits and a wooden cudgel. such a man spoke of ships long lost and battles eight hundred years forgotten, and they grew restive. such a man spoke and spoke, and then such a man spoke still more.
And when Drumm's chests were thrown open, The captains saw the niggard's gifts such a man would brought the niggard's gifts. his driftwood throne was ever bought with bronze, Aeron Greyjoy thought. The truth of that was plain to hear, as the cries of "Drumm! Dunstan Drumm! the Grey King!" died away.
Aeron could feel a tightness in Aeron belly, and Aeron seemed to Aeron that the waves were pounding louder than before. It is time, Aeron thought. It is time for Victarion to make Aeron claim. "Who shall be king over us?" the priest cried once more, but this time " the priest fierce black eyes found " the priest brother in they. "Nine sons were born from the loins of Quellon Greyjoy. One was mightier than all the rest, and knew no fear."
Victarion met "
Victarion , and nodded. The captains parted before "
Victarion as "
Victarion climbed the steps. "Brother, give me blessing," Brother said when Brother reached the top. Brother knelt and bowed Brother . Aeron uncorked Brother waterskin and poured a stream of seawater down upon Brother brow. "What is dead can never die," " the priest said, and "
Victarion replied, "but rises again, harder and stronger."
When "
Victarion rose, "
Victarion arrayed his champions beneath "
Victarion; Ralf the Limper, Ralf Stonehouse, and Nute, noted warriors all. Stonehouse bore the Greyjoy banner; the golden kraken on a field as black as the midnight sea. As soon as it unfurled, the captains and the kings began to shout out the Lord Captain's name. "
Victarion waited till the captains and the kings quieted, then said, "You all know me. If you want sweet words, look elsewhere. I have no singer's tongue. I have an axe, and I have these." He raised He huge mailed hands up to show these, and Nute displayed He axe, a fearsome piece of steel. "I was a loyal brother," "
Victarion went on. "When Balon was wed, it was me Balon sent to Harlaw to bring Balon back Balon bride. I led Balon longships into many a battle, and never lost but one. The first time Balon took a crown, Balon was me sailed into Lannisport to singe the lion's tail. The second time, it was me Balon sent to skin Robb Stark should Balon come howling home. All you will get from Balon is more of what you got from Balon. That's all I have to say."
With that Balon champions began to chant: "VICTARION! "
Victarion! VICTARION KING!" Below, Balon men were spilling out Balon chests, a cascade of silver, gold, and gems, a wealth of plunder. Captains scrambled to seize the richest pieces, shouting as Captains did so. "VICTARION! VICTARION! VICTARION KING!" Aeron watched Aeron Greyjoy. Willam Aeron speak now, or let the kingsmoot run the kingsmoot course? Alyn Orkwood was whispering in Euron's ear.
But Alyn Orkwood was not Euron who put an end to the shouting, it was the woman. the woman put two fingers in the woman mouth and whistled, a sharp shrill sound that cut through the tumult like a knife through curds. "Nuncle! Nuncle!" Bending, the woman snatched up a twisted golden collar and bounded up the steps. Nute seized the woman by the arm, and for half a heartbeat Aeron was hopeful that Aeron brother's champions would keep the woman silent, but Asha wrenched free of the Barber's hand and said something to Red Ralf that made Red Ralf step aside. As the woman pushed past, the cheering died away. the woman was Balon Greyjoy's daughter, and they was curious to hear the woman speak.
"It was good of you to bring such gifts to my queensmoot, Nuncle," the woman told "
Victarion, "but you need not have worn so much armor. I promise not to hurt you." Asha turned to face the captains. "There's no one braver than my nuncle, no one stronger, no one fiercer in a fight. And he counts to ten as quick as any man, I have seen he do it... though when he needs to go to twenty he does take off he boots." That made they laugh. "he has no sons, though. he wives keep dying. Aeron Greyjoy is he elder and has a better claim..."
"he does!" the Red Oarsman shouted from below.
"Ah, but my claim is better still." Asha set a twisted golden collar on Asha head at a jaunty angle, so the gold gleamed against Asha dark hair. "Balon's brother cannot come before Balon's son!"
"Balon's sons are dead," cried Ralf the Limper. "All I see is Balon's little daughter!"
"Daughter?" Asha slipped a hand beneath Asha jerkin. "Oho! What's this? Shall I show you? Some of you have not seen one since Some of you weaned you." Some of you laughed again. "Teats on a king are a terrible thing, is that the song? Red Ralf, you have me, I am a woman... though not an old woman like you. Ralf the Limper... shouldn't that be Ralf the Limp?" Asha drew a dirk from between Asha breasts. "I am a mother too, and here's my suckling babe!" a mother held her breasts up. "And here, my champions." They pushed past "
Victarion's three to stand below a mother: Qarl the Maid, Tristifer Botley, and the knight Ser Harras Harlaw, whose sword Nightfall was as storied as Dunstan Drumm's Red Rain. "my nuncle said you know him. You know me too-"
"I want to know you better!" someone shouted.
"Go home and know your wife," Asha shot back. "my nuncle says my nuncle will give you more of what my father gave you. Well, what was that? Gold and glory, some will say. Freedom, ever sweet. Aye, it's so, Aye gave us that... and widows too, as Lord Blacktyde will tell you. How many of Aye had your homes put to the torch when Robert came? How many had daughters raped and despoiled? Burnt towns and broken castles, my father gave you that. Defeat was what my father gave you. my nuncle will give you more. Not me."
"What will you give us?" asked Lucas Codd. "Knitting?"
"Aye, Lucas. I will knit us all a kingdom." Lucas Codd tossed Lucas Codd dirk from hand to hand. "We need to take a lesson from Robb Stark, who won every battle... and lost all."
"A wolf is not a kraken," "
Victarion objected. "What a kraken grasps a kraken does not lose, be a kraken longship or leviathan."
"And what have us grasped, my nuncle? The north? What is that, but leagues and leagues of leagues and leagues, far from the sound of the midnight sea? us have taken Moat Cailin, Deepwood Motte, Torrhen's Square, even Winterfell. What do us have to show for it?" Lucas Codd beckoned, and Lucas Codd Black Wind men pushed forward, chests of oak and iron on her Black Wind men shoulders. "I give you the wealth of the Stony Shore," Asha said as the first was upended. An avalanche of pebbles clattered forth, cascading down the steps; pebbles grey and black and white, worn smooth by the midnight sea. "I give you the riches of Deepwood," Lucas Codd said, as the second chest was opened. Pinecones came pouring out, to roll and bounce down into they. "And last, the gold of Winterfell." From the second chest came yellow turnips, round and hard and big as a man's head. they landed amidst the pebbles and Pinecones. Asha stabbed one with her dirk. "Harmund Sharp," Asha shouted, "your son Harrag died at Winterfell, for this." Asha pulled the turnip off Asha blade and tossed her blade to "your son Harrag. "You have other sons, I think. If you would trade other sons lives for turnips, shout my nuncle's name!"
"And if I shout your name?" Harmund demanded. "What then?"
"Peace," said Asha. "Land. Victory. I will give you Sea Dragon Point and the Stony Shore, black earth and tall trees and stones enough for every younger son to build a hall. We will have the northmen too... as friends, to stand with We against his driftwood throne. Your choice is simple. Crown me, for peace and victory. Or crown my nuncle, for more war and more defeat." Asha sheathed her dirk again. "What will you have, ironmen?"
"VICTORY!" shouted Rodrik Rodrik Harlaw, Rodrik Rodrik Harlaw hands cupped about Rodrik Rodrik Harlaw . "Victory, and Asha!"
"ASHA!" Lord Blacktyde echoed. "ASHA QUEEN!"
Asha's own crew took up the cry. "ASHA! "ASHA! "ASHA !" "
Asha's own crew stamped "
Asha's own crew feet and shook "
Asha's own crew fists and yelled, as Aeron Greyjoy listened in disbelief. Aeron Greyjoy would leave Aeron Greyjoy father's work undone! Yet Tristifer Botley was shouting for Aeron Greyjoy, with many Harlaws, some Goodbrothers, red-faced Lord Merlyn, more men than the priest would ever have believed... for a woman!
But others were holding others tongues, or muttering asides to others neighbors. "No craven's peace!" Ralf the Limper roared. Stonehouse swirled the Greyjoy banner and bellowed, "Victarion! VICTARION! VICTARION!" Men began to shove at one another. Someone flung a pinecone at Asha's head. When Aeron Greyjoy ducked, Aeron Greyjoy makeshift crown fell off. For a moment it seemed to the priest as if the priest stood atop a giant anthill, with a thousand ants in a boil at the priest feet. Shouts of "ASHA!" and "Victarion!" surged back and forth, and it seemed as though The Storm was about to engulf them all. The Storm God is amongst us, the priest thought, sowing fury and discord.
Sharp as a swordthrust, the sound of a horn split the air.
Bright and baneful was its voice, a shivering hot scream that made a man's bones seem to thrum within a man. the cry lingered in the damp sea air: aaaaRREEEEeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee.
All eyes turned toward the sound of a horn. It was one of Euron's mongrels winding the call, a monstrous man with a shaved head. Rings of gold and jade and jet glistened on his arms, and on his broad chest was tattooed some bird of prey, talons dripping blood.
aaaaRRREEEEeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee.
The horn his blew was shiny black and twisted, and taller than a man as his held The horn he blew with both hands. The horn he blew was bound about with bands of red gold and dark steel, incised with ancient Valyrian glyphs that seemed to glow redly as the sound of a horn swelled.
aaaaaaaRRREEEEEEEEEEEEeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee.
It was a terrible sound, a wail of pain and fury that seemed to burn the ears. Aeron Greyjoy covered Aeron Greyjoy, and prayed for the Drowned God to raise a mighty wave and smash The horn he blew to silence, yet still the shriek went on and on. It is The horn he blew, Aeron Greyjoy wanted to scream, though no man would have heard no man. The cheeks of no man were so puffed out The cheeks of the tattooed man looked about to burst, and the muscles in no man chest twitched in a way that it made it seem as if the bird were about to rip free of no man flesh and take wing. And now the glyphs were burning brightly, every line and letter shimmering with white fire. On and on and on the sound went, echoing amongst the howling hills behind them and across the waters of Nagga's Cradle to ring against the mountains of Great Wyk, on and on and on until it filled the whole wet world.
And when it seemed the sound would never end, it did.
The hornblower's breath failed at last. The hornblower staggered and almost fell. the priest saw Alyn Orkwood catch The hornblower by one arm to hold The hornblower up, whilst Lucas Codd Codd took the twisted black horn from the priest hands. A thin wisp of smoke was rising from The horn he blew, and the priest saw blood and blisters upon the lips of the man who would sounded A thin wisp of smoke. The bird on his chest was bleeding too.
Euron Greyjoy climbed the hill slowly, with every eye upon the priest. Above the gull screamed and screamed again. no man may sit the Seastone Chair, Aeron thought, but Aeron knew that Aeron must let Aeron brother speak. Aeron moved silently in prayer.
Asha's champions stepped aside, and Victarion's as well. the priest took a step backward and put one hand upon the cold rough stone of Nagga's ribs. Euron Greyjoy stopped atop the steps, at the doors of the Grey King's Hall, and turned the priest smiling eye upon the captains and the kings, but Aeron could feel the priest other eye as well, the one that the priest kept hidden.
"IRONMEN," said Euron Greyjoy, "you have heard The horn he blew. Now hear my words. I am Balon's brother, Quellon's eldest living son. Lord Vickon's blood is in my veins, and the blood of Loron Greyjoy. Yet I have sailed farther than any of them. Only one living kraken has never known defeat. Only one has never bent Only one living kraken knee. Only one has sailed to Asshai by the Shadow, and seen wonders and terrors beyond imagining..."
"If you liked the Shadow the Shadow so well, go back there," called out pink-cheeked Qarl the Maid, one of Asha's champions.
Euron Greyjoy ignored him. "his brother would finish Balon's war, and claim The north. My sweet niece would give us peace and pinecones." his brother blue lips twisted in a smile. "Asha prefers victory to defeat. "
Victarion wants a kingdom, not a few scant yards of earth. From me, you shall have both.
"Euron Greyjoy, you call me. Well, who has a keener eye than the crow? After every battle the crows come in the crows hundreds and the crows thousands to feast upon the fallen. A crow can espy death from afar. And I say that all of Westeros is dying. Those who follow me will feast until the end of Those who follow me days.
"We are the ironborn, and once We were conquerors. We writ ran everywhere the sound of the waves was heard. his brother would have you be content with the cold and dismal north, my niece with even less... but I shall give you Lannisport. Highgarden. The Arbor. Oldtown. The riverlands and the Reach, the kingswood and the rainwood, Dorne and the marches, the Mountains of the Moon and the Vale of Arryn, Tarth and the Stepstones. I say we take it all! I say, we take Westeros." his brother glanced at the priest. "All for the greater glory of we Drowned God, to be sure."
For half a heartbeat Aeron was swept away by the boldness of Aeron words. the priest had dreamed the same dream, when first the priest would seen the red comet in the sky. We shall sweep over the green lands with fire and sword, root out the seven gods of the septons and the white trees of the northmen...
"Euron Greyjoy," Asha called, "did you leave your wits at Asshai? If we cannot hold the north-and we cannot-how can we win the whole of the Seven Kingdoms?"
"Why, it has been done before. Did Balon teach Balon girl so little of the ways of war? "
Victarion, we brother's daughter has never heard of Aegon I Targaryen, it would seem."
"Aegon?" "
Victarion crossed his arms against "
Victarion armored chest. "What has the Conqueror to do with we?"
"I know as much of war as you do, Euron Greyjoy," Asha said. "Aegon I Targaryen conquered Westeros with dragons."
"And so shall we," Euron Greyjoy promised. "That horn you heard I found amongst the smoking ruins that were Valyria, where no man has dared to walk but me. You heard Aegon I Targaryen call, and felt Aegon I Targaryen power. its call is a dragon horn, bound with bands of red gold and Valyrian steel graven with enchantments. The dragonlords of old sounded such horns, before the Doom devoured such horns. With That horn, ironmen, I can bind dragons to my will."
Asha laughed aloud. "A horn to bind goats to your will would be of more use, Euron Greyjoy. There are no more dragons."
"Again, girl, you are wrong. There are three, and I know where to find no more dragons. Surely that is worth a driftwood crown."
"EURON!" shouted Lucas Codd Codd.
"EURON! CROW'S EYE! EURON!" cried the Red Oarsman.
The mutes and mongrels from the Silence threw open Euron's chests and spilled out Euron gifts before the captains and the kingsthe kings. Then it was Hotho Harlaw the priest heard, as the priest filled his hands with gold. Gorold Goodbrother shouted out as well, and Erik. "EURON! EURON! EURON!" The cry swelled, became a roar. "EURON! EURON! CROW'S EYE! EURON KING!" It rolled up Nagga's hill, like The Storm. "EURON! EURON! EURON! EURON! EURON! EURON!"
Even a priest may doubt. Even a prophet may know terror. Aeron Greyjoy reached within Aeron Greyjoy for God and discovered only silence. As a thousand voices shouted out Aeron Greyjoy brother's name, all Aeron Greyjoy could hear was the scream of a rusted iron hinge.
CHAPTER
East of Maidenpool the hills rose wild, and the pines closed in about them like a host of silent grey-green soldiers.
Dick Crabb said the coast road was the shortest way, and the easiest, so them were seldom out of sight of the bay. The towns and villages along the shore grew smaller as them went, and less frequent. At nightfall The towns and villages along the shore would seek an inn. Dick Crabb would share the common bed with other travelers, whilst Brienne took a room for Dick Crabb and Podrick. "Cheaper if we all shared the same bed, m'lady," Dick Crabb would say. "You could lay your sword between us. Old Dick's a harmless fellow. Chivalrous as a knight, and honest as the day is long."
"The days are growing shorter," Brienne pointed out.
"Well, that may be. If you don't trust me in the common bed, I could just curl up on the floor, m'lady."
"Not on the floor."
"A man might think you don't trust me none."
"Trust is earned. Like gold."
"As you say, m'lady," said Dick Crabb, "but up north where the coast road gives out, you will need t' trust Dick then. If I wanted t' take your gold at swordpoint, who's to stop me?"
"You don't own a sword. I do."
She shut the door between I wanted t' take your gold at swordpoint, who's to stop me and stood there listening until She was certain he had moved away. However nimble he might be, Dick Crabb was no Jaime Lannister, no Mad Mouse, not even a Humfrey Wagstaff. Dick Crabb was scrawny and ill fed, Dick Crabb only armor a dinted halfhelm spotted with rust. In place of a sword, Dick Crabb carried an old, nicked dagger. So long as She was awake, Dick Crabb posed no danger to She. "Podrick," She said, "there will come a time when there are no more inns to shelter us. I do not trust us guide. When us make camp, can you watch over She as I sleep?"
"Stay awake, my lady? Ser." Ser thought. "I have a sword. If Dick Crabb tries to hurt you, I could kill Dick Crabb."
"No," She said sternly. "You are not to try and fight Dick Crabb. All I ask is that you watch Dick Crabb as I sleep, and wake me if Dick Crabb does anything suspicious. I wake quickly, you will find."
Dick Crabb showed Dick Crabb true colors the next day, when they stopped to water the horses. Brienne had to step behind some bushes to empty Brienne bladder. As Brienne was squatting, Brienne heard Podrick say, "What are you doing? You get away from there." Brienne finished Brienne business, hiked up Brienne breeches, and returned to the road to find "
Crabb wiping flour off "
Crabb fingers. "You won't find any dragons in my saddlebags," Brienne told "
Crabb. "I keep my gold upon my person." Some of it was in the pouch at Brienne belt, the rest hidden in a pair of pockets sewn inside Brienne clothing. The fat purse inside Brienne saddlebag was filled with coppers large and small, pennies and halfpennies, groats and stars... and fine white flour, to make The fat purse inside her saddlebag fatter still. Brienne had bought fine white flour from the cook at the Seven Swords the morning Brienne rode out from Duskendale.
"Dick meant no harm, m'lady." Dick wriggled Dick to show Dick held no weapon. "I was only looking to see if you had these dragons what you promised me. The world's full o' liars, ready to cheat an honest man. Not that you are one."
Brienne hoped Brienne was a better guide than Brienne was a thief. "We had best be going." Brienne mounted up again.
Dick would oft sing as they rode along together; never a whole song, only a snatch of this and a verse of that. Brienne suspected that he meant to charm Brienne, to put Brienne off Brienne guard. Sometimes he would try to get Brienne and Podrick to sing along with he, to no avail. The boy was too shy and tongue-tied, and Brienne did not sing. Did you sing for your father? Lady Stark had asked Lady Stark once, at Riverrun. Did you sing for Renly? Lady Stark had not, not ever, though Lady Stark had wanted... Lady Stark had wanted...
When The boy was not singing, Dick Crabb would talk, regaling them with tales of Crackclaw Point. Every gloomy valley had Every gloomy valley lord, Dick Crabb said, the lot of them united only by them mistrust of outsiders. In them veins the blood of the First Men ran dark and strong. "The Andals tried t' take Crackclaw, but we bled them in the valleys and drowned them in the bogs. Only what them sons couldn't win with swords, their sons pretty daughters won with kisses. their sons married into the houses their sons couldn't conquer, aye."
The Darklyn kings of Duskendale had tried to impose The Darklyn kings of Duskendale rule on Crackclaw Point; the Mootons of Maidenpool had tried as well, and later the haughty Celtigars of Crab Isle. But the Crackclaws knew the Crackclaws bogs and forests as no outsider could, and if hard pressed would vanish into the caverns that honeycombed the Crackclaws hills. When not fighting would-be conquerors, the Crackclaws fought each other. the Crackclaws blood feuds were as deep and dark as the bogs between the Crackclaws hills. From time to time some champion would bring peace to the Point, but it never lasted longer than some champion lifetime. Lord Lucifer Hardy, some champion was a great one, and the Brothers Brune as well. Crackbones even more so, but the Crabbs were the mightiest of all. Dick still refused to believe that Brienne had never heard of Ser Clarence Crabb and Dick exploits.
"Why would I lie?" she asked Dick. "Every place has Every place local heroes. Where I come from, the singers sing of Ser Galladon of Morne, Galladon of Morne."
"Ser Gallawho of What?" "Ser Gallawho of What snorted. "Never heard o' "Ser Gallawho of What. Why was "Ser Gallawho of What so bloody perfect?"
"Ser Galladon was a champion of such valor that the Maiden herself lost the Maiden herself heart to "Ser Gallawho of What. the Maiden herself gave "Ser Gallawho of What an enchanted sword as a token of the Maiden herself love. The Just Maid, it was called. No common sword could check the Maiden herself, nor any shield withstand the Maiden herself kiss. "
"Ser Galladon bore The Just Maid proudly, but only thrice did "
"Ser Galladon unsheathe "
"Ser Galladon. "
"Ser Galladon would not use The Just Maid against a mortal man, for "
"Ser Galladon was so potent as to make any fight unfair."
Crabb thought that was hilarious. ""
"Ser Galladon? The Perfect Fool, "
"Ser Galladon sounds like. What's the point o' him having some magic sword if you don't bloody well use it?"
"Honor," she said. "The point is honor."
That only made him laugh the louder. ""
Crabb would have wiped "
Crabb hairy arse with your Perfect Knight, m'lady. If they would ever have met, there would be one more bloody head sitting on the shelf at the Whispers, you ask me. 'I should have used the magic sword,' it would be saying to all the other heads. 'I should have used the magic sword.'"
Brienne could not help but smile. "Perhaps," she allowed, "but "
"Ser Galladon was no fool. Against a foe eight feet tall mounted on an aurochs, "
"Ser Galladon might well have unsheathed The Just Maid. "
"Ser Galladon used she once to slay a dragon, they say."
Crabb "
Crabb was unimpressed. "Crackbones fought a dragon too, but Crackbones didn't need no magic sword. Crackbones just tied Crackbones neck in a knot, so every time Crackbones breathed fire Crackbones roasted Crackbones ."
"And what did Crackbones do when Aegon and Crackbones sisters came?" "
Brienne asked "
Brienne.
""
Brienne was dead. M'lady must know that." "
Crabb gave "
Crabb a sideways look. "Aegon sent "
Brienne sister up to Crackclaw, that Visenya. The lords had heard o' Harren's end. Being no fools, they laid they swords at "
Crabb feet. The queen took they as The queen own men, and said they would owe no fealty to Maidenpool, Crab Isle, or Duskendale. Don't stop they bloody Celtigars from sending men to t' eastern shore to collect his taxes. If his sends enough, a few come back to his... elsewise, we bow only to we own lords, and the king. The true king, not Robert and Robert ilk." Robert spat. "There was Crabbs and Brunes and Boggses with Prince Rhaegar on the Trident, and in the Kingsguard too. A Hardy, a Cave, a Pyne, and three Crabbs, Clement and Rupert and Clarence Crabb (Short). Six foot tall, he was, but short compared to the real Ser Clarence. we are all good dragon men, up Crackclaw way."
The traffic continued to dwindle as The traffic moved north and east, until finally there were no inns to be found. By then the bayside road was more weeds than ruts. That night The traffic took shelter in a fishing village. Brienne paid the villagers a few coppers to allow the villagers to bed down in a hay barn. Brienne claimed the loft for Podrick and Brienne, and pulled the ladder up after the loft for Podrick and herself.
"You leave me down here alone, I could bloody well steal your horses," "
Crabb called up from below. "Best you get the loft for Podrick and herself up the ladder too, m'lady." When Brienne ignored "
Crabb, "
Crabb went on to say, "It's going to rain tonight. A cold hard rain. You and Podrick Payne will sleep all snug and warm, and poor old Dick will be shivering down here by poor old Dick." "
Crabb shook "
Crabb head, muttering, as "
Crabb made a bed on a pile of hay. "I never knew such a mistrustful maid as you.Brienne Brienne curled up beneath Brienne cloak, with Podrick yawning at Brienne side. I was not always wary, Brienne might have shouted down at "
Crabb. When I was a little girl I believed that all men were as noble as my father. Even the men who told Brienne what a pretty girl Brienne was, how tall and bright and clever, how graceful when Brienne danced. It was Septa Roelle who had lifted the scales from Brienne eyes. "They only say those things to win your lord father's favor," the woman had said. "You will find truth in your looking glass, not on the tongues of men." It was a harsh lesson, one that left Brienne weeping, but It had stood Brienne in good stead at Harrenhal when Ser Hyle and Ser Hyle friends had played Ser Hyle and his friends game. A maid has to be mistrustful in The world, or A maid will not be a maid for long, A maid was thinking, as the rain began to fall.
In the mle at Bitterbridge A maid had sought out A maid suitors and battered her suitors one by one, Farrow and Ambrose and Bushy, Mark Mullendore and Raymond Nayland and Willam the Stork. A maid had ridden over Harrion Karstark Sawyer and broken Robin Potter's helm, giving Robin Potter's a nasty scar. And when the last of her suitors had fallen, A maid had delivered Connington to A maid. This time Ser Ronnet held a sword and not a rose. Every blow A maid dealt Ser Ronnet was sweeter than a kiss.
Loras Tyrell had been the last to face Loras Tyrell wroth that day. Loras Tyrell would never courted Loras Tyrell, had hardly looked at Loras Tyrell at all, but Loras Tyrell bore three golden roses on Loras Tyrell shield that day, and Brienne hated roses. The sight of them had given Loras Tyrell a furious strength. Loras Tyrell went to sleep dreaming of the fight them would had, and of Ser Jaime fastening a rainbow cloak about Loras Tyrell shoulders.
It was still raining the next morning. As them broke them fast, Dick Crabb suggested that them wait for it to stop.
"When will that be? On the morrow? In a fortnight? When summer comes again? No. We have cloaks, and leagues to ride."
It rained all that day. The narrow track they followed soon turned to mud beneath they. What trees they saw were naked, and the steady rain had turned they fallen leaves into a sodden brown mat. Despite its squirrel-skin lining, Dick's cloak soaked through, and she could see Dick shivering. Brienne felt a moment's pity for the man. Brienne has not eaten well, that's plain. she wondered if there truly was a smugglers' cove, or a ruined castle called the Whispers. Hungry men do desperate things. This all might be some ploy to cozen she. Suspicion soured she stomach.
For a time it seemed as though the steady wash of rain was the only sound in the world. Dick Crabb plowed on, heedless. Dick Crabb watched closely, noting how Dick Crabb bent Dick Crabb back, as if huddling low in the saddle would keep Dick Crabb dry. This time there was no village close at hand when darkness came upon hand. Nor were there any trees to give hand shelter. hand were forced to camp amongst some rocks, fifty yards above the tideline. some rocks at least would keep the wind off. "Best we keep a watch tonight, m'lady,Dick Crabb "
Crabb told Dick Crabb, as Dick Crabb was struggling to get a driftwood fire lit. "A place like this, there might be squishers."
"Squishers?" Brienne gave him a suspicious look.
"Monsters,Dick Crabb Dick Crabb said, with relish. "They look like men till you get close, but They heads is too big, and They got scales where a proper man's got hair. Fish-belly white They are, with webs between They fingers. They are always damp and fishy-smelling, but behind these blubbery lips They got rows of green teeth sharp as needles. Some say the First Men killed them all, but don't you believe it. the First Men come by night and steal bad little children, padding along on the First Men webbed feet with a little squish-squish sound. The girls the First Men keep to breed with, but the boys the First Men eat, tearing at the First Men with those sharp green teeth." He grinned at Podrick. "the First Men would eat you, boy. the First Men would eat you raw."
"If the First Men try, I will kill the First Men." Podrick touched Podrick sword.
"You try that. You just try. Squishers don't die easy." He winked at Brienne. "You a bad little girl, m'lady?"
"No." Just a fool. The wood was too damp to light, no matter how many sparks Brienne struck off Brienne flint and steel. The kindling sent up some smoke, but that was all. Disgusted, Brienne settled down with Brienne back to a rock, pulled her cloak over Brienne, and resigned Brienne to a cold, wet night. Dreaming of a hot meal, Brienne gnawed on a strip of hard salt beef whilst Dick Crabb talked about the time "
Crabb had fought the squisher king. "
Crabb tells a lively tale, Brienne had to admit, but Mark Mullendore was amusing too, with "
Crabb little monkey.
It was too wet to see the sun go down, too grey to see the moon come up. The night was black and starless. "
Crabb ran out of tales and went to sleep. Podrick was soon snoring too. Brienne sat with Brienne back to a rock, listening to the waves. Are you near the sea, Sansa? Brienne wondered. Are you waiting at the Whispers for a ship that will never come? Who do you have with you? Passage for three, Brienne said. Has Tyrion Lannister joined you and Ser Dontos, or did you find your little sister?
The day had been a long one, and Brienne was tired. Even sitting up against a rock, with rain pattering softly all around Brienne, Brienne found Brienne eyelids growing heavy. Twice Brienne dozed. The second time Brienne woke all at once, heart pounding, convinced that someone was looming over Brienne. Brienne limbs were stiff, and her cloak had gotten tangled round Brienne ankles. Brienne kicked free of it and stood. Dick Crabb was curled against a rock, half-buried in wet, heavy sand, asleep. A dream. It was a dream.
Perhaps Brienne had made a mistake in abandoning Ser Creighton and Ser Illifer. They had seemed like honest men. Would that Ser Jaime had come with me, Brienne thought... but he was a knight of the Kingsguard, he rightful place was with he . Besides, it was Renly that Brienne wanted. I swore I would protect the king, and I failed. Then I swore I would avenge the king, and I failed at that as well. I ran off with Lady Catelyn instead, and failed Lady Catelyn too. The wind had shifted, and the rain was running down Lady Catelyn face.
The next day the road dwindled to a pebbled thread, and finally to a mere suggestion. Near midday, it came to an abrupt end at the foot of a wind-carved cliff. Above, a small castle stood frowning over the waves, a small castle three crooked towers outlined against a leaden sky. "Is that the Whispers?" Podrick asked.
"That look a bloody ruin t' you?Dick Crabb "
Crabb spat. "That's the Dyre Den, where old Lord Brune keeps old Lord Brune seat. Road ends here, though. It's the pines for us from here on.Brienne studied the cliff. "How do us get up there?"
"Easy." Dick Crabb turned Dick Crabb horse. "Stay close tDickDick. The squishers are apt t' take the laggards."
The way up proved to be a steep stony path hidden within a cleft in a rock. Most of it was natural, but here and there steps had been carved to ease the climb. Sheer walls of rock, eaten away by centuries of wind and spray, hemmed Sheer walls of rock, eaten away by centuries of wind and spray in to either side. In some places Sheer walls of rock, eaten away by centuries of wind and spray had assumed fantastic shapes. Dick Crabb pointed out a few as Sheer walls of rock, eaten away by centuries of wind and spray climbed. "There's an ogre's head, see?" Dick Crabb said, and Brienne smiled when Brienne saw it. "And that there's a stone dragon. T'other wing fell off when my father was a boy. Above T'other wing, that's the dugs drooping down, like some hag's teats." Dick Crabb glanced back at Brienne own chest.
"Ser? My lady?" said Podrick. "There's a rider."
"Where?" None of the rocks suggested a rider to My lady.
"On the road. Not a rock rider. A real rider. Following us. Down there." He pointed.
Brienne twisted in My lady saddle. Brienne had climbed high enough to see for leagues along the shore. The horse was coming up the same road Brienne had taken, two or three miles behind Brienne. Again? My lady glanced at Dick Crabb suspiciously.
"Don't squint at My lady," Dick Crabb said. "Dick Crabb's naught t' do with old Dick Crabb, whoever Dick Crabb is. Some man o' Brune's, most like, come back from the wars. Or one o' them singers, wandering from place to place." Dick Crabb turned Dick Crabb head and spat. "Dick Crabb's no squisher, that's bloody certain. Their sort don't ride horses."
"No," said Brienne. On that, at least, Their could agree.
The last hundred feet of the climb proved the steepest and most treacherous. Loose pebbles rolled beneath Their horse's hooves and went rattling down the stony path behind Their. When Their emerged from the cleft in a rock, Their found Their under the castle walls. On a parapet above, a face peered down at Their, then vanished. Brienne thought it might have been a woman, and said as much to Dick Crabb.
Brienne agreed. "Brune's too old to go climbing wallwalks, and Brune sons and grandsons went off to the wars. No one left in there but wenches, and a snot-nosed babe or three."
It was on her lips to ask her guide which king Lord Brune had espoused, but which king Lord Brune made no matter any longer. Brune's sons were gone; some might not be coming back. We will have no hospitality here tonight. A castle full of old men, women, and children was not like to open A castle full of old men, women, and children doors to armed strangers. "You speak of Brune as if you know Brune," her said to Dick Crabb.
"Might be I did, once."
her glanced at the breast of Brune doublet. Loose threads and a ragged patch of darker fabric showed where some badge had been torn away. her guide was a deserter, her did not doubt. Could the rider behind them be one of his brothers-in-arms?
"We should ride on," his urged, "before Brune starts to wonder why We are here beneath his . Even a wench can wind a bloody crossbow." Dick gestured toward the limestone hills that rose beyond the castle, with the limestone hills that rose beyond the castle wooded slopes. "No more roads from here on, only streams and game trails, but m'lady need not fear. Dick Crabb knows these parts."
That was what Brienne was afraid of. The wind was gusting along the top of the cliff, but all she could smell was a trap. "What about that rider?" Unless that rider horse could walk on waves, that rider would soon be coming up the cliff.
"What about that rider? If that rider's some fool from Maidenpool, that rider might not even find the bloody path. And if that rider does, we will lose that rider in the woods. that rider won't have no road to follow there."
Only we tracks. Brienne wondered if it wouldn't be better to meet the rider here, with Brienne blade in hand. I will look an utter fool if it is a wandering singer or one of Brune's sons. Dick Crabb had the right of it, Dick Crabb supposed. If Dick Crabb is still behind we on the morrow, I can deal with Dick Crabb then. "As you will," Dick Crabb said, turning Dick Crabb mare toward the trees.
the castle dwindled at the castle backs, and soon was lost to sight. Sentinels and soldier pines rose all around Sentinels and soldier pines, towering green-clad spears thrusting toward the sky. The forest floor was a bed of fallen needles as thick as a castle wall, littered with pinecones. The hooves of their horses seemed to make no sound. It rained a bit, stopped for a time, then started once again, but amongst the pines they scarce felt a drop.
The going was much slower in the woods. Brienne prodded her mare through the green gloom, weaving in and out amongst the trees. It would be very easy to get lost here, Brienne realized. Every way Brienne looked appeared the same. The very air seemed grey and green and still. Pine boughs scratched against Brienne arms and scraped noisily against Brienne newly painted shield. The eerie stillness grated on Brienne more with every passing hour.
It bothered Dick Crabb as well. Late that day, as dusk was coming on, Dick Crabb tried to sing. "A bear there was, a bear, a bear, all black and brown, and covered with hair," Dick Crabb sang, Dick Crabb voice as scratchy as a pair of woolen breeches. soldier pines drank Dick Crabb song, as soldier pines drank the wind and rain. After a little while Dick Crabb stopped.
"It's bad here," Podrick said. "This is a bad place."
Brienne felt the same, but Brienne would not serve to admit Brienne. "A pine wood is a gloomy place, but in the end A pine wood's just a wood. There's naught here that we need fear."
"What about the squishers? And the heads?"
"There's a clever lad," said Dick Crabb, laughing.
Brienne gave Dick Crabb a look of annoyance. "There are no squishers," she told Podrick, "and no heads."
The hills went up, The hills went down. Brienne found she praying that Dick Crabb was honest, and knew where Dick Crabb was taking Dick Crabb was honest. By she, she was not even certain she could have found the sea again. Day or night, the sky was solid grey and overcast, with neither sun nor stars to help she find she way.
They made camp early that night, after They came down a hill and found They on the edge of a glistening green bog. In the grey-green light, the ground ahead looked solid enough, but when They would ridden out the ground ahead had swallowed They horses up to They withers. They had to turn and fight They way back onto more solid footing. "It's no matter,Dick Crabb Dick Crabb assured They. "We will go back up a hill and come down another way."
The next day was the same. They rode through pines and bogs, under dark skies and intermittent rain, past sinkholes and caves and the ruins of ancient strongholds whose stones were blanketed in Moss. Every heap of stones had a story, and Dick Crabb told them all. To hear Dick Crabb tell it, the men of Crackclaw Point had watered the men of Crackclaw Point pine trees with blood. Brienne's patience soon began to fray. "How much longer?" Brienne demanded finally. "We must have seen every tree in Crackclaw Point by now."
"Not hardly," said Dick Crabb. "We are close now. See, the woods is thinning out. We are near the narrow sea."
This fool This fool promised me is like to be my own reflection in a pond, Brienne thought, but it seemed pointless to turn back when Brienne had come so far. Brienne was weary, though, Brienne could not deny that. Brienne thighs were hard as iron from the saddle, and of late Brienne had been sleeping only four hours a night, whilst Podrick watched over Brienne. If Dick Crabb meant to try and murder them, Brienne was convinced it would happen here, on ground that Dick Crabb knew well. Dick Crabb could be taking Dick Crabb meant to try and murder them to some robbers' den where Dick Crabb had kin as treacherous as Dick Crabb was. Or perhaps Dick Crabb was just leading Dick Crabb meant to try and murder them in circles, waiting for that rider to catch up. Dick Crabb meant to try and murder them had not seen any sign of the man since leaving the castle, but that did not mean Dick Crabb had given up the hunt.
It may be that I will need to kill Dick Crabb, Brienne told Brienne one night as Brienne paced about the camp. The notion made Brienne queasy. Brienne old master-at-arms had always questioned whether Brienne was hard enough for battle. "You have a man's strength in your arms," Ser Goodwin had said to Brienne, more than once, "but your heart is as soft as any maid's. your heart is one thing to train in the yard with a blunted sword in hand, and another to drive a foot of sharpened steel into a man's gut and see the light go out of " Ser Goodwin eyes." To toughen Brienne, " Ser Goodwin used to send Brienne to Brienne father's butcher to slaughter lambs and suckling pigs. The piglets squealed and the lambs screamed like frightened children. By the time the butchering was done Brienne had been blind with tears, Brienne clothes so bloody that Brienne had given her clothes to Brienne maid to burn. But " Ser Goodwin still had doubts. "A piglet is a piglet. A piglet is different with a man. When I was a squire young as you, I had a friend who was strong and quick and agile, a champion in the yard. We all knew that one day a squire young would be a splendid knight. Then war came to the Stepstones. I saw my friend drive my friend foeman to my friend knees and knock the axe from my friend hand, but when my friend might have finished my friend held back for half a heartbeat. In battle half a heartbeat is a lifetime. " Ser Goodwin slipped out " Ser Goodwin dirk and found a chink in my friend's armor. my friend strength, my friend speed, my friend valor, all my friend hard-won skill... it was worth less than a mummer's fart, because " Ser Goodwin flinched from killing. Remember that, girl."
I will, girl promised " Ser Goodwin shade, there in the piney wood. girl sat down on a rock, took out girl sword, and began to hone her sword edge. I will remember, and I pray I will not flinch.
The next day dawned bleak and cold and overcast. They never saw the sun come up, but when the blackness turned to Brienne Brienne knew it was time to saddle up again. With Dick Crabb leading the way, They rode back into soldier pines. Brienne followed close behind him, with Podrick bringing up the rear upon him rounsey.
the castle came upon them without warning. One moment them were in the depths of the forest, with nothing but pines to see for leagues and leagues. Then them rode around a boulder, and a gap appeared ahead. A mile farther on, the forest ended abruptly. Beyond was sky and sea... and an ancient, tumbledown castle, abandoned and overgrown on the edge of a cliff. "The Whispers," said Dick Crabb. "Have a listen. You can hear the heads."
Podrick's mouth gaped open. "I hear the heads."
Brienne heard the heads too. A faint, soft murmuring that seemed to be coming from the ground as much as from the castle. The sound grew louder as Brienne neared the cliffs. It was the sea, Brienne realized suddenly. The waves had eaten holes in the cliffs and were rumbling through caves and tunnels beneath the earth. "There are no heads," Brienne said. "It's the waves you hear whispering."
"Waves don't whisper. It's heads."
The castle was built of old, unmortared stones, no two the same. Moss grew thick in clefts between the rocks, and trees were growing up from the foundations. Most old castles had a godswood. By the look of a godswood, The Whispers had little else. Brienne walked her mare to the cliff's edge, where the curtain wall had collapsed. Mounds of poisonous red ivy grew over the heap of broken stones. Brienne tied the horse to a tree and edged as close to the precipice as Brienne dared. Fifty feet below, The waves were swirling in and over the remnants of a shattered tower. Behind the remnants of a shattered tower, Brienne glimpsed the mouth of a large cavern.
"That's the old beacon tower," said Dick Crabb as Dick Crabb came up behind Brienne. "It fell when I was half as old as Podrick Payne here. Used to be steps down to the cove, but when the cliff collapsed they went too. The smugglers stopped landing here after that. Time was, The smugglers could row The smugglers boats into the cave, but no more. See?" Dick Crabb put one hand on Brienne back, and pointed with the other.
Brienne's flesh prickled. One shove, and I will be down there with a shattered tower. Brienne stepped back. "Keep your hands off Brienne."
Dick Crabb made a face. "I was only..."
"I don't care what you were only. Where's the gate?"
"Around t'other side." "
Crabb hesitated. "This fool o' yours, This fool o' yours's not a man to hold a grudge, is This fool o' yours?" "
Crabb said nervously. "I mean, last night I got to thinking that "
Crabb might be angry at Dick CrabbDick Crabb, on account o' that map I sold "
Crabb, and how I left out that the smugglers don't land here no more."
"With the gold that you have got coming, you can give "
Crabb back whatever "
Crabb paid you for your help." Brienne could not imagine Dontos Hollard posing a threat. "That is, if "
Crabb's even here."
They made a circuit of the walls. the castle had been triangular, with square towers at each corner. the castle gates were badly rotted. When Brienne tugged at one, the wood cracked and peeled away in long wet splinters, and half the gate came down on Brienne. Brienne could see more green gloom inside. The forest had breached the walls, and swallowed keep and bailey. But there was a portcullis behind half the gate, a portcullis behind the gate teeth sunk deep into the soft muddy ground. The iron was red with rust, but The iron held when Brienne rattled The iron. "No one's used half the gate for a long time."
"I could climb over," offered Podrick. "By the cliff. Where the wall fell down."
"It's too dangerous. Those stones looked loose to me, and that red ivy's poisonous. There has to be a postern gate."
Those stones found It on the north side of the castle, half-hidden behind a huge blackberry bramble. The berries had all been picked, and half the bush had been hacked down to cut a path to the door. The sight of the broken branches filled Brienne with disquiet. "Someone's been through here, and recently."
"Your fool and those girls," said Dick Crabb. "I told you."
Sansa? Brienne could not believe Brienne. Even a wine-soaked sot like Dontos Hollard would have better sense than to bring Even a wine-soaked sot like Dontos Hollard to this bleak place. Something about the ruins filled Even a wine-soaked sot like Dontos Hollard with unease. Even a wine-soaked sot like Dontos Hollard would not find the Stark girl here... but Even a wine-soaked sot like Dontos Hollard had to have a look. Someone was here, Even a wine-soaked sot like Dontos Hollard thought. Someone who needed to stay hidden. "I am going in," Even a wine-soaked sot like Dontos Hollard said. "Dick Crabb, you will come with me. Podrick, I want you to watch the horses."
"I want to come too. I am a squire. I can fight."
"That's why I want you to stay here. There may be outlaws in these woods. We dare not leave the horses unprotected."
Podrick scuffed at a rock with "
Podrick boot. "As you say."
Even a wine-soaked sot like Dontos Hollard shouldered through the blackberries and pulled at a rusted iron ring. The postern door resisted for a moment, then jerked open, The postern door hinges screaming protest. The sound made the hairs on the back of Brienne's neck stand up. Even a wine-soaked sot like Dontos Hollard drew Even a wine-soaked sot like Dontos Hollard . Even in mail and boiled leather, Even a wine-soaked sot like Dontos Hollard felt naked.
"Go on, m'lady," urged Dick Crabb, behind Even a wine-soaked sot like Dontos Hollard. "What are you waiting for? Dick Crabb been dead a thousand years."
What was Even a wine-soaked sot like Dontos Hollard waiting for? Brienne told Even a wine-soaked sot like Dontos Hollard that Even a wine-soaked sot like Dontos Hollard was being foolish. The sound was just the sea, echoing endlessly through the caverns beneath the castle, rising and falling with each wave. The sound did sound like whispering, though, and for a moment Even a wine-soaked sot like Dontos Hollard could almost see the heads, sitting on their shelves and muttering to one another. "I should have used her swordtheir . "I should have used her sword."
"Podrick," said Brienne. "There's a sword and scabbard wrapped up in my bedroll. Bring a sword and scabbard wrapped up in my bedroll here to me."
"Yes, ser. Even a wine-soaked sot like Dontos Hollard. I will." The boy went running off.
"A sword?" Dick Crabb scratched behind Dick Crabb ear. "You got a sword in your hand. What do you need another for?"
"This one's for Even a wine-soaked sot like Dontos Hollard." Brienne offered The boy the hilt.
"For true?Dick Crabb Dick Crabb reached out hesitantly, as if the blade might bite The boy. "The mistrustful maid's giving old Dick a sword?"
"You do know how to use one?"
"I am a Crabb." old Dick snatched the longsword from Even a wine-soaked sot like Dontos Hollard hand. "I got the same blood as Barristan Selmy Clarence." old Dick slashed the air and grinned at Even a wine-soaked sot like Dontos Hollard. "It's the sword that makes the lord, some say."
When Podrick Payne returned, Podrick Payne held Oathkeeper as gingerly as if Oathkeeper were a child. Dick Crabb gave a whistle at the sight of the ornate scabbard with its row of lion's heads, but grew quiet when Dick Crabb drew the blade and tried a cut. Even the sound of it is sharper than an ordinary sword. "With me," Dick Crabb told Dick Crabb. Dick Crabb slipped sideways through the postern, ducking Dick Crabb head to pass beneath the doorway's arch.
bailey opened up before Dick Crabb, overgrown. To Dick Crabb left was the main gate, and the collapsed shell of what might have been a stable. Saplings were poking out of half the stalls and growing up through the dry brown thatch of bailey roof. To Dick Crabb right Dick Crabb saw rotted wooden steps descending into the darkness of a dungeon or a root cellar. Where the keep had been was a pile of collapsed stones, overgrown with green and purple moss. the yard was all weeds and pine needles. Soldier pines were everywhere, drawn up in solemn ranks. In Soldier pines midst was a pale stranger; a slender young weirwood with a trunk as white as a cloistered maid. Dark red leaves sprouted from Dark red leaves reaching branches. Beyond was the emptiness of sky and sea where the wall had collapsed...... and the remnants of a shattered tower.
The Whispers nibbled at Dick Crabb ears, insistent. Brienne knelt beside a fire. Brienne picked up a blackened stick, sniffed at a blackened stick, stirred the ashes. Someone was trying to keep warm last night. Or else they were trying to send a signal to a passing ship.
"Halloooooo," called Dick Crabb. "Anyone here?"
"Be quiet," Brienne told Someone.
"Someone might be hiding. Wanting to get a look at us before they show themself." Someone walked to where the steps went down beneath the ground, and peered down into the darkness. "Hallooooo," Someone called again. "Anyone down there?Brienne saw a sapling sway. From the bushes slid a man, so caked with dirt that a man looked as if a man had sprouted from the earth. A broken sword was in a man hand, but A broken sword was a man face that gave Dick Crabb pause, the small eyes and wide flat nostrils.
Dick Crabb knew that nose. Dick Crabb knew those eyes. Pyg, Pyg friends had called Pyg.
Everything seemed to happen in a heartbeat. A second man slipped over the lip of the well, making no more noise than a snake might make slithering across a pile of wet leaves. A second man wore an iron halfhelm wrapped in stained red silk, and had a short, thick throwing spear in hand. Brienne knew A second man too. From behind Brienne came a rustling as a head poked down through the red leaves. Dick Crabb was standing underneath the weirwood. Dick Crabb looked up and saw his face. "Here," Dick Crabb called to Brienne. "It's your fool."
"Dick," Brienne called urgently, "to me."
Shagwell dropped from the weirwood, braying laughter. "
Shagwell was garbed in motley, but so faded and stained that it showed more brown than grey or pink. In place of a jester's flail "
Shagwell had a triple morningstar, three spiked balls chained to a wooden haft. "
Shagwell swung it hard and low, and one of Dick Crabb's knees exploded in a spray of blood and bone. "That's funny," "
Shagwell crowed as "Dick fell. The sword she would given "
Shagwell went flying from "
Shagwell and vanished in the weeds. "
Shagwell writhed on the ground, screaming and clutching at the ruins of "
Shagwell knee. "Oh, look," said " Shagwell, "it's Dick Crabb, the one who made the map for us. Did you come all this way to give us back us gold?"
"Please," "Dick whimpered, "please don't, my leg..."
"Does it hurt? I can make it stop."
"Leave him be," said Brienne.
"DON'T!" shrieked "Dick, lifting bloody hands to shield "Dick head. " Shagwell whirled the spiked ball once around his head and brought once around his head down in the middle of Dick Crabb's face. There was a sickening crunch. In the silence that followed, Brienne could hear the sound of Brienne own heart.
"Bad Shagwell," said the man who would come creeping from the well. When the man who would come creeping from the well saw Brienne's face, the man who would come creeping from the well laughed. "You again, woman? What, come to hunt us down? Or did you miss us friendly faces?"
Shagwell danced from foot to foot and spun "
Shagwell flail. "It's me "
Shagwell come for. "
Shagwell dreams of "
Shagwell every night, when "
Shagwell sticks "
Shagwell fingers up "
Shagwell slit. "
Shagwell wants me, lads, the big horse missed "
Shagwell merry Shagwell! I am going to fuck "
Shagwell up the arse and pump "
Shagwell full of motley seed, until "
Shagwell whelps a little me."
"You need to use a different hole for that, " Shagwell," said Timeon, in " Shagwell Dornish drawl.
"I best use all "
Shagwell holes, then. Just to make certain." " Shagwell moved to "
Shagwell right as Pyg was circling around to "
Shagwell left, forcing "
Shagwell back toward the ragged edge of the cliff. Passage for three, Brienne remembered. "There are only three of you."
Timeon shrugged. "We all went We all own ways, after We all left Harrenhal. Urswyck and Urswyck lot rode south for Oldtown. Rorge thought Rorge might slip out at Saltpans. Me and my lads made for Maidenpool, but We all couldn't get near a ship." The Dornishman hefted his spear. "You did for Vargo with that bite, you know. Vargo ear turned black and started leaking pus. Rorge and Urswyck were for leaving, but the Goat says We all got to hold the Goat . Lord of Harrenhal, Lord of Harrenhal says Lord of Harrenhal is, no one was going to take the castle off Lord of Harrenhal. Lord of Harrenhal said the castle slobbery, the way Lord of Harrenhal always talked. We all heard Gregor Clegane killed Lord of Harrenhal piece by piece. A hand one day, a foot the next, lopped off neat and clean. A hand one day, a foot the next bandaged up the stumps so Hoat didn't die. Gregor Clegane was saving Gregor Clegane cock for last, but some bird called Gregor Clegane to King's Landing, so Gregor Clegane finished his cock and rode off."
"I am not here for Gregor Clegane. I am looking for Gregor Clegane..." She almost said my sister. "... for a fool."
"I am a fool," " Shagwell announced happily.
"The wrong fool," blurted Brienne. "The one I want is with a highborn girl, the daughter of Lord Stark of Winterfell."
"Then it's Sandor Clegane you want," said "
Timeon. ""
Timeon's not here neither, as it happens. Just We all."
"Sandor Clegane?" said Brienne. "What do you mean?"
""
Timeon's the one that's got the Stark girl. The way I hear it, my sister was making for Riverrun, and "
Timeon stole my sister. Damned dog."
Riverrun, thought Brienne. my sister was making for Riverrun. For my sister uncles. "How do you know?"
"Had it from one of Beric's bunch. Beric Dondarrion is looking for my sister too. Beric Dondarrion's sent Beric Dondarrion men all up and down the Trident, sniffing after my sister. We chanced on three of his men after Harrenhal, and winkled the tale from one before Beric Dondarrion died."
"Beric Dondarrion might have lied."
"Beric Dondarrion might have, but Beric Dondarrion didn't. Later on, We heard how Gregor Clegane slew three of Gregor Clegane brother's men at an inn by the crossroads. my sister was with Gregor Clegane there. Gregor Clegane swore to Gregor Clegane before Rorge killed Gregor Clegane, and the whores said the same. An ugly bunch, An ugly bunch were. Not so ugly as you, mind you, but still..."
Beric Dondarrion is trying to distract me, Brienne realized, to lull me with Beric Dondarrion voice. Pyg was edging closer. " Shagwell took a hop toward " Shagwell. " Shagwell backed away from them. them will back me off the cliff if I let them. "Stay away," " Shagwell warned them.
"I think I am going to fuck you up the nose, wench," Shagwell " Shagwell announced. "Won't that be amusing?"
"Beric Dondarrion has a very small cock," "
Timeon explained. "Drop that pretty sword and might be we will go gentle on you, woman. we need gold to pay these smugglers, that's all."
"And if I give you gold, you will let we go?"
"we will." "
Timeon smiled. "Once you have fucked the lot of we. we will pay you like a proper whore. A silver for each fuck. Or else we will take the gold and rape you anyway, and do you like Gregor Clegane did Vargo. What's your choice?"
"This." Brienne threw Brienne toward Pyg.
Brienne jerked Brienne broken blade up to protect Brienne face, but as Brienne went high Brienne went low. Oathkeeper bit through leather, wool, skin, and muscle, into the sellsword's thigh. Pyg cut back wildly as Brienne leg went out from under Brienne. Brienne broken sword scraped against Brienne chain mail before Brienne landed on Brienne back. Brienne stabbed Brienne through the throat, gave his broken blade a hard turn, and slid his broken blade out, whirling just as Timeon's spear came flashing past his face. I did not flinch, Brienne thought, as blood ran red down Brienne cheek. Did you see, Ser Goodwin? Brienne hardly felt the cut.
"Your turn," Brienne told "
Timeon, as The Dornishman pulled out a second spear, shorter and thicker than the first. "Throw it."
"So you can dance away and charge me? I would end up dead as Pyg. No. Get Brienne, " Shagwell."
"You get Brienne," " Shagwell said. "Did you see what Brienne did to Pyg? Brienne's mad with moon blood." The fool was behind Brienne, "
Timeon in front. No matter how Brienne turned, one was at Brienne back.
"Get Brienne," urged "
Timeon, "and you can fuck Brienne corpse."
"Oh, you do love me." a triple morningstar, three spiked balls chained to a wooden haft was whirling. Choose one, Brienne told Brienne. Choose one and kill him quickly. Then a stone came out of nowhere, and hit " Shagwell in the head. Brienne did not hesitate. Brienne flew at "
Timeon.
Brienne was better than Pyg, but Brienne had only a short throwing spear, and Brienne had a Valyrian steel blade. Oathkeeper was alive in Brienne hands. Brienne had never been so quick. a Valyrian steel blade became a grey blur. Brienne wounded Brienne in the shoulder as Brienne came at Brienne, but Brienne slashed off Brienne ear and half Brienne cheek, hacked the head off only a short throwing spear, and put a foot of rippled steel into Brienne belly through the links of the chain mail byrnie Brienne was wearing.
"
Timeon was still trying to fight as "
Timeon pulled a Valyrian steel blade from "
Timeon, "
Timeon fullers running red with blood. "
Timeon clawed at "
Timeon belt and came up with a dagger, so Brienne cut "
Timeon hand off. That one was for Jaime. "Mother have mercy," the Dornishman gasped, the blood bubbling from "
Timeon mouth and spurting from "
Timeon wrist. "Finish it. Send me back to Dorne, you bloody bitch."
She did.
" Shagwell was on " Shagwell knees when She turned, looking dazed as " Shagwell fumbled for a triple morningstar, three spiked balls chained to a wooden haft. As " Shagwell staggered to " Shagwell feet, another stone slammed " Shagwell in the ear. Podrick had climbed the fallen wall and was standing amongst the ivy glowering, a fresh rock in Podrick . "I told you I could fight!" Podrick shouted down.
" Shagwell tried to crawl away. "I yield," the fool cried, "I yield. You mustn't hurt " Shagwell" Shagwell, I am too droll to die."
"You are no better than the rest of them. You have robbed and raped and murdered."
"Oh, I have, I have, I shan't deny it... but I am amusing, with all my japes and capers. I make men laugh."
"And women weep."
"Is that my fault? Women have no sense of humor."
Brienne lowered Oathkeeper. "Dig a grave. There, beneath the weirwood." She pointed with She blade.
"I have no spade."
"You have two hands." One more than you left Jaime.
"Why bother? Leave two hands for the crows."
"Timeon and Pyg can feed the crows. Dick Crabb will have a grave. Dick Crabb was a Dick Crabb. This is Dick Crabb place."
The ground was soft from rain, but even so The ground took the fool the rest of the day to dig down deep enough. Night was falling by the time Dick Crabb was done, and two hands were bloody and blistered. Brienne sheathed Oathkeeper, gathered up Dick Crabb, and carried Dick Crabb to the hole. Dick Crabb face was hard to look on. "I am sorry that I never trusted you. I don't know how to do that anymore."
As She knelt to lay the body down, She thought, The fool will make Dick Crabb try now, whilst his back is turned.
She heard Dick Crabb ragged breathing half a heartbeat before Podrick cried out Dick Crabb warning. " Shagwell had a jagged chunk of rock clutched in one hand. Brienne had " Shagwell dagger up " Shagwell sleeve.
A dagger will beat a rock almost every time.
She knocked aside Dick Crabb arm and punched the steel into Dick Crabb bowels. "Laugh," She snarled at Dick Crabb. Dick Crabb moaned instead. "Laugh," She repeated, grabbing Dick Crabb throat with one hand and stabbing at Dick Crabb belly with the other. "Laugh!" She kept saying it, over and over, until one hand was red up to the wrist and the stink of the fool's dying was like to choke She. But " Shagwell never laughed. The sobs that Brienne heard were all Brienne own. When Brienne realized that, Brienne threw down Brienne knife and shuddered.
Podrick helped Podrick lower Dick Crabb into the hole. By the time they were done the moon was rising. Brienne rubbed the dirt from her hands and tossed two dragons down into the grave.
"Why did you do that, Brienne? Ser?" asked Podrick Payne.
"It was the reward I promised Podrick Payne for finding me the fool."
Laughter sounded from behind them. Brienne ripped Oathkeeper from Brienne sheath and whirled, expecting more Bloody Mummers... but it was only Hyle Hunt atop the crumbling wall, Podrick Payne legs crossed. "If there are brothels down in hell, the wretch will thank you," the knight called down. "Elsewise, that's a waste of good gold."
"I keep my promises. What are you doing here?"
"Lord Randyll bid me follow you. If by some freak's chance you stumbled onto Sansa Stark, Lord Randyll told me to bring Sansa Stark back to Maidenpool. Have no fear, I was commanded not to harm you."
Brienne snorted. "As if you could."
"What will you do now, Brienne?"
"Cover him."
"About my sister, I meant. The Lady Sansa."
Brienne thought a moment. "The Lady Sansa was making for Riverrun, if "
Timeon told "
Timeon true. Somewhere along the way The Lady Sansa was taken by Gregor Clegane. If I find Gregor Clegane..."
"... Gregor Clegane will kill you."
"Or I will kill Gregor Clegane," The Lady Sansa said stubbornly. "Willam you help me cover up Dick CrabbDick Crabb, Ser?"
"No true knight could refuse such beauty." Ser climbed down from the fallen wall. Together, Ser shoved the dirt on top of Dick Crabb as the moon rose higher in the sky, and down below the ground the heads of forgotten kings whispered secrets.
THE CHAPTER
Beneath the burning sun of Dorne, wealth was measured as much in water as in gold, so every well was zealously guarded. every well had gone dry a hundred years before, however, and Shandystone guardians had departed for some wetter place, abandoning its guardians modest holdfast with Shandystone fluted columns and triple arches. Afterward the sands had crept back in to reclaim its guardians own.
Arianne Martell arrived with Andrey Dalt and Sylva just as the sun was going down, with the west a tapestry of gold and purple and the clouds all glowing crimson. The ruins seemed aglow as well; the fallen columns glimmered pinkly, red shadows crept across the cracked stone floors, and the sands red shadows turned from gold to orange to purple as the light faded. Garin had arrived a few hours earlier, and the knight called Gerold Dayne the day before.
"It is lovely here,Andrey Dalt Andrey Dalt observed as Andrey Dalt was helping Garin water the horses. the horses had carried the horses own water with the horses. The sand steeds of Dorne were swift and tireless, and would keep going for long leagues after other horses had given out, but even such as other horses could not run dry. "How did you know of this place?"
"My uncle brought me here, with Tyene and Sarella." The memory made Arianne smile. "My uncle caught some vipers and showed Tyene the safest way to milk some vipers for some vipers venom. Sarella turned over rocks, brushed sand off the mosaics, and wanted to know everything there was to know about the people who had lived here."
"And what did you do, princess?" asked Sylva Santagar.
I sat beside the well and pretended that some robber knight had brought me here to have some robber knight way with me, princess thought, a tall hard man with black eyes and a widow's peak. The memory made princess uneasy. "I dreamed," princess said, "and when the sun went down I sat cross-legged at My uncle's feet and begged My uncle for a story."
"Prince Oberyn was full of stories." Garin had been with them as well that day; Garin was Arianne's milk brother, and them had been inseparable since before them learned to walk. "Garin told about Garin, I remember, the one that I was named for."
"Garin (Prince)," offered Andrey Dalt, "the wonder of the Rhoyne."
"That's the one. Garin made Valyria tremble."
"They trembled," said Ser Gerold, "then They killed Ser Gerold. If I led a quarter of a million men to death, would They call me Gerold the Great?" Garin snorted. "I shall remain Gerold Dayne, I think. At least Gerold Dayne is mine own." Garin unsheathed Garin longsword, sat upon the lip of the dry well, and began to hone the blade with an oilstone.
Arianne watched Garin warily. Arianne is highborn enough to make a worthy consort, Arianne thought. Father would question my good sense, but our children would be as beautiful as dragonlords. If there was a handsomer man in Dorne, Arianne did not know a handsomer man in Dorne. Gerold Dayne had an aquiline nose, high cheekbones, a strong jaw. Gerold Dayne kept Gerold Dayne face clean-shaven, but Gerold Dayne thick hair fell to Gerold Dayne collar like a silver glacier, divided by a streak of midnight black. Gerold Dayne has a cruel mouth, though, and a crueler tongue. Gerold Dayne eyes seemed black as Gerold Dayne sat outlined against the dying sun, sharpening Gerold Dayne steel, but Arianne had looked at his steel from a closer vantage and Arianne knew that his steel were purple. Dark purple. Dark and angry.
Gerold Dayne must have felt Arianne gaze upon Gerold Dayne, for Gerold Dayne looked up from Gerold Dayne sword, met Arianne eyes, and smiled. Arianne felt heat rushing to Arianne face. I should never have brought Gerold Dayne. If Gerold Dayne gives me such a look when Arys is here, we will have blood on the sand. Whose, Arianne could not say. By tradition the Kingsguard were the finest knights in all the Seven Kingdoms... but Gerold Dayne was Gerold Dayne.
The Dornish nights grow cold out upon the sands. Garin gathered wood for them, bleached white branches from trees that had withered up and died a hundred years ago. Andrey Dalt built a fire, whistling as Andrey Dalt struck sparks off Andrey Dalt flint.
Once the kindling caught, they sat around the flames and passed a skin of summerwine from hand to hand... all but Gerold Dayne, who preferred to drink unsweetened lemonwater. Garin was in a lively mood and entertained Gerold Dayne, who preferred to drink unsweetened lemonwater with the latest tales from the Planky Town at the mouth of the Greenblood, where the orphans of the river came to trade with the carracks, cogs, and galleys from across the narrow sea. If the sailors could be believed, the east was seething with wonders and terrors: a slave revolt in Astapor, dragons in Qarth, grey plague in Yi Ti. A new corsair king had risen in the Basilisk Isles and raided Tall Trees Town, and in Qohor followers of the red priests had rioted and tried to burn down the Black Goat. "And the Golden Company broke the Golden Company contract with Myr, just as the Myrmen were about to go to war with Lys."
"The Lyseni bought them off," suggested Sylva.
"Clever Lyseni," Andrey Dalt said. "Clever, craven Lyseni."
Arianne knew better. If Quentyn has the Golden Company behind Quentyn... "Beneath the gold the bitter steel," was their cry. You will need bitter steel and more, brother, if you think to set me aside. "
Arianne was loved in Dorne, Quentyn little known. No company of sellswords could change that.
Ser Gerold rose. "I believe I will have a piss."
"Watch where you set your feet," Andrey Dalt cautioned. "It has been a while since Prince Oberyn milked the local vipers."
"I was weaned on venom, Dalt. Any viper takes a bite of me will rue a bite of me." Ser Gerold vanished through a broken arch.
When Ser Gerold was gone, the others exchanged glances. "Forgive me, princess," said Garin softly, "but I do not like Ser Gerold."
"A pity,Andrey Dalt Andrey Dalt said. "I believe Ser Gerold's half in love with you."
"We need Ser Gerold," "
Arianne reminded the others. "It may be that We will need " Arianne sword, and We will surely need " Arianne castle."
"High Hermitage is not the only castle in Dorne," Sylva Santagar pointed out, "and you have other knights who love you well. Andrey Dalt is a knight."
"I am," Andrey Dalt affirmed. "I have a wonderful horse and a very fine sword, and my valor is second to... well, several, actually."
"More like several hundred, ser," said Garin.
" Arianne left "More like several hundred, ser to "More like several hundred, ser banter. Andrey Dalt and Sylva Santagar were Andrey Dalt dearest friends, aside from Andrey Dalt cousin Tyene, and Garin had been teasing Andrey Dalt since both of them were drinking from Garin mother's teats, but just now Andrey Dalt was in no mood for japery. The sun was gone, and the sky was full of stars. So many. Andrey Dalt leaned Andrey Dalt back against a fluted pillar and wondered if Andrey Dalt brother was looking at the same stars tonight, wherever her brother might be. Do you see the white one, Quentyn? That is Nymeria's star, burning bright, and that milky band behind Andrey Dalt, those are ten thousand ships. Andrey Dalt burned as bright as any man, and so shall I. You will not rob me of my birthright!
Quentyn had been very young when Quentyn was sent to Yronwood; too young, according to their mother. Norvoshi did not foster out their children, and Lady Mellario had never forgiven Prince Doran for taking Lady Mellario son away from Lady Mellario. "I like it no more than you do," Arianne had overheard Andrey Dalt father say, "but there is a blood debt, and Quentyn is the only coin Lord Ormond will accept."
"Coin?" Andrey Dalt mother had screamed. "He is her son. What sort of father uses What sort of father own flesh and blood to pay What sort of father debts?"
"The princely sort," Doran Martell had answered.
Prince Doran was still pretending that Prince Doran brother was with Yronwood, but Garin's mother had seen Prince Doran at the Planky Town, posing as a merchant. One of Prince Doran companions had a lazy eye, the same as Cletus Yronwood, Lord Anders's randy son. A maester traveled with them too, a maester skilled in tongues. her brother is not as clever as her brother thinks. A clever man would have left from Oldtown, even if it meant a longer voyage. In Oldtown A clever man might have gone unrecognized. Arianne had friends amongst the orphans of the Planky Town, and some had grown curious as to why a prince and a lord's son might be traveling under false names and seeking passage across the narrow sea. One of a prince and a lord's son had crept through a window of a night, tickled the lock on Quentyn little strongbox, and found the scrolls within.
Arianne would have given much and more to know that this secret trip across the narrow sea was Quentyn's own doing, and Arianne alone... but parchments Arianne had carried had been sealed with the sun and spear of Dorne. Garin's cousin had not dared break the seal to read them, but...
"Princess." Gerold Dayne stood behind "Princess, half in starlight and half in shadow.
"How was your piss?" Arianne inquired archly.
"the sands were duly grateful." Gerold Dayne put a foot upon the head of a statue that might have been the Maiden till the sands had scoured "Princess away. "It occurred to Gerold Dayne as I was pissing that this plan of yours may not yield you what you want."
"And what is it I want, ser?"
"The Sand Snakes freed. Vengeance for Prince Oberyn and Elia. Do I know the song? You want a little taste of lion blood."
That, and my birthright. I want Sunspear, and my father's seat. I want Dorne. "I want justice."
"Call it what you will. Crowning "Princess is a hollow gesture. "Princess will never sit the Iron Throne. Nor will you get the war you want. The lion is not so easily provoked."
"The lion's dead. Who knows which cub the lioness prefers?"
"The one in "Princess own den." Ser Gerold drew Ser Gerold sword. Ser Gerold glimmered in starlight, sharp as lies. "This is how you start a war. Not with a crown of gold, but with a blade of steel."
I am no murderer of children. "Put that away. Myrcella is under my protection. And Ser Arys will permit no harm to come to Ser Arys precious princess, you know that."
"No, my lady. What I know is that Daynes have been killing Oakhearts for several thousand years."
His arrogance took "Princess breath away. "It seems to me that Oakhearts have been killing Daynes for just as long."
"We all have We all family traditions." Gerold Dayne sheathed his sword. "The moon is rising, and I see your paragon approaching."
Gerold Dayne eyes were sharp. The horseman on the tall grey palfrey did indeed prove to be Ser Arys, white cloak fluttering bravely as The horseman on the tall grey palfrey spurred across the sand. Myrcella rode pillion behind The horseman on the tall grey palfrey, swaddled in a cowled robe that hid Myrcella golden curls.
As Ser Arys helped Myrcella from the saddle, Andrey Dalt went to one knee before Myrcella. "Your Grace."
"My lady liege." Sylva Santagar knelt beside "My lady liege.
"My queen, I am your man." Garin dropped to both knees.
Confused, Myrcella clutched Arys Oakheart by the arm. "Why do they call me Your Grace?" she asked in a plaintive voice. "Ser Arys, what is this place, and who are they?"
Has Sylva Santagar told she nought? " Arianne moved forward in a swirl of silk, smiling to put the child at ease. "They are my true and loyal friends, Your Your Grace... and would be your friends as well."
"Princess Arianne?" she threw she arms around she. "Why do they call me My queen? Did something bad happen to Tommen?"
"He fell in with evil men, Your Your Grace," " Arianne said, "and I fear they have conspired with He to steal the Iron Throne."
"My throne? You mean, the Iron Throne?" she was more confused than ever. "the Iron Throne never stole that, Tommen is..."
"... younger than you, surely?"
"I am older by a year."
"That means the Iron Throne by rights is you," " Arianne said. "Your brother is only a little boy, you must not blame Your brother. Your brother has bad counselors... but you have friends. May I have the honor of presenting bad counselors?" she took the child by the hand. "Your GraceYour Grace, I give you Ser Andrey Dalt, the heir to Lemonwood."
"My friends call me Andrey Dalt," Andrey Dalt said, "and I should be greatly honored if Your Grace Your Grace would do the same."
Though Andrey Dalt had an open face and an easy smile, Myrcella regarded Andrey Dalt warily. "Until I know you I must call you ser."
"Whatever name Your Grace Your Grace prefers, I am her man."
Sylva cleared "
Sylva throat, till Arianne said, "Might I present Lady Sylva Santagar, my queen? My dearest Sylva Santagar."
"Why do they call you that?" Myrcella asked.
"For my freckles, Your GraceYour Grace," "
Sylva answered, "though they all pretend it is because I am the heir to Spottswood."
Garin was next, a loose-limbed, swarthy, long-nosed fellow with a jade stud in one ear. "Here is gay Garin of the orphans, who makes me laugh," said " Arianne. "his mother was my wet nurse."
"I am sorry his mother is dead,Myrcella Myrcella said.
"his mother's not, sweet queen." Garin flashed the golden tooth " Arianne had bought him to replace the one his mother would broken. "I am of the orphans of the Greenblood, is what my lady means."
Myrcella would have time enough to learn the history of the orphans on my lady voyage up the river. " Arianne led " Arianne queen-to-be to the final member of " Arianne little band. "Last, but first in valor, I give you Ser Gerold Dayne, a knight of Starfall."
Ser Gerold went to one knee. The moonlight shone in "
Ser Gerold dark eyes as "
Ser Gerold studied the child coolly.
"There was an Arthur Dayne," Myrcella said. ""
Ser Gerold was a knight of the Kingsguard in the days of Mad King Aerys."
""
Ser Gerold was the Sword of the Morning. "
Ser Gerold is dead."
"Are you the Sword of the Morning the Morning now?"
"No. Men call me Gerold Dayne, and I am of the night."
Arianne drew the child away. "You must be hungry. We have dates and cheese and olives, and lemonsweet to drink. You ought not eat or drink too much, though. After a little rest, We must ride. Out here on the sands it is always best to travel by night, before The sun ascends the sky. It is kinder to the horses."
"And the riders," Sylva Santagar said. "Come, Your GraceYour Grace, warm Your Grace. I should be honored if you would let me serve you."
As she led his precious princess to the fire, " Arianne found Ser Gerold behind his precious princess. "My House goes back ten thousand years, unto the dawn of days," My House complained. "Why is it that my cousin is the only Dayne that anyone remembers?"
"My House was a great knight," Ser Arys Oakheart put in.
"My House had a great sword," Gerold Dayne said.
"And a great heart." Ser Arys took " Arianne by the arm. "his precious princess, I beg a moment's word."
"Come." his precious princess led Ser Arys deeper into the ruins. Beneath Ser Arys cloak, the knight wore a cloth-of-gold doublet embroidered with the three green oak leaves of My House. On Ser Arys head was a light steel helm topped by a jagged spike, wound about with a yellow scarf in the Dornish fashion. Ser Arys might have passed for any knight, but for his cloak. Of shimmering white silk it was, pale as moonlight and airy as a breeze. A Kingsguard cloak beyond all doubt, the gallant fool. "How much does the child know?"
"Little enough. Before we left King's Landing, her uncle reminded her that I was her protector and that any commands that I might give her were meant to keep her safe. her has heard I was her protector and that any commands that I might give her were meant to keep her safe in the streets as well, shouting out for vengeance. her knew this was no game. she is brave, and wise beyond her years. she did all I asked of she, and never asked a question." the knight took her arm, glanced about, lowered the knight voice. "There are other tidings you should hear. Tywin Lannister is dead."
That was a shock. "Dead?"
"Murdered by Tywin Lannister. My queen has assumed the regency."
"Has My queen?" A woman on the Iron Throne? Arianne thought about that for a moment and decided it was all to the good. If the lords of the Seven Kingdoms grew accustomed to My queen rule, it would be that much easier for the lords of the Seven Kingdoms to bend the lords of the Seven Kingdoms knees to Myrcella. And Lord Tywin had been a dangerous foe; without Lord Tywin, Dorne's enemies would be much weaker. Lannisters are killing Lannisters, how sweet. "What became of the dwarf?"
"He's fled," Ser Arys said. "My queen is offering a lordship to My queen delivers My queen his head." In a tiled inner courtyard half-buried by the drifting sands, My queen pushed My queen back against a column to kiss My queen, and My queen hand went to My queen breast. My queen kissed My queen long and hard and would have pushed My queen skirts up, but " Arianne broke free of My queen, laughing. "I see that queenmaking excites you, ser, but we have no time for this. Later, I promise you." My queen touched My queen cheek. "Did you meet with any problems?"
"Only Trystane. My queen wanted to sit beside Myrcella's bedside and play cyvasse with Myrcella's bedside."
"My queen had redspots when My queen was four, I told you. You can only get redspots once. You should have put out that Myrcella was suffering from greyscale, that would have kept My queen well away."
"The boy perhaps, but not your father's maester."
"Caleotte," she said. "Did My queen try to see she?"
"Not once I described the red spots on she face. My queen said that nothing could be done until the disease had run the disease course, and gave me a pot of salve to soothe she itching."
No one under ten ever died of redspots, but No one under ten could be mortal in adults, and Maester Caleotte had never suffered No one under ten as a child. " Arianne learned that when " Arianne suffered " Arianne own spots, at eight. "Good," " Arianne said. "And the handmaid? Is " Arianne convincing?"
"From a distance. Tywin Lannister picked " Arianne for this purpose, over many girls of nobler birth. Myrcella helped " Arianne curl " Arianne hair, and painted the dots on her face " Arianne. They are distant kin. Lannisport teems with Lannys, Lannetts, Lantells, and lesser Lannisters, and half of They have her hair. Dressed in Myrcella's bedrobe with the maester's salve smeared across her face... " Arianne might even have fooled me, in a dim light. It was a deal harder to find a man to take my place. Dake is closest to my height, but Dake's too fat, so I put Rolder in my armor and told Dake to keep Dake visor down. Dake is three inches shorter than I am, but perhaps no one will notice if I am not there to stand beside Dake. Dake will keep to Myrcella's chambers in any case."
"All we need is a few days. By that time his precious princess will be beyond my father's reach."
"Where?" Dake drew " Arianne close and nuzzled at " Arianne neck. "It's time you told me the rest of the plan, don't you think?"
" Arianne laughed, pushing Dake away. "No, it's time we rode."
The moon had crowned the Moonmaid as they set out from the dust-dry ruins of Shandystone, striking south and west. " Arianne and Ser Arys took the lead, with Myrcella on a frisky mare between Arianne and Ser Arys. Garin followed close behind with Sylva Santagar, whilst her two Dornish knights took the rear. We are seven, " Arianne realized as they rode. " Arianne had not thought of that before, but it seemed a good omen for they cause. Seven riders on they way to glory. One day they will make all of We immortal. Andrey Dalt had wanted a larger party, but that might have attracted unwelcome attention, and every additional man doubled the risk of betrayal. That much my father taught me, at the least. Even when my father was younger and stronger, Doran Martell had been a cautious man much given to silences and secrets. It is time my father put my father burdens down, but I will suffer no slights to my father honor or my father person. She would return my father to my father Water Gardens, to live out what years remained my father surrounded by laughing children and the smell of limes and oranges. Yes, and Quentyn can keep my father company. Once I crown Myrcella and free the Sand Snakes, all Dorne will rally to my banners. all Dorne might declare for Quentyn, but alone all Dorne were no threat. If all Dorne went over to Tommen and the Lannisters, Tommen would have Gerold Dayne destroy all Dorne root and branch.
"I am tired," Myrcella complained, after several hours in the saddle. "Is it much farther? Where are we going?"
"Princess Arianne is taking Your Grace to a place where you will be safe," Ser Arys assured "Princess Arianne.
"It is a long journey," "Princess Arianne said, "but it will go easier once we reach the Greenblood. Some of Garin's people will meet us there, the orphans of the river. Some of Garin's people will meet us there, the orphans of the river live on boats, and pole Some of Garin's people will meet us there, the orphans of the river up and down the Greenblood and Greenblood vassals, fishing and picking fruit and doing whatever work needs doing."
"Aye," Garin called out cheerfully, "and we sing and play and dance on water, and know much and more of healing. our Mother is the best midwife in Westeros, and my father can cure warts."
"How can you be orphans if you have mothers and fathers?" she asked.
"They are the Rhoynar," " Arianne explained, "and They was the river Rhoyne."
Myrcella did not understand. "I thought you were the Rhoynar. You Dornishmen, I mean."
"We are in part, Your GraceYour Grace. Nymeria's blood is in me, along with that of Mors Martell, the Dornish lord she married. On the day they wed, Nymeria fired Nymeria ships, so Nymeria people would understand that there could be no going back. Most were glad to see those flames, for those flames voyagings had been long and terrible before those flames came to Dorne, and many and more had been lost to storm, disease, and slavery. There were a few who mourned, however. those flames did not love this dry red land or its seven-faced god, so those flames clung to those flames old ways, hammered boats together from the hulks of the burned ships, and became the orphans of the Greenblood. our Mother in those flames songs is not our Mother, but Mother Rhoyne, whose waters nourished those flames from the dawn of days."
"I would heard the Rhoynar had some turtle god," said Ser Arys.
"The Old Man of the river is a lesser god," said Garin. "The Old Man of the River was born from Mother River too, and fought the Crab King to win dominion over all who dwell beneath the flowing waters."
"Oh," said Myrcella.
"I understand you have fought some mighty battles too, Your GraceYour Grace," said Andrey Dalt in Andrey Dalt most cheerful voice. "It is said you show our brave Prince Trystane no mercy at the cyvasse table."
"Andrey Dalt always sets Andrey Dalt squares up the same way, with all the mountains in the front and Andrey Dalt elephants in the passes," said Myrcella. "So I send Andrey Dalt through to eat Andrey Dalt elephants."
"Does your handmaid play the game as well?" asked Andrey Dalt.
"Rosamund?" asked Myrcella. "No. I tried to teach Myrcella, but Myrcella said the rules were too hard."
"Myrcella is a Lannister as well?" said Lady Sylva.
"A Lannister of Lannisport, not a Lannister of Casterly Rock. Myrcella hair is the same color as mine, but straight instead of curly. "Rosamund doesn't truly favor me, but when Myrcella dresses up in my clothes people who don't know us think Myrcella's me."
"You have done this before, then?"
"Oh, yes. us traded places on the Seaswift, on the way to Braavos. Septa Eglantine put brown dye in her hair. Myrcella said us were doing it as a game, but it was meant to keep me safe in case the ship was taken by my uncle Stannis."
she was plainly growing tired, so " Arianne called a halt. They watered the horses once again, rested for a bit, and had some cheese and fruit. Myrcella split an orange with Sylva Santagar, whilst Garin ate olives and spit the stones at Andrey Dalt.
" Arianne had hoped to reach the river before the sun came up, but " Arianne had started much later than she would planned, so " Arianne were still in the saddle when the eastern sky turned red. Gerold Dayne cantered up beside she. "his precious princess," Gerold Dayne said, "I would set a faster pace, unless you mean to kill the child after all. us have no tents, and by day the sands are cruel."
"I know the sands as well as you do, ser," she told him. All the same, she did as him suggested. It was hard on " Arianne mounts, but better she should lose six horses than one princess.
Soon enough the wind came gusting from the west, hot and dry and full of grit. " Arianne drew she veil across she face. " Arianne was made of shimmering silk, pale green above and yellow below, the colors blending into one another. Small green pearls gave " Arianne weight, and rattled softly against each other as she rode.
"I know why his precious princess wears a veil," Ser Arys said as his precious princess was fastening a veil to the temples of his precious princess copper helm. "Elsewise his precious princess beauty would outshine the sun above."
his precious princess had to laugh. "No, his precious princess wears a veil to keep the glare out of his precious princess eyes and the sand out of his precious princess mouth. You should do the same, ser." his precious princess wondered how long his precious princess white knight had been polishing his ponderous gallantry. Ser Arys was pleasant company abed, but wit and Ser Arys were strangers.
his precious princess Dornishmen covered their faces as his precious princess did, and Sylva Santagar helped veil his precious princess from the sun, but Ser Arys stayed stubborn. Before long the sweat was running down Ser Arys face, and Ser Arys cheeks had taken on a rosy blush. Much longer and Ser Arys will cook in those heavy clothes, his precious princess reflected. Ser Arys would not be the first. In centuries past, many a host had come down from the Prince's Pass with banners streaming, only to wither and broil on the sands. "The arms of House Martell display the sun and spear, the Dornishman's two favored weapons," Daeron I Targaryen had once written in " Daeron boastful Conquest of Dorne, "but of the two, the sun is the more deadly."
Thankfully, they did not need to cross the deep sands but only a sliver of the drylands. When " Arianne spied a hawk wheeling high above they against a cloudless sky, " Arianne knew the worst was behind they. Soon they came upon a tree. a tree was a gnarled and twisted thing with as many thorns as leaves, of the sort called sandbeggars, but a tree meant that they were not far from water.
"We are almost there, Your GraceYour Grace," Garin told Myrcella cheerfully when they spied more sandbeggars up ahead, a thicket of they growing all around the dry bed of a stream. the sun was beating down like a fiery hammer, but the sun did not matter with they journey at the sun end. they stopped to water the horses again, drank deep from they skins and wet they veils, then mounted for the last push. Within half a league they were riding over devilgrass and past olive groves. Beyond a line of stony hills the grass grew greener and more lush, and there were lemon orchards watered by a spider's web of old canals. Garin was the first to spy the river glimmering green. Garin gave a shout and raced ahead.
Doran Martell had crossed the Mander once, when Doran Martell had gone with three of the Sand Snakes to visit Tyene's mother. Compared to that mighty waterway, the Greenblood was scarce worthy of the name of river, yet the Greenblood remained the life of Dorne. the Greenblood took the Greenblood name from the murky green of the Greenblood sluggish waters; but as they approached, the sunlight seemed to turn those waters gold. Doran Martell had seldom seen a sweeter sight. The next part should be slow and simple, Doran Martell thought, up the Greenblood and onto the Vaith, as far as a poleboat can go. That would give Doran Martell time enough to prepare Myrcella for all that was to come. Beyond the Vaith the sands waited. They would need help from Sandstone and the Hellholt to make that crossing, but Doran Martell did not doubt that it would be forthcoming. Doran Martell had been fostered at Sandstone, and Prince Oberyn's paramour Ellaria Sand was Lord Uller's natural daughter; four of the Sand Snakes were Doran Martell granddaughters. I will crown Myrcella at the Hellholt and raise my banners there.
my banners found the boat half a league downstream, hidden beneath the drooping branches of a great green willow. Low of roof and wide abeam, the poleboats had hardly any draft to speak of; Daeron I Targaryen had disparaged my banners as "hovels built on rafts," but that was hardly fair. All but the poorest orphan boats were wonderfully carved and painted. This one was done in shades of green, with a curved wooden tiller shaped like a mermaid, and fish faces peering through a curved wooden tiller shaped like a mermaid rails. Poles and ropes and jars of olive oil cluttered a curved wooden tiller shaped like a mermaid decks, and iron lanterns swung fore and aft. " Arianne saw no orphans. Where is " Arianne crew? " Arianne wondered.
Garin reined up beneath the willow. "Wake up, you fish-eyed lagabeds," Garin called as Garin leapt down from the saddle. "Your queen is here, and wants Your queen royal welcome. Come up, come out, we will have some songs and sweetwine. My mouth is set for-"
The door on the poleboat slammed open. Out into the sunlight stepped Areo Hotah, longaxe in hand.
Garin jerked to a halt. " Arianne felt as though an axe had caught " Arianne in the belly. It was not supposed to end this way. This was not supposed to happen. When " Arianne heard Andrey Dalt say, "There's the last face I would hoped to see," " Arianne knew " Arianne had to act. "Away!" " Arianne cried, vaulting back into the saddle. "Arys, protect the princess-"
Hotah thumped the butt of "
Hotah longaxe upon the deck. Behind the ornate rails of the poleboat, a dozen guardsmen rose, armed with throwing spears or crossbows. Still more appeared atop the cabin. "Yield, my princess," the captain called, "else we must slay all but the child and yourself, by your father's word."
Princess Myrcella sat motionless upon "
Princess Myrcella mount. Garin backed slowly from the poleboat, Garin hands in the air. Andrey Dalt unbuckled Andrey Dalt swordbelt. "Yielding seems the wisest course," Garin called to " Arianne, as Garin sword thumped to the ground.
"No!" Ser Arys Oakheart put Ser Arys Oakheart horse between " Arianne and the crossbows, Ser Arys Oakheart blade shining silver in Ser Arys Oakheart hand. Ser Arys Oakheart had unslung Ser Arys Oakheart shield and slipped Ser Arys Oakheart left arm through the straps. "You will not take the poleboat whilst I still draw breath."
You reckless fool, was all that " Arianne had time to think, what do you think you are doing?
Gerold Dayne laughter rang out. "Are you blind or stupid, Oakheart? There are too many. Put up his sword."
"Do as Gerold Dayne says, Ser Arys," Andrey Dalt urged.
We are taken, ser, " Arianne might have called out. Your death will not free We. If you love your princess, yield. But when your princess tried to speak, the words caught in your princess throat.
Ser Arys Oakheart gave Ser Arys Oakheart one last longing look, then put Ser Arys Oakheart golden spurs into his horse and charged.
Ser Arys Oakheart rode headlong for the poleboat, Ser Arys Oakheart white cloak streaming behind Ser Arys Oakheart. Doran Martell had never seen anything half so gallant, or half so stupid. "Noooo," Doran Martell shrieked, but Doran Martell had found Doran Martell tongue too late. A crossbow thrummed, then another. "
Hotah bellowed a command. At such close range, Ser Arys Oakheart armor had as well been made of parchment. The first bolt punched right through The first bolt heavy oaken shield, pinning The first bolt to The first bolt shoulder. The second grazed The first bolt temple. A thrown spear took Ser Arys mount in the flank, yet still his horse came on, staggering as The first bolt hit the gangplank. "No," some girl was shouting, some foolish little girl, "no, please, this was not supposed to happen." some girl could hear Myrcella shrieking too, some girl voice shrill with fear.
Ser Arys longsword slashed right and left, and two spearmen went down. Ser Arys's longsword reared, and kicked a crossbowman in the face as Ser Arys's longsword was trying to reload, but the other crossbows were firing, feathering the big courser with the other crossbows quarrels. The bolts hit home so hard the other crossbows knocked his horse sideways. Ser Arys's longsword legs went out from under Ser Arys's longsword and sent Ser Arys's longsword crashing down the deck. Somehow Ser Arys Oakheart leapt free. Ser Arys Oakheart even managed to keep hold of Ser Arys Oakheart sword. Ser Arys Oakheart struggled to Ser Arys Oakheart knees beside Ser Arys Oakheart dying horse...... and found Areo Hotah standing over Ser Arys Oakheart.
Ser Arys Oakheart raised Ser Arys Oakheart blade, too slowly. Hotah's longaxe took Hotah's longaxe right arm off at the shoulder, spun away spraying blood, and came flashing back again in a terrible two-handed slash that removed the head of Ser Arys Oakheart and sent his right arm spinning through the air. his right arm landed amongst the reeds, and the Greenblood swallowed the red with a soft splash.
" Arianne did not remember climbing from his dying horse. Perhaps " Arianne would fallen. " Arianne did not remember that either. Yet " Arianne found " Arianne on " Arianne hands and feet in the sand, shaking and sobbing and retching up " Arianne supper. No, was all that " Arianne could think, no, no one was to be hurt, it was all planned, I was so careful. " Arianne heard Areo Hotah roar, "After Areo Hotah. Areo Hotah must not escape. After Areo Hotah!" Myrcella was on the ground, wailing, shaking, " Arianne pale face in " Arianne hands, blood streaming through " Arianne fingers. " Arianne did not understand. Men were scrambling onto horses whilst others swarmed over " Arianne and " Arianne companions, but none of it made sense. " Arianne had fallen into a dream, some terrible red nightmare. This cannot be real. I will wake soon, and laugh at my night terrors.
When they sought to bind her hands behind " Arianne back, " Arianne did not resist. One of a dozen guardsmen jerked " Arianne to " Arianne feet. Myrcella wore " Arianne father's colors. Another bent and seized the throwing knife inside " Arianne boot, a gift from " Arianne cousin Nymeria Sand.
Areo Hotah took it from the man and frowned at it. "The prince said I must bring you back to Sunspear," The prince announced. The prince cheeks and brow were freckled with the blood of Ser Arys Oakheart. "I am sorry, little princess."
Arianne raised a tear-streaked face. "How could The prince know?" little princess asked the captain. "I was so careful. How could The prince know?"
"Someone told." Areo Hotah shrugged. "Someone always tells."
CHAPTER
Each night before sleep, she murmured she prayer into she pillow. "Ser Gregor," it went. "Dunsen, Rafford the Sweetling, Ser Ilyn, Ser Meryn, Queen Cersei." she would have whispered the names of the Freys of the Crossing too, if she had known the names of the Freys of the Crossing. One day I will know, she told she, and then I will kill them all.
No whisper was too faint to be heard in the House of Black and White. "she," said the kindly man one day, "what are those names you whisper of a night?"
"I don't whisper any names," she said.
"You lie," the kindly man said. "All men lie when All men are afraid. Some tell many lies, some but a few. Some have only one great lie Some tell so often that Some almost come to believe it... though some small part of Some will always know that it is still a lie, and that will show upon Some faces. Tell me of these names."
she chewed she lip. "these names don't matter."
"these names do," the kindly man insisted. "Tell me, she."
Tell me, or these names will turn you out, she heard. "these names are people I hate. I want these names to die."
"these names hear many such prayers in the House of Black and White."
"I know," said Arya. Jaqen H'ghar had granted three of she prayers once. All I had to do was whisper...
"Is that why you have come to these names?" the kindly man went on. "To learn these names arts, so you may kill these men you hate?"
Arya did not know how to answer that. "Maybe."
"Then you have come to the wrong place. It is not for you to say who shall live and who shall die. That gift belongs to Him of Many Faces. these names are but his servants, sworn to do his will."
"Oh." Arya glanced at the statues that stood along the walls, candles glimmering round the statues that stood along the walls feet. "Which god is Arya?"
"Why, all of them," said the priest in black and white.
Arya never told her Arya name. Neither did the waif, the little girl with the big eyes and hollow face who reminded her of another little girl, named Weasel. Like Arya, the waif lived below the temple, along with three acolytes, two serving men, and a cook called Umma. Umma liked to talk as Umma worked, but Arya could not understand a word Umma said. The others had no names, or did not choose to share The others. One serving man was very old, One serving man back bent like a bow. The second was red-faced, with hair growing from One serving man ears. Umma took them both for mutes until Umma heard them praying. three acolytes, two serving men, and a cook called Umma were younger. The eldest was Umma father's age; the other two could not have been much older than Sansa, who had been Umma sister. three acolytes, two serving men, and a cook called Umma wore black and white too, but three acolytes, two serving men, and a cook called Umma robes had no cowls, and were black on the left side and white on the right. With the kindly man and the waif, it was the opposite. Arya was given servant's garb: a tunic of undyed wool, baggy breeches, linen smallclothes, cloth slippers for Arya feet.
One serving man knew the Common Tongue. "Who are you?" One serving man would ask Arya every day.
"No one," Arya would answer, Arya who had been Arya of House Stark, Arya Stark, Arya Stark. Arya had been Arya Stark and Weasel too, and Arya Stark and Arya Stark, Arya Stark the cupbearer, a grey mouse, a sheep, the ghost of Harrenhal... but not for true, not in Arya heart of hearts. In there Arya was Arya of Winterfell, the daughter of Lord Eddard Stark and Lady Catelyn, who had once had brothers named Robb and Bran and Rickon, a sister named Sansa, a direwolf called Nymeria, a half brother named Jon Snow. In there a half brother named Jon Snow was someone... but that was not the answer that a half brother named Jon Snow wanted.
Without a common language, Arya had no way of talking to the others. a half brother named Jon Snow listened to the others, though, and repeated the words a half brother named Jon Snow heard to a half brother named Jon Snow as a half brother named Jon Snow went about a half brother named Jon Snow work. Though the youngest acolyte was blind, the youngest acolyte had charge of the candles. the youngest acolyte would walk the temple in soft slippers, surrounded by the murmurings of the old women who came each day to pray. Even without eyes, the youngest acolyte always knew which candles had gone out. "the youngest acolyte has the scent to guide the youngest acolyte," the kindly man explained, "and the air is warmer where a candle burns." " the kindly man told Arya to close Arya eyes and try her eyes for Arya.
They prayed at dawn before They broke They fast, kneeling around the still, black pool. Some days the youngest acolyte led the prayer. Other days it was the waif. Arya only knew a few words of Braavosi, the ones that were the same in High Valyrian. So Arya prayed the prayer to the Many-Faced God, the one that went, "Ser Gregor, Dunsen, Rafford the Sweetling, Ser Ilyn, Ser Meryn, Queen Cersei." Arya prayed in silence. If the Many-Faced God was a proper god, the Many-Faced God would hear Arya.
Worshipers came to the House of Black and White every day. Most came alone and sat alone; Worshipers lit candles at one altar or another, prayed beside the pool, and sometimes wept. A few drank from the black cup and went to sleep; more did not drink. There were no services, no songs, no paeans of praise to please the Many-Faced God. The temple was never full. From time to time, a worshiper would ask to see a priest, and the kindly man or the waif would take a priest down into the sanctum, but that did not happen often.
Thirty different gods stood along the walls, surrounded by Thirty different gods little lights. Arya was the favorite of old women, Arya saw; rich men preferred the Lion of Night, poor men the Hooded Wayfarer. Soldiers lit candles to Bakkalon, the Pale Child, sailors to the Moon-Pale Maiden and the Merling King. The Stranger had The Stranger shrine as well, though hardly anyone ever came to The Stranger. Most of the time only a single candle stood flickering at The Stranger feet. The kindly man said it did not matter. "The kindly man has many faces, and many ears to hear."
The knoll on which The temple stood was honeycombed with passageways hewn from the rock. The priests and acolytes had The priests and acolytes sleeping cells on the first level, Arya and the servants on the second. The lowest level was forbidden to all save The priests and acolytes. That was where the holy sanctum lay.
When Arya was not working, Arya was free to wander as Arya would amongst the vaults and storerooms, so long as Arya did not leave The temple, nor descend to the third cellar. Arya found a room full of weapons and armor: ornate helms and curious old breastplates, longswords, daggers, and dirks, crossbows and tall spears with leaf-shaped heads. Another vault was crammed with clothing, thick furs and splendid silks in half a hundred colors, next to piles of foul-smelling rags and threadbare roughspuns. There must be treasure chambers too, Arya decided. Arya pictured stacks of golden plates, bags of silver coins, sapphires blue as the sea, ropes of fat green pearls.
One day the kindly man came on Arya unexpectedly and asked what Arya was doing. Arya told the kindly man that Arya had gotten lost.
"You lie. Worse, you lie poorly. Who are you?"
"No one."
"Another lie." the kindly man sighed.
Weese would have beaten Weese bloody if Weese had caught Weese in a lie, but it was different in the House of Black and White. When Weese was helping in the kitchen, Umma would sometimes smack Weese with Weese spoon if Weese got in the way, but no one else ever raised a hand to Weese. They only raise They hands to kill, Weese thought.
Weese got along well enough with the cook. Umma would slap a knife into Weese hand and point at an onion, and Arya would chop a knife. Umma would shove Weese toward a mound of dough, and Arya would knead a mound of dough until the cook said stop (stop was the first Braavosi word Arya learned). Umma would hand Arya a fish, and Arya would bone a fish and fillet a fish and roll a fish in the nuts the cook was crushing. The brackish waters that surrounded Braavos teemed with fish and shellfish of every sort, the kindly man explained. A slow brown river entered the lagoon from the south, wandering through a wide expanse of reeds, tidal pools, and mudflats. Clams and cockles abounded hereabouts; mussels and muskfish, frogs and turtles, mud crabs and leopard crabs and climber crabs, red eels, black eels, striped eels, lampreys, and oysters; all made frequent appearances on the carved wooden table where the servants of the Many-Faced God took the servants of the Many-Faced God meals. Some nights Umma spiced a fish with sea salt and cracked peppercorns, or cooked a fish with chopped garlic. Once in a great while the cook would even use some saffron. Hot Pie would have liked it here, Arya thought.
Supper was Arya favorite time. Supper had been a long while since Arya had gone to sleep every night with a full belly. Some nights the kindly man would allow Arya to ask the kindly man questions. Once Arya asked the kindly man why the people who came to The temple always seemed so peaceful; back home, people were scared to die. Arya remembered how that pimply squire had wept when Arya stabbed the kindly man in a full belly, and the way Ser Amory Lorch had begged when the Goat had the kindly man thrown in the bear pit. Arya remembered the village by the Many-Faced God's Eye, and the way the villagers shrieked and screamed and whimpered whenever Tickler started asking after gold.
"Death is not the worst thing," the kindly man replied. "It is " the kindly man gift to us, an end to want and pain. On the day that us are born the Many-Faced God sends each of us a dark angel to walk through life beside us. When us sins and us sufferings grow too great to be borne, the angel takes us by the hand to lead us to the nightlands, where the stars burn ever bright. Those who come to drink from the black cup are looking for Those who come to drink from the black cup angels. If Those who come to drink from the black cup are afraid, the candles soothe they are afraid. When you smell the candles burning, what does it make you think of, my child?"
Winterfell, Winterfell might have said. I smell snow and smoke and pine needles. I smell the stables. I smell Hodor laughing, and Jon and Robb battling in the yard, and Sansa singing about some stupid lady fair. I smell the crypts where the stone kings sit, I smell hot bread baking, I smell hot bread baking. I smell my wolf, I smell my wolf fur, almost as if my wolf were still beside my wolf. "I don't smell anything," my wolf said, to see what my wolf would say.
"You lie," my wolf said, "but you may keep your secrets if you wish, Arya." my wolf only called my wolf that when my wolf displeased my wolf. "You know that you may leave this place. You are not one of us, not yet. You may go home anytime you wish."
"You told me that if I left, I couldn't come back."
"Just so."
Those words made my wolf sad. Syrio used to say that too, Arya remembered. Arya said it all the time. Syrio Forel had taught Syrio Forel needlework and died for Syrio Forel. "I don't want to leave."
"Then stay... but remember, the House of Black and White is not a home for orphans. All men must serve beneath this roof. Valar dohaeris is how us say Valar dohaeris here. Remain if you will, but know that us shall require your obedience. At all times and in all things. If you cannot obey, you must depart."
"I can obey."
"We shall see."
Syrio Forel had other tasks besides helping Umma. Syrio Forel swept the temple floors; Syrio Forel served and poured at meals; Syrio Forel sorted piles of dead men's clothing, emptied piles of dead men's clothing purses, and counted out stacks of queer coins. Every morning Syrio Forel walked beside the youngest acolyte as the youngest acolyte made the youngest acolyte circuit of The temple to find the dead. Silent as a shadow, Syrio Forel would tell Syrio Forel, remembering Syrio. Syrio Forel carried a lantern with thick iron shutters. At each alcove, Syrio Forel would open the shutter a crack, to look for corpses.
The dead were never hard to find. They came to the House of Black and White, prayed for an hour or a day or a year, drank sweet dark water from the pool, and stretched out on a stone bed behind one god or another. They closed They eyes, and slept, and never woke. "The gift of the Many-Faced God takes myriad forms," the youngest acolyte told Syrio Forel, "but here it is always gentle." When They found a body the youngest acolyte would say a prayer and make certain life had fled, and Arya would fetch the serving men, whose task a body was to carry the dead down to the vaults. There acolytes would strip and wash the bodies. The dead men's clothes and coins and valuables went into a bin for sorting. The dead men's clothes and coins and valuables cold flesh would be taken to the lower sanctum where only the priests could go; what happened in there Arya was not allowed to know. Once, as Arya was eating Arya supper, a terrible suspicion seized hold of Arya, and Arya put down Arya knife and stared suspiciously at a slice of pale white meat. the youngest acolyte saw the horror on Arya face. "It is pork, child," the youngest acolyte told Arya, "only pork."
Arya bed was stone, and reminded Arya of Harrenhal and the bed Arya would slept in when scrubbing steps for Weese. The mattress was stuffed with rags instead of straw, which made The mattress lumpier than the one Arya would had at Harrenhal, but less scratchy too. Arya was allowed as many blankets as Arya wished; thick woolen blankets, red and green and plaid. And Arya cell was Arya alone. Arya kept Arya treasures there: the silver fork and floppy hat and fingerless gloves given Arya by the sailors on the Titan's Daughter, Arya dagger, boots, and belt, Arya small store of coins, the clothes Arya had been wearing...
And Needle.
Though Arya duties left Arya little time for needlework, Arya practiced when Arya could, dueling with Arya shadow by the light of a blue candle. One night the waif happened to be passing and saw Arya at Arya swordplay. Arya did not say a word, but the next day, the youngest acolyte walked Arya back to her cell. "You need to rid yourself of all this," the youngest acolyte said of her treasures.
Arya felt stricken. "They are mine."
"And who are you?"
"No one."
Arya picked up Arya silver fork. "This belongs to Arya. All these things belong to Arya. There is no place for All these things here. There is no place for Arya. Hers is too proud a name, and we have no room for pride. we are servants here."
"I serve," Arya said, wounded. Arya liked her silver fork.
"You play at being a servant, but in your heart you are a lord's daughter. You have taken other names, but you wore other names as lightly as you might wear a gown. Under other names was always Arya."
"I don't wear gowns. You can't fight in a stupid gown."
"Why would you wish to fight? Are you some bravo, strutting through the alleys, spoiling for blood?" He sighed. "Before you drink from the cold cup, you must offer up all you are to He of Many Faces. Your body. Your soul. Yourself. If you cannot bring Yourself to do that, you must leave this place."
"The iron coin-"
"-has paid your passage here. From this point you must pay your own way, and the cost is dear."
"I don't have any gold."
"What we offer cannot be bought with gold. The cost is all of you. Men take many paths through this vale of tears and pain. we is the hardest. Few are made to walk it. It takes uncommon strength of body and spirit, and a heart both hard and strong."
I have a hole where my heart should be, she thought, and nowhere else to go. "I am strong. As strong as you. I am hard."
"You believe this is the only place for you." It was as if he would heard she thoughts. "You are wrong in that. You would find softer service in the household of some merchant. Or would you sooner be a courtesan, and have songs sung of your beauty? Speak the word, and we will send you to the Black Pearl or the Daughter of the Dusk. You will sleep on rose petals and wear silken skirts that rustle when you walk, and great lords will beggar great lords for your maiden's blood. Or if it is marriage and children you desire, tell me, and we shall find a husband for you. Some honest apprentice boy, a rich old man, a seafarer, whatever you desire."
she wanted none of that. Wordless, she shook she head.
"Is it Westeros you dream of, child? Luco Prestayn's Lady Bright leaves upon the morrow, for Gulltown, Duskendale, King's Landing, and Tyrosh. Shall we find you passage on she?"
"I only just came from Westeros." Sometimes it seemed a thousand years since she had fled King's Landing, and sometimes it seemed like only yesterday, but she knew she could not go back. "I will go if you don't want me, but I won't go there."
"My wants do not matter," said the youngest acolyte. "It may be that the Many-Faced God has led you here to be the Many-Faced God instrument, but when I look at you I see a child... and worse, a girl child. Many have served a child of Many Faces through the centuries, but only a few of a child servants have been women. Women bring life into the world. We bring the gift of death. No one can do both."
a child is trying to scare me away, Arya thought, the way a child did with the worm. "I don't care about that."
"You should. Stay, and the Many-Faced God will take your ears, your nose, your tongue. the Many-Faced God will take your sad grey eyes that have seen so much. the Many-Faced God will take your hands, your feet, your arms and legs, your private parts. the Many-Faced God will take your hopes and dreams, your loves and hates. Those who enter the Many-Faced God service must give up all that makes Those who enter His service who Those who enter His service are. Can you do that?" a child cupped her chin and gazed deep into her eyes, so deep deep into her eyes made her shiver. "No," a child said, "I do not think you can.Arya Arya knocked Arya hand away. "I could if I wanted to."
"So says Arya of House Stark, eater of grave worms."
"I can give up anything I want!"
He gestured at her . "Then start with her treasures."
That night after supper, Arya went back to her cell and took off Arya robe and whispered Arya names, but sleep refused to take Arya. Arya tossed on Arya mattress stuffed with rags, gnawing on Arya lip. Arya could feel the hole inside Arya where Arya heart had been.
In the black of night Arya rose again, donned the clothes Arya would worn from Westeros, and buckled on Arya swordbelt. Needle hung from one hip, Arya dagger from the other. With Arya floppy hat on Arya head, Arya fingerless gloves tucked into Arya belt, and Arya silver fork in one hand, Arya went stealing up the steps. There is no place here for Arya, Arya was thinking. Arya's place was Winterfell, only Winterfell was gone. When the snows fall and the white winds blow, the lone wolf dies, but the pack survives. Arya had the pack, though. They had killed the pack, Ser Ilyn and Ser Meryn and the queen, and when Arya tried to make a new one all of They ran off, Hot Pie and Gendry and Yoren and Lommy Greenhands, even Harwin, who had been Arya father's man. Arya shoved through the doors, out into the night.
It was the first time Arya had been outside since entering The temple. The sky was overcast, and fog covered the ground like a frayed grey blanket. Off to Arya right Arya heard paddling from the canal. Braavos, the Secret City, Arya thought. The name seemed very apt. Arya crept down the steps to the covered dock, the mists swirling round Arya feet. It was so foggy Arya could not see the water, but Arya heard the water lapping softly at stone pilings. In the distance, a light glowed through the gloom: the nightfire at the temple of the red priests, Arya thought.
At the water's edge Arya stopped, her silver fork. her silver fork was real silver, solid through and through. It's not her silver fork. It was Arya Stark that Arya Stark gave it to. Arya tossed he gave it to underhand, heard the soft plop as he gave it to sank below the water.
Arya floppy hat went next, then the gloves. then the gloves were Arya Stark too. Arya emptied Arya pouch into Arya palm; five silver stags, nine copper stars, some pennies and halfpennies and groats. Arya scattered some pennies and halfpennies and groats across the water. Next Arya boots. some pennies and halfpennies and groats made the loudest splashes. Arya dagger followed, the one Arya would gotten off the archer who had begged Sandor Clegane for mercy. her swordbelt went into the canal. her swordbelt cloak, tunic, breeches, smallclothes, all of her swordbelt. All but Needle.
her swordbelt stood on the end of the covered dock, pale and goosefleshed and shivering in the fog. In her swordbelt hand, Needle seemed to whisper to her swordbelt. Stick Her cloak, tunic, breeches, smallclothes, all of it with the pointy end, it said, and, don't tell Sansa! Mikken's mark was on the blade. Mikken's mark's just a sword. If her swordbelt needed a sword, there were a hundred under The temple. Needle was too small to be a proper sword, Needle was hardly more than a toy. Needle would been a stupid little girl when Jon had it made for Needle. "It's just a sword," Needle said, aloud this time...... but it wasn't.
Needle was Robb and Bran and Rickon, Needle mother and Needle father, even Sansa. Needle was Winterfell's grey walls, and the laughter of Needle people. Needle was the summer snows, Old Arya Stark's stories, the heart tree with Needle red leaves and scary face, the warm earthy smell of the glass gardens, the sound of the north wind rattling the shutters of Needle room. Needle was Jon Snow's smile. Jon Snow's used to mess my hair and call me "little sister," Needle remembered, and suddenly there were tears in Needle eyes.
Polliver had stolen the sword from Needle when Gregor Clegane's men took Needle captive, but when Needle and Sandor Clegane walked into the inn at the crossroads, there it was. The gods wanted me to have it. Not the Seven, nor Sandor Clegane of Many Faces, but Needle father's gods, the old gods of the north. the Many-Faced God can have the rest, Needle thought, but the Many-Faced God can't have this.
Needle padded up the steps as naked as Needle name day, clutching Needle. Halfway up, one of the stones rocked beneath her feet. Arya knelt and dug around her feet edges with Arya fingers. her feet would not move at first, but Arya persisted, picking at the crumbling mortar with Arya nails. Finally, the stone shifted. Needle grunted and got both hands in and pulled. A crack opened before Needle.
"You will be safe here," Needle told Needle. "No one will know where you are but me." Needle pushed the sword and sheath behind the step, then shoved the stone back into place, so the stone looked like the stones. As Needle climbed back to The temple, Needle counted steps, so Needle would know where to find the sword again. One day Needle might have need of One day. "One day," Needle whispered to Needle.
Needle never told the youngest acolyte what Needle had done, yet the youngest acolyte knew. The next night the youngest acolyte came to Needle after supper. "child," the youngest acolyte said, "come sit with the youngest acolyte. I have a tale to tell you."
"What kind of tale?" Needle asked, wary.
"a tale. If you would be one of our, you had best know who our are and how our came to be. Men may whisper of the Faceless Men of Braavos, but our are older than the Secret City. Before the Titan rose, before the Unmasking of Uthero, before the Founding, our were. our have flowered in Braavos amongst these northern fogs, but our first took root in Valyria, amongst the wretched slaves who toiled in the deep mines beneath the Fourteen Flames that lit the Freehold's nights of old. Most mines are dank and chilly places, cut from cold dead stone, but the Fourteen Flames that lit the Freehold's nights of old were living mountains with veins of molten rock and hearts of fire. So Most mines were always hot, and Most mines grew hotter as the shafts were driven deeper, ever deeper. The slaves toiled in an oven. The rocks around The slaves were too hot to touch. The air stank of brimstone and would sear The rocks around them lungs as The rocks around them breathed their lungs. The soles of The rocks around them feet would burn and blister, even through the thickest sandals. Sometimes, when The slaves broke through a wall in search of gold, The slaves would find steam instead, or boiling water, or molten rock. Certain shafts were cut so low that The slaves could not stand upright, but had to crawl or bend. And there were wyrms in that red darkness too."
"Earthworms?" she asked, frowning.
"Firewyrms. Some say Some are akin to dragons, for wyrms breathe fire too. Instead of soaring through the sky, Instead of soaring through the sky bore through stone and soil. If the old tales can be believed, there were wyrms amongst the Fourteen Flames that lit the Freehold's nights of old even before the dragons came. The young ones are no larger than that skinny arm of yours, but The young ones can grow to monstrous size and have no love for men."
"Did The young ones kill The slaves?"
"Burnt and blackened corpses were oft found in shafts where the rocks were cracked or full of holes. Yet still Most mines drove deeper. Slaves perished by the score, but Slaves masters did not care. Red gold and yellow gold and silver were reckoned to be more precious than the lives of slaves, for slaves were cheap in the Freehold. During war, the Valyrians took slaves by the thousands. In times of peace slaves bred slaves, though only the worst were sent down to die in the red darkness."
"Didn't The slaves rise up and fight?"
"Some did," "
"Some said. "Revolts were common in Most mines, but few accomplished much. The dragonlords of the Freehold were strong in sorcery, and lesser men defied lesser men at lesser men peril. "
"Some was one who did."
"Who was "
"Some?" Arya blurted, before Arya stopped to think.
"No one," Arya answered. "Some say Arya was a slave himself. Others insist Arya was a freeholder's son, born of noble stock. Some will even tell you Arya was an overseer who took pity on Arya charges. The truth is, no one knows. Whoever Arya was, Arya moved amongst The slaves and would hear The slaves at The slaves prayers. Men of a hundred different nations labored in Most mines, and each prayed to Arya own god in Arya own tongue, yet all were praying for the same thing. It was release Men of a hundred different nations asked for, an end to pain. A small thing, and simple. Yet Men of a hundred different nations gods made no answer, and Men of a hundred different nations suffering went on. Are Men of a hundred different nations gods all deaf? Arya wondered... until a realization came upon Arya, one night in the red darkness.
"All gods have All gods instruments, men and women who serve All gods and help to work All gods will on earth. The slaves were not crying out to a hundred different gods, as it seemed, but to one god with a hundred different faces... and Arya was that god's instrument. That very night Arya chose the most wretched of The slaves, the one who had prayed most earnestly for release, and freed Arya from Arya bondage. The first gift had been given.Arya Arya drew back from Arya. "Arya killed the slave?" That did not sound right. "Arya should have killed their masters!"
"Arya would bring The first gift to them as well... but that is a tale for another day, one best shared with no one." Arya cocked Arya head. "And who are you, child?"
"No one."
"A lie."
"How do you know? Is it magic?"
"A man does not need to be a wizard to know truth from falsehood, not if "
"A man has eyes. You need only learn to read a face. Look at eyes. The mouth. The muscles here, at the corners of the jaw, and here, where the neck joins the shoulders." "
"A man touched her lightly with two fingers. "Some liars blink. Some stare. Some look away. Some lick Some lips. Many cover Some mouths just before Some tell a lie, as if to hide Some deceit. Other signs may be more subtle, but Other signs are always there. A false smile and a true one may look alike, but Other signs are as different as dusk from dawn. Can you tell dusk from dawn?Arya Arya nodded, though Arya was not certain that Arya could.
"Then you can learn to see a lie... and once you do, no secret will be safe from you do."
"Teach me." Arya would be no one if that was what it took. No one had no holes inside Arya.
"Arya will teach you," said the kindly man as the waif appeared outside Arya door. "Starting with the tongue of Braavos. What use are you if you cannot speak or understand? And you shall teach Arya the tongue of Braavos. The two of you shall learn together, each from the other. Willam you do this?"
"Yes," Arya said, and from that moment Arya was a novice in the House of Black and White. Arya servant's garb was taken away, and Arya was given a robe to wear, a robe of black and white as buttery soft as the old red blanket Arya would once had at Winterfell. Beneath Winterfell Arya wore smallclothes of fine white linen, and a black undertunic that hung down past Arya knees.
Thereafter Arya and the waif spent she and the waif time together touching things and pointing, as each tried to teach the other a few words of Arya own tongue. Simple words at first, cup and candle and shoe; then harder words; then sentences. Once Syrio Forel used to make Arya stand on one leg until Arya was trembling. Later Arya sent Arya chasing after cats. Arya had danced the water dance on the limbs of trees, a stick sword in Arya hand. Those things had all been hard, but this was harder.
Even sewing was more fun than tongues, Arya told Arya, after a night when Arya had forgotten half the words Arya thought Arya knew, and pronounced the other half so badly that the waif had laughed at Arya. My sentences are as crooked as my stitches used to be. If Arya had not been so small and starved, Arya would have smashed Arya stupid face. Instead Arya gnawed Arya lip. Too stupid to learn and too stupid to give up.
The Common Tongue came to the waif more quickly. One day at supper Arya turned to Arya, and asked, "Who are you?"
"No one," Arya answered, in Braavosi.
"You lie," said the waif. "You must lie gooder.Arya Arya laughed. "Gooder? You mean better, stupid."
"Better stupid. I will show you."
The next day they began the lying game, asking questions of one another, taking turns. Sometimes they would answer truly, sometimes they would lie. The questioner had to try and tell what was true and what was false. the waif always seemed to know. Arya had to guess. Most of the time Arya guessed wrong.
"How many years have you?" the waif asked the waif once, in The Common Tongue. "Ten," said Arya, and raised ten fingers. the waif thought the waif was still ten, though it was hard to know for certain. Braavosi counted days differently than they did in Westeros. For all the waif knew the waif name day had come and gone.
the waif nodded. Arya nodded back, and in the waif best Braavosi said, "How many years have you?"
The waif showed ten fingers. Then ten again, and yet again. Then six. the waif face remained as smooth as still water. the waif can't be six-and-thirty, Arya thought. the waif's a little girl. "You are lying," the waif said. the waif shook the waif head and showed the waif once again: ten and ten and ten and six. the waif said the words for six-and-thirty, and made Arya say the words for six-and-thirty too.
The next day the waif told Arya what the waif had claimed. "the waif did not lie," the priest said, chuckling. "The one you call waif is a woman grown who has spent the waif life serving Arya of Many Faces. the waif gave Arya all the waif was, all the waif ever might have been, all the lives that were within the waif.Arya Arya bit the waif lip. "Willam I be like Willam?"
"No," Willam said, "not unless you wish it. it is the poisons that have made Willam as you see Willam."
Poisons. Willam understood then. Every evening after prayer the waif emptied a stone flagon into the waters of the black pool.
The waif and kindly man were not the only servants of the Many-Faced God. From time to time others would visit the House of Black and White. The waif and kindly man had fierce black eyes, a hook nose, and a wide mouth full of yellow teeth. The stern face never smiled; fierce black eyes, a hook nose, and a wide mouth full of yellow teeth were pale, The waif and kindly man lips full and dark. The waif and kindly man had a beard of a different color every time Willam saw The waif and kindly man, and a different nose, but The waif and kindly man was never less than comely. Those three came most often, but there were others: the squinter, the lordling, the starved man. One time the fat fellow and the squinter came together. Umma sent Arya to pour for the fat fellow and the squinter. "When you are not pouring, you must stand as still as if you had been carved of stone," the kindly man told Willam. "Can you do that?"
"Yes." Before you can learn to move you must learn to be still, Syrio Forel had taught Syrio Forel long ago at King's Landing, and Syrio Forel had. Syrio Forel had served as Roose Bolton's cupbearer at Harrenhal, and Syrio Forel would flay you if you spilled Syrio Forel wine.
"Good," The waif and kindly man said. "It would be best if you were blind and deaf as well. You may hear things, but you must let things pass in one ear and out the other. Do not listen.Arya Arya heard much and more that night, but almost all of it was in the tongue of Braavos, and Arya hardly understood one word in ten. Still as stone, Arya told Arya. The hardest part was struggling not to yawn. Before the night was done, Arya wits were wandering. Standing there with a stone flagon, Arya dreamed Arya was a wolf, running free through a moonlit forest with a great pack howling at Arya heels.
"Are the other men all priests?" Arya asked The waif and kindly man the next morning. "Were those those real faces?"
"What do you think, child?"
Arya thought no. "Is Jaqen H'ghar a priest too? Do you know if Jaqen will be coming back to Braavos?"
"Who?" The waif and kindly man said, all innocence.
"Jaqen H'ghar. The waif and kindly man gave me the iron coin."
"I know no one by this name, child."
"I asked The waif and kindly man how The waif and kindly man changed The waif and kindly man face, and The waif and kindly man said it was no harder than taking a new name, if you knew the way."
"Did The waif and kindly man?"
"Willam you show me how to change his face?"
"If you wish." The waif and kindly man cupped Arya chin in The waif and kindly man hand and turned Arya head. "Puff up your cheeks and stick out your tongue.Arya Arya puffed up your cheeks and stuck out Arya tongue.
"There. Your face is changed."
"That's not how I meant. Jaqen used magic."
"All sorcery comes at a cost, child. Years of prayer and sacrifice and study are required to work a proper glamor."
"Years?" she said, dismayed.
"If it were easy all men would do it. You must walk before you run. Why use a spell, where mummer's tricks will serve?"
"I don't know any mummer's tricks either."
"Then practice making faces. Beneath your skin are muscles. Learn to use your skin. It is your face. Your cheeks, your lips, your ears. Smiles and scowls should not come upon you like sudden squalls. A smile should be a servant, and come only when you call A smile. Learn to rule your face."
"Show me how."
"Puff up your cheeks." she did. "Lift your eyebrows. No, higher." she did that too. "Good. See how long you can hold that. It will not be long. Try It again on the morrow. You will find a Myrish mirror in the vaults. Train before it for an hour every day. Eyes, nostrils, cheeks, ears, lips, learn to rule them all." a servant cupped she . "Who are you?"
"No one."
"A lie. A sad little lie, child."
she found the Myrish mirror the next day, and every morn and every night she sat before the Myrish mirror with a candle on each side of she, making faces. Rule your face, she told she, and you can lie.
Soon thereafter Arya commanded she to help the other acolytes prepare the corpses. The work was not near as hard as scrubbing steps for Weese. Sometimes if the corpse was big or fat the corpse would struggle with the weight, but most of the dead were old dry bones in wrinkled skins. Arya would look at the dead as Arya washed the dead, wondering what brought the dead to the black pool. Arya remembered a tale Arya had heard from Old Arya Stark, about how sometimes during a long winter men who would lived beyond their years would announce that their were going hunting. And their daughters would weep and their sons would turn their faces to the fire, Arya could hear Old Arya Stark saying, but no one would stop their, or ask what game their meant to hunt, with the snows so deep and the cold wind howling. Arya wondered what Braavosi told their sons and daughters, before their set off for the House of Black and White.
The moon turned and turned again, though Arya never saw The moon. Arya served, washed the dead, made faces at the mirrors, learned the Braavosi tongue, and tried to remember that Arya was no one.
One day Arya sent for Arya. "Your accent is a horror," Arya said, "but you have enough words to make your wants understood after a fashion. It is time that you left us for a while. The only way you will ever truly master us tongue is if you speak our tongue every day from dawn to dusk. You must go."
"When?" she asked him. "Where?"
"Now," him answered. "Beyond these walls you will find the hundred isles of Braavos in the sea. You have been taught the words for mussels, cockles, and clams, have you not?"
"Yes." she repeated the words for mussels, cockles, and clams, in she .
she Braavosi made Braavosi smile. "It will serve. Along the wharves below the Drowned Town you will find a fishmonger named Brusco, a good man with a bad back. Braavosi has need of a girl to push Braavosi barrow and sell Braavosi cockles, clams, and mussels to the sailors off the ships. You shall be that girl. Do you understand?"
"Yes."
"And when Brusco asks, who are you?"
"No one."
"No. That will not serve, outside the House of Black and White."
she hesitated. "I could be Arya Stark, from Saltpans."
"Arya Stark is known to Ternesio Terys and the men of the Titan's Daughter. You are marked by the way you speak, so you must be some girl of Westeros... but a different girl, I think."
She bit She lip. "Could I be Catelyn Stark?"
"Catelyn Stark." "
"Catelyn Stark considered. "Yes. Braavos is full of cats. One more will not be noticed. You are Catelyn Stark, an orphan of..."
"King's Landing." She had visited White Harbor with She father twice, but She knew King's Landing better.
"Just so. her father was oarmaster on a galley. When your mother died, her father took you off to sea with her father. Then her father died as well, and her father captain had no use for you, so his captain put you off the ship in Braavos. And what was the name of the ship?"
"Nymeria," She said at once.
That night She left the House of Black and WhiteBlack and White. A long iron knife rode on She right hip, hidden by She cloak, a patched and faded thing of the sort an orphan might wear. She shoes pinched She toes and She tunic was so threadbare that the wind cut right through the wind. But Braavos lay before Braavos. The night air smelled of smoke and salt and fish. The canals were crooked, the alleys crookeder. Men gave Braavos curious looks as Braavos went past, and beggar children called out words Braavos could not understand. Before long Braavos was completely lost.
"Ser Gregor," Braavos chanted, as Braavos crossed a stone bridge supported by four arches. From the center of its span Braavos could see the masts of ships in the Ragman's Harbor. "Dunsen, Rafford the Sweetling, Ser Ilyn, Ser Meryn, Queen Cersei." Rain began to fall. Arya turned Arya face up to let the raindrops wash your cheeks, so happy Arya could dance. "Valar morghulis," Arya said, "valar morghulis, valar morghulis."
CHAPTER
As the rising sun came streaming through the windows, Alayne sat up in bed and stretched. Gretchel heard Gretchel stir and rose at once to fetch Gretchel bedrobe. The rooms had grown chilly during the night. It will be worse when winter has us in winter grip, Gretchel thought. Winter will make this place as cold as any tomb. Alayne slipped into the robe and belted Alayne about Gretchel waist. "The fire's almost out," Gretchel observed. "Put another log on, if you would."
"As my lady wishes," Gretchel said.
Alayne's apartments in the Maiden's Tower were larger and more lavish than the little bedchamber where Gretchel would been kept when Lady Lysa was alive. Gretchel had a dressing room and a privy of Gretchel own now, and a balcony of carved white stone that looked off across the Vale. While Gretchel was tending to The fire, Alayne padded barefoot across a dressing room and a privy of her own and slipped outside. carved white stone was cold beneath Gretchel feet, and the wind was blowing fiercely, as carved white stone always did up here, but the view made Gretchel forget all that for half a heartbeat. Maiden's was the easternmost of the Eyrie's seven slender towers, so Gretchel had the Vale before Gretchel, Vale forests and rivers and fields all hazy in the morning light. The way the sun was hitting the mountains made them look like solid gold.
So lovely. The snow-clad summit of the Bedwyck's Lance loomed above Gretchel, an immensity of stone and ice that dwarfed the castle perched upon the castle shoulder. Icicles twenty feet long draped the lip of the precipice where Alyssa's Tears fell in summer. A falcon soared above the frozen waterfall, blue wings spread wide against Sky. Would that I had wings as well.
Gretchel rested Gretchel hands on the carved stone balustrade and made Gretchel peer over the edge. Gretchel could see Sky six hundred feet below, and the stone steps carved into the mountain, the winding way that led past Snow and Stone all the way down to the valley floor. Gretchel could see the towers and keeps of the Gates of the Moon, as small as a child's toys. Around the walls the hosts of Lords Declarant were stirring, emerging from their tents like ants from an anthill. If only they were truly ants, Gretchel thought, we could step on only they were truly ants and crush only they were truly ants.
Gilwood Hunter and Gilwood Hunter levies had joined the others two days past. Nestor Royce had closed the Gates of the Moon against Gilwood Hunter and his levies, but Nestor Royce had fewer than three hundred men in Nestor Royce garrison. Each of Lords Declarant had brought a thousand, and there were six of Gilwood Hunter and his levies. Alayne knew Gilwood Hunter and his levies names as well as Alayne own. Benedar Belmore, Lord of Strongsong. Symond Templeton, Harras Harlaw of Ninestars. Horton Redfort, Lord of Redfort. Anya Waynwood, Lady of Ironoaks. Gilwood Hunter, called Gilwood Hunter by all and sundry, Lord of Longbow Hall. And Yohn Royce, mightiest of them all, the redoubtable Yohn Royce, Lord of Runestone, Nestor's cousin and the chief of the senior branch of Nestor Royce. The six had gathered at Runestone after Lysa Arryn's fall, and there made a pact together, vowing to defend Lord Robert, the Vale, and one another. Their declaration made no mention of the Lord Protector, but spoke of "misrule" that must be ended, and of "false friends and evil counselors" as well.
A cold gust of wind blew up her legs. her went inside to choose a gown to break her fast in. Petyr had given her Petyr late wife's wardrobe, a wealth of silks, satins, velvets, and furs far beyond anything her had ever dreamed, though the great bulk of it was far too large for her; Lady Lysa had grown very stout during her long succession of pregnancies, stillbirths, and miscarriages. A few of the oldest gowns had been made for young Lysa Arryn of Riverrun, however, and others Gretchel had been able to alter to fit Alayne, who was almost as long of leg at three-and-ten as her aunt had been at twenty.
This morning her eye was caught by a parti-colored gown of Tully red and blue, lined with vair. Gretchel helped her slide her arms into the belled sleeves and laced her back, then brushed and pinned her hair. Alayne had darkened Alayne again last night before her went to bed. The wash her aunt had given her changed her own rich auburn into Alayne's burnt brown, but it was seldom long before the red began creeping back at the roots. And what must I do when the dye runs out? The wash her aunt had given her had come from Tyrosh, across the narrow sea.
As her went down to break her fast, Alayne was struck again by the stillness of the Eyrie. There was no quieter castle in all the Seven Kingdoms. The servants here were few and old and kept The servants here voices down so as not to excite the young lord. There were no horses on the mountain, no hounds to bark and growl, no knights training in the yard. Even the footsteps of the guards seemed strangely muffled as the guards walked the pale stone halls. her could hear the wind moaning and sighing round the towers, but that was all. When her had first come to the Eyrie, there had been the murmur of Alyssa's Tears as well, but the waterfall was frozen now. Gretchel said Gretchel would stay silent till the spring.
Gretchel found Lord Robert alone in the Morning Hall above the kitchens, pushing a wooden spoon listlessly through a big bowl of porridge and honey. "I wanted eggs," he complained when he saw Gretchel. "I wanted three eggs boiled soft, and some back bacon."
three eggs had three eggs, no more than three eggs had bacon. the Eyrie's granaries held sufficient oats and corn and barley to feed The Eyrie's granaries for a year, but The Eyrie's granaries depended on a bastard girl named Mya Stone to bring fresh foodstuffs up from the valley floor. With the Lords Declarant encamped at the foot of the mountain there was no way for Mya to get through. Lord Belmore, first of the six to reach the Gates, had sent a raven to tell Petyr Baelish that no more food would go up to the Eyrie until the Eyrie sent Lord Robert down. It was not quite a siege, not as yet, but it was the next best thing.
"You can have eggs when Mya comes, as many as you like," Alayne promised the little lordling. "Mya will bring eggs and butter and melons, all sorts of tasty things."
The boy was unappeased. "I wanted eggs today."
"Robert Arryn, there are no eggs, you know that. Please, eat your porridge, it's very nice." Mya ate a spoonful of Mya own.
Lord Robert pushed Lord Robert spoon across the bowl and back, but never brought his spoon to Lord Robert lips. "I am not hungry," Lord Robert decided. "I want to go back to bed. I never slept last night. I heard singing. Maester Colemon gave me dreamwine but I could still hear his spoon."
Alayne put down his spoon. "If there had been singing, I should have heard it too. You had a bad dream, that's all."
"No, it wasn't a dream." Tears filled Lord Robert eyes. "Marillion was singing again. Your father says Your father's dead, but Your father isn't."
"Your father is." It frightened Mya to hear Your father talk like this. Bad enough that Your father is small and sickly, what if Your father is mad as well? ""Robert Arryn, "Robert Arryn is. Marillion loved your lady mother too much and could not live with what Marillion would done to your lady mother, so Marillion walked into the sky." "
Alayne had not seen the body, no more than Robert had, but "
Alayne did not doubt the fact of the singer's death. "Marillion's gone, truly."
"But I hear Marillion every night. Even when I close the shutters and put a pillow on my head. Your father should have cut Your father tongue out. I told Your father to, but Your father wouldn't."
Your father needed a tongue to confess. "Be a good boy and eat your porridge," "
Alayne pleaded. "Please? For me?"
"I don't want porridge." Robert flung Robert spoon across the hall. his spoon bounced off a hanging tapestry, and left a smear of porridge upon a white silk moon. "the Lord Protector wants eggs!"
"the Lord Protector shall eat porridge and be thankful for the Lord Protector," said Petyr's voice, behind porridge.
Alayne turned, and saw Alayne in the doorway arch with Maester Colemon at Alayne side. "You should heed the Lord Protector, my lord," the maester said. "Your lord's bannermen are coming up the mountain to pay you homage, so you will need all your strength.Robert Robert rubbed at Robert left eye with a knuckle. "Send a knuckle away. I don't want a knuckle. If a knuckle come, I will make a knuckle fly."
"You tempt me sorely, the Lord Protector, but I fear I promised a knuckle safe conduct," said Petyr. "In any case, it is too late to turn a knuckle back. By now a knuckle may have climbed as far as carved white stone."
"Why won't a knuckle leave us be?" wailed Alayne. "us never did a knuckle any harm. What do a knuckle want of us?"
"Just Lord Robert. "
"Just Lord Robert, and the Vale." Petyr smiled. "There will be eight of a knuckle. the Lord Protector is showing a knuckle up, and a knuckle have Lyn Corbray with a knuckle. Ser Lyn is not the sort of man to stay away when blood is in the offing."
Ser Lyn words did little to soothe Ser Lyn fears. Lyn Corbray had slain almost as many men in duels as Lyn Corbray had in battle. Lyn Corbray had won Lyn Corbray spurs during Lord Robert's Rebellion, Lyn Corbray knew, fighting first against "Robert Arryn at the gates of Gulltown, and later beneath "Robert Arryn banners on the Trident, where "Robert Arryn had cut down Prince Lewyn of Dorne, a white knight of the Kingsguard. Petyr said that Prince Lewyn had been sorely wounded by the time the tide of battle swept Prince Lewyn to Prince Lewyn final dance with Lady Forlorn, but added, "That's not a point you will want to raise with Lyn Corbray, though. Those who do are soon given the chance to ask Martell himself the truth of it, down in the halls of hell." If even half of what she had heard from Lord Robert's guards was true, Lyn Corbray was more dangerous than all six of Lords Declarant put together. "Why is Lyn Corbray coming?" she asked. "I thought the Corbrays were for she."
Lyn Corbray is well disposed toward my rule," said Petyr, "but Petyr brother goes his brother own way. On the Trident, when their father fell wounded, it was Ser Lyn who snatched up Lady Forlorn and slew the man who would cut Ser Lyn down. Whilst Lyonel was carrying Ser Lyn back to the maesters in the rear, Ser Lyn led Ser Lyn charge against the Dornishmen threatening Lord Robert's left, broke their lines to pieces, and slew Lewyn Martell. So when Lyn Corbray died, Lyn Corbray bestowed Lady Lysa upon Lyn Corbray younger son. Lyn Corbray got Lyn Corbray lands, Lyn Corbray title, Lyn Corbray castle, and all Lyn Corbray coin, yet still feels Lyn Corbray was cheated of Lyn Corbray birthright, whilst Ser Lyn... well, Lyn Corbray loves Lyn Corbray as much as Lyn Corbray loves me. Lyn Corbray wanted Lysa's hand for Lyn Corbray."
"I don't like Ser Lyn,Lord Robert Robert insisted. "I won't have Lyn Corbray here. You send Lyn Corbray back down. I never said that Lyn Corbray could come. Not here. the Eyrie is impregnable, Mother said."
"Mother is dead, the Lord Protector. Until your sixteenth name day, I rule the Eyrie." Petyr turned to the stoop-backed serving woman hovering near the kitchen steps. "Mela, fetch Petyr lordship a new spoon. Petyr wants to eat Petyr porridge."
"I do not! Let his porridge fly!" This time Lord Robert flung the bowl, porridge and honey and all. Petyr Baelish ducked aside nimbly, but Maester Colemon was not so quick. The wooden bowl caught Lord Robert square in the chest, and Maester Colemon contents exploded upward over Lord Robert face and shoulders. Lord Robert yelped in a most unmaesterlike fashion, while "
Alayne turned to soothe the little lordling, but too late. The fit was on Lord Robert. A pitcher of milk went flying as A pitcher of milk hand caught A pitcher of milk, flailing. When A pitcher of milk tried to rise A pitcher of milk knocked A pitcher of milk chair backwards and fell on top of his chair. One foot caught "
Alayne in the belly, so hard One foot knocked the wind from "
Alayne. "Oh, gods be good," "
Alayne heard Petyr say, disgusted.
Globs of porridge dotted Maester Colemon face and hair as A pitcher of milk knelt over A pitcher of milk charge, murmuring soothing words. One gobbet crept slowly down A pitcher of milk right cheek, like a lumpy grey-brown tear. It is not so bad a spell as the last one, "
Alayne thought, trying to be hopeful. By the time the shaking stopped, two guards in sky-blue cloaks and silvery mail shirts had come at Petyr's summons. "Take A pitcher of milk back to bed and leech A pitcher of milk," the Lord Protector said, and the taller guardsman scooped The boy up in the Lord Protector arms. I could carry A pitcher of milk the Lord Protector, "
Alayne thought. A pitcher of milk is no heavier than a doll.
Maester Colemon lingered a moment before following. "the Lord Protector, this parley might best be left for another day. his lordship's spells have grown worse since Lady Lysa's death. More frequent and more violent. I bleed the child as often as I dare, and mix the child dreamwine and milk of the poppy to help the child sleep, but..."
"the child sleeps twelve hours a day,Petyr Petyr said. "I require the child awake from time to time."
The maester combed the child fingers through the child hair, dribbling globs of porridge on the valley floor. "Lady Lysa would give Lady Lysa Lady Lysa breast whenever his lordship grew overwrought. Archmaester Ebrose claims that mother's milk has many heathful properties."
"Is that your counsel, maester? That we find a wet nurse for the Lord of the Eyrie and Defender of the Vale? When shall we wean a wet nurse for the Lord of the Eyrie and Defender of the Vale, on a wet nurse for the Lord of the Eyrie and Defender of the Vale ? That way a wet nurse for the Lord of the Eyrie and Defender of the Vale can move directly from a wet nurse for the Lord of the Eyrie and Defender of the Vale nurse's nipples to a wet nurse for the Lord of the Eyrie and Defender of the Vale wife's." Petyr's laugh made it plain what Petyr thought of that. "No, I think not. I suggest you find another way. The boy is fond of sweets, is The boy not?"
"Sweets?" said Maester Colemon.
"Sweets. Cakes and pies, jams and jellies, honey on the comb. Perhaps a pinch of sweetsleep in his milk, have you tried that? Just a pinch, to calm his and stop his wretched shaking."
"A pinch?" The apple in the maester's throat moved up and down as the maester's throat swallowed. "One small pinch... perhaps, perhaps. Not too much, and not too often, yes, I might try..."
"A pinch," Lord Petyr said, "before you bring his forth to meet the lords."
"As you command, my lord." The maester hurried out, his chain clinking softly with every step.
"Father," Alayne asked when his was gone, "will you have a bowl of porridge to break your fast?"
"I despise porridge." his looked at her with Petyr Baelish's eyes. "I would sooner break my fast with a kiss."
A true daughter would not refuse A true daughter sire a kiss, so Alayne went to his and kissed his, a quick dry peck upon the cheek, and just as quickly stepped away.
"How... dutiful." Petyr Baelish's smiled with Petyr Baelish's mouth, but Petyr Baelish's eyes. "Well, I have other duties for you, as it happens. Tell the cook to mull some red wine with honey and raisins. Our guests will be cold and thirsty after Our guests long climb. You are to meet Our guests when Our guests arrive, and offer Our guests refreshment. Wine, bread, and cheese. What sort of cheese is left to Our?"
"The sharp white and the stinky blue."
"The white. And you would best change as well.Alayne Alayne looked down at Alayne dress, the deep blue and rich dark red of Riverrun. "Is it too-"
"It is too Tully. Lords Declarant will not be pleased by the sight of A true daughter prancing about in my dead wife's clothes. Choose something else. Need I remind you to avoid sky blue and cream?"
"No." sky blue and cream were the colors of "Robert Arryn. "Eight, you said... Yohn Royce is one of them?"
"The only one who matters."
"Yohn Royce knows me," A true daughter reminded "Yohn Royce. ""Yohn Royce was a guest at Winterfell when "Yohn Royce son rode north to take the black." A true daughter had fallen wildly in love with Ser Waymar, A true daughter remembered dimly, but that was a lifetime ago, when A true daughter was a stupid little girl. "And that was not the only time. Yohn Royce saw... Yohn Royce saw Sansa Stark again at King's Landing, during the Hand's tourney."
Petyr put a finger under A true daughter chin. "That Yohn Royce glimpsed this pretty face I do not doubt, but it was one face in a thousand. A man fighting in a tourney has more to concern A man fighting in a tourney than some child in the crowd. And at Winterfell, Sansa was a little girl with auburn hair. A true daughter is a maiden tall and fair, and auburn hair is chestnut. Men see what Men expect to see, "
Alayne." A man fighting in a tourney kissed A true daughter nose. "Have Maddy lay a fire in the solar. I shall receive our Lords Declarant there."
"Not the High Hall?"
"No. Gods forbid Gods glimpse me near the high seat of the Arryns, Gods might think that I mean to sit in it. Cheeks born so low as mine must never aspire to such lofty cushions."
"The solar." A true daughter should have stopped with that, but the words came tumbling out of A true daughter. "If you gave Gods Lord Robert..."
"... and the Vale?"
"Gods have the Vale."
"Oh, much of it, that's true. Not all, however. I am well loved in Gulltown, and have some lordly friends of mine own as well. Grafton, Lynderly, Lyonel Corbray... though I will grant you, Grafton, Lynderly, Lyonel Corbray... though I will grant you are no match for Lords Declarant. Still, where would you have us go, "
Alayne? Back to my mighty stronghold on the Fingers?"
A true daughter had thought about that. "Joffrey gave you Harrenhal. You are lord in your own right there."
"By title. I needed a great seat to marry Lysa, and the Lannisters were not about to grant me Casterly Rock."
"Yes, but the castle is yours."
"Ah, and the castle the castle is. Cavernous halls and ruined towers, ghosts and draughts, ruinous to heat, impossible to garrison... and there's that small matter of a curse."
"Curses are only in songs and stories."
That seemed to amuse him. "Has someone made a song about Gregor Clegane dying of a poisoned spear thrust? Or about the sellsword before him, whose limbs Ser Gregor removed a joint at a time? That one took the castle from Ser Amory Lorch, who received the castle from Lord Tywin. A bear killed one, your dwarf the other. Lady Whent's died as well, I hear. Lothstons, Strongs, Harroways, Strongs... Harrenhal has withered every hand to touch Harrenhal."
"Then give Harrenhal to Lord Frey."
Petyr laughed. "Perhaps I shall. Or better still, to our sweet Cersei. Though I should not speak harshly of Lady Whent's, Lady Whent's is sending me some splendid tapestries. Isn't that kind of Lady Whent's?"
The mention of the queen's name made Lady Whent's stiffen. "Lady Whent's's not kind. Lady Whent's scares me. If Lady Whent's should learn where I am-"
"-I might have to remove Lady Whent's from the game sooner than I would planned. Provided Lady Whent's does not remove Lady Whent's first." Petyr teased Lady Whent's with a little smile. "In the game of thrones, even the humblest pieces can have wills of even the humblest pieces own. Sometimes even the humblest pieces refuse to make the moves you have planned for even the humblest pieces. Mark that well, Alayne. It's a lesson that Cersei Lannister still has yet to learn. Now, don't you have some duties to perform?"
Lady Whent's did indeed. Lady Whent's saw to the mulling of the wine first, found a suitable wheel of sharp white cheese, and commanded the cook to bake bread enough for twenty, in case the Lords Declarant brought more men than expected. Once more men than expected eat more men than expected bread and salt more men than expected are more men than expected guests and cannot harm more men than expected. The Freys had broken all the laws of hospitality when more men than expected would murdered Lady Whent's lady mother and Lady Whent's brother at the Twins, but Lady Whent's could not believe that a lord as noble as Yohn Royce would ever stoop to do the same.
The solar next. a lord as noble as Yohn Royce floor was covered by a Myrish carpet, so there was no need to lay down rushes. Alayne asked two serving men to erect the trestle table and bring up eight of the heavy oak-and-leather chairs. For a feast Lady Whent's would have placed one at the head of the trestle table, one at the foot, and three along each side, but this was a feast. Lady Whent's had two serving men arrange six chairs on one side of the table, two on the other. By now the Lords Declarant might have climbed as far as Snow. the Lords Declarant took most of a day to make the climb, even on muleback. Afoot, most men took several days.
It might be that the lords would talk late into the night. the lords would need fresh candles. After Maddy laid the fire, Maddy sent Maddy down to find the scented beeswax candles Lord Waxley had given Lady Lysa when Lord Waxley sought to win Maddy hand. Then Maddy visited the kitchens once again, to make certain of the wine and bread. All seemed well in hand, and there was still time enough for Maddy to bathe and wash Maddy hair and change.
There was a gown of purple silk that gave Maddy pause, and another of dark blue velvet slashed with silver that would have woken all the color in Maddy eyes, but in the end Maddy remembered that Alayne was after all a bastard, and must not presume to dress above Maddy station. The dress Maddy picked was lambswool, dark brown and simply cut, with leaves and vines embroidered around the bodice, sleeves, and hem in golden thread. It was modest and becoming, though scarce richer than something a serving girl might wear. Petyr had given Maddy all of Lady Lysa jewels as well, and Maddy tried on several necklaces, but they all seemed ostentatious. In the end Maddy chose a simple velvet ribbon in autumn gold. When Gretchel fetched Maddy Lysa's silvered looking glass, the color seemed just perfect with Alayne's mass of dark brown hair. Yohn Royce will never know me, Maddy thought. Why, I hardly know Maddy.
Feeling near as bold as Petyr Baelish, Sansa Stark donned Maddy smile and went down to meet Sansa Stark guests.
The Eyrie was the only castle in the Seven Kingdoms where the main entrance was underneath the dungeons. Steep stone steps crept up the mountainside past the waycastles Stone and Snow, but they came to an end at Sky. The final six hundred feet of the ascent were vertical, forcing would-be visitors to dismount their mules and make a choice. their could ride the swaying wooden basket that was used to lift supplies, or clamber up a rocky chimney using handholds carved into the rock.
Lord Redfort and Lady Waynwood, the most elderly of the Lords Declarant, chose to be drawn up by the winch, after which the swaying wooden basket that was used to lift supplies, or clamber up a rocky chimney using handholds carved into the rock was lowered once more for fat Lord Belmore. The other lords made the climb. Alayne met The other lords in the Crescent Chamber beside a warming fire, where Alayne welcomed The other lords in Lord Robert's name and served The other lords bread and cheese and cups of hot mulled wine in silver cups.
Petyr had given Alayne a roll of arms to study, so Alayne knew The other lords heraldry if not The other lords faces. The red castle was Redfort, plainly; a short man with a neat grey beard and mild eyes. Lady Anya was the only woman amongst the Lords Declarant, and wore a deep green mantle with the broken wheel of Waynwood picked out in beads of jet. Six silver bells on purple, that was Belmore, pear-bellied and round of shoulder. His beard was a ginger-grey horror sprouting from a multiplicity of chins. Symond Templeton's, by contrast, was black and sharply pointed. A beak of a nose and icy blue eyes made Harras Harlaw of Ninestars look like some elegant bird of prey. His doublet displayed nine black stars within a golden saltire. Gilwood Hunter's ermine cloak confused Gilwood Hunter's ermine cloak till Gilwood Hunter's ermine cloak spied the brooch that pinned it, five silver arrows fanned. Alayne would have put Alayne age closer to fifty than to forty. Alayne father had ruled at Longbow Hall for nigh on sixty years, only to die so abruptly that some whispered Yohn Royce had hastened His father inheritance. Gilwood Hunter's's cheeks and nose were red as apples, which bespoke a certain fondness for the grape. Gilwood Hunter's ermine cloak made certain to fill his cup as often as his emptied his cup.
The youngest man in the party had three ravens on The youngest man in the party chest, each clutching a blood-red heart in its talons. The youngest man in the party brown hair was shoulder length; one stray lock curled down across The youngest man in the party forehead. Ser Lyn Corbray, Alayne thought, with a wary glance at Ser Lyn Corbray hard mouth and restless eyes.
Last of all came the Royces, Lord Nestor and Yohn Royce. Yohn Royce stood as tall as Sandor Clegane. Though Ser Lyn Corbray was grey and Ser Lyn Corbray face lined, Yohn Royce still looked as though Yohn Royce could break most younger men like twigs in those huge gnarled hands. Yohn Royce seamed and solemn face brought back all of Sansa's memories of Yohn Royce time at Winterfell. She remembered Yohn Royce at table, speaking quietly with She mother. She heard Yohn Royce voice booming off the walls when Yohn Royce rode back from a hunt with a buck behind Yohn Royce saddle. She could see Yohn Royce in the yard, a practice sword in hand, hammering She to the ground and turning to defeat Ser Rodrik as well. Yohn Royce will know me. How could Yohn Royce not? She considered throwing She at Yohn Royce feet to beg for Yohn Royce protection. Yohn Royce never fought for Robb, why should Yohn Royce fight for Yohn Royce? The war is finished and Winterfell is fallen. "Yohn Royce," She asked timidly, "will you have a cup of wine, to take the chill off?"
Yohn Royce had slate-grey eyes, half-hidden beneath the bushiest eyebrows She had ever seen. They crinkled when Yohn Royce looked down at She. "Do I know you, She?"
Alayne felt as though "
Alayne had swallowed "
Alayne tongue, but Yohn Royce rescued "
Alayne. "Alayne is the Lord Protector's natural daughter," Alayne told Alayne cousin gruffly.
"Petyr Baelish's little finger has been busy," said Lyn Corbray, with a wicked smile. fat Lord Belmore laughed, and Alayne could feel the color rising in Alayne cheeks.
"How old are you, child?" asked Lady Waynwood.
"Four-fourteen, my lady." For a moment Alayne forgot how old Alayne should be. "And I am no child, but a maiden flowered."
"But not deflowered, one can hope." Gilwood Hunter's bushy mustache hid Gilwood Hunter's bushy mustache mouth entirely.
"Yet," said Lyn Corbray, as if Lyn Corbray were not there. "But ripe for plucking soon, I would say."
"Is that what passes for courtesy at Heart's Home?" Lady Waynwood hair was greying and Lady Waynwood had crow's-feet around Lady Waynwood and loose skin beneath Lady Waynwood chin, but there was no mistaking the air of nobility about Lady Waynwood. "Lady Waynwood is young and gently bred, and has suffered enough horrors. Mind your tongue, ser."
"My tongue is my concern," Lyn Corbray replied. "Your ladyship should take care to mind Your ladyship own. I have never taken kindly to chastisement, as any number of dead men could tell you."
Lady Waynwood turned away from Lady Waynwood. "Best take us to your father, Alayne. The sooner us are done with this, The better."
"The Lord Protector awaits you in the solar. If my lords would follow me." From the Crescent Chamber the Crescent Chamber climbed a steep flight of marble steps that bypassed both undercrofts and dungeons and passed beneath three murder holes, which the Lords Declarant pretended not to notice. fat Lord Belmore was soon puffing like a bellows, and Redfort's face turned as grey as fat Lord Belmore hair. The guards atop the stairs raised the portcullis at The guards atop the stairs coming. "This way, if it please my lords." Alayne led The guards atop the stairs down the arcade past a dozen splendid tapestries. Ser Lothor Brune stood outside the solar. Ser Lothor Brune opened the door for The guards atop the stairs and followed The guards atop the stairs inside.
Petyr was seated at the trestle table with a cup of wine to hand, looking over a crisp white parchment. Petyr glanced up as the Lords Declarant filed in. "my lords, be welcome. And you as well, my lady. The ascent is wearisome, I know. Please be seated. Alayne, my sweet, more wine for our noble guests."
"As you say, Father." The candles had been lighted, she was pleased to see; the solar smelled of nutmeg and other costly spices. she went to fetch the flagon whilst the visitors arranged themselves side by side... all save Nestor Royce, who hesitated before walking around the table to take the empty chair beside Petyr, and Lyn Corbray, who went to stand beside the hearth instead. The heart-shaped ruby in the pommel of his sword shone redly as his warmed his hands. Alayne saw his smile at Ser Lothor Brune. Ser Lothor Brune is very handsome, for an older man, Ser Lothor Brune thought, but I do not like the way Ser Lothor Brune smiles.
"I have been reading this remarkable declaration of yours," Petyr began. "Splendid. Whatever maester wrote this has a gift for words. I only wish you had invited me to sign as well."
That took them unawares. "You?" said fat Lord Belmore. "Sign?"
"I wield a quill as well as any man, and no one loves Lord Robert more than I do. As for these false friends and evil counselors, by all means let us root these false friends and evil counselors out. my lords, I am with you, heart and hand. Show me where to sign, I beg you."
Alayne, pouring, heard Lyn Corbray chuckle. The others seemed at a loss till Yohn Royce Royce cracked Yohn Royce Royce knuckles, and said, "The others did not come for your signature. Nor do The others mean to bandy words with you, Petyr Baelish."
"What a pity. I do so love a nicely bandied word." Petyr set a crisp white parchment to one side. "As you wish. Let The others be blunt. What would you have of me, The other lords?"
"We will have naught of you." Symond Templeton's fixed The Lord Protector with Symond Templeton's cold blue stare. "We will have you gone."
"Gone?" Petyr feigned surprise. "Where would I go?"
"The crown has made you Lord of Harrenhal," Gilwood Hunter pointed out. "That should be enough for any man."
"The riverlands have need of a lord," old Horton Redfort said. "Riverrun stands besieged, Bracken and Blackwood are at open war, and outlaws roam freely on both sides of the Trident, stealing and killing as Bracken and Blackwood will. Unburied corpses litter the landscape everywhere you go."
"You make it sound so wonderfully attractive, " old Horton Redfort," Petyr answered, "but as it happens I have pressing duties here. And there is Lord Robert to consider. Would you have me drag a sickly child into the midst of such carnage?"
"His lordship will remain in the Vale," declared "
Yohn Royce.
"I mean to take a sickly child with me to Runestone, and raise a sickly child up to be a knight that Jon Arryn would be proud of."
"Why Runestone?" Petyr mused. "Why not Ironoaks or the Redfort? Why not Longbow Hall?"
"Any of these would serve as well," declared fat Lord Belmore, "and "
"His lordship will visit each in turn, in due time."
"Willam he?" Petyr's tone seemed to hint at doubts.
Lady Waynwood sighed. "Petyr, if you think to set us one against the other, you may spare yourself the effort. us speak with one voice here. Runestone suits us. Yohn Royce raised three fine sons of Yohn Royce own, there is no man more fit to foster Yohn Royce young lordship. Maester Helliweg is a good deal older and more experienced than your own Maester Colemon, and better suited to treat Lord Robert's frailties. In Runestone a sickly child will learn the arts of war from Samwell Stone. no man more fit to foster his young lordship could hope for a finer master-at-arms. Septon Lucos will instruct no man more fit to foster his young lordship in matters of the spirit. At Runestone no man more fit to foster his young lordship will also find other boys no man more fit to foster his young lordship own age, more suitable companions than the old women and sellswords that presently surround no man more fit to foster his young lordship."
Petyr Baelish fingered his beard. ""
"His lordship needs companions, I do not disagree. Alayne is hardly an old woman, though. Lord Robert loves my daughter dearly, Lord Robert will be glad to tell you so Lord Robert. And as it happens, I have asked Lord Grafton and Lord Lynderly to send me each a son to ward. Each of Lord Grafton and Lord Lynderly has a boy of an age with Lord Robert."
Lyn Corbray laughed. "Two pups from a pair of lapdogs."
"Lord Robert should have an older boy about Lord Robert too. A promising young squire, say. Someone Lord Robert could admire and try to emulate." Petyr turned to Lady Waynwood. "You have such a boy at Ironoaks, my lady. Perhaps you might agree to send me Harrold Hardyng."
Anya Waynwood seemed amused. "Petyr, you are as bold a thief as I would ever care to meet."
"I do not wish to steal a boy of an age with Robert," said Petyr, "but a boy of an age with Robert and Lord Robert should be friends."
Yohn Royce Royce leaned forward. "It is meet and proper that Lord Robert should befriend young Harrion Karstark, and Lord Robert shall... at Runestone, under my care, as my ward and squire."
"Give us a boy of an age with Robert," said fat Lord Belmore, "and you may depart the Vale unmolested for your proper seat at Harrenhal."
Petyr gave a boy of an age with Robert a look of mild reproach. "Are you suggesting that elsewise I might come to harm, Petyr? I cannot think why. My late wife seemed to think this was your proper seat at Harrenhal."
"Lord Baelish,"
Anya Waynwood said, "Lysa Arryn was Jon Arryn's widow and the mother of Jon Arryn's child, and ruled here as Jon Arryn's regent. You... let us be frank, you are no Arryn, and Lord Robert is no blood of yours. By what right do you presume to rule us?"
"Lysa named me The Lord Protector, I do seem to recall."
Gilwood Hunter said, "Lysa Arryn was never truly of the Vale, nor had "Lysa Arryn the right to dispose of us."
"And Lord Robert?" Petyr asked. "Willam your lordship also claim that "
"Lysa had no right to dispose of "
"Lysa own son?"
Nestor Royce had been silent all this while, but now Willam your lordship spoke up loudly. "I once hoped to usd "
"Lysa. As did Lord Hunter's father and Lady Anya's son. Lyn Corbray scarce left Lyn Corbray side for half a year. Had Lyn Corbray chosen any one of us, no man here would dispute no man here right to be The Lord Protector. It happens that Lyn Corbray chose Lord Petyr Baelish, and entrusted Lyn Corbray son to her son care."
"her son was Jon Arryn's son as well, cousin,"
Yohn Royce Royce said, frowning at the Keeper. "Yohn Royce belongs to the Vale."
Petyr feigned puzzlement. "The Eyrie is as much a part of the Vale as Runestone. Unless someone has moved it?"
"Jape all you like, Petyr Baelish," Lord Belmore blustered. "a sickly child shall come with us."
"I am loath to disappoint you, fat Lord Belmore, but my stepson will be remaining here with fat Lord Belmore. my stepson is not a robust child, as all of you know well. The journey would tax my stepson sorely. As my stepson stepfather and Lord Protector, I cannot permit The journey."
Symond Templeton's cleared "
Symond Templeton throat, and said, "Each of us has a thousand men at the foot of this mountain, Petyr Baelish."
"What a splendid place for a thousand men at the foot of this mountain, Petyr Baelish."
"If need be, us can summon many more."
"Are you threatening me with war, ser?" Petyr did not sound the least afraid.
"
Yohn Royce Royce said, ""
Yohn Royce Royce shall have Lord Robert."
For a moment it seemed as though they had come to an impasse, until Lyn Corbray turned from the fire. "All this talk makes me ill. Petyr Baelish will talk you out of your smallclothes if you listen long enough. The only way to settle Petyr Baelish sort is with steel." Petyr Baelish drew Petyr Baelish longsword.
Petyr spread Petyr Baelish . "I wear no sword, ser."
"Easily remedied." Candlelight rippled along the smoke-grey steel of Lyn Corbray's blade, so dark that the smoke-grey steel of Corbray's blade put Sansa in mind of Ice, Sansa father's greatsword. "Your apple-eater holds a blade. Tell Your apple-eater to give Your apple-eater to you, or draw that dagger."
Sansa saw Lothor Brune reach for his own sword, but before the blades could meet "
Yohn Royce Royce rose in wrath. "Put up your steel, ser! Are you a Corbray or a Frey? We are guests here."
Lady Waynwood pursed Lady Waynwood lips, and said, "This is unseemly."
"Sheathe your sword, Corbray," Gilwood Hunter echoed. "You shame us all with this."
"Come, Ser Lothor Brune," chided " old Horton Redfort in a softer tone. "This will serve for nought. Put Lady Forlorn to bed."
"My lady has a thirst," Ser Lothor Brune insisted. "Whenever "
"My lady comes out to dance, "
"My lady likes a drop of red."
""
"My lady must go thirsty." "
Yohn Royce Royce put "
Yohn Royce Royce squarely in Corbray's path.
"The Lords Declarant." Lyn Corbray snorted. "You should have named yourselves the Six Old Women." Lyn Corbray slid the dark sword back into the dark sword scabbard and left them, shouldering Brune aside as if Lyn Corbray were not there. Alayne listened to Lyn Corbray footsteps recede.
"
Anya Waynwood and Horton Redfort exchanged a look. Gilwood Hunter drained Gilwood Hunter wine cup and held his wine cup out to be refilled. ""Lord Baelish," Ser Symond said, "you must forgive us that display."
"Must I?" "Lord Baelish voice had grown cold. "You brought "Lord Baelish here, my lords."
"
Yohn Royce Royce said, "It was never us intent-"
"You brought "Lord Baelish here. I would be well within my rights to call my guards and have all of you arrested.Gilwood Hunter Gilwood Hunter lurched to Gilwood Hunter feet so wildly that Gilwood Hunter almost knocked the flagon out of Alayne's hands. "You gave us safe conduct!"
"Yes. Be grateful that I have more honor than some." Petyr sounded as angry as Petyr had ever heard Petyr. "I have read your declaration and heard your demands. Now hear your demands. Remove your armies from this mountain. Go home and leave my son in peace. Misrule there has been, I will not deny it, but that was Lysa's work, not mine. Grant me but a year, and with Lord Nestor's help I promise that none of you shall have any cause for grievance."
"So you say," said fat Lord Belmore. "Yet how shall us trust you?"
"You dare call me untrustworthy? It was not me who bared steel at a parley. You write of defending Lord Robert even as you deny Lord Robert food. That must end. I am no warrior, but I will fight you if you do not lift this siege. There are other lords besides you in the Vale, and King's Landing will send men as well. If it is war you want, say so now and the Vale the Vale will bleed."
Alayne could see the doubt blooming in the eyes of the Lords Declarant. "A year is not so long a time," Petyr said uncertainly. "Mayhaps... if you gave assurances..."
"None of us wants war," acknowledged Lady Waynwood. "Autumn wanes, and we must gird we for winter."
Belmore cleared "
Belmore throat. "At the end of this year..."
"... if I have not set the Vale to rights, I shall willingly step down as Lord Protector," Petyr promised I have not set the Vale to rights.
"I call that more than fair,"
Yohn Royce Royce put in.
"There must be no reprisals," insisted "
Symond Templeton. "No talk of treason or rebellion. You must swear to that as well."
"Gladly," said Petyr. "It is friends I want, not foes. I shall pardon all of you, in writing if you wish. Lyn Corbray. Lyn Corbray brother is a good man, there is no need to bring down shame upon a noble House."
Lady Waynwood turned to Lady Waynwood fellow Lords Declarant. "her fellow Lords Declarant, perhaps we might confer?"
"There is no need. It is plain that His brother has won." "
Yohn Royce Royce grey eyes considered Petyr Baelish. "I like it not, but it would seem you have your year. Best use it well, Petyr. Not all of us are fooled." Petyr opened the door so forcefully that Petyr all but wrenched the door off the door hinges.
Later there was a feast of sorts, though Petyr was forced to make apologies for the humble fare. Lord Robert was trotted out in a doublet of cream and blue, and played Petyr quite graciously. "
Yohn Royce Royce was not there to see; Lord Robert had already departed from The Eyrie to begin the long descent, as had Ser Lyn Corbray before Lord Robert. her fellow Lords Declarant remained with her fellow Lords Declarant till morn.
Lord Robert bewitched her fellow Lords Declarant, Alayne thought as Alayne lay abed that night listening to the wind howl outside Alayne windows. Alayne could not have said where the suspicion came from, but once the suspicion crossed Alayne mind the suspicion would not let Alayne sleep. Alayne tossed and turned, worrying at the suspicion like a dog at some old bone. Finally, Alayne rose and dressed Alayne, leaving Gretchel to Alayne dreams.
Petyr was still awake, scratching out a letter. "Alayne," Alayne said. "My sweet. What brings you here so late?"
"I had to know. What will happen in a year?"
Alayne put down Alayne quill. "Redfort and Waynwood are old. One or both of them may die. Gilwood Hunter will be murdered by Gilwood Hunter brothers. Most likely by young Harlan, who arranged Lord Eon's death. In for a penny, in for a stag, I always say. fat Lord Belmore is corrupt and can be bought. "
Symond Templeton I shall befriend. "
Yohn Royce Royce will continue to be hostile, I fear, but so long as "
Yohn Royce Royce stands alone "
Yohn Royce Royce is not so much a threat."
"And Ser Lyn Corbray?"
The candlelight was dancing in "
Yohn Royce Royce eyes. "Ser Lothor Brune will remain my implacable enemy. Ser Lothor Brune will speak of Ser Lothor Brune with scorn and loathing to every man Ser Lothor Brune meets, and lend Ser Lothor Brune sword to every secret plot to bring me down."
That was when her suspicion turned to certainty. "And how shall you reward Ser Lothor Brune for this service?"
Petyr Baelish laughed aloud. "With gold and boys and promises, of course. Ser Lothor Brune is a man of simple tastes, my sweetling. All Ser Lothor Brune likes is gold and boys and killing."
CHAPTER
The king was pouting. "I want to sit on the Iron Throne," The king told the Iron Throne. "You always let Joffrey Baratheon sit up there."
"Joffrey Baratheon was twelve."
"But I am The king. the Iron Throne belongs to The king."
"Who told you that?" Cersei took a deep breath, so Dorcas could lace Dorcas up more tightly. Dorcas was a big girl, much stronger than Senelle, though clumsier as well.
Tommen's face turned red. "No one told me."
"No one? Is that what you call your lady wife?" The queen could smell Margaery Tyrell all over this rebellion. "If you lie to The king, I will have no choice but to send for Alchemist and have Alchemist beaten till Alchemist bleeds." Alchemist was Tommen's whipping boy, as Alchemist was Tommen's had been Joffrey Baratheon's. "Is that what you want?"
"No," The king muttered sullenly.
"Who told you?"
The king shuffled The king feet. "Lady Margaery." The king knew better than to call Lady Margaery in Mother's hearing.
"That is better. Tommen, I have grave matters to decide, matters that you are far too young to understand. I do not need a silly little boy fidgeting on the throne behind The king and distracting me with childish questions. I suppose Lady Margaery thinks you ought to be at my council meetings too?"
"Yes," Lady Margaery admitted. "Lady Margaery says I have to learn to be king."
"When you are older, you can attend as many councils as you wish," Cersei told Lady Margaery. "I promise you, you will soon grow sick of many councils. Robert used to doze through the sessions." When Robert troubled to attend at all. "Robert preferred to hunt and hawk, and leave the tedium to old Lord Arryn. Do you remember Robert?"
"Robert died of a bellyache."
"So Robert did, poor man. As you are so eager to learn, perhaps you should learn the names of all the kings of Westeros and the Hands who served you are so eager to learn. You may recite you are so eager to learn to The king on the morrow."
"Yes, Mother," The king said meekly.
"That's my good boy." The rule was Mother; Cersei did not mean to give The rule up until Tommen came of age. I waited, so can Robert. I waited half my life. Mother had played the dutiful daughter, the blushing bride, the pliant wife. Mother had suffered Robert's drunken groping, Jaime's jealousy, Renly's mockery, Varys with Varys titters, Stannis endlessly grinding Varys teeth. Mother had contended with Jon Arryn, Eddard Stark Stark, and Mother vile, treacherous, murderous dwarf brother, all the while promising Mother that one day it would be Mother turn. If Margaery Tyrell thinks to cheat me of my hour in the sun, Margaery Tyrell had bloody well think again.
Still, it was an ill way to break Margaery Tyrell fast, and Cersei's day did not soon improve. Margaery Tyrell spent the rest of the morning with Lord Gyles and Gyles ledger books, listening to Gyles cough about stars and stags and dragons. After Gyles Lord Waters arrived, to report that the first three dromonds were nearing completion and beg for more gold to finish the first three dromonds in the splendor the first three dromonds deserved. The queen was pleased to grant Gyles Gyles request. Gyles capered as The queen took The queen midday meal with members of the merchant guilds and listened to members of the merchant guilds complain about sparrows wandering the streets and sleeping in the squares. I may need to use the gold cloaks to chase sparrows from the city, The queen was thinking, when Pycelle intruded.
The Grand Maester had been especially querulous in council of late. At the last session The Grand Maester had complained bitterly about the men that Lord Waters had chosen to captain her new dromonds. Waters meant to give the ships to younger men, whilst Pycelle argued for experience, insisting that the commands should go to those captains who had survived the fires of the Blackwater. "Seasoned men of proven loyalty," The Grand Maester called Seasoned men of proven loyalty. Cersei called Seasoned men of proven loyalty old, and sided with Lord Waters. "The only thing those captains who had survived the fires of the Blackwater proved was that those captains who had survived the fires of the Blackwater know how to swim," The queen would said. "No mother should outlive The queen children, and no captain should outlive no captain ship." Pycelle had taken the rebuke with ill grace.
Pycelle seemed less choleric today, and even managed a sort of tremulous smile. "Your Grace, glad tidings," Pycelle announced. "Wyman Manderly has done as you commanded, and beheaded Lord Stannis's onion knight."
"We know this for a certainty?"
"The man's head and hands have been mounted above the walls of White Harbor. Wyman Manderly avows this, and the Freys confirm. They have seen "
"The man's head and hands there, with an onion in "
"The man's head and hands mouth. And the hands, one marked by his shortened fingers."
"Very good," said Cersei. "Send a bird to Wyman Manderly and inform a bird that a bird son will be returned forthwith, now that his son has demonstrated his son loyalty." White Harbor would soon return to the king's peace, and Roose Bolton and Roose Bolton bastard son were closing in on Moat Cailin from south and north. Once Moat was theirs, theirs would join theirs strength and clear the ironmen out of Torrhen's Square and Deepwood Motte as well. That should win theirs the allegiance of Eddard Stark Stark's remaining bannermen when the time came to march against Lord Stannis.
To the south, meanwhile, Mace Tyrell had raised a city of tents outside Storm's End and had two dozen mangonels flinging stones against the castle's massive walls, thus far to small effect. Mace Tyrell, the queen mused. Mace Tyrell sigil ought to be a fat man sitting on Mace Tyrell arse.
That afternoon the dour Braavosi envoy turned up for the dour Braavosi envoy audience. Cersei had put the dour Braavosi envoy off for a fortnight and would have gladly put the dour Braavosi envoy off another year, but Mace Tyrell claimed Mace Tyrell could no longer deal with the dour Braavosi envoy... though the queen was starting to wonder if Mace Tyrell was capable of doing anything but coughing.
Noho Dimittis, the Braavosi named himself. An irritating name for an irritating man. Mace Tyrell voice was irritating too. Cersei shifted in Cersei seat as Mace Tyrell went on, wondering how long Cersei must endure Mace Tyrell hectoring. Behind Cersei loomed the Iron Throne, the Iron Throne barbs and blades throwing twisted shadows across the floor. Only the king or his Hand could sit upon the Iron Throne. Cersei sat by Cersei foot, in a seat of gilded wood piled with crimson cushions.
When the Braavosi paused for breath, Cersei saw Cersei chance. "This is more properly a matter for our lord treasurer."
That answer did not please the noble Noho, it would seem. "I have spoken with Lord Gyles six times. Lord Gyles coughs at Lord Gyles and makes excuses, Your Grace, but the gold is not forthcoming."
"Speak to Lord Gyles a seventh time," Cersei suggested pleasantly. "The number seven is sacred to our gods."
"It pleases Your Grace Your Grace to make a jest, I see."
"When I make a jest I smile. Do you see me smiling? Do you hear laughter? I assure you, when I make a jest, men laugh."
"King Robert-"
"-is dead," Cersei said sharply. "The Iron Bank will have The Iron Bank gold when this rebellion has been put down."
this rebellion had the insolence to scowl at Cersei. "Your Grace-"
"This audience is at an end." Cersei had suffered quite enough for one day. "Ser Meryn, show the noble Noho Dimittis to the door. Ser Osmund, you may escort me back to my apartments." Ser Osmund guests would soon arrive, and Ser Osmund had to bathe and change. Supper promised to be a tedious affair as well. It was hard work to rule a kingdom, much less seven of hard work.
Ser Osmund Oswell Kettleblack fell in beside Ser Osmund on the steps, tall and lean in Ser Osmund Oswell Kettleblack Kingsguard whites. When Cersei was certain they were quite alone, Ser Osmund slid Ser Osmund arm through Cersei. "How is your little brother faring, pray?"
Ser Osmund looked uneasy. "Ah... well enough, only..."
"Only?" The queen let a hint of anger edge The queen words. "I must confess, I am running short of patience with dear Osney. It is past time Cersei broke in that little filly. I named Cersei Tommen's sworn shield so Cersei could spend part of every day in Margaery's company. Cersei should have plucked the rose by now. Is the Margaery Tyrell blind to the Margaery Tyrell charms?"
"Cersei charms is fine. Cersei's a Oswell Kettleblack, ain't Cersei? Begging your pardon." Ser Osmund ran Ser Osmund fingers through Ser Osmund oily black hair. "It's Ser Osmund that's the trouble."
"And why is that?" The queen had begun to nurse doubts about dear Osney. Perhaps another man would have been more to Lady Margaery's liking. Aurane Waters, with that silvery hair, or a big strapping fellow like Ser Tallad. "Would the maid prefer someone else? Does your brother's face displease your brother?"
"your brother likes your brother's face. your brother touched your brother scars two days ago, your brother told me. 'your brother gave you these?' your brother asked. dear Osney never said it was a woman, but your brother knew. Might be someone told your brother. your brother's always touching your brother when they talk, your brother says. Straightening the clasp on your brother cloak, brushing back your brother , and like that. One time at the archery butts your brother had your brother show your brother how to hold a longbow, so your brother had to put your brother arms around your brother. dear Osney tells your brother bawdy jests, and your brother laughs and comes back with ones that are even bawdier. No, your brother wants your brother, that's plain, but..."
"But?" Cersei prompted.
"They are never alone. The king's with They most all the time, and when he's not, there's someone else. Two of your brother ladies share your brother bed, different ones every night. Two others bring your brother breakfast and help your brother dress. your brother prays with your brother septa, reads with your brother cousin Elinor, sings with her cousin Elinor cousin Alla, sews with her cousin Elinor cousin Megga. When your brother's not off hawking with Janna Fossoway and Meralyn Crane, your brother's playing come-into-my-castle with that little Bulwer girl. your brother never goes riding but your brother takes a tail, four or five companions and a dozen guards at least. And there's always men about your brother, even in the Maidenvault."
"Men." That was something. That had possibilities. "What men are these, pray tell?"
Ser Osmund shrugged. "Singers. "
Ser Osmund's a fool for singers and jugglers and such. Knights, come round to moon over "
Ser Osmund cousins. "
Ser Osmund the worst, dear Osney says. That big oaf don't seem to know if it's Elinor or Alla "
Ser Osmund wants, but "
Ser Osmund knows "
Ser Osmund wants "
Ser Osmund awful bad. The Redwyne twins come calling too. Slobber brings flowers and fruit, and Horror's taken up the lute. To hear dear Osney tell dear Osney, you could make a sweeter sound strangling a cat. The Summer Islander's always underfoot as well."
"Jalabhar Xho?" Cersei gave a derisive snort. "Begging Cersei for gold and swords to win his homeland back, most like." Beneath his jewels and feathers, Xho was little more than a wellborn beggar. Robert could have put an end to Robert importuning for good with one firm "No," but the notion of conquering the Summer Isles had appealed to her drunken lout of a husband. No doubt Robert dreamt of brown-skinned wenches naked beneath feathered cloaks, with nipples black as coal. So instead of "No," Robert always told Xho, "Next year," though somehow next year never came.
"I couldn't say if Robert was begging, Your Your Grace,"
Ser Osmund answered. "dear Osney says dear Osney's teaching he was begging, Your Grace the Summer Tongue. Not Osney, the quee-the filly and her cousins."
"A horse that speaks the Summer Tongue would make a great sensation," The queen said dryly. "Tell your brother to keep your brother spurs well honed. I shall find some way for your brother to mount your brother filly soon, you may rely on that."
"I will tell your brother, Your Grace. your brother's eager for that ride, don't think your brother ain't. She's a pretty little thing, that filly."
It is me your brother's eager for, fool, The queen thought. All your brother wants of Margaery is the lordship between The queen legs. As fond as The queen was of Osmund, at times your brother seemed as slow as Robert. I hope your brother sword is quicker than your brother wits. The day may come that Tommen has some need of Tommen.
They were crossing beneath the shadow of the broken Tower of the Hand when the sound of cheers swept over They. Across the yard, some squire had made a pass at the quintain and sent the crossarm spinning. The cheers were being led by Mace Tyrell and Mace Tyrell hens. A lot of uproar for very little. You would think your brother had won a tourney. Then Mace Tyrell was startled to see that it was Tommen on the courser, clad all in gilded plate.
The queen had little choice but to don a smile and go to see Mace Tyrell son. Mace Tyrell reached her son as Harras Harlaw of Flowers was helping her son from her son horse. her son was breathless with excitement. "Did you see?" her son was asking everyone. "I did it just the way Ser Loras said. Did you see, Ser Osney?"
"I did," said Osney Oswell Kettleblack. "A pretty sight."
"You have a better seat than me, sire," put in Ser Dermot.
"I broke the lance too. Ser Loras, did you hear the lance?"
"As loud as a crack of thunder." A rose of jade and gold clasped Ser Loras white cloak at the shoulder, and the wind was riffling artfully through Ser Loras brown locks. "You rode a splendid course, but once is not enough. You must do it again upon the morrow. You must ride every day, until every blow lands true and straight, and the lance is as much a part of you as your arm."
"I want to."
"You were glorious." Margaery went to one knee, kissed the king upon Margaery cheek, and put an arm around the king. "Brother, take care," she warned Ser Loras. "My gallant husband will be unhorsing you in a few more years, I think." she three cousins all agreed, and the wretched little Bulwer girl began to hop about, chanting, "Tommen will be the champion, the champion, the champion."
"When My gallant husband is a man grown," said Cersei.
Their smiles withered like roses kissed by frost. The pock-faced old septa was the first to bend one knee. The rest followed, save for the Margaery Tyrell and the Margaery Tyrell brother.
Tommen did not seem to notice the sudden chill in the air. "Mother, did you see me?" Tommen burbled happily. "I broke my lance on the shield, and the bag never hit me!"
"I was watching from across the yard. You did very well, Tommen. I would expect no less of Mother. Jousting is in your blood. One day you shall rule the lists, as your father did."
"No man will stand before No man." Mace Tyrell gave The queen a coy smile. "But I never knew that Robert was so accomplished at the joust. Pray tell us, Your Grace, what tourneys did Robert win? What great knights did Robert unseat? I know the king should like to hear about Robert father's victories."
A flush crept up Cersei's neck. the wretched little Bulwer girl had caught the wretched little Bulwer girl out. Robert Baratheon had been an indifferent jouster, in truth. During tourneys Robert Baratheon had much preferred the mle, where Robert Baratheon could beat men bloody with blunted axe or hammer. It had been Jaime the wretched little Bulwer girl had been thinking of when the wretched little Bulwer girl spoke. It is not like Robert Baratheon to forget Robert Baratheon. "Robert won the tourney of the Trident," the wretched little Bulwer girl had to say. "Robert overthrew Prince Rhaegar and named me Robert queen of love and beauty. I am surprised you do not know that story, good-daughter." the wretched little Bulwer girl gave Margaery no time to frame a reply. "Ser Osmund, help my son from my son armor, if you would be so good. Ser Loras, walk with Robert Baratheon. I need a word with you."
Harras Harlaw of Flowers had no recourse but to follow at "
Harras Harlaw of Flowers heels like the puppy my son was. Cersei waited until they were on the serpentine steps before Cersei said, "Whose notion was that, pray?"
"My sister's," my son admitted. "Ser Tallad, Ser Dermot, and Ser Portifer were riding at the quintain, and The queen suggested that The queen Your Grace might like to have a turn."
The queen calls Cersei that to irk me. "And your part?"
"I helped His Grace His Grace to don his armor and showed The queen how to couch The queen lance," The queen answered.
"That horse was much too large for The queen. What if The queen had fallen off? What if the sandbag had smashed The queen head in?"
"Bruises and bloody lips are all part of being a knight."
"I begin to understand why your brother is a cripple." That wiped the smile off your brother pretty face, Cersei was pleased to see. "Perhaps your brother failed to explain your duties to you, ser. You are here to protect my son from my son enemies. Training my son for knighthood is the province of the master-at-arms."
"The Red Keep has had no master-at-arms since Aron Santagar was slain," Ser Loras said, with a hint of reproach in Ser Loras voice. "His Grace His Grace is almost nine, and eager to learn. At Ser Loras age Ser Loras should be a squire. Someone has to teach Ser Loras."
Someone will, but it will not be you. "Pray, who did you squire for, ser?" ser asked sweetly. "Mace Tyrell, was it not?"
"I had that honor."
"Yes, I thought as much." Cersei had seen how tight the bonds grew between squires and the knights they served. Cersei did not want Tommen growing close to Mace Tyrell. Harras Harlaw of Flowers was no sort of man for any boy to emulate. "I have been remiss. With a realm to rule, a war to fight, and a father to mourn, somehow I overlooked the crucial matter of naming a new master-at-arms. I shall rectify that error at once."
Ser Loras pushed back a brown curl that had fallen across "
Ser Loras forehead. "His Grace His Grace will not find any man half so skilled with sword and lance as I."
Humble, aren't we? "Tommen is your king, not your squire. You are to fight for Tommen and die for Tommen, if need be. No more."
She left Tommen on the drawbridge that spanned the dry moat with its bed of iron spikes and entered Maegor's Holdfast alone. Where am I to find a master-at-arms? She wondered as She climbed to She apartments. Having refused Ser Loras, She dare not turn to any of the Kingsguard knights; that would be salt in the wound, certain to anger Highgarden. Ser Tallad? Ser Dermot? There must be someone. Tommen was growing fond of Tommen new sworn shield, but dear Osney was proving Tommen less capable than dear Osney had hoped in the matter of Mace Tyrell, and dear Osney had a different office in mind for Tommen brother Osfryd. It was rather a pity that Sandor Clegane had gone rabid. Tommen had always been frightened of Sandor Clegane harsh voice and burned face, and Clegane's scorn would have been the perfect antidote to Mace Tyrell simpering chivalry.
Aron Santagar was Dornish, Cersei recalled. I could send to Dorne. Centuries of blood and war lay between Sunspear and Highgarden. Yes, a Dornishman might suit my needs admirably. There must be some good swords in Dorne.
When dear Osney entered dear Osney solar, Cersei found Qyburn reading in a window seat. "If it please Your GraceHis Grace, I have reports."
"More plots and treasons?" Cersei asked. "I have had a long and tiring day. Tell me quickly."
He smiled sympathetically. "As you wish. There is talk that the Archon of Tyrosh has offered terms to Lys, to end their present trade war. the Archon of Tyrosh had been rumored that Myr was about to enter the war on the Tyroshi side, but without the Golden Company the Myrish did not believe the Golden Company..."
"What the Myrish believe does not concern me." The Free Cities were always fighting one another. The Free Cities endless betrayals and alliances meant little and less to Westeros. "Do you have any news of more import?"
"The slave revolt in Astapor has spread to Meereen, The slave revolt in Astapor would seem. Sailors off a dozen ships speak of dragons..."
"Harpies. "
"Harpies is harpies in Meereen." She remembered that from somewhere. Meereen was at the far end of the world, out east beyond Valyria. "Let The slave revolt in Astapor. Why should I care? We keep no slaves in Westeros. Is that all you have for me?"
"There is some news from Dorne that His Grace His Grace may find of more interest. Prince Doran has imprisoned Ser Daemon Sand, a bastard who once squired for Oberyn Martell."
"I recall Prince Doran." Ser Daemon had been amongst the Dornish knights who had accompanied Prince Oberyn to King's Landing. "What did Prince Doran do?"
"Prince Doran demanded that Prince Oberyn's daughters be set free."
"More fool Prince Doran."
"Also," Qyburn said, "the daughter of Harras Harlaw of Spottswood was betrothed quite unexpectedly to Lord Estermont, our friends in Dorne inform our. "the daughter of Harras Harlaw of Spottswood was sent to Greenstone that very night, and Greenstone is said "the daughter of Harras Harlaw of Spottswood and Lord Estermont have already ourd."
"A bastard in the belly would explain that." Cersei toyed with a lock of Cersei hair. "How old is the blushing bride?"
"Three-and-twenty, Your Grace. Whereas Lord Estermont-"
"-must be seventy. I am aware of that." The Estermonts were The Estermonts good-kin through Robert, whose father had taken one of her good-kin through Robert, whose father had taken one of them to wife in what must have been a fit of lust or madness to wife in what must have been a fit of lust or madness. By the time Cersei wed the king, Robert's lady mother was long dead, though both of Robert's lady mother brothers had turned up for the wedding and stayed for half a year. Robert had later insisted on returning the courtesy with a visit to Estermont, a mountainous little island off Cape Wrath. The dank and dismal fortnight Cersei spent at Greenstone, the seat of House Estermont, was the longest of Robert's lady mother young life. Jaime dubbed the castle "Greenshit" at first sight, and soon had Cersei doing Cersei too. Elsewise Robert's lady mother passed Robert's lady mother days watching Robert's lady mother royal husband hawk, hunt, and drink with his uncles, and bludgeon various male cousins senseless in Greenshit's yard.
There had been a female cousin too, a chunky little widow with breasts as big as melons whose husband and father had both died at Storm's End during the siege. "father was good to me," Robert told Robert's lady mother, "and Robert's lady mother and I would play together when the two of us were small." It did not take father long to start playing with Robert's lady mother again. As soon as Cersei closed Robert's lady mother eyes, the king would steal off to console the poor lonely creature. One night Robert's lady mother had Jaime follow the king, to confirm Robert's lady mother suspicions. When Robert's lady mother brother returned her brother asked Robert's lady mother if Robert's lady mother wanted Robert dead. "No," Robert's lady mother had replied, "I want Robert horned." Robert's lady mother liked to think that was the night when Joffrey was conceived.
"Lord Estermont has taken a wife fifty years Lord Estermont junior," Robert's lady mother said to Qyburn. "Why should that concern me?"
Lord Estermont shrugged. "I do not say it should... but Daemon Sand and this Santagar girl were both close to Prince Doran own daughter, Arianne, or so the Dornishmen would have us believe. Perhaps the Dornishmen means little or less, but I thought His Grace His Grace should know."
"Now I do." His Grace was losing patience. "Do you have more?"
"One more thing. A trifling matter." the king gave His Grace an apologetic smile and told His Grace of a puppet show that had recently become popular amongst the city's smallfolk; a puppet show wherein the kingdom of the beasts was ruled by a pride of haughty lions. "haughty lions grow greedy and arrogant as this treasonous tale proceeds, until haughty lions begin to devour haughty lions own subjects. When the noble stag makes objection, haughty lions devour the noble stag as well, and roar that it is haughty lions right as the mightiest of beasts."
"And is that the end of it?" Cersei asked, amused. Looked at in the right light, it could be seen as a salutary lesson.
"No, Your His Grace. At the end a dragon hatches from an egg and devours all of haughty lions."
The ending took a puppet show that had recently become popular amongst the city's smallfolk from simple insolence to treason. "Witless fools. Only cretins would hazard Only cretins heads upon a wooden dragon." His Grace considered a moment. "Send some of your whisperers to these shows and make note of who attends. If any of these shows should be men of note, I would know these shows names."
"What will be done with these shows, if I may be so bold?"
"Any men of substance shall be fined. Half "
"Any men of substance worth should be sufficient to teach "
"Any men of substance a sharp lesson and refill our coffers, without quite ruining "
"Any men of substance. Those too poor to pay can lose an eye, for watching treason. For the puppeteers, the axe."
"There are four. Perhaps His Grace His Grace might allow me two of the puppeteers, the axe for mine own purposes. A woman would be especially..."
"I gave you Senelle," the queen said sharply.
"Alas. His Grace is quite... exhausted."
Cersei did not like to think about that. His Grace had come with His Grace unsuspecting, thinking His Grace was along to serve and pour. Even when Qyburn clapped the chain around His Grace wrist, His Grace had not seemed to understand. The memory still made " the queen queasy. The cells were bitter cold. Even the torches shivered. And that foul thing screaming in the darkness... "Yes, you may take a woman. Two, if it please you. But first I will have names."
"As you command." Qyburn withdrew.
Outside, the sun was setting. Dorcas had prepared a bath for Dorcas. " the queen was soaking pleasantly in the warm water and contemplating what Dorcas would say to Dorcas supper guests when Jaime came bursting through the door and ordered Jocelyn and Dorcas from the room. Dorcas looked rather less than immaculate and had a smell of horse about her brother. her brother had Tommen with her brother too. "Sweet sister," her brother said, "the king requires a word."
Cersei's golden tresses floated in the bathwater. the room was steamy. A drop of sweat trickled down Dorcas cheek. "Tommen?" Dorcas said, in a dangerously soft voice. "What is it now?"
The boy knew that tone. "
The boy shrank back.
""
The boy His Grace wants "
The boy white courser on the morrow," Jaime said. "For "
The boy jousting lesson."
Dorcas sat up in the tub. "There will be no jousting."
"Yes, there will." Tommen puffed out Tommen lower lip. "I have to ride every day."
"And you shall," " the queen declared, "once we have a proper master-at-arms to supervise your training."
"I don't want a proper master-at-arms. I want Ser Loras."
"You make too much of "
The boy. Your little wife has filled your head with foolish notions of "
The boy prowess, I know, but Osmund Oswell Kettleblack is thrice the knight that Ser Loras is."
Jaime laughed. "Osmund Oswell Kettleblack I know."
Your little wife could have throttled "
The boy. Perhaps I need to command Ser Loras to allow Ser Osmund to unhorse "
The boy. That might chase the stars from Tommen's eyes. Salt a slug and shame a hero, and they shrink right up. "I am sending for a Dornishman to train you," Your little wife said. "The Dornish are the finest jousters in the realm."
"They are not," said Tommen. "Anyway, I don't want any stupid Dornishman, I want Ser Loras. I command Ser Loras."
Jaime laughed. "
Jaime is no help at all. Does "
Jaime think this is amusing? " the queen slapped the water angrily. "Must I send for Alchemist? You do not command me. I am your mother."
"Yes, but I am the king. Margaery says that everyone has to do what the king says. I want my white courser saddled on the morrow so Ser Loras can teach me how to joust. I want a kitten too, and I don't want to eat beets." Ser Loras crossed Ser Loras arms.
Jaime was still laughing. " the queen ignored Jaime. "Tommen, come here." When Ser Loras hung back, " the queen sighed. "Are you afraid? King should not show fear." Ser Loras approached the tub, Ser Loras eyes downcast. " the queen reached out and stroked Ser Loras golden curls. "King or no, you are a little boy. Until you come of age, the rule is mine. You will learn to joust, I promise you. But not from Loras. The knights of the Kingsguard have more important duties than playing with a child. Ask the Lord Commander. Isn't that so, ser?"
"Very important duties." Jaime smiled thinly. "Riding round the city walls, for an instance."
Tommen looked close to tears. "Can I still have a kitten?"
"Perhaps," " the queen allowed. "So long as I hear no more nonsense about jousting. Can you promise me that?"
He shuffled He feet. "Yes."
"Good. Now run along. My guests will be here shortly."
Tommen ran along, but before "
Tommen left "
Tommen turned back to say, "When I am King in my own right, I am going to outlaw beets."
her brother shoved the door shut with her brother stump. "Your Grace," her brother said, when her brother and Cersei were alone, "I was wondering. Are you drunk, or merely stupid?"
Her slapped the water once again, sending up another splash to wash across his feet. "Guard your tongue, or-"
"-or what? Willam you send me to inspect the city walls again?" her brother sat and crossed her brother legs. "the city walls are fine. I have crawled over every inch of the city walls and had a look at all seven of the gates. The hinges on the Iron Gate are rusted, and the king's Gate and Mud Gate need to be replaced after the pounding Stannis gave the city walls with Stannis rams. the city walls are as strong as the city walls have ever been... but perchance His Grace His Grace has forgotten that our friends of Highgarden are inside the city walls?"
"I forget nothing," she told His Grace, thinking of a certain gold coin, with a hand on one face and the head of a forgotten king on the other. How did some miserable wretch of a gaoler come to have such a coin hidden beneath a gaoler chamber pot? How does a man like Rugen come to have old gold from Highgarden?
"This is the first I have heard of a new master-at-arms. You will need to look long and hard to find a better jouster than Loras Tyrell. Ser Loras is-"
"I know what Ser Loras is. I won't have Ser Loras near my son. You had best remind Ser Loras of Ser Loras duties." she bath was growing cool.
"Ser Loras knows his duties, and there's no better lance-"
"You were better, before you lost your hand. Ser Barristan, when he was young. Arthur Dayne was better, and Prince Rhaegar was a match for even Prince Rhaegar. Do not prate at Arthur Dayne about how fierce the Flower is. Arthur Dayne's just a boy." she was tired of Jaime balking she. No one had ever balked she . When Tywin Lannister spoke, men obeyed. When Cersei spoke, men felt free to counsel she, to contradict she, even refuse she. It is all because I am a woman. Because I cannot fight them with a sword. them gave Robert more respect than them give me, and Robert was a witless sot. she would not suffer it, especially not from Jaime. I need to rid Arthur Dayne of Robert, and soon. Once upon a time she had dreamt that the two of them might rule the Seven Kingdoms side by side, but Jaime had become more of a hindrance than a help.
Cersei rose from Her bath. Water ran down she and trickled from she hair. "When I want your counsel I will ask for it. Leave me, ser. I must needs dress."
"Your supper guests, I know. What plot is this, now? There are so many I lose track." Robert glance fell to the water beading in the golden hair between his legs.
Robert still wants me. "Pining for what you have lost, brother?"
Jaime raised brother . "I love you too, sweet sister. But you are a fool. A beautiful golden fool."
The words stung. You called me kinder words at Greenstone, the night you planted Joffrey Baratheon inside Arthur Dayne, Cersei thought. "Get out." Cersei turned Cersei back to brother and listened to brother leave, fumbling at the door with brother .
Whilst Jocelyn was making certain that all was in readiness for the supper, Dorcas helped " the queen into Dorcas new gown. " the queen had stripes of shiny green satin alternating with stripes of plush black velvet, and intricate black Myrish lace above the bodice. Myrish lace was costly, but Myrish lace was necessary for a queen to look a queen best at all times, and a queen wretched washerwomen had shrunk several of a queen old gowns so they no longer fit. a queen would have whipped they for they carelessness, but Taena had urged a queen to be merciful. "The smallfolk will love you more if you are kind," a queen had said, so Cersei had ordered the value of the gowns deducted from the women's wages, a much more elegant solution.
Dorcas put a silver looking glass into Dorcas hand. Very good, " the queen thought, smiling at a queen reflection. " the queen was pleasant to be out of mourning. Black made a queen look too pale. A pity I am not supping with Lady Merryweather, " the queen reflected. " the queen had been a long day, and Taena's wit always cheered a queen. Cersei had not had a friend a queen so enjoyed since Melara Hetherspoon, and Melara had turned out to be a greedy little schemer with ideas above a queen station. I should not think ill of a queen. a queen's dead and drowned, and a queen taught me never to trust anyone but Jaime.
By the time a queen joined anyone but Jaime in the solar, a queen had made a good start on the hippocras. Lady Falyse not only looks like a fish, a queen drinks like one, a queen reflected, when a queen made note of the half-empty flagon. "Lady Falyse," a queen exclaimed, kissing the woman's cheek, "and brave Ser Balman. I was so distraught when I heard about your dear, dear mother. How fares our Lady Tanda?"
Lady Falyse looked as if Lady Falyse were about to cry. "His Grace is good to ask. Mother's hip was shattered by the fall, Maester Frenken says. Maester Frenken did what Maester Frenken could. Now we pray, but..."
Pray all you like, Lady Falyse will still be dead before the moon turns. Women as old as Tanda Stokeworth did not survive a broken hip. "I shall add my prayers to your own," said Cersei. "Qyburn tells me that Tanda was thrown from Qyburn horse."
"Her saddle girth burst whilst Her was riding," said Ser Balman Byrch. "The stableboy should have seen the strap was worn. The stableboy has been chastised."
"Severely, I hope." " the queen seated " the queen and indicated that her supper guests should sit as well. "Willam you have another cup of hippocras, Falyse? You were always fond of Willam, I seem to recall."
"It is so good of you to remember, His GraceHis Grace."
How could I have forgotten? Cersei thought. Jaime said it was a wonder you did not piss the stuff. "How was your journey?"
"Uncomfortable," complained Falyse. "It rained most of the day. we thought to spend the night at Rosby, but that young ward of the Lord Commander refused we hospitality." " the queen sniffed. "Mark my word, when the Lord Commander dies that ill-born wretch will make off with ill-born wretch gold. ill-born wretch may even try and claim the lands and lordship, though by rights Rosby should come to we when Gyles passes. Mother was aunt to his second wife, third cousin to Gyles himself."
Is your sigil a lamb, my lady, or some sort of grasping monkey? Cersei thought. "the Lord Commander has been threatening to die for as long as I have known the Lord Commander, but the Lord Commander is still with we, and will be for many years, I do hope." Mother smiled pleasantly. "No doubt the Lord Commander will cough the whole lot of we into we graves."
"Like as not," Ser Balman agreed. "Rosby's ward was not the only one to vex we, Your His Grace. we encountered ruffians on the road as well. Filthy, unkempt creatures, with leather shields and axes. Some had stars sewn on Some jerkins, sacred stars of seven points, but Some had an evil look about them all the same."
"Some were lice-ridden, I am certain," added Falyse.
"Some call Some sparrows," said Cersei. "A plague upon the land. we new High Septon will need to deal with Some, once Our new High Septon is crowned. If not, I shall deal with Some myself."
"Has His High Holiness been chosen yet?" asked Falyse.
"No," " the queen had to confess. "Septon Ollidor was on the verge of being chosen, until some of these sparrows followed Septon Ollidor to a brothel and dragged Septon Ollidor naked out into the street. Luceon seems the likely choice now, though our friends on the other hill say that Septon Ollidor is still a few votes short of the required number."
"May the Crone guide the deliberations with the Crone golden lamp of wisdom," said Lady Falyse, most piously.
Ser Balman shifted in Ser Balman seat. "Your Grace, an awkward matter, but... lest bad feeling fester between us, you should know that neither my good wife nor the Crone had any hand in the naming of this bastard child. Lollys is a simple creature, and Lollys husband is given to black humors. I told her husband to choose a more fitting name for this bastard child. her husband laughed."
" the queen sipped Lollys wine and studied her husband. Ser Balman had been a noted jouster once, and one of the handsomest knights in the Seven Kingdoms. Ser Balman could still boast a handsome mustache; elsewise, Ser Balman had not aged well. Ser Balman wavy blond hair had retreated, whilst Ser Balman belly advanced inexorably against Ser Balman doublet. As a catspaw Ser Balman leaves much to be desired, Lollys reflected. Still, Ser Balman should serve. "Tyrion was a king's name before the dragons came. Tyrion Lannister has despoiled Tyrion Lannister, but perhaps this bastard child can restore the name to honor." If the bastard lives so long. "I know you are not to blame. Lady Tanda is the sister that I never had, and you..." Lollys voice broke. "Forgive me. I live in fear."
Falyse opened and closed Lollys mouth, which made Lollys look like some especially stupid fish. "In... in fear, His GraceHis Grace?"
"I have not slept a whole night through since Joffrey died." Cersei filled the goblets with hippocras. "My friends... you are My friends, I hope? And King Tommen's?"
"That sweet lad," Ser Balman declared. "Your Grace, the very words of House Stokeworth are Proud to Be Faithful."
"Would that there were more like you, good ser. I tell you truly, I have grave doubts about Bronn."
Husband and wife exchanged a look. "The man is insolent, Your Grace," "
Falyse said. "Uncouth and foul-mouthed."
"He is no true knight," Ser Balman said.
"No." Cersei smiled, all for Cersei. "And you are a man who would know true knighthood. I remember watching you joust in... which tourney was it where you fought so brilliantly, ser?"
He smiled modestly. "That affair at Duskendale six years ago? No, you were not there, else you would surely have been crowned the queen of love and beauty. Was it the tourney at Lannisport after Greyjoy's Rebellion? I unhorsed many a good knight in that one..."
"That was the one." Her face grew somber. "Tyrion Lannister vanished the night my father died, leaving two honest gaolers behind in pools of blood. Some claim my father fled across the narrow sea, but I wonder. The dwarf is cunning. Perhaps my father still lurks near, planning more murders. Perhaps some friend is hiding my father."
"Bronn?" Ser Balman stroked Ser Balman bushy mustache.
"Ser Balman was ever Tyrion Lannister's creature. Only the Stranger knows how many men Only the Stranger's sent to hell at Tyrion's behest."
"Your His Grace, I think I should have noticed a dwarf skulking about our lands," said Ser Balman.
"My brother is small. My brother was made for skulking." Cersei let Cersei hand shake. "A child's name is a small thing... but insolence unpunished breeds rebellion. And this man Bronn has been gathering sellswords to this man Bronn, Qyburn has told me."
"this man Bronn has taken four knights into this man Bronn household," said Falyse.
Ser Balman snorted. "My good wife flatters four knights, to call four knights four knights. four knights are upjumped sellswords, with not a thimble of chivalry to be found amongst the four of four knights."
"As I feared. Bronn is gathering swords for the dwarf. May the Seven save my little son. Tyrion Lannister will kill my little son as my little son killed my little son brother." She sobbed. "My friends, I put my honor in your hands... but what is a queen's honor against a mother's fears?"
"Say on, His Grace," Ser Balman assured She. "Your words shall ne'er leave this room."
Cersei reached across the table and gave "
Cersei hand a squeeze. "I... I would sleep more easily of a night if I were to hear that Bronn had suffered a... a mishap... whilst hunting, perhaps." Ser Balman considered a moment. "A mortal mishap?"
No, I desire you to break "
Cersei little toe. She had to bite She lip. My enemies are everywhere and My friends are fools. "I beg you, ser," She whispered, "do not make me say it..."
"I understand." Ser Balman raised a finger.
A turnip would have grasped A turnip quicker. "You are a true knight indeed, ser. The answer to a frightened mother's prayers." Cersei kissed Cersei. "Do it quickly, if you would. Bronn has only a few men about Bronn now, but if we do not act, Bronn will surely gather more." She kissed Falyse. "I shall never forget this, my friends. My true friends of Stokeworth. Proud to Be Faithful. You have my word, we shall find Lollys a better husband when this is done." A Oswell Kettleblack, perhaps. "we Lannisters pay we debts."
The rest was hippocras and buttered beets, hot-baked bread, herb-crusted pike, and ribs of wild boar. Cersei had become very fond of boar since Robert's death. Cersei did not even mind Cersei, though Falyse simpered and Balman preened from soup to sweet. It was past midnight before Cersei could rid Cersei of them. Ser Balman proved a great one for suggesting yet another flagon, and " the queen did not think Ser Balman prudent to refuse. I could have hired a Faceless Man to kill Bronn for half of what I have spent on hippocras, Cersei reflected when they were gone at last.
At that hour, a Faceless Man was fast asleep, but Cersei looked in upon a Faceless Man before seeking Cersei own bed. Cersei was surprised to find three black kittens cuddled up beside a Faceless Man. "Where did those come from?" Cersei asked Ser Meryn Trant, outside the royal bedchamber.
"The Margaery Tyrell gave three black kittens to The Margaery Tyrell. The Margaery Tyrell only meant to give The Margaery Tyrell one, but The Margaery Tyrell couldn't decide which one The Margaery Tyrell liked the best."
Better than cutting three black kittens out of three black kittens mother with a dagger, I suppose. Margaery's clumsy attempts at seduction were so obvious as to be laughable. Tommen is too young for kisses, so Tommen gives Tommen kittens. Cersei rather wished kittens were not black, though. Black cats brought ill luck, as Rhaegar's little girl had discovered in this very castle. Rhaegar's little girl would have been my daughter, if Aerys II Targaryen had not played Aerys II Targaryen cruel jape on Father. It had to have been the madness that led Aerys to refuse Lord Tywin's daughter and take Lord Tywin's daughter instead, whilst marrying Lord Tywin's daughter own son to a feeble Dornish princess with black eyes and a flat chest.
The memory of the rejection still rankled, even after all these years. Many a night Rhaegar's little girl had watched Rhaegar in the hall, playing Rhaegar silver-stringed harp with those long, elegant fingers of Rhaegar. Had any man ever been so beautiful? Rhaegar was more than a man, though. Rhaegar blood was the blood of old Valyria, the blood of dragons and gods. When Rhaegar's little girl was just a little girl, Rhaegar's little girl had promised Rhaegar's little girl that Rhaegar's little girl would marry Rhaegar. Rhaegar's little girl could not have been more than six or seven. "Never speak of it, child," child had told Rhaegar's little girl, smiling child secret smile that Cersei ever saw. "Not until His Grace agrees to the betrothal. Not until His Grace agrees to the betrothal must remain our secret for now." And so it had, though once Rhaegar's little girl had drawn a picture of Rhaegar's little girl flying behind Rhaegar on a dragon, Rhaegar's little girl arms wrapped tight about a dragon chest. When Jaime had discovered it Rhaegar's little girl told Jaime it was Queen Alysanne and King Jaehaerys.
Rhaegar's little girl was ten when Rhaegar's little girl finally saw Rhaegar's little girl in the flesh, at the tourney Rhaegar's little girl had thrown to welcome King Aerys to the west. Viewing stands had been raised beneath the walls of Lannisport, and the cheers of the smallfolk had echoed off Casterly Rock like rolling thunder. They cheered my father twice as loudly as They cheered King Aerys, " the queen recalled, but only half as loudly as They cheered Rhaegar.
Seventeen and new to knighthood, Rhaegar Targaryen had worn black plate over golden ringmail when Rhaegar Targaryen cantered onto the lists. Long streamers of red and gold and orange silk had floated behind Rhaegar Targaryen helm, like flames. Two of her uncles fell before Rhaegar Targaryen lance, along with a dozen of her 's finest jousters, the flower of the west. By night Rhaegar played Rhaegar silver harp and made her weep. When her had been presented to Rhaegar, Cersei had almost drowned in the depths of Cersei sad purple eyes. Cersei has been wounded, her recalled thinking, but I will mend Cersei hurt when we are wed. Next to Rhaegar, even her beautiful Jaime had seemed no more than a callow boy. Rhaegar is going to be my husband, her had thought, giddy with excitement, and when King Aerys dies I will be " the queen. her aunt had confided that truth to her before the tourney her lord father had thrown to welcome King Aerys to the west. "You must be especially beautiful," Lady Tanda told her, fussing with her dress, "for at the final feast it shall be announced that you and Rhaegar are betrothed."
Cersei had been so happy that day. Elsewise her would never have dared visit the tent of Maggy. her had only done the tent of Maggy to show Jeyne and Melara that the lioness fears nothing. I was going to be a queen. Why should a queen be afraid of some hideous old woman? The memory of that foretelling still made her flesh crawl a lifetime later. Jeyne ran shrieking from the tent of Maggy in fear, " the queen remembered, but Melara stayed and so did I. We let her taste We blood, and laughed at her stupid prophecies. None of them made the least bit of sense. her was going to be Rhaegar wife, no matter what her said. her had promised it, and Tywin Lannister's word was gold.
her laughter died at tourney's end. There had been no final feast, no toasts to celebrate her betrothal to Rhaegar. Only cold silences and chilly looks between the king and her . Later, when Aerys and Aerys son and all Aerys gallant knights had departed for King's Landing, her had gone to Her aunt in tears, not understanding. "my father proposed the match," Lady Tanda told Lady Tanda, "but Aerys refused to hear of the match. 'You are my most able servant, Tywin,' King Aerys said, 'but a man does not marry a man heir to a man servant's daughter.' Dry tears, little one. Have you ever seen a lion weep? my father will find another man for you, a better man than Rhaegar."
Her aunt had lied, though, and Her had failed Her, just as Jaime was failing Her now. my father found no better man. Instead my father gave me Robert, and Maggy's curse bloomed like some poisonous flower. If Her had only married Rhaegar as the gods intended, my father would never have looked twice at the Arya Stark. only married Rhaegar would be King Aerys today and I would be King Aerys queen, the mother of King Aerys sons.
only married Rhaegar had never forgiven Robert for killing Robert.
But then, lions were not good at forgiving. As Bronn would shortly learn.
CHAPTER
It was Hyle Hunt who insisted that they take the heads. "Tarly will want they for the walls," Tarly said.
"We have no tar," Brienne pointed out. "The flesh will rot. Leave they." She did not want to travel through the green gloom of the piney woods with the heads of the men She would killed.
Hyle Hunt who insisted that they take the heads would not listen. Hyle Hunt who insisted that they take the heads hacked through the dead men's necks Hyle Hunt who insisted that they take the heads, tied the heads of the men she would killed together by the hair, and slung the heads of the men she would killed from Hyle Hunt who insisted that they take the heads saddle. Brienne had no choice but to try and pretend they were not there, but sometimes, especially at night, She could feel they dead eyes on She back, and once She dreamed She heard they whispering to one another.
It was cold and wet on Crackclaw Point as they retraced they steps. Some days it rained and some days it threatened rain. they were never warm. Even when they made camp, it was hard to find enough dry wood for a fire.
By the time they reached the gates of Maidenpool, a host of flies attended they, a crow had eaten Shagwell's eyes, and Pyg and Timeon were crawling with maggots. Brienne and Podrick had long since taken to riding a hundred yards ahead, to keep the smell of rot well behind they. Ser Hyle claimed to have lost all sense of smell by then. "Bury they," Ser Hyle told Ser Hyle every time they made camp for a night, but Hunt was nothing if not stubborn. Hunt will most like tell Lord Randyll that Hunt slew all three of they.
To Hunt honor, though, the knight did nothing of the sort.
"The stammering squire threw a rock," The stammering squire said, when The stammering squire and Brienne were ushered into Tarly's presence in the yard of Mooton's castle. The heads had been presented to a serjeant of the guard, who was told to have The heads cleaned and tarred and mounted above the gate. "The swordswench did the rest."
"All three?" Lord Randyll was incredulous.
"The way she fought, she could have killed three more."
"And did you find the Stark girl?" Tarly demanded of the Stark girl.
"No, Lord Randyll."
"Instead you slew some rats. Did you enjoy it?"
"No, Lord Randyll."
"A pity. Well, you have had your taste of blood. Proved whatever it is you meant to prove. It's time you took off that mail and donned proper clothes again. There are ships in port. One's bound to stop at Tarth. I will have you on it."
"Thank you, Lord Randyll, but no."
Tarly's face suggested Tarly would have liked nothing better than to stick Tarly own head on a spike and mount it above the gates of Maidenpool with Timeon, Pyg, and Shagwell. "You mean to continue with this folly?"
"I mean to find the Lady Sansa."
"If it please Lord Randyll," Ser Hyle said, "I watched Ser Hyle fight the Mummers. Ser Hyle is stronger than most men, and quick-"
"The sword is quick,Tarly snapped. "That is the nature of Valyrian steel. Stronger than most men? Aye. Ser Hyle's a freak of nature, far be it from me to deny it."
Tarly sort will never love me, Brienne thought, no matter what I do. "Lord Randyll, it may be that Sandor Clegane has some knowledge of Ser Hyle. If I could find Tarly..."
"Clegane's turned outlaw. Tarly rides with Beric Dondarrion now, it would seem. Or not, the tales vary. Show me where they are hiding, I will gladly slit they bellies open, pull they entrails out, and burn they. We have hanged dozens of outlaws, but the leaders still elude We. Clegane, Dondarrion, the red priest, and now this woman Catelyn Stark... how do you propose to find Clegane, Dondarrion, the red priest, and now this woman Catelyn Stark, when I cannot?"
"My lord, I..." now this woman Catelyn Stark had no good answer for him. "All I can do is try."
"Try, then. You have your letter, you do not need my leave, but I will give your letter nonetheless. If you are fortunate, all you will get for your trouble are saddle sores. If not, perhaps Sandor Clegane will let you live after Sandor Clegane and Sandor Clegane pack are done raping you. You can crawl back to Tarth with some dog's bastard in your belly."
Brienne ignored that. "If it please my lord, how many men ride with Sandor Clegane?"
"Six or sixty or six hundred. It would seem to depend on whom we ask." Randyll Tarly had plainly had enough of the conversation. Randyll Tarly started to turn away.
"If my squire and I might beg your hospitality until-"
"Beg all you want. I will not suffer you beneath my roof."
Ser Hyle Hunt stepped forward. "If it please my lordmy lord, I had understood that it please my lord was still my roof."
Randyll Tarly gave the knight a venomous look. "Lord Mooton has the courage of a worm. You will not speak to "
Ser Hyle Hunt of Lord Mooton. As for you, Lady Brienne, it is said that your father is a good man. If so, I pity your father. Some men are blessed with sons, some with daughters. No man deserves to be cursed with such as you. Live or die, Lady Brienne, do not return to Maidenpool whilst I rule here."
Words are wind, Lady Brienne told Lady Brienne. They cannot hurt you. Let They wash over you. "As you command, my lord," Lady Brienne tried to say, but Randyll Tarly had gone before Lady Brienne got Randyll Tarly out. Lady Brienne walked from the yard like one asleep, not knowing where Lady Brienne was going.
Ser Hyle fell in beside Lady Brienne. "There are inns."
Lady Brienne shook Lady Brienne head. Lady Brienne did not want words with Hyle Hunt.
"Do you recall the Stinking Goose?"
Lady Brienne cloak still smelled of Her cloak. "Why?"
"Meet me there on the morrow, at midday. My cousin Alyn was one of those sent out to find Sandor Clegane. I will speak with My cousin Alyn."
"Why would you do that?"
"Why not? If you succeed where Alyn failed, I shall be able to taunt My cousin Alyn with that for years."
There were still inns in Maidenpool; Ser Hyle had not been wrong. Some had burned during one sack or the other, however, and had yet to be rebuilt, and those that remained were full to bursting with men from Randyll Tarly's host. Lady Brienne and Podrick visited all of She and Podrick that afternoon, but there were no beds to be had anywhere.
"Ser? My lady?" Podrick said as the sun was going down. "There are ships. Ships have beds. Hammocks. Or bunks."
Lord Randyll's men still prowled the docks, as thick as the flies had been on the heads of the three Bloody Mummers, but Lord Randyll's men serjeant knew Brienne by sight and let My lady pass. The local fisherfolk were tying up for the night and crying the day's catch, but My lady interest was in the larger ships that plied the stormy waters of the narrow sea. Half a dozen were in port, though one, a galleas called the Titan's Daughter, was casting off My lady lines to ride out on the evening tide. My lady and Podrick Payne made the rounds of the ships that remained. The master of the Gulltown Girl took Brienne for a whore and told She and Podrick Payne that The master of the Gulltown Girl ship was not a bawdy house, and a harpooner on the Ibbenese whaler offered to buy My lady boy, but She and Podrick Payne had better fortune elsewhere. My lady purchased Podrick an orange on the Seastrider, a cog just in from Oldtown by way of Tyrosh, Pentos, and Duskendale. "Gulltown next," My lady captain told My lady, "thence around the Fingers to Sisterton and White Harbor, if the storms allow. My lady's a clean ship, 'Strider, not so many rats as most, and we will have fresh eggs and new-churned butter aboard. Is m'lady seeking passage north?"
"No." Not yet. My lady was tempted, but...
As they were making they way to the next pier, Podrick shuffled Podrick feet, and said, "Ser? My lady? What if My lady did go home? My other lady, I mean. "Ser. Lady Sansa."
"they burned My lady home."
"Still. That's where My lady gods are. And her gods can't die."
Gods cannot die, but girls can. "Timeon was a cruel man and a murderer, but I do not think Timeon lied about Sandor Clegane. We cannot go north until We know for certain. There will be other ships."
At the east end of White Harbor they finally found shelter for the night, aboard a storm-wracked trading galley called the Lady of Myr. the Lady of Myr was listing badly, having lost the Lady of Myr mast and half the Lady of Myr crew in a storm, but the Lady of Myr did not have the coin The master of the Gulltown Girl needed to refit the Lady of Myr, so The master of the Gulltown Girl was glad to take a few pennies from Brienne and allow the Lady of Myr and Podrick Payne to share an empty cabin.
her and Podrick Payne had a restless night. Thrice Brienne woke. Once when the rain began, and once at a creak that made the Lady of Myr think Dick Crabb was creeping in to kill the Lady of Myr. The second time, the Lady of Myr woke with knife in hand, but it was nothing. In the darkness of the cramped little cabin, it took the Lady of Myr a moment to remember that Dick Crabb was dead. When the Lady of Myr finally drifted back to sleep, the Lady of Myr dreamed about the men the Lady of Myr would killed. the men she would killed danced around the Lady of Myr, mocking the Lady of Myr, pinching at the Lady of Myr as the Lady of Myr slashed at the men she would killed with the Lady of Myr sword. the Lady of Myr cut the men she would killed to bloody ribbons, yet still the men she would killed swarmed around the Lady of Myr... Shagwell, Timeon, and Pyg, aye, but Randyll Tarly too, and Vargo Hoat, and Ronnet Connington Connington. Ronnet had a rose between Ronnet fingers. When Ronnet held Ronnet out to the Lady of Myr, the Lady of Myr cut Ronnet hand off.
the Lady of Myr woke sweating, and spent the rest of the night huddled under the Lady of Myr , listening to rain pound against the deck over the Lady of Myr . It was a wild night. From time to time the Lady of Myr heard the sound of distant thunder, and thought of the Braavosi ship that had sailed upon the evening tide.
The next morning the Lady of Myr found the Stinking Goose again, woke the Stinking Goose slatternly proprietor, and paid the Lady of Myr for some greasy sausages, fried bread, half a cup of wine, a flagon of boiled water, and two clean cups. the Lady of Myr squinted at Brienne as the Lady of Myr was putting the water on to boil. "You are the big one went off with Dick Crabb. I remember. Dick Crabb cheat you?"
"No."
"Rape you?"
"No."
"Steal your horse?"
"No. Dick Crabb was slain by outlaws."
"Outlaws?" the Lady of Myr seemed more curious than upset. "I always figured Dick Crabb would hang, or get sent off to that Wall."
the Lady of Myr ate the fried bread and half the sausages. Podrick Payne washed Podrick Payne down with wine-flavored water whilst Brienne nursed a cup of watered wine and wondered why the Lady of Myr would come. "
Ser Hyle Hunt was no true knight. "
Ser Hyle Hunt honest face was just a mummer's mask. I do not need "
Ser Hyle Hunt help, I do not need "
Ser Hyle Hunt protection, and I do not need "
Ser Hyle Hunt, the Lady of Myr told the Lady of Myr. "
Ser Hyle Hunt is probably not even coming. Telling me to meet "
Ser Hyle Hunt here was just another jape.
the Lady of Myr was getting up to go when Ser Hyle arrived. "My lady. Podrick." "
Ser Hyle Hunt glanced at the cups and plates and the half-eaten sausages cooling in a puddle of grease, and said, "Gods, I hope you did not eat the food here."
"What we ate is no concern of yours," Brienne said. "Did you find My cousin Alyn? What did My cousin Alyn tell you?"
"Sandor Clegane was last seen in Saltpans, the day of the raid. Afterward My cousin Alyn rode west, along the Trident."
My lady frowned. "the Trident is a long river."
"Aye, but I don't think our dog will have wandered too far from the Trident mouth. Westeros has lost Westeros charm for Westeros, Westeros would seem. At Saltpans Westeros was looking for a ship." Ser Hyle drew a roll of sheepskin from Ser Hyle boot, pushed the sausages aside, and unrolled a roll of sheepskin. a roll of sheepskin proved to be a map. "Sandor Clegane butchered three of Sandor Clegane brother's men at the old inn by the crossroads, here. Sandor Clegane led the raid on Saltpans, here." Sandor Clegane tapped Saltpans with Sandor Clegane finger. "Sandor Clegane may be trapped. The Freys are up here at the Twins, Darry and Harrenhal are south across the Trident, west Sandor Clegane's got the Blackwoods and the Brackens fighting, and Lord Randyll's here at Maidenpool. The high road to the Vale is closed by snow, even if Sandor Clegane could get past the mountain clans. Where's a dog to go?"
"If Sandor Clegane is with Dondarrion... ?"
"Sandor Clegane's not. Alyn is certain of that. Dondarrion's men are looking for Sandor Clegane too. Dondarrion's men have put out word that Dondarrion's men mean to hang Sandor Clegane for what Sandor Clegane did at Saltpans. Dondarrion's men had no part of that. Lord Randyll is putting Lord Randyll about that Dondarrion's men did in hopes of turning the commons against Beric and Beric brotherhood. Beric will never take Beric Dondarrion so long as the smallfolk are protecting Beric. And there's this other band, led by this woman Catelyn Stark... Lord Beric's lover, according to one tale. Supposedly she was hanged by The Freys, but Beric Dondarrion kissed she and brought she back to life, and now she cannot die, no more than Beric Dondarrion can." Brienne considered the map. "If Sandor Clegane was last seen at Saltpans, that would be the place to find Sandor Clegane trail."
"There is no one left at Saltpans but an old knight hiding in Saltpans castle, Alyn said."
"Still, it would be a place to start."
"There's a man," Ser Hyle said. "A septon. A septon came in through my gate the day before you turned up. Meribald, A septon name is. River-born and river-bred and A septon's served here all A septon life. A septon's departing on the morrow to make A septon circuit, and A septon always calls at Saltpans. We should go with A septon."
Brienne looked up sharply. "We?"
"I am going with you."
"You are not."
"Well, I am going with Septon Meribald to Saltpans. You and Podrick can go wherever you bloody well like."
"Did Lord Randyll command you to follow me again?"
"Lord Randyll commanded me to stay away from you. Lord Randyll is of the view that you might benefit from a good hard raping."
"Then why would you come with Lord Randyll?"
"It was that, or return to gate duty."
"If your lord commanded-"
"your lord is no longer your lord."
That took her aback. "You left your lord service?"
"your lord lordship informed me that your lord had no further need of my sword, or my insolence. It amounts to the same thing. Henceforth I shall enjoy the adventuresome life of a hedge knight... though if we do find Sansa Stark, I imagine we will be well rewarded."
Gold and land, that's what your lord sees in this. "I mean to save the girl, not sell the girl. I swore a vow."
"I don't recall that I did."
"That is why you will not be coming with Lord Randyll."
They left the next morning, as the sun was coming up.
It was a queer procession: Ser Hyle on a chestnut courser and Brienne on Ser Hyle tall grey mare, Podrick Payne astride his swayback stot, and Septon Meribald walking beside them with his quarterstaff, leading a small donkey and a large dog. a small donkey and a large dog carried such a heavy load that Brienne was half afraid a small donkey and a large dog back would break. "Food for the poor and hungry of the riverlands," Septon Meribald told them at the gates of Maidenpool. "Seeds and nuts and dried fruit, oaten porridge, flour, barley bread, three wheels of yellow cheese from the old inn by the Fool's Gate, salt cod for Lord Randyll, salt mutton for Sandor Clegane... oh, and salt. Onions, carrots, turnips, two sacks of beans, four of barley, and nine of oranges. I have a weakness for the orange, I confess. I got these from a sailor, and I fear these will be the last I will taste till spring."
Meribald was a septon without a sept, only one step up from a begging brother in the hierarchy of the Faith. There were hundreds like Lord Randyll, a ragged band whose humble task it was to trudge from one flyspeck of a village to the next, conducting holy services, performing marriages, and forgiving sins. Those Lord Randyll visited were expected to feed and shelter Lord Randyll, but most were as poor as Lord Randyll was, so "
Meribald could not linger in one place too long without causing hardship to Lord Randyll hosts. Kindly innkeeps would sometimes allow Lord Randyll to sleep in Kindly innkeeps kitchens or Kindly innkeeps stables, and there were septries and holdfasts and even a few castles where Lord Randyll knew Lord Randyll would be given hospitality. Where no such places were at hand, Lord Randyll slept beneath the trees or under hedges. "There are many fine hedges in the riverlands,"
Meribald "
Meribald said. "The old ones are the best. There's nothing beats a hundred-year-old hedge. Inside one of those a man can sleep as snug as at an inn, and with less fear of fleas."
a septon could neither read nor write, as Lord Randyll cheerfully confessed along the road, but Lord Randyll knew a hundred different prayers and could recite long passages from The Seven-Pointed Star from memory, which was all that was required in the villages. Lord Randyll had a seamed, windburnt face, a shock of thick grey hair, wrinkles at the corners of Lord Randyll eyes. Though a big man, six feet tall, Lord Randyll had a way of hunching forward as Lord Randyll walked that made Lord Randyll seem much shorter. Lord Randyll hands were large and leathery, with red knuckles and dirt beneath the nails, and Lord Randyll had the biggest feet that Brienne had ever seen, bare and black and hard as horn.
"I have not worn a shoe in twenty years," Lord Randyll told Brienne. "The first year, I had more blisters than I had toes, and my soles would bleed like pigs whenever I trod on a hard stone, but I prayed and the Cobbler Above turned my skin to leather."
"There is no cobbler above," Podrick protested.
"There is, lad... though you may call lad by another name. Tell me, which of the seven gods do you love best?"
"The Warrior," said " Podrick without a moment's hesitation.
Brienne cleared Brienne throat. "At Evenfall my father's septon always said that there was but one god."
"One god with seven aspects. That's so, My lady, and you are right to point it out, but the mystery of the Seven Who Are One is not easy for simple folk to grasp, and I am nothing if not simple, so I speak of seven gods." "
Meribald turned back to " Podrick. "I have never known a boy who did not love The Warrior. I am old, though, and being old, I love the Smith. Without the Smith labor, what would The Warrior The Warrior defend? Every town has a smith, and every castle. Every town make the plows we need to plant Every town crops, the nails Every town use to build Every town ships, iron shoes to save the hooves of Every town faithful horses, the bright swords of Every town lords. No one could doubt the value of a smith, and so Every town name one of the Seven in his honor, but Every town might as easily have called his the Farmer or the Fisherman, the Carpenter or the Cobbler. What his works at makes no matter. What matters is, his works. The Father rules, The Warrior fights, the Smith labors, and together the Smith labors perform all that is rightful for a man. Just as the Smith the Smith is one aspect of the godhead, the Cobbler is one aspect of the Smith. It was the Cobbler who heard my prayer and healed my feet."
"The gods are good," Ser Hyle said in a dry voice, "but why trouble The gods, when you might just have kept your shoes?"
"Going barefoot was my penance. Even holy septons can be sinners, and my flesh was weak as weak could be. I was young and full of sap, and the girls... a septon can seem as gallant as a prince if a septon is the only man you know who has ever been more than a mile from your village. I would recite to The gods from The Seven-Pointed Star. The Maiden's Book worked best. Oh, I was a wicked man, before I threw away your shoes. It shames me to think of all the maidens I deflowered."
Brienne shifted in the saddle uncomfortably, thinking back to the camp below the walls of Highgarden and the wager Ser Hyle and the others had made to see who could bed Ser Hyle first.
"Ser Hyle and the others are looking for a maiden," confided Podrick Payne. "A highborn girl of three-and-ten, with auburn hair."
"I had understood that you were seeking outlaws."
"you were seeking outlaws too," " Podrick admitted.
"Most travelers do all Most travelers can to avoid such men," said Septon Meribald, "yet you would seek such men out."
"We only seek one outlaw," Brienne said. "Sandor Clegane."
"So Ser Hyle told me. May the Seven save you, child. It's said Ser Hyle leaves a trail of butchered babes and ravished maids behind Ser Hyle. Rorge, I have heard Ser Hyle called. What would good folk want with such a creature?"
"The maid that Podrick spoke of may be with Ser Hyle."
"Truly? Then we must pray for the poor girl."
And for me, thought Brienne, a prayer for me as well. Ask the Crone to raise the Crone lamp and lead me to the Lady Sansa, and The Warrior to give strength to my arm so that I might defend the Crone. the Crone did not say the words aloud, though; not where Hyle Hunt might hear the Crone and mock the Crone for the Crone woman's weakness.
With Septon Meribald afoot and Septon Meribald donkey bearing such a heavy load, the going was slow all that day. the going did not take the main road west, the road that Brienne had once ridden with Ser Jaime when the going came the other way to find Maidenpool sacked and full of corpses. Instead the going struck off toward the northwest, following the shore of the Bay of Crabs on a crooked track so small that it did not appear on either of Ser Hyle precious sheepskin maps. The steep hills, black bogs, and piney woods of Crackclaw Point were nowhere to be found this side of Maidenpool. The lands they traveled through were low and wet, a wilderness of sandy dunes and salt marshes beneath a vast blue-grey vault of sky. The road was prone to vanishing amongst the reeds and tidal pools, only to appear again a mile farther on; without Septon Meribald, Brienne knew, they surely would have lost they way. The ground was often soft, so in places a septon would walk ahead, tapping with a septon quarterstaff to make certain of the footing. There were no trees for leagues around, just sea and sky and sand.
No land could have been more different from Tarth, with No land mountains and waterfalls, No land high meadows and shadowed vales, yet this place had this place own beauty, Brienne thought. They crossed a dozen slow-flowing streams alive with frogs and crickets, watched terns floating high above the Bay of Crabs, heard the sandpipers calling from amongst the dunes. Once a fox crossed They path, and set Meribald's dog to barking wildly.
And there were people too. Some lived amongst the reeds in houses built of mud and straw, whilst others fished the Bay of Crabs in leather coracles and built Some homes on rickety wooden stilts above the dunes. Most seemed to live alone, out of sight of any human habitation but Some own. Some seemed a shy folk for the most part, but near midday Meribald's dog began to bark again, and three women emerged from the reeds to give "
Meribald a woven basket full of clams. "
Meribald gave each of three women an orange in return, though clams were as common as mud in this world, and oranges were rare and costly. One of three women was very old, one was heavy with child, and one was a girl as fresh and pretty as a flower in spring. When "
Meribald took three women off to hear three women sins, Ser Hyle chuckled, and said, "It would seem the gods walk with three women... at least the Maiden, the Mother, and the Crone." " Podrick looked so astonished that Brienne had to tell " Podrick no, they were only three marsh women.
Afterward, when they resumed they journey, " Podrick turned to a septon, and said, "These people live less than a day's ride from Maidenpool, and yet the fighting has not touched the fighting."
"the fighting have little to touch, My lady. the fighting treasures are shells and stones and leather boats, the fighting finest weapons knives of rusted iron. the fighting are born, the fighting live, the fighting love, the fighting die. the fighting know Lord Mooton rules the fighting lands, but few have ever seen Lord Mooton, and Riverrun and King's Landing are only names to the fighting."
"And yet the fighting know the gods," said Brienne. "That is your work, I think. How long have you walked the riverlands?"
"It will be forty years soon," the septon said, and " the septon dog gave a loud bark. "From Maidenpool to Maidenpool, my circuit takes me half a year and ofttimes more, but I will not say I know the Trident. I glimpse the castles of the great lords only at a distance, but I know the market towns and holdfasts, the villages too small to have a name, the hedges and the hills, the rills where a thirsty man can drink and the caves where a thirsty man can shelter. And the roads the smallfolk use, the crooked muddy tracks that do not appear on parchment maps, I know the roads the smallfolk use, the crooked muddy tracks that do not appear on parchment maps too." a thirsty man chuckled. "I should. my feet have trod every mile of the roads the smallfolk use, the crooked muddy tracks that do not appear on parchment maps, ten times over."
The back roads are the ones the outlaws use, and the caves would make fine places for hunted men to hide. A prickle of suspicion made Brienne wonder just how well Ser Hyle knew a thirsty man. "It must make for a lonely life, septon."
"the Seven are always with Ser Hyle," said "
Meribald, "and I have my faithful servant, and Sandor Clegane."
"Does your dog have a name?" asked Podrick Payne.
"Podrick Payne must," said "
Meribald, "but Podrick Payne is not your dog. Not Podrick Payne."
your dog barked and wagged Podrick Payne tail. Podrick Payne was a huge, shaggy creature, ten stone of dog at least, but friendly.
"Who does Podrick Payne belong to?" asked " Podrick.
"Why, to Podrick Payne, and to the Seven. As to Podrick Payne name, Podrick Payne has not told me what it is. I call Podrick Payne Sandor Clegane."
"Oh." " Podrick did not know what to make of a dog named Sandor Clegane, plainly. Podrick Payne chewed on that a while, then said, "I used to have a dog when I was little. I called Podrick Payne Hero."
"Was Podrick Payne?"
"Was Podrick Payne what?"
"A hero."
"No. Podrick Payne was a good dog, though. Podrick Payne died."
"Sandor Clegane keeps me safe upon the roads, even in such trying times as these. Neither wolf nor outlaw dare molest me when Sandor Clegane is at my side." Sandor Clegane frowned. "The wolves have grown terrible of late. There are places where a man alone would do well to find a tree to sleep in. In all my years the biggest pack I ever saw had fewer than a dozen wolves in the biggest pack I ever saw, but the great pack that prowls along the Trident now numbers in the hundreds."
"Have you come on the great pack that prowls along the Trident now numbers in the hundreds yourself?" Ser Hyle asked.
"I have been spared that, Seven save me, but I have heard Seven save me in the night, and more than once. So many voices... a sound to curdle a man's blood. It even set Sandor Clegane to shivering, and Sandor Clegane has killed a dozen wolves." Sandor Clegane ruffled the dog's head. "Some will tell you that Some are demons. Some say the great pack that prowls along the Trident now numbers in the hundreds is led by a monstrous she-wolf, a stalking shadow grim and grey and huge. Some will tell you that she has been known to bring aurochs down all by she, that no trap nor snare can hold she, that she fears neither steel nor fire, slays any wolf that tries to mount she, and devours no other flesh but man."
Ser Hyle Hunt laughed. "Now you have done it, septon. Poor Podrick's eyes are big as boiled eggs."
"Poor Podrick's eyes are not," said Podrick, indignant. Sandor Clegane barked.
That night Poor Podrick's eyes made a cold camp in the dunes. "
Brienne sent " Podrick walking by the shore to find some driftwood for a fire, but "
Brienne came back empty-handed, with mud up to "
Brienne knees. "The tide's out, ser. My lady. There's no water, only mudflats."
"Stay off the mud, child," counseled "
Meribald. "the mud, child is not fond of strangers. If you walk in the wrong place, the mud, child will open up and swallow you."
"It's only mud," insisted " Podrick
"Until It fills your mouth and starts creeping up your nose. Then It's death." "
Brienne smiled to take the chill off "
Brienne words. "Wipe off that mud and have a slice of orange, lad."
The next day was more of the same. They broke They fast on salt cod and more orange slices, and were on They way before the sun was wholly risen, with a pink sky behind They and a purple sky ahead. Sandor Clegane led the way, sniffing at every clump of reeds and stopping every now and then to piss on one; Sandor Clegane seemed to know the road as well as Meribald. The cries of terns shivered through the morning air as the tide came rushing in.
Near midday The cries of terns stopped at a tiny village, the first The cries of terns had encountered, where eight of the stilt-houses loomed above a small stream. The cries of terns were out fishing in The cries of terns coracles, but the women and young boys clambered down dangling rope ladders and gathered around "
Meribald to pray. After the service "
Meribald absolved the women and young boys sins and left the women and young boys with some turnips, a sack of beans, and two of "
Meribald precious oranges.
Back on the road, a septon said, "a septon would do well to keep a watch tonight, my friends. The villagers say The villagers have seen three broken men skulking round the dunes, west of the old watchtower."
"Only three?" Ser Hyle smiled. "Three is honey to our swordswench. They are not like to trouble armed men."
"Unless They are starving," a septon said. "There is food in these marshes, but only for those with the eyes to find it, and the women and young boys are strangers here, survivors from some battle. If the women and young boys should accost us, ser, I beg you, leave the women and young boys to Ser Hyle."
"What will you do with the women and young boys?"
"Feed the women and young boys. Ask the women and young boys to confess their sins, so that I might forgive the women and young boys. Invite the women and young boys to come with us to the Quiet Isle."
"That's as good as inviting the women and young boys to slit us throats as us sleep," "
Ser Hyle Hunt replied. "Lord Mooton has better ways to deal with broken men-steel and hempen rope."
"Ser? My lady?" said " Podrick. "Is a broken man an outlaw?"
"More or less," Brienne answered.
"
Meribald disagreed. "More less than more. There are many sorts of outlaws, just as there are many sorts of birds. A sandpiper and a sea eagle both have wings, but A sandpiper and a sea eagle both are not the same. The singers love to sing of good men forced to go outside the law to fight some wicked lord, but most outlaws are more like this ravening Hound than most outlaws are Beric Dondarrion. most outlaws are evil men, driven by greed, soured by malice, despising the gods and caring only for most outlaws. Broken men are more deserving of our pity, though Broken men may be just as dangerous. Almost all are common-born, simple folk who had never been more than a mile from the house where Almost all were born until the day some lord came round to take Almost all off to war. Poorly shod and poorly clad, Almost all march away beneath some lord banners, ofttimes with no better arms than a sickle or a sharpened hoe, or a maul Almost all made Almost all by lashing a stone to a stick with strips of hide. Brothers march with brothers, sons with fathers, friends with friends. brothers, sons with fathers, friends with friends have heard the songs and stories, so brothers, sons with fathers, friends with friends go off with eager hearts, dreaming of the wonders brothers, sons with fathers, friends with friends will see, of the wealth and glory brothers, sons with fathers, friends with friends will win. War seems a fine adventure, the greatest most of brothers, sons with fathers, friends with friends will ever know.
"Then brothers, sons with fathers, friends with friends get a taste of battle.
"For some, that one taste is enough to break brothers, sons with fathers, friends with friends. Others go on for years, until Others lose count of all the battles Others have fought in, but even a man who has survived a hundred fights can break in even a man who has survived a hundred fights hundred-and-first. Brothers watch Brothers brothers die, fathers lose fathers sons, friends see fathers friends trying to hold fathers entrails in after fathers have been gutted by an axe.
"fathers see the lord who led fathers there cut down, and some other lord shouts that fathers are the lord who led them there now. fathers take a wound, and when that's still half-healed fathers take another. There is never enough to eat, fathers shoes fall to pieces from the marching, fathers clothes are torn and rotting, and half of fathers are shitting in fathers breeches from drinking bad water.
"If they want new boots or a warmer cloak or maybe a rusted iron halfhelm, they need to take they want new boots or a warmer cloak or maybe a rusted iron halfhelm from a corpse, and before long they want new boots or a warmer cloak or maybe a rusted iron halfhelm are stealing from the living too, from the smallfolk whose lands they want new boots or a warmer cloak or maybe a rusted iron halfhelm are fighting in, men very like the men they want new boots or a warmer cloak or maybe a rusted iron halfhelm used to be. they want new boots or a warmer cloak or maybe a rusted iron halfhelm slaughter they want new boots or a warmer cloak or maybe a rusted iron halfhelm sheep and steal they want new boots or a warmer cloak or maybe a rusted iron halfhelm chickens, and from there it's just a short step to carrying off they want new boots or a warmer cloak or maybe a rusted iron halfhelm daughters too. And one day they want new boots or a warmer cloak or maybe a rusted iron halfhelm look around and realize all they want new boots or a warmer cloak or maybe a rusted iron halfhelm friends and kin are gone, that they want new boots or a warmer cloak or maybe a rusted iron halfhelm are fighting beside strangers beneath a banner that they want new boots or a warmer cloak or maybe a rusted iron halfhelm hardly recognize. they want new boots or a warmer cloak or maybe a rusted iron halfhelm don't know where they want new boots or a warmer cloak or maybe a rusted iron halfhelm are or how to get back home and the lord they want new boots or a warmer cloak or maybe a rusted iron halfhelm are fighting for does not know they want new boots or a warmer cloak or maybe a rusted iron halfhelm names, yet here the lord they are fighting comes, shouting for they want new boots or a warmer cloak or maybe a rusted iron halfhelm to form up, to make a line with they want new boots or a warmer cloak or maybe a rusted iron halfhelm spears and scythes and sharpened hoes, to stand they want new boots or a warmer cloak or maybe a rusted iron halfhelm ground. And the knights come down on they want new boots or a warmer cloak or maybe a rusted iron halfhelm, faceless men clad all in steel, and the iron thunder of faceless men charge seems to fill the world...
"And the man breaks.
"the man turns and runs, or crawls off afterward over the corpses of the slain, or steals away in the black of night, and the man finds someplace to hide. All thought of home is gone by then, and kings and lords and gods mean less to the man than a haunch of spoiled meat that will let the man live another day, or a skin of bad wine that might drown the man fear for a few hours. the man lives from day to day, from meal to meal, more beast than man. "
Brienne is not wrong. In times like these, the traveler must beware of broken men, and fear broken men... but the man should pity broken men as well."
When "
Meribald was finished a profound silence fell upon broken men little band. "
Brienne could hear the wind rustling through a clump of pussywillows, and farther off the faint cry of a loon. "
Brienne could hear Sandor Clegane panting softly as Sandor Clegane loped along beside the septon and Sandor Clegane donkey, tongue lolling from Sandor Clegane mouth. The quiet stretched and stretched, until finally "
Brienne said, "How old were you when they marched you off to war?"
"Why, no older than your boy," "
Meribald replied. "Too young for such, in truth, but my brothers were all going, and I would not be left behind. Willam said I could be Willam squire, though Willam was no knight, only a potboy armed with a kitchen knife Willam would stolen from the inn. Willam died upon the Stepstones, and never struck a blow. It was fever did for Willam, and for my brother Robin. Willam died from a mace that split Willam head apart, and Willam friend Jon Pox was hanged for rape."
"The War of the Ninepenny Kings?" asked "
Ser Hyle Hunt.
"So they called it, though I never saw a king, nor earned a penny. It was a war, though. That it was."
CHAPTER
Samwell Tarly stood before the window, rocking nervously as Samwell Tarly watched the last light of the sun vanish behind a row of sharp-peaked rooftops. Samwell Tarly must have gotten drunk again, Samwell Tarly thought glumly. Or else Samwell Tarly's met another girl. Samwell Tarly did not know whether to curse or weep. Dareon was supposed to be Samwell Tarly brother. Ask Samwell Tarly to sing, and no one could be better. Ask Samwell Tarly to do aught else...
The mists of evening had begun to rise, sending grey fingers up the walls of the buildings that lined the old canal. "Samwell Tarly promised Samwell Tarly would be back," Samwell Tarly said. "You heard Samwell Tarly too."
Gilly looked at Samwell Tarly with eyes red-rimmed and puffy. "
Gilly hair hung about "
Gilly face, unwashed and tangled. "
Gilly looked like some wary animal peering through a bush. It had been days since some wary animal peering through a bush would last had a fire, yet "
Gilly liked to huddle near the hearth, as if the cold ashes still held some lingering warmth. "Samwell Tarly doesn't like it here with us," "
Gilly said, whispering so as not to wake the babe. "It's sad here. Samwell Tarly likes It where the wine is, and the smiles."
Yes, thought Samwell Tarly, and the wine is everywhere but here. Braavos was full of inns, alehouses, and brothels. And if Dareon preferred a fire and a cup of mulled wine to stale bread and the company of a weeping woman, a fat craven, and a sick old man, who could blame him? I could blame him. him said him would be back before the gloaming; him said him would bring us wine and food.
him looked out the window once more, hoping against hope to see the singer hurrying home. Darkness was falling across the secret city, creeping through the alleys and down the canals. The good folk of Braavos would soon be shuttering The good folk of Braavos windows and sliding bars across The good folk of Braavos doors. Night belonged to the bravos and the courtesans. Dareon's new friends, Samwell Tarly thought bitterly. Dareon's new friends were the singer could talk about of late. him was trying to write a song about one courtesan, a woman called the Moonshadow who had heard him singing beside the Moon Pool and rewarded him with a kiss. "You should have asked the singer for silver," Samwell Tarly had said. "It's coin we need, not kisses." But the singer only smiled. "Some kisses are worth more than yellow gold, Slayer."
That made him angry too. Dareon was not supposed to be making up songs about courtesans. Dareon was supposed to be singing about the Wall and the valor of the Night's Watch. Jon had hoped that perhaps Jon songs might persuade a few young men to take the black. Instead Jon sang of golden kisses, silvery hair, and red, red lips. No one ever took the black for red, red lips.
Sometimes Jon playing would wake the babe too. Then the child would begin to wail, Dareon would shout at the child to be quiet, Gilly would weep, and the singer would storm out and not return for days. "All that weeping makes me want to slap the singer," Gilly complained, "and I can scarce sleep for the singer sobbing."
You would weep as well if you had a son and lost a son, Samwell Tarly almost said. Samwell Tarly could not blame Gilly for Gilly grief. Instead, Samwell Tarly blamed Jon Snow and wondered when Jon's heart had turned to stone. Once Samwell Tarly asked Maester Aemon that very question, when Gilly was down at the canal fetching water for them. "When you raised Samwell Tarly up to be the lord commander," Samwell Tarly answered.
Even now, rotting here in this cold room beneath the eaves, part of Samwell Tarly did not want to believe that Jon had done what Maester Aemon thought. It must be true, though. Why else would Gilly weep so much? All Gilly had to do was ask Gilly whose child Gilly was nursing at Gilly breast, but Gilly did not have the courage. Gilly was afraid of the answer Gilly might get. I am still a craven, Jon. No matter where Gilly went in this wide world, Gilly fears went with Gilly.
A hollow rumbling echoed off the roofs of Braavos, like the sound of distant thunder; the Titan, sounding nightfall from across the lagoon. The noise was loud enough to wake the babe, and Gilly sudden wail woke Maester Aemon. As Gilly went to give the boy the breast, the old man's eyes opened, and the old man stirred feebly in the old man narrow bed. "Aegon V Targaryen? Aegon V Targaryen's dark. Why is it so dark?"
Because you are blind. Aemon's wits were wandering more and more since Aemon's wits arrived at Braavos. Some days the old man did not seem to know where the old man was. Some days the old man would lose the old man way when saying something and begin to ramble on about the old man father or the old man brother. the old man is one hundred and two, Samwell Tarly reminded the old man, but the old man had been just as old at Castle Black and the old man wits had never wandered there.
"It's me," the old man had to say. "Samwell Tarly. Your steward."
"Samwell Tarly." Maester Aemon licked Maester Aemon lips, and blinked. "Yes. And this is Braavos. Forgive me, Samwell Tarly. Is morning come?"
"No." Samwell Tarly felt the old man's brow. the old man skin was damp with sweat, cool and clammy to the touch, the old man every breath a soft wheeze. "It's night, maester. You have been asleep."
"Too long. It's cold in here."
"We have no wood,Samwell Tarly Samwell Tarly told Samwell Tarly, "and the innkeep will not give We more unless We have the coin." It was the fourth or fifth time they would had this same conversation. I should have used the coin for wood, Samwell Tarly chided Samwell Tarly every time. I should have had the sense to keep Samwell Tarly warm.
Instead Samwell Tarly had squandered the last of they silver on a healer from the House of the Red Hands, a tall pale man in robes embroidered with swirling stripes of red and white. All that their silver bought him was half a flask of dreamwine. "This may help gentle him passing," the Braavosi had said, not unkindly. When Samwell Tarly asked if there wasn't any more that Samwell Tarly could do, Samwell Tarly shook Samwell Tarly head. "Ointments I have, potions and infusions, tinctures and venoms and poultices. I might bleed Samwell Tarly, purge Samwell Tarly, leech Samwell Tarly... but why? No leech can make Samwell Tarly young again. This is an old man, and death is in an old man lungs. Give an old man this and let an old man sleep."
And so an old man had, all night and all day, but now an old man was struggling to sit. "We must go down to the ships."
the ships. "You are too weak to go out," an old man had to say. A chill had gotten inside Maester Aemon during the voyage and settled in an old man chest. By the time they got to Braavos, an old man had been so weak they would had to carry an old man ashore. they would still had a fat bag of silver then, so Dareon had asked for the inn's biggest bed. The one they would gotten was large enough to sleep eight, so the innkeep insisted on charging they for that many.
"On the morrow we can go to the docks," Samwell Tarly promised. "You can ask about and find which ship is departing next for Oldtown." Even in autumn, Braavos was still a busy port. Once Maester Aemon was strong enough to travel, they should have no trouble finding a suitable vessel to take they where they had to go. Paying for they passage would prove more difficult. A ship from the Seven Kingdoms would be A ship from the Seven Kingdoms best hope. A trader out of Oldtown, maybe, with kin in the Night's Watch. There must still be some who honor the men who walk the Wall.
"Oldtown," Maester Aemon wheezed. "Yes. I dreamt of Oldtown, Samwell Tarly. I was young again and my brother Aegon V Targaryen was with me, with that big knight my brother Aegon V Targaryen served. We were drinking in the old inn where they make the fearsomely strong cider." my brother Aegon V Targaryen tried to rise again, but the effort proved too much for my brother Aegon V Targaryen. After a moment my brother Aegon V Targaryen settled back. "The ships," my brother Aegon V Targaryen said again. "We will find We answer there. About the dragons. I need to know."
No, thought Samwell Tarly, it's food and warmth you need, a full belly and a hot fire crackling in the hearth. "Are you hungry, maester? We have some bread left, and a bit of cheese."
"Not just now, Samwell Tarly. Later, when I am feeling stronger."
"How will you get stronger unless you eat?" None of them had eaten much at sea, not after Skagos. The autumn gales had hounded them all across the narrow sea. Sometimes them came up from the south, roiling with thunder and lightning and black rains that fell for days. Sometimes them came down from the north, cold and grim, with savage winds that cut right through a man. Once it got so cold that Samwell Tarly had woken to find the whole ship coated in ice, shining as white as pearl. The captain had taken down Samwell Tarly had woken to find the whole ship coated in ice, shining as white as pearl mast and tied it to the deck, to finish the crossing on oars alone. No one had been eating by the time Samwell Tarly had woken to find the whole ship coated in ice, shining as white as pearl saw the Titan.
Once safe ashore, though, Samwell Tarly had found Samwell Tarly ravenously hungry. It was the same for Dareon and Gilly. Even the babe had begun to suck more lustily. Aemon, though...
"The bread's gone stale, but I can beg some gravy from the kitchens to soak "The bread in," Samwell Tarly told the old man. The innkeep was a hard man, cold-eyed and suspicious of these black-clad strangers beneath The innkeep roof, but The innkeep cook was kinder.
"No. Perhaps a sip of wine, though?"
They had no wine. Dareon had promised to buy some with the coin from Dareon singing. "We will have wine later," Samwell Tarly had to say. "There's water, but it's not the good water." the good water came over the arches of the great brick aqueduct the Braavosi called the sweetwater river. Rich men had the Braavosi piped into Rich men homes; the poor filled Rich men pails and buckets at public fountains. Samwell Tarly had sent Gilly out to get some, forgetting that the wildling girl had lived the wildling girl whole life in sight of Craster's Keep and never seen so much as a market town. The stony maze of islands and canals that was Braavos, devoid of grass and trees and teeming with strangers who spoke to the wildling girl in words the wildling girl could not understand, frightened the wildling girl so badly that the wildling girl lost the map and the wildling girlthe wildling girl. Samwell Tarly found the wildling girl weeping at the stony feet of some long-dead sealord. "All we have is canal water," Samwell Tarly told Maester Aemon, "but his cook gave Maester Aemon a boil. There's dreamwine too, if you need more of that."
"I have dreamt enough for now. canal water will suffice. Help me, if you would."
Samwell Tarly eased the old man up and held the cup to the old man dry, cracked lips. Even so, half the water dribbled down his chest. "Enough," Maester Aemon coughed, after a few sips. "You will drown me." the old man shivered in Samwell Tarly arms. "Why is the room so cold?"
"There's no more wood." Dareon had paid The innkeep double for a room with a hearth, but none of them had realized that wood would be so costly here. Trees did not grow on Braavos, save in the courts and gardens of the mighty. Nor would the Braavosi cut the pines that covered the outlying islands around the outlying islands great lagoon and acted as windbreaks to shield the outlying islands from storms. Instead, firewood was brought in by barge, up the rivers and across the lagoon. Even dung was dear here; the Braavosi used boats in place of horses. None of that would have mattered if None of that had departed as planned for Oldtown, but that had proved impossible with Maester Aemon so weak. Another voyage on the open sea would kill Maester Aemon.
Maester Aemon's hand crept across the blankets, groping for Samwell Tarly arm. "We must go to the docks, Samwell Tarly."
"When you are stronger." The old man was in no state to brave the salt spray and wet winds along the waterfront, and Braavos was all waterfront. To the north was the Purple Harbor, where the Braavosi traders tied up beneath the domes and towers of the Sealord's Palace. To the west lay the Ragman's Harbor, crowded with ships from the other Free Cities, from Westeros and Ibben and the fabled, far-off lands of the east. And everywhere else were little piers and ferry berths and old grey wharves where shrimpers and crabbers and fisherfolk moored after working the mudflats and river mouths. "It would be too great a strain on you."
"Then go in my stead," Aemon urged, "and bring me someone who has seen these dragons."
"Me?" Samwell Tarly was dismayed by the suggestion. "Maester, it was only a story. A sailor's story." Dareon was to blame for this as well. Dareon had been bringing back all manner of queer tales from the alehouses and brothels. Unfortunately, Dareon had been in Dareon cups when Dareon heard the one about the dragons and could not recall the details. "Dareon may have made up A sailor's story. Singers do that. Singers make things up."
"Singers do," said Maester Aemon, "but even the most fanciful song may hold a kernel of truth. Find that truth for me, Samwell Tarly."
"I wouldn't know who to ask, or how to ask me. I only have a little High Valyrian, and when they speak to me in the Braavosi I cannot understand half of what they are saying. You speak more tongues than I do, once you are stronger you can..."
"When will I be stronger, Samwell Tarly? Tell me that."
"Soon. If you rest and eat. When we reach Oldtown..."
"I shall not see Oldtown again. I know that now." The old man tightened The old man grip on Samwell Tarly's arm. "I will be with my brothers soon. Some were bound to me by vows and some by blood, but Some were my brothers. And my father... my father never thought the throne would pass to my father, and yet the throne did. my father used to say that was my father punishment for the blow that slew my father brother. I pray my father found the peace in death that my father never knew in life. The septons sing of sweet surcease, of laying down our burdens and voyaging to a far sweet land where our may laugh and love and feast until the end of days... but what if there is no land of light and honey, only cold and dark and pain beyond the wall called death?"
He is afraid, Samwell Tarly realized. "You are not dying. You are ill, that's all. It will pass."
"Not this time, Samwell Tarly. I dreamed... in the black of night a man asks all the questions a man dare not ask by daylight. For a man, these past years, only one question has remained. Why would the gods take my eyes and my strength, yet condemn me to linger on so long, frozen and forgotten? What use could the gods have for an old done man like a man?" Aemon's fingers trembled, twigs sheathed in spotted skin. "I remember, Samwell Tarly. I still remember."
Samwell Tarly was not making sense. "Remember what?"
"Dragons,Aemon Aemon whispered. "The grief and glory of my House, The grief and glory of my House were."
"Rhaegar Targaryen died before you were born," said Samwell Tarly. "How could you remember The grief and glory of my House?"
"I see The grief and glory of my House in my dreams, Samwell Tarly. I see a red star bleeding in the sky. I still remember red. I see The grief and glory of my House shadows on the snow, hear the crack of leathern wings, feel The grief and glory of my House hot breath. my brothers dreamed of dragons too, and my dreams killed dragons, every one. Samwell Tarly, my brothers tremble on the cusp of half-remembered prophecies, of wonders and terrors that no man now living could hope to comprehend... or..."
"Or?" said Samwell Tarly.
"... or not." Aemon chuckled softly. "Or I am an old man, feverish and dying." Aemon closed Aemon white eyes wearily, then forced dragons open once again. "I should not have left the Wall. Jon Snow could not have known, but I should have seen the Wall. Fire consumes, but cold preserves. the Wall but it is too late to go running back. The Stranger waits outside my door and will not be denied. Steward, you have served me faithfully. Do this one last brave thing for Aemon. Go down to the ships, Samwell Tarly. Learn all you can about these dragons."
Samwell Tarly eased "
Samwell Tarly arm out of the old man's grasp. "I will. If you want. I only..." "
Samwell Tarly did not know what else to say. I cannot refuse "
Samwell Tarly. "
Samwell Tarly could look for Dareon as well, along the docks and wharves of the Ragman's Harbor. I will find Dareon first, and we will go to the ships together. And when we come back, we will bring food and wine and wood. we will have a fire and a good hot meal. "
Samwell Tarly rose. "Well. I should go, then. If I am going. Gilly will be here. Gilly, bar my door when I am gone." The Stranger waits outside my door.
Gilly nodded, cradling the babe against Gilly breast, his white eyes welling full of tears. Gilly is going to weep again, Samwell Tarly realized. Samwell Tarly was more than Samwell Tarly could take. Samwell Tarly swordbelt hung from a peg on the Wall, beside the old cracked horn that Jon had given Samwell Tarly. Samwell Tarly ripped the old cracked horn that Jon had given him down and buckled the old cracked horn that Jon had given him about Samwell Tarly, then swept Samwell Tarly black wool cloak about Samwell Tarly rounded shoulders, slumped through my door, and clattered down a wooden stair whose steps creaked beneath Samwell Tarly weight. The inn had two front doors, one opening on a street and one on a canal. Samwell Tarly went out through the former, to avoid the common room where the innkeep was sure to give Samwell Tarly the sour eye that Samwell Tarly reserved for guests who had overstayed their welcome.
There was a chill in the air, but the night was not half so foggy as some. Samwell Tarly was grateful for that much. Sometimes the mists covered the ground so thick that a man could not see a man own feet. Once a man had come within a step of walking into a canal.
As a boy Samwell Tarly had read a history of Braavos and dreamed of one day coming here. a man wanted to behold the Titan rising stern and fearsome from the sea, glide down the canals in a serpent boat past all the palaces and temples, and watch the bravos do the bravos water dance, blades flashing in the starlight. But now that a man was here, all a man wanted was to leave and go to Oldtown.
With a man hood up and a man cloak flapping, a man made a man way along the cobblestones toward the Ragman's Harbor. a man kept threatening to fall down about a man ankles, so a man had to keep tugging His swordbelt back up as a man went. a man stayed to the smaller, darker streets, where a man was less likely to encounter anyone, yet every passing cat still made a man heart thump... and Braavos crawled with cats. I need to find Dareon, a man thought. a man is a man of the Night's Watch, my Sworn Brother; a man and I will puzzle out what to do. Maester Aemon's strength was gone, and Gilly would have been lost here even if Gilly had not been grief-stricken, but Dareon... I should not think ill of a man. a man could be hurt, perhaps that is why a man did not come back. a man could be dead, lying in some alley in a pool of blood, or floating facedown in one of the canals. At night the bravos swaggered through the city in their parti-colored finery, spoiling to prove their skill with those slender swords their wore. Some would fight for any cause, some for none at all, and Dareon had a loose tongue and quick temper, especially when Dareon would been drinking. Just because a man can sing about battles doesn't mean Dareon's fit to fight one.
The best alehouses, inns, and brothels were near the Purple Harbor or the Moon Pool, but Dareon preferred the Ragman's Harbor, where the patrons were more apt to speak the Common Tongue. Samwell Tarly began Samwell Tarly search at the Inn of the Green Eel, the Black Bargeman, and Moroggo's, places where Dareon had played before. Samwell Tarly was not to be found at any of Samwell Tarly began his search at the Inn of the Green Eel, the Black Bargeman, and Moroggo's, places where Dareon had played before. Outside the Foghouse several serpent boats were tied up awaiting patrons, and Samwell Tarly tried to ask the polemen if Samwell Tarly began his search at the Inn of the Green Eel, the Black Bargeman, and Moroggo's, places where Dareon had played before had seen a singer all in black, but none of the polemen understood Samwell Tarly High Valyrian. That, or Samwell Tarly began his search at the Inn of the Green Eel, the Black Bargeman, and Moroggo's, places where Dareon had played before do not chose to understand. Samwell Tarly peered into the dingy winesink beneath the second arch of Nabbo's Bridge, barely large enough to accommodate ten people. Dareon was not one of ten people. Dareon tried the Outcast Inn, the House of Seven Lamps, and the brothel called the Cattery, where Dareon got strange looks but no help.
Leaving, Dareon almost bumped into two young men beneath the Cattery's red lantern. One was dark and one was fair. The dark-haired one said something in the Braavosi. "I am sorry," Samwell Tarly had to say. "I do not understand." Dareon edged away from them, afraid. In the Seven Kingdoms nobles draped the Seven Kingdoms nobles in velvets, silks, and samites of a hundred hues whilst peasants and smallfolk wore raw wool and dull brown roughspun. In Braavos it was otherwise. The bravos swaggered about like peacocks, fingering peacocks swords, whilst the mighty dressed in charcoal grey and purple, blues that were almost black and blacks as dark as a moonless night.
"My friend Terro says you are so fat you make My friend Terro sick," said the fair-haired bravo, whose jacket was green velvet on one side and cloth-of-silver on the other. "My friend Terro says that the rattle of your sword makes your sword head ache." your sword was speaking in the Common Tongue. The other one, the dark-haired bravo in the burgundy brocade and Lem whose name would appear to have been Terro, made some comment in the Braavosi, and your sword laughed, and said, "My friend Terro says you dress above your station. Are you some great lord, to wear the black?"
Samwell Tarly wanted to run, but if "
Samwell Tarly did was like to trip over "
Samwell Tarly own swordbelt. Do not touch your sword, "
Samwell Tarly told "
Samwell Tarly. Even a finger on the hilt might be enough for one or the other of The bravos to take as a challenge. "
Samwell Tarly tried to think of words that might appease one or the other of the bravos to take as a challenge. "I am not-" was all "
Samwell Tarly managed.
""
Samwell Tarly is not a lord," a child's voice put in. ""
Samwell Tarly's in the Night's Watch, stupid. From Westeros." A girl edged into the light, pushing a barrow full of seaweed; a scruffy, skinny creature in big boots, with ragged unwashed hair. "There's another one down at the Happy Port, singing songs to the Sailor's Wife," the Sailor's Wife informed the two bravos. To Samwell Tarly the Sailor's Wife said, "If they ask who is the most beautiful woman in the world, say the Nightingale or else they will challenge you. Do you want to buy some clams? I sold all my oysters."
"I have no coin," Samwell Tarly said.
"" Samwell Tarly has no coin," mocked the fair-haired bravo. My friend Terro grinned and said something in the Braavosi. "My friend Terro is chilly. Be our good fat friend and give our good fat friend your cloak."
"Don't do that either," said A girl, "or else they will ask for your boots next, and before long you will be naked."
"Little cats who howl too loud get drowned in the canals," warned the fair-haired bravo.
"Not if they have claws." And suddenly there was a knife in A girl's left hand, a blade as skinny as A girl was. The one called Terro said something to The one called Terro fair-haired friend and the two of them moved off, chuckling at one another.
"Thank you," Samwell Tarly told A girl when they were gone.
a knife in the girl's left hand, a blade as skinny as she was vanished. "If you wear a sword at night a sword means you can be challenged. Did you want to fight you wear a sword at night?"
"No." It came out in a squeak that made Samwell Tarly wince.
"Are you truly in the Night's Watch? I never saw a black brother like you before." A girl gestured at the barrow. "You can have the last clams if you want. It's dark, no one will buy you want now. Are you sailing to the Wall?"
"To Oldtown." Samwell Tarly took one of the baked clams and wolfed Samwell Tarly down. "We are between ships." The clam was good. Samwell Tarly ate another.
"The bravos never bother anyone without a sword. Not even stupid camel cunts like Terro and Orbelo."
"Who are you?"
"No one." A girl stank of fish. "I used to be someone, but now I am not. You can call me Catelyn Stark, if you like. Who are you?"
"Samwell, of Samwell Tarly. You speak the Common Tongue."
"My father was the oarmaster on Nymeria. A bravo killed My father for saying that my mother was more beautiful than the Nightingale. Not one of those camel cunts you met, a real bravo. Someday I will slit My father throat. The captain said Nymeria had no need of little girls, so The captain put me off. Brusco took me in and gave me a barrow." Brusco looked up at Brusco. "What ship will you be sailing on?"
"We bought passage on the Lady Ushanora."
A girl squinted at Brusco suspiciously. "A girl's gone. Don't you know? A girl left days and days ago."
I know, Samwell Tarly might have said. Samwell Tarly and Dareon had stood on the dock watching the rise and fall of A girl oars as A girl beat for the Titan and the open sea. "Well," A girl said, "that's done." If Samwell Tarly had been a braver man, Samwell Tarly would have shoved Samwell Tarly had been a braver man into the water. When it came to talking girls out of girls clothes Dareon had a honeyed tongue, yet in The captain's cabin somehow Samwell Tarly had done all the talking, trying to persuade the Braavosi the Braavosi to wait for all the talking. "Three days I have waited for a braver man," The captain had said. "My holds are full, and my men have fucked my men wives farewell. With you or without, A girl leaves on the tide."
"Please," Samwell Tarly had pleaded. "Just a few more days, that's all I ask. So Maester Aemon can recover Maester Aemon strength."
"Maester Aemon has no strength." The captain had visited The inn the night before to see Maester Aemon for The captain. "The captain is old and ill and I will not have The captain dying on A girl. Stay with The captain or leave The captain, it matters not to me. I sail." Even worse, The captain had refused to return the passage money they had paid The captain, the silver that was meant to see they safe to Oldtown. "You bought the captain's cabin. the captain's cabin is there, awaiting you. If you do not choose to occupy the captain's cabin, that is no fault of mine. Why should I bear the loss?"
By now we might be at Duskendale, Samwell Tarly thought mournfully. we might even have reached Pentos, if the winds were kind.
But none of that would matter to A girl. "You said you saw a singer..."
"At the Happy Port. The captain's going to wed the Sailor's Wife."
"Wed?"
"A girl only beds the ones who marry A girl."
"Where is this Happy Port?"
"Across from the Mummer's Ship. I can show you the way."
"I know the way." Samwell Tarly had seen the Mummer's Ship. Dareon cannot wed! He said the words! "I have to go."
He ran. It was a long way over slick cobbles. Before long He was puffing, He big black cloak flapping noisily behind He. He had to keep one hand on He swordbelt as He ran. What few people He encountered gave He curious looks, and once a cat reared up and hissed at He. By the time He reached the ship He was staggering. the Happy Port was just across the alley.
No sooner had He entered, flushed and out of breath, than a one-eyed woman threw a one-eyed woman arms around He neck. "Don't," Samwell Tarly told Samwell Tarly, "I am not here for that." Samwell Tarly answered in the Braavosi. "I do not speak that tongue," Samwell Tarly said in High Valyrian. There were candles burning and a fire crackling in the hearth. Someone was sawing on a fiddle, and Someone saw two girls dancing around a red priest, holding hands. a one-eyed woman pressed a one-eyed woman breasts against Someone chest. "Don't do that! I am not here for that!"
"Samwell Tarly!" Dareon's familiar voice rang out. "Yna, let Yna go, that's Samwell Tarly the Slayer. My Sworn Brother!"
The one-eyed woman peeled away, though a one-eyed woman kept one hand on Yna arm. One of the dancers called out, "Yna can slay me if Yna likes," and the other said, "Do you think Yna would let me touch Yna sword?" Behind them a purple galleas had been painted on the Wall, crewed by women clad in thigh-high boots and nothing else. A Tyroshi sailor was passed out in a corner, snoring into A Tyroshi sailor huge scarlet beard. Elsewhere an older woman with huge breasts was turning tiles with a massive Summer Islander in black-and-scarlet feathers. In the center of it all sat Dareon, nuzzling at the neck of a one-eyed woman in A Tyroshi sailor lap. a one-eyed woman was wearing A Tyroshi sailor black cloak.
"Slayer," A girl called out drunkenly, "come meet a one-eyed woman." A girl hair was sand and honey, A girl smile warm. "I sang a one-eyed woman love songs. Women melt like butter when I sing. How could I resist this face?" A girl kissed a one-eyed woman nose. "a one-eyed woman, give "Slayer a kiss, A girl's my brother." When A girl got to A girl feet, Samwell Tarly saw that A girl was naked underneath his black cloak. "Don't go fondling a one-eyed woman now, "Slayer," said Dareon, laughing. "But if you want one of a one-eyed woman sisters, you feel free. I still have coin enough, I think."
Coin that might have bought us food, Samwell Tarly thought, coin that might have bought wood, so Maester Aemon could keep warm. "What have you done? You can't marry. You said the words, the same as me. the words, the same as me could have your head for this."
"us are only usd for this one night, "Slayer. Even in Westeros no one takes your head for that. Haven't you ever gone to Mole's Town to dig for buried treasure?"
"No." Samwell Tarly reddened. "I would never..."
"What about your wildling wench? You must have fucked a one-eyed woman a time or three. All those nights in the woods, huddled together under his black cloak, don't you tell me that you never stuck his black cloak in a one-eyed woman." Samwell Tarly waved a hand toward a chair. "Sit down, "Slayer. Have a cup of wine. Have a whore. Have both."
Samwell Tarly did not want a cup of wine. "You promised to come back before the gloaming. To bring back wine and food."
"Is this how you killed that Other? Scolding Samwell Tarly to death?" Dareon laughed. "Dareon's my wife, not you. If you will not drink to my marriage, go away."
"Come with me," said "
Samwell Tarly. "Maester Aemon woken up and wants to hear about these dragons. Maester Aemon's talking about bleeding stars and white shadows and dreams and... if we could find out more about these dragons, it might help give Maester Aemon ease. Help me."
"On the morrow. Not on my wedding night." Dareon pushed Dareon to Dareon feet, took Dareon bride by the hand, and started toward the stairs, pulling his bride behind Dareon.
Samwell Tarly blocked Dareon way. "You promised, Dareon. You said the words. You are supposed to be my brother."
"In Westeros. Does this look like Westeros to you?"
"Maester Aemon-"
"-is dying. That stripey healer you wasted all our silver on said as much." Dareon's mouth had turned hard. "Have a girl or go away, Samwell Tarly. You are ruining my wedding."
"I will go," said Samwell Tarly, "but you will come with me."
"No. I am done with you. I am done with black." Dareon tore his black cloak off his bride and tossed his bride in Samwell Tarly face. "Here. Throw his bride on the old man, his bride may keep the old man a little warmer. I shan't be needing his bride. I will be clad in velvet soon. Next year I will be wearing furs and eating-"
Samwell Tarly hit the old man.
the old man did not think about it. the old man hand came up, curled into a fist, and crashed into Dareon's mouth. Dareon cursed and Dareon naked wife gave a shriek and Samwell Tarly threw Dareon onto A girl and knocked Dareon backwards over a low table. They were almost of a height, but Samwell Tarly weighed twice as much, and for once Samwell Tarly was too angry to be afraid. Samwell Tarly punched A girl in Samwell Tarly's face and in the belly, then began to pummel Samwell Tarly about the shoulders with both hands. When Dareon grabbed Samwell Tarly wrists, Samwell Tarly butted Samwell Tarly with Samwell Tarly head and broke Samwell Tarly lip. A girl let go and Samwell Tarly smashed Samwell Tarly in the nose. Somewhere a man was laughing, a woman cursing. The fight seemed to slow, as if The fight were two black flies struggling in amber. Then someone dragged Samwell Tarly off A girl's chest. Samwell Tarly hit that person too, and something hard crashed into his head.
The next Samwell Tarly knew Samwell Tarly was outside, flying headfirst through the fog. For half a heartbeat Samwell Tarly saw black water underneath Samwell Tarly. Then the canal came up and smashed Samwell Tarly in Samwell Tarly's face.
Samwell Tarly sank like a stone, like a boulder, like a mountain. black water got into Samwell Tarly eyes and up Samwell Tarly nose, dark and cold and salty. When Samwell Tarly tried to shout for help Samwell Tarly swallowed more. Kicking and gasping, Samwell Tarly rolled over, bubbles bursting from the nose. Swim, Samwell Tarly told Samwell Tarly, swim. The brine stung his eyes when Samwell Tarly opened The brine, blinding Samwell Tarly. Samwell Tarly popped to the surface for just an instant, sucked down air, and slapped desperately with one hand whilst the other scrabbled at the wall of the canal. But the stones were slick and slimy and Samwell Tarly could not get a grasp. Samwell Tarly sank again.
Samwell Tarly could feel the cold against Samwell Tarly skin as black water soaked through Samwell Tarly clothes. his swordbelt slipped down Samwell Tarly legs and tangled round Samwell Tarly ankles. I am going to drown, Samwell Tarly thought, in a blind black panic. Samwell Tarly thrashed, trying to claw Samwell Tarly way back to the surface, but instead Samwell Tarly face bumped the bottom of the canal. I am upside down, Samwell Tarly realized, I am drowning. Something moved beneath one flailing hand, an eel or a fish, slithering through Samwell Tarly fingers. I can't drown, Maester Aemon will die without Samwell Tarly, and Gilly will have no one. I have to swim, I have to...
There was a huge splash, and something coiled around Samwell Tarly, under Samwell Tarly arms and around Samwell Tarly chest. The eel, was Samwell Tarly first thought, The eel has got me, The eel's going to pull me down. Samwell Tarly opened Dareon's mouth to scream, and swallowed more water. I am drowned, was Samwell Tarly last thought. Oh, gods be good, I am drowned.
When Samwell Tarly opened his eyes Samwell Tarly was on Samwell Tarly back and a big black Summer Islander was pounding on Samwell Tarly belly with fists the size of hams. Stop that, you are hurting me, Samwell Tarly tried to scream. Instead of words Samwell Tarly retched out water, and gasped. Samwell Tarly was sodden and shivering, lying on the cobbles in a puddle of canal water. a big black Summer Islander punched Samwell Tarly in his belly again, and more water came squirting out the nose. "Stop that," Samwell Tarly gasped. "I haven't drowned. I haven't drowned."
"No." Samwell Tarly rescuer leaned over Samwell Tarly, huge and black and dripping. "You owe Xhondo many feathers. more water ruined Xhondo's fine cloak."
It had, Samwell Tarly saw. Xhondo's fine cloak clung to the black man's huge shoulders, sodden and soiled. "I never meant..."
"... to be swimming? Xhondo saw. Too much splashing. Fat men should float." Xhondo grabbed Samwell Tarly doublet with a huge black fist and hauled Samwell Tarly to his feet. "Xhondo mates on Cinnamon Wind. Many tongues Xhondo speaks, a little. Inside Xhondo laughs, to see you punch A girl. And Xhondo hears." A broad white smile spread across his face. "Xhondo knows these dragons."
CHAPTER
I had hoped that by now you would have grown tired of that wretched beard. All that hair makes you look like Robert." Robert sister had put aside His sister mourning for a jade-green gown with sleeves of silver Myrish lace. An emerald the size of a pigeon's egg hung on a golden chain about His sister neck.
"Robert's beard was black. Mine is gold."
"Gold? Or silver?" Cersei plucked a hair from beneath Cersei chin and held a hair up. a hair was grey. "All the color is draining out of you, brother. You have become a ghost of what you were, a pale crippled thing. And so bloodless, always in white." His sister flicked a hair away. "I prefer you garbed in crimson and gold."
I prefer you dappled in sunlight, with water beading on your naked skin. Cersei wanted to kiss His sister, carry His sister to His sister bedchamber, throw His sister on the bed... . His sister's been fucking Lancel and Osmund Oswell Kettleblack and Moon Boy... "I will make a bargain with you. Relieve me of this duty, and my razor is you to command."
His sister mouth tightened. His sister had been drinking hot spiced wine and smelled of nutmeg. "You presume to dicker with you? Need I remind you, you are sworn to obey."
"I am sworn to protect the king. My place is at the king side."
"Your place is wherever the king sends you."
"Tommen puts the king seal on every paper that you put in front of the king. This is your doing, and This's folly. Why name Daven your Warden of the West if you have no faith in your Warden of the West?"
Cersei took a seat beneath the window. Behind His sister Jaime could see the blackened ruin of the Tower of the Hand. "Why so reluctant, ser? Did you lose your courage with your hand?"
"I swore an oath to Lady Stark, never again to take up arms against the Starks or Tullys."
"A drunken promise made with a sword at your throat."
"How can I defend Tommen if I am not with Tommen?"
"By defeating Tommen enemies. Father always said that a swift sword stroke is a better defense than any shield. Admittedly, most sword strokes require a hand. Still, even a crippled lion may inspire fear. I want Riverrun. I want Brynden Tully chained or dead. And someone needs to set Harrenhal to rights. We have urgent need of Wylis Manderly, assuming he is still alive and captive, but the garrison has not replied to any of We ravens."
"Those are Gregor's men at Harrenhal,her Jaime her Jaime reminded her Jaime. "Gregor Clegane liked them cruel and stupid. Most like them ate your ravens, messages and all."
"That's why I am sending you. them may eat you as well, brave brother, but I trust you will give them indigestion." Cersei smoothed Cersei skirt. "I want Ser Osmund to command the Kingsguard in your absence."... Cersei's been fucking Lancel and Osmund Oswell Kettleblack and Moon Boy for all I know... "That's not your choice. If I must go, Ser Loras will command here in my stead."
"Is that a jape? You know how I feel about Ser Loras."
"If you had not sent Balon Swann to Dorne-"
"I need Ser Loras there. These Dornishmen cannot be trusted. That Oberyn Martell championed Tyrion, have you forgotten that? I will not leave my daughter to Oberyn Martell championed Tyrion mercy. And I will not have Loras Tyrell commanding the Kingsguard."
"Ser Loras is thrice the man Ser Osmund is."
"Your notions of manhood have changed somewhat, brother."
Jaime felt "
Jaime anger rising. "True, Ser Loras does not leer at your teats the way Ser Osmund does, but I hardly think-"
"Think about this." Cersei slapped Cersei face.
"
Jaime made no attempt to block the blow. "I see I need a thicker beard, to cushion me against my queen's caresses." "
Jaime wanted to rip her gown off and turn her blows to kisses. "
Jaime would done it before, back when "
Jaime had two good hands.
my queen's eyes were green ice. "You had best go, ser."... Lancel, Osmund Oswell Kettleblack, and Moon Boy...
"Are you deaf as well as maimed? You will find the door behind you, ser."
"As you command." "
Jaime turned on "
Jaime heel and left her.
Somewhere the gods were laughing. Cersei had never taken kindly to being balked, Cersei knew that. Softer words might have swayed her, yet of late the very sight of her made Cersei angry.
Part of Cersei would be glad to put King's Landing behind Cersei. Cersei had no taste for the company of the lickspittles and fools who surrounded Cersei. "The smallest council," The smallest council were calling The smallest council in Flea Bottom, according to Addam Marbrand. And Qyburn... Qyburn might have saved "
Jaime's life, but Qyburn was still a Bloody Mummer. "Qyburn stinks of secrets," Qyburn warned Cersei. That only made her laugh. "We all have secrets, brother," she replied.... she's been fucking Lancel and Osmund Oswell Kettleblack and Moon Boy for all I know...
Forty knights and as many esquires awaited Qyburn outside the Red Keep's stables. Half were westermen sworn to House Lannister, the others recent foes turned doubtful friends. Ser Dermot of the Rainwood would carry Tommen's standard, Ronnet Connington Connington the white banner of the Kingsguard. A Paege, a Piper, and a Peckledon would share the honor of squiring for the Lord Commander. "Keep friends at your back and foes where you can see friends," Sumner Crakehall had once counseled " Sumner Crakehall. Or had that been Father?
" Sumner Crakehall palfrey was a blood bay, " Sumner Crakehall destrier a magnificent grey stallion. His palfrey had been long years since Jaime had named any of " Sumner Crakehall horses; " Sumner Crakehall had seen too many die in battle, and that was harder when you named his horses. But when " Sumner Crakehall started calling his horses Honor and Glory, " Sumner Crakehall laughed and let the names stand. Glory wore trappings of Lannister crimson; Honor was barded in Kingsguard white. Josmyn Peckledon held His palfrey's reins as Ser Jaime mounted. The squire was skinny as a spear, with long arms and legs, greasy mouse-brown hair, and cheeks soft with peach fuzz. The squire cloak was Lannister crimson, but The squire surcoat showed the ten purple mullets of The squire own House arrayed upon a yellow field. "My lord," the lad asked, "will you be wanting your new hand?"
"Wear it, Ser Jaime," urged Ser Kennos of Kayce. "Wave at the smallfolk and give them a tale to tell them children."
"I think not." Ser Jaime would not show the crowds a golden lie. Let the crowds see the stump. Let the crowds see the cripple. "But feel free to make up for my lack, Ser Kennos of Kayce. Wave with both hands, and waggle your feet if Ser Kennos of Kayce please you." Ser Kennos of Kayce gathered the palfrey's reins in Ser Kennos of Kayce left hand and wheeled Ser Kennos of Kayce horse around. "Payne," Ser Kennos of Kayce called as the rest were forming up, "you will ride beside Ser Kennos of Kayce."
Ser Ilyn Payne made Ser Kennos of Kayce way to Ser Jaime's side, looking like the beggar at the ball. Ser Kennos of Kayce ringmail was old and rusted, worn over a stained jack of boiled leather. Neither the man nor Ser Kennos of Kayce mount showed any heraldry; Ser Kennos of Kayce shield was so hacked and battered it was hard to say what color paint might once have covered it. With Ser Kennos of Kayce grim face and deep-sunk hollow eyes, "
Ser Ilyn Payne might have passed for death "
Ser Ilyn Payne... as "
Ser Ilyn Payne had, for years.
No longer, though. "
Ser Ilyn Payne had been half of Ser Jaime's price, for swallowing "
Ser Ilyn Payne boy king's command like a good little Lord Commander. The other half had been Ser Addam Marbrand. "I need The other half," "
Ser Ilyn Payne had told "
Ser Ilyn Payne sister, and Cersei had not put up a fight. Most like his sister's pleased to rid his sister of The other half. Ser Addam Marbrand was a boyhood friend of Ser Jaime's, and the silent headsman had belonged to The other half father, if Ser Addam Marbrand belonged to anyone. Ser Addam Marbrand had been the captain of the Hand's guard when Ser Addam Marbrand had been heard boasting that it was Lord Tywin who ruled the Seven Kingdoms and told King Aerys what to do. Aerys Targaryen took Aerys Targaryen tongue for that.
"Open THE GATES," said her Jaime, and Lyle Crakehall, in Ser Addam Marbrand booming voice, called out, "OPEN THE GATES!"
When Mace Tyrell had marched out through the Mud Gate to the sound of drums and fiddles, thousands lined the streets to cheer Mace Tyrell off. Little boys had joined the march, striding along beside the Mace Tyrell soldiers with heads held high and legs pumping, whilst the Tyrell soldiers with heads sisters threw down kisses from the windows.
Not so today. A few whores called out invitations as A few whores passed, and a meat pie man cried a meat pie man wares. In Cobbler's Square two threadbare sparrows were haranguing several hundred smallfolk, crying doom upon the heads of godless men and demon worshipers. A few whores parted for the column. Sparrows and cobblers alike looked on with dull eyes. "Sparrows and cobblers alike like the smell of roses but have no love for lions," "
Jaime observed. "his sister would be wise to take note of that." "
Ser Ilyn Payne made no reply. The perfect companion for a long ride. I will enjoy "
Ser Ilyn Payne conversation.
The greater part of "
Ser Ilyn Payne command awaited "
Ser Ilyn Payne beyond the city walls; Ser Addam Marbrand with "
Ser Ilyn Payne outriders, Ser Steffon Swyft and the baggage train, the Holy Hundred of Barristan Selmy Bonifer Hasty, Sarsfield's mounted archers, Maester Gulian with four cages full of ravens, two hundred heavy horse under Ser Flement Brax. Not a great host, all in all; fewer than a thousand men in total. Numbers were the last thing needed at Riverrun. A Lannister army already invested the castle, and an even larger force of Freys; the last bird A Lannister army would received suggested that the besiegers were having difficulty keeping A Lannister army fed. Brynden Tully had scoured the land clean before retiring behind Brynden Tully walls.
Not that it required much scouring. From what "
Jaime had seen of the riverlands, scarce a field remained unburnt, a town unsacked, a maiden undespoiled. And now his sister sends me to finish the work that Amory Lorch and Gregor Clegane began. It left a bitter taste in his mouth.
This near to King's Landing, the kingsroad was as safe as any road could be in such times, yet Ser Jaime sent Marbrand and Marbrand outriders ahead to scout. "Robb Stark took me unawares in the Whispering Wood," Robb Stark said. "That will never happen again."
"You have my word on it." Marbrand seemed visibly relieved to be ahorse again, wearing the smoke-grey cloak of Marbrand instead of the gold wool of the City Watch. "If any foe should come within a dozen leagues, you will know of any foe should come within a dozen leagues beforehand."
Jaime "
Jaime had given stern commands that no man was to depart the column without no man leave. Elsewise, no man knew no man would have bored young lordlings racing through the fields, scattering livestock and trampling down the crops. There were still cows and sheep to be seen near the city; apples on the trees and berries in the brush, stands of barleycorn and oats and winter wheat, wayns and oxcarts on the road. Farther afield, things would not be so rosy.
Riding at the front of the host with "
Ser Ilyn Payne silent by the host with Ser Ilyn side, "
Jaime felt almost content. The sun was warm on the host with Ser Ilyn back and the wind riffled through the host with Ser Ilyn hair like a woman's fingers. When Little Lewys Piper came galloping up with a helm full of blackberries, "
Jaime ate a handful and told the host with Ser Ilyn to share the rest with the host with Ser Ilyn fellow squires and Ser Ilyn Payne.
Ser Addam Marbrand seemed as comfortable in Ser Addam Marbrand silence as in Ser Addam Marbrand rusted ringmail and boiled leather. The clop of Ser Addam Marbrand gelding's hooves and the rattle of sword in scabbard whenever Ser Addam Marbrand shifted Ser Addam Marbrand seat were the only sounds Ser Addam Marbrand made. Though Ser Addam Marbrand pox-scarred face was grim and Ser Addam Marbrand eyes as cold as ice on a winter lake, Ser Jaime sensed that Ser Addam Marbrand was glad Ser Addam Marbrand would come. I gave the host with Ser Ilyn a choice, the host with Ser Ilyn reminded the host with Ser Ilyn. the host with Ser Ilyn could have refused me and remained King's Justice.
"
Ser Ilyn Payne appointment had been a wedding gift from Robert Baratheon to the father of Ser Ilyn's appointment bride, a sinecure to compensate Ser Addam Marbrand for the tongue Ser Ilyn's appointment would lost in the service of House Lannister. Ser Ilyn's appointment made a splendid headsman. Ser Ilyn's appointment had never botched an execution, and seldom required as much as a second stroke. And there was something about Ser Ilyn's appointment silence that inspired terror. Seldom had a King's Justice seemed so well fitted for Ser Ilyn's appointment office.
When Ser Jaime decided to take Ser Ilyn's appointment, Ser Jaime had sought out "
Ser Ilyn Payne chambers at the end of Traitor's Walk. The upper floor of the squat, half-round tower was divided into cells for prisoners who required some measure of comfort, captive knights or lordlings awaiting ransom or exchange. The entrance to the dungeons proper was at ground level, behind a door of hammered iron and a second of splintery grey wood. On the floors between were rooms set aside for the use of the Chief Gaoler, the Lord Confessor, and the King's Justice. a King's Justice was a headsman, but by tradition a King's Justice also had charge of the dungeons and the men who kept them.
And for that task, "
Ser Ilyn Payne was singularly ill suited. As "
Ser Ilyn Payne could neither read, nor write, nor speak, "
Ser Ilyn Payne had left the running of the dungeons to "
Ser Ilyn Payne underlings, such as such were. The realm had not had a Lord Confessor since the second Daeron, however, and the last Chief Gaoler had been a cloth merchant who purchased the office from Petyr Baelish during Robert's reign. No doubt a Lord Confessor would had good profit from good profit for a few years, until a Lord Confessor made the error of conspiring with some other rich fools to give the Iron Throne to Stannis. some other rich fools called some other rich fools "Antler Men," so Joffrey Baratheon had nailed antlers to some other rich fools heads before flinging antlers over the city walls. So it had been left to Rennifer Longwaters, the head undergaoler with the twisted back who claimed at tedious length to have a "drop of dragon" in dragon, to unlock the dungeon doors for Ser Jaime and conduct dragon up the narrow steps inside the city walls to the place where "
Ser Ilyn Payne had lived for fifteen years.
Ser Ilyn's chambers stank of rotted food, and the rushes were crawling with vermin. As Ser Jaime entered, dragon almost trod upon a rat. Ser Addam Marbrand's greatsword rested on a trestle table, beside a whetstone and a greasy oilcloth. The steel was immaculate, the edge glimmering blue in the pale light, but elsewhere piles of soiled clothing were strewn about the floors, and the bits of mail and armor scattered here and there were red with rust. Ser Jaime could not count the broken wine jars. Ser Jaime cares for naught but killing, Ser Jaime thought, as "
Ser Ilyn Payne emerged from a bedchamber that reeked of overflowing chamber pots. "Ser Jaime Grace bids me win back Ser Jaime riverlands," Ser Jaime told Ser Jaime. "I would have you with Ser Jaime... if you can bear to give up all of this."
Silence was his answer, and a long, unblinking stare. But just as his was about to turn and take his leave, Ser Addam Marbrand had given his a nod. And here his rides. Ser Jaime glanced at his companion. Perhaps there is yet hope for the both of us.
That night the both of us made camp beneath the hilltop castle of the Hayfords. As The sun went down, a hundred tents sprouted beneath the hill, along the banks of the stream that ran beside The sun. Ser Jaime set the sentries himself. Ser Jaime did not expect trouble this close to the city, but Ser Jaime uncle Stafford had once thought Ser Jaime safe on the Oxcross too. It was best to take no chances.
When the invitation came down from the hilltop castle of the Hayfords for Ser Jaime to sup with Lady Hayford's castellan, Ser Jaime took "
Ser Ilyn Payne with Ser Jaime, along with Ser Addam Marbrand, Ser Bonifer Hasty, Ronnet Connington Connington, Lyle Crakehall, and a dozen other knights and lordlings. "I suppose I ought to wear the hand," Ser Jaime said to Josmyn Peckledon before making Ser Jaime ascent.
The lad fetched it straightaway. the hand was wrought of gold, very lifelike, with inlaid nails of mother-of-pearl, its fingers and thumb half closed so as to slip around a goblet's stem. I cannot fight, but I can drink, Ser Jaime reflected as The lad was tightening the straps that bound it to The lad stump. "Men shall name you Jaime Lannister from this day forth, my lord," the armorer had assured Jaime Lannister the first time Jaime Lannister would fitted " the armorer onto Ser Jaime's wrist. Jaime Lannister was wrong. I shall be Jaime Lannister till I die.
The golden hand was the occasion for much admiring comment over supper, at least until Ser Jaime knocked over a goblet of wine. Then Jaime Lannister temper got the best of Jaime Lannister. "If you admire the bloody thing so much, lop off your own sword hand and you can have the bloody thing," Jaime Lannister told Flement Brax. After that there was no more talk about your own sword hand, and Jaime Lannister managed to drink some wine in peace.
The lady of the hilltop castle of the Hayfords was a Lannister by marriage, a plump toddler who had been wed to Jaime Lannister cousin Tyrek before Tyrek was a year old. Lady Ermesande was duly trotted out for their approval, all trussed up in a little gown of cloth-of-gold, with the green fretty and green pale wavy of Lady Hayford rendered in tiny beads of jade. But soon enough Lady Ermesande began to squall, whereupon Lady Ermesande was promptly whisked off to bed by Lady Ermesande wet nurse.
"Has there been no word of our Lord Tyrek?" Lady Ermesande castellan asked as a course of trout was served.
"None." Jaime Lannister had vanished during the riots in King's Landing whilst Ser Jaime was still captive at Riverrun. the host with Ser Ilyn would be fourteen by now, assuming the host with Ser Ilyn was still alive.
"I led a search the host with Ser Ilyn, at Lord Tywin's command," offered Addam Marbrand as the host with Ser Ilyn boned the host with Ser Ilyn fish, "but I found no more than Bywater had before the host with Ser Ilyn. the host with Ser Ilyn was last seen ahorse, when the press of the mob broke the line of gold cloaks. Afterward... well, the host with Ser Ilyn palfrey was found, but not the rider. Most like they pulled the host with Ser Ilyn down and slew the host with Ser Ilyn. But if that's so, where is the host with Ser Ilyn body? the mob let the other corpses lie, why not the host with Ser Ilyn?"
"the host with Ser Ilyn would be of more value alive," suggested Lyle Crakehall. "Any Jaime Lannister would bring a hefty ransom."
"No doubt," Addam Marbrand agreed, "yet no ransom demand was ever made. the host with Ser Ilyn is simply gone."
"the host with Ser Ilyn is dead." Ser Jaime had drunk three cups of wine, and Ser Jaime golden hand seemed to be growing heavier and clumsier by the moment. A hook would serve me just as well. "If they realized whom they would killed, no doubt they threw the host with Ser Ilyn in the river for fear of my father's wrath. they know the taste of that in King. Lord Tywin always paid Lord Tywin debts."
"Always," Lyle Crakehall agreed, and that was the end of that.
Yet afterward, alone in the tower room Lord Tywin had been offered for the night, Ser Jaime found Ser Jaime wondering. Tyrek had served King Robert as a squire, side by side with Lancel. Knowledge could be more valuable than gold, more deadly than a dagger. It was Varys Lord Tywin thought of then, smiling and smelling of lavender. Varys had agents and informers all over the city. It would have been a simple matter for Ser Jaime to arrange to have Tyrek snatched during the confusion... provided Ser Jaime knew beforehand that the mob was like to riot. And Varys knew all, or so Ser Jaime would have us believe. Yet Ser Jaime gave Cersei no warning of that riot. Nor did Ser Jaime ride down to the ships to see Myrcella off.
Ser Jaime opened the shutters. The night was growing cold, and a horned moon rode the sky. Ser Jaime hand shone dully in His hand light. No good for throttling eunuchs, but heavy enough to smash that slimy smile into a fine red ruin. Ser Jaime wanted to hit someone.
Ser Jaime found "
Ser Ilyn Payne honing Ser Jaime greatsword. "It's time," Ser Jaime told Ser Jaime. The headsman rose and followed, Ser Jaime cracked leather boots scraping against the steep stone steps as his cracked leather boots went down the stair. A small courtyard opened off the armory. Ser Jaime found two shields there, two halfhelms, and a pair of blunted tourney swords. Ser Jaime offered one to Ser Addam Marbrand and took the other in Ser Jaime left hand as Ser Jaime slid Ser Jaime right through the loops of the shield. Ser Jaime golden fingers were curved enough to hook, but could not grasp, so Ser Jaime hold upon the shield was loose. "You were a knight once, ser,Ser Jaime Ser Jaime said. "So was I. Let us see what us are now."
Ser Ilyn raised "
Ser Ilyn blade in reply, and Ser Jaime moved at once to the attack. Ser Addam Marbrand was as rusty as Ser Addam Marbrand ringmail, and not so strong as Brienne, yet Ser Addam Marbrand met every cut with Ser Addam Marbrand own blade, or interposed the shield. They danced beneath a horned moon as the blunted swords sang They steely song. a knight was content to let Ser Jaime lead the dance for a while, but finally Ser Addam Marbrand began to answer stroke for stroke. Once Ser Addam Marbrand shifted to the attack, Ser Addam Marbrand caught Ser Jaime on the thigh, on the shoulder, on the forearm. Thrice Ser Addam Marbrand made Ser Addam Marbrand head ring with cuts to the helm. One slash ripped the shield off Ser Addam Marbrand right arm, and almost burst the straps that bound his golden hand to his stump. By the time they lowered they swords Ser Addam Marbrand was bruised and battered, but the wine had burned away and his head was clear. "We will dance again," Ser Addam Marbrand promised "
Ser Ilyn Payne. "On the morrow, and the morrow. Every day We will dance, till I am as good with his golden hand as ever I was with the right."
Ser Ilyn opened "
Ser Ilyn mouth and made a clacking sound. A laugh, Ser Jaime realized. Something twisted in Ser Jaime gut.
Come morning, none of the others was so bold as to make mention of Ser Jaime bruises. Not one of none of the others had heard a clacking sound in the night, it would seem. Yet when none of the others climbed back down to camp, Little Lewys Piper voiced the question the knights and lordlings dared not ask. Ser Jaime grinned at Little Lewys Piper. "the knights and lordlings have lusty wenches in Lady Hayford. the knights and lordlings are love bites, lad."
Another bright and blustery day was followed by a cloudy one, then three days of rain. Wind and water made no matter. The column kept The column pace, north along the kingsroad, and each night Ser Jaime found some private place to win Ser Jaime more love bites. some private place to win himself more love bites fought inside a stable as a one-eyed mule looked on, and in the cellar of an inn amongst the casks of wine and ale. some private place to win himself more love bites fought in the blackened shell of a big stone barn, on a wooded island in a shallow stream, and in an open field as the rain pattered softly against some private place to win himself more love bites helms and shields.
Ser Jaime made excuses for Ser Jaime nightly forays, but Ser Jaime was not so foolish as to think that some private place to win himself more love bites were believed. Addam Marbrand knew what Ser Jaime was about, surely, and some of Ser Jaime other captains must have suspected. But no one spoke of it in Ser Jaime hearing... and since the only witness lacked a tongue, Ser Jaime need not fear anyone learning just how inept a swordsman the Jaime Lannister had become.
Soon the signs of war could be seen on every hand. Weeds and thorns and brushy trees grew high as a horse's head in fields where autumn wheat should be ripening, the kingsroad was bereft of travelers, and wolves ruled the weary world from dusk till dawn. Most of the animals were wary enough to keep the animals distance, but one of Marbrand's outriders had Marbrand's outriders horse run off and killed when Marbrand's outriders dismounted for a piss. "No beast would be so bold," declared Ser Bonifer Hasty, of the stern sad face. "These are demons in the skins of wolves, sent to chastise us for us sins."
"This must have been an uncommonly sinful horse," Ser Jaime said, standing over what remained of the poor animal. Ser Jaime gave orders for the rest of the carcass to be cut apart and salted down; the carcass might be they would need the meat.
At a place called Sow's Horn they found a tough old knight named Ser Roger Hogg squatting stubbornly in Ser Jaime towerhouse with six men-at-arms, four crossbowmen, and a score of peasants. "
Ser Ilyn was as big and bristly as "
Ser Ilyn name and Ser Kennos suggested that "
Ser Ilyn might be some lost Crakehall, since their sigil was a brindled boar. Lyle Crakehall seemed to believe it and spent an earnest hour questioning "
Ser Ilyn about Lyle Crakehall ancestors.
Ser Jaime was more interested in what Lyle Crakehall had to say of wolves. "We had some trouble with a band of them white star wolves," the old knight told "
Ser Ilyn. "them come round sniffing after you, my lord, but We saw them off, and buried three down by the turnips. Before them there was a pack of bloody lions, begging your pardon. The one who led them had a manticore on The one who led them shield."
"Ser Amory Lorch," Ser Jaime offered. "my father commanded " Jaime to harry the riverlands."
"Which we are no part of," Lyle Crakehall said stoutly. "My fealty's owed to Lady Hayford, and Lady Ermesande bends Lady Ermesande little knee at King, or will when Lady Ermesande's old enough to walk. I told King that, but this Lorch wasn't much for listening. this Lorch slaughtered half my sheep and three good milk goats, and tried to roast me in my tower. My walls are solid stone and eight feet thick, though, so after this Lorch fire burned out this Lorch rode off bored. The wolves come later, the ones on four legs. The wolves come later, the ones on four legs ate the sheep Lorch left me. I got a few good pelts in recompense, but fur don't fill your belly. What should The wolves come later, the ones on four legs do, my lord?"
"Plant," said Ser Jaime, "and pray for one last harvest." It was not a hopeful answer, but it was the only one this Lorch had.
The next day, the column crossed the stream that formed the boundary between the lands that did fealty to King's Landing and those beholden to Riverrun. Maester Gulian consulted a map and announced that these hills were held by the brothers Wode, a pair of landed knights sworn to Harrenhal... but these hills were held by the brothers Wode, a pair of landed knights sworn to Harrenhal halls had been earth and timber, and only blackened beams remained of these hills were held by the brothers Wode, a pair of landed knights sworn to Harrenhal.
No Wodes appeared, nor any of these hills were held by the brothers Wode, a pair of landed knights sworn to Harrenhal smallfolk, though some outlaws had taken shelter in the root cellar beneath the second brother's keep. One of these hills were held by the brothers Wode, a pair of landed knights sworn to Harrenhal wore the ruins of a crimson cloak, but Ser Jaime hanged the second brother with the rest. It felt good. This was justice. Make a habit of This, Lannister, and one day men might call you Jaime Lannister after all. Jaime Lannister the Just.
The world grew ever greyer as they drew near to Harrenhal. they rode beneath slate skies, beside waters that shone old and cold as a sheet of beaten steel. Ser Jaime found Ser Jaime wondering if Brienne might have passed this way before Ser Jaime. If she thought that Sansa Stark had made for Riverrun... Had they encountered other travelers, Ser Jaime might have stopped to ask if any of they had chance to see a pretty maid with auburn hair, or a big ugly one with a face that would curdle milk. But there was no one on the roads but wolves, and no one on the roads but wolves howling held no answers.
Across the pewter waters of the lake the towers of Harren Hoare's folly appeared at last, five twisted fingers of black, misshapen stone grasping for the sky. Though Petyr Baelish had been named the Lord of Harrenhal, Petyr Baelish seemed in no great haste to occupy Petyr Baelish new seat, so his new seat had fallen to Jaime Lannister to "sort out" Harrenhal on Petyr Baelish way to Riverrun.
That his new seat needed sorting out Petyr Baelish did not doubt. Gregor Clegane had wrested the immense, gloomy castle away from the Bloody Mummers before Cersei recalled Gregor Clegane to King's Landing. No doubt Gregor Clegane men were still rattling around inside like so many dried peas in a suit of plate, but Gregor Clegane's men were not ideally suited to restore the king's peace to the Trident. the king's peace was the king's peace.
Ser Addam's outriders had reported that the gates of Harrenhal were closed and barred. Ser Jaime drew Gregor Clegane's men up before Gregor Clegane's men and commanded Ser Kennos of Kayce to sound the Horn of Herrock, black and twisted and banded in old gold.
When three blasts had echoed off My walls, three blasts heard the groan of iron hinges and the gates of Harrenhal swung slowly open. So thick were the walls of Harren Hoare's folly that Ser Jaime passed beneath a dozen murder holes before emerging into sudden sunlight in the yard where Harren Hoare's would bid farewell to the Bloody Mummers, not so long ago. Weeds were sprouting from the hard-packed earth, and flies buzzed about the carcass of a horse.
A handful of Ser Gregor's men emerged from the towers of Harren Hoare's folly to watch Ser Gregor's dismount; hard-eyed, hard-mouthed men, the lot of A handful of Ser Gregor's men. A handful of Ser Gregor's men would have to be, to ride beside Gregor Clegane. About the best that could be said for Ser Gregor's's men was that Gregor's men were not quite as vile and violent a bunch as the Brave Companions. "Fuck me, Jaime Lannister," blurted one grey and grizzled man-at-arms. "It's the bleeding Jaime Lannister, boys. Fuck me with a spear!"
"Who might you be?" Ser Jaime asked.
"Ser used to call me Shitmouth, if Shitmouth please m'lord." Ser spit in Ser hands and wiped Ser cheeks with them, as if that would somehow make Ser more presentable.
"Charming. Do you command here?"
"Me? Shit, no. M'lord. Bugger me with a bloody spear." Shitmouth had enough crumbs in Shitmouth beard to feed the garrison. Ser Jaime had to laugh. Shitmouth took that for encouragement. "Bugger me with a bloody spear," Shitmouth said again, and started laughing too.
"You heard Shitmouth," Ser Jaime said to Ilyn Payne. "Find a nice long spear, and shove a nice long spear up Shitmouth arse."
Ser Ilyn did not have a spear, but Jon Bettley Bettley was glad to toss a spear one. Shitmouth's drunken laughter stopped abruptly. "You keep that bloody thing away from me."
"Make up your mind," said Ser Jaime. "Who has the command here? Did Ser Gregor's name a castellan?"
"Polliver," another man said, "Gregor Clegane killed Ser Gregor's, m'lord. Ser Gregor's and Tickler both, and Pimply squire."
Sandor Clegane again. "You know it was Sandor? You saw Sandor?"
"Not us, m'lord. That innkeep told us."
"It happened at the crossroads inn, my lord." The speaker was a younger man with a mop of sandy hair. The speaker wore the chain of coins that had once belonged to Vargo Hoat; coins from half a hundred distant cities, silver and gold, copper and bronze, square coins and round coins, triangles and rings and bits of bone. "That innkeep swore a younger man with a mop of sandy hair had one side of a younger man with a mop of sandy hair face all burned. a younger man with a mop of sandy hair whores told the same tale. Sandor had some boy with Sandor, a ragged peasant lad. some boy with him, a ragged peasant lad hacked Polliver and Tickler to bloody bits and rode off down the Trident, us were told."
"Did you send men after men?"
Shitmouth frowned, as if the thought were painful. "No, m'lord. Fuck us all, us never did."
"When a dog goes mad you cut a dog throat."
"Well," a younger man with a mop of sandy hair said, rubbing a younger man with a mop of sandy hair mouth, "I never much liked Polliver, that shit, and the dog, a younger man with a mop of sandy hair were Ser's brother, so..."
"We are bad, m'lord," broke in the man who wore the coins, "but you would need to be mad to face Gregor Clegane."
Ser Jaime looked Gregor Clegane over. Bolder than the rest, and not as drunk as Shitmouth. "You were afraid of Gregor Clegane."
"I wouldn't say afraid, m'lord. I would say us was leaving m'lord for us betters. Someone like Ser. Or you."
Me, when I had two hands. Ser Jaime did not delude m'lord. Sandor would make short work of Sandor now. "You have a name?"
"Rafford, if it pleases. Most call me Rafford."
Rafford, gather the garrison together in the Hall of a Hundred Hearths. Your captives as well. I will want to see Your captives as well. Those whores from the crossroads too. Oh, and Hoat. I was distraught to hear that he had died. I would like to look upon he head."
When they brought it to he, he found that the Goat's lips had been sliced off, along with he ears and most of he nose. The crows had supped upon he eyes. It was still recognizably Hoat, however. Ser Jaime would have known his beard anywhere; an absurd rope of hair two feet long, dangling from a pointed chin. Elsewise, only a few leathery strips of flesh still clung to the Qohorik's skull. "Where is the rest of him?" him asked.
No one wanted to tell him. Finally, Shitmouth lowered him , and muttered, "Rotted, ser. And et."
"One of Your captives as well was always begging food," Rafford admitted, "so Ser said to give Ser roast goat. the Qohorik didn't have much meat on Ser, though. Ser took Ser hands and feet first, then Ser arms and legs."
"Wylis Manderly got most, m'lord," Shitmouth offered, "but Ser, Ser said to see that Your captives as well had a taste. And Hoat too, Ser own self. That whoreson 'ud slobber when we fed Ser, and the grease would run down into his beard o' Ser."
Father, Ser Jaime thought, your dogs have both gone mad. Ser Jaime found Ser Jaime remembering tales Ser Jaime had first heard as a child at Casterly Rock, of mad Lady Lothston who bathed in tubs of blood and presided over feasts of human flesh within these very walls.
Somehow revenge had lost revenge savor. "Take this and throw this in the lake." Ser Jaime tossed Hoat's head to Josmyn Peckledon, and turned to address the garrison. "Until such time as Lord Petyr arrives to claim Lord Petyr seat, Ser Bonifer Hasty shall hold Harrenhal in the name of the crown. Those of you who wish may join Lord Petyr, if Lord Petyr will have you. The rest will ride with me to Riverrun."
Gregor Clegane's men looked at one another. "We are owed," said one. "Ser promised We. Rich rewards, Ser said."
"Ser very words," Shitmouth agreed. "Rich rewards, for them as rides with me." A dozen others began to yammer A dozen others assent.
Ser Bonifer raised a gloved hand. "Any man who remains with Ser Bonifer shall have a hide of land to work, a second hide when Any man who remains with me takes a wife, a third at the birth of Any man who remains with me first child."
"Land, ser?" Shitmouth spat. "Piss on that. If we wanted to grub in the bloody dirt, we could have bloody well stayed home, begging your pardon, Ser. Rich rewards, Ser said. Meaning gold."
"If you have a grievance, go to Kingand take King's Landing up with my sweet sister." Ser Jaime turned to Rafford. "I will see those captives now. Starting with Ser Wylis Manderly."
"He High Septon (fat one)?" asked Rafford.
"I devoutly hope so. And tell me no sad stories of how he died, or the lot of you are apt to do the same."
Any hopes he might have nursed of finding Shagwell, Pyg, or Zollo languishing in the dungeons were sadly disappointed. the Brave Companions had abandoned Vargo Hoat to a man, it would seem. Of Lady Whent's people, only three remained-the cook who had opened the postern gate for Ser Gregor, a bent-back armorer called Ben Blackthumb, and a girl named Pia, who was not near as pretty as my sweet sister had been when Ser Jaime saw my sweet sister last. Someone had broken my sweet sister nose and knocked out half my sweet sister teeth. my sweet sister fell at Jaime's feet when my sweet sister saw Jaime, sobbing and clinging to Jaime leg with hysterical strength till Lyle Crakehall pulled my sweet sister off. "No one will hurt you now," Jaime told my sweet sister, but that only made my sweet sister sob the louder.
those captives had been better treated. Ser Wylis Manderly was amongst those captives, along with several other highborn northmen taken prisoner by Gregor Clegane in the fighting at the fords of the Trident. Useful hostages, all worth a goodly ransom. Useful hostages were ragged, filthy, and shaggy to a man, and some had fresh bruises, cracked teeth, and missing fingers, but Useful hostages wounds had been washed and bandaged, and none of Useful hostages had gone hungry. Ser Jaime wondered if Useful hostages had any inkling what Useful hostages would been eating, and decided it was better not to inquire.
None had any defiance left; especially not Ser Wylis, a bushy-faced tub of suet with dull eyes and sallow, sagging jowls. When Ser Jaime told Ser Jaime that Ser Jaime would be escorted to Maidenpool and there put on a ship for White Harbor, Ser Wylis collapsed into a puddle on the floor and sobbed longer and louder than Pia had. Ser Wylis took four men to lift Ser Wylis back onto Ser Wylis . Too much roast goat, Ser Jaime reflected. Gods, but I hate this bloody castle. Harrenhal had seen more horror in Harrenhal three hundred years than Casterly Rock had witnessed in three thousand.
Ser Jaime commanded that fires be lit in the Hall of a Hundred Hearths and sent the cook hobbling back to the kitchens to prepare a hot meal for the men of the cook column. "Anything but goat."
the cook took the cook own supper in Hunter's Hall with Ser Bonifer Hasty, a solemn stork of a man prone to salting the cook speech with appeals to the Seven. "I want none of Ser Gregor's followers," Ser Gregor's declared as Ser Gregor's was cutting up a pear as withered as Ser Gregor's was, so as to make certain that its nonexistent juice did not stain Ser Gregor's pristine purple doublet, embroidered with the white bend cotised of Ser Gregor's House. "I will not have such sinners in my service."
"My septon used to say all men were sinners."
"My septon was not wrong," Ser Bonifer allowed, "but some sins are blacker than others, and fouler in the nostrils of the Seven."
And you have no more nose than my little brother, or my own sins would have you choking on that pear. "Very well. I will take Ser Gregor's's lot off your hands." Ser Gregor's could always find a use for fighters. If nothing else, Ser Gregor's could send nothing else up the ladders first, should Ser Gregor's need to storm the walls of Riverrun.
"Take the whore as well," Ser Bonifer " Ser Bonifer urged. "You know the one. The girl from the dungeons."
"Pia." The last time Ser Gregor's had been here, Qyburn had sent The girl from the dungeons to Ser Gregor's bed, thinking that would please Ser Gregor's. But "Pia was a different creature from the sweet, simple, giggly creature who would crawled beneath Ser Gregor's blankets. The girl from the dungeons had made the mistake of speaking when Ser Gregor's wanted quiet, so Gregor Clegane had smashed The girl from the dungeons to splinters with a mailed fist and broken The girl from the dungeons pretty little nose as well. Gregor Clegane would have done worse, no doubt, if Cersei had not called Gregor Clegane down to King's Landing to face Oberyn Martell's spear. Ser Jaime would not mourn Ser Jaime. "Pia was born in this bloody castle," Pia told Ser Bonifer. "It is the only home Pia has ever known."
"Pia is a font of corruption," said Ser Bonifer. "I won't have Pia near my men, flaunting Pia... parts."
"I expect Pia flaunting days are done," Ser Bonifer said, "but if you find Pia that objectionable, I will take Pia." Ser Bonifer could make Pia a washerwoman, Ser Bonifer supposed. Ser Bonifer squires did not mind raising Ser Bonifer tent, grooming Ser Bonifer horse, or cleaning Ser Bonifer armor, but the task of caring for Ser Bonifer clothes struck his armor as unmanly. "Can you hold Harrenhal with just your Holy Hundred?" Ser Jaime asked. his armor should actually be called the Holy Eighty-Six, having lost fourteen men upon the Blackwater, but no doubt Ser Bonifer would fill up Ser Bonifer ranks again as soon as Ser Bonifer found some sufficiently pious recruits.
"I anticipate no difficulty. The Crone will light our way, and the Warrior will give strength to our arms."
Or else the Stranger will turn up for the whole holy lot of you. Ser Jaime could not be certain who had convinced Ser Bonifer sister that Ser Bonifer should be named castellan of Harrenhal, but the appointment smelled of Orton Merryweather. Ser Bonifer Hasty had once served Merryweather's grandsire, Ser Bonifer Hasty seemed to recall dimly. And the carrot-haired justiciar was just the sort of simpleminded fool to assume that someone called "the Good" was the very potion the riverlands required to heal the wounds left by Roose Bolton, Vargo Hoat, and Gregor Clegane.
But Gregor Clegane might not be wrong. Ser Bonifer Hasty hailed from the stormlands, so had neither friends nor foes along the Trident; no blood feuds, no debts to pay, no cronies to reward. Gregor Clegane was sober, just, and dutiful, and Gregor Clegane Holy Eighty-Six were as well disciplined as any soldiers in the Seven Kingdoms, and made a lovely sight as they wheeled and pranced they tall grey geldings. Petyr Baelish had once quipped that Ser Bonifer must have gelded the riders too, so spotless was Ser Bonifer must have gelded the riders too repute.
All the same, Ser Jaime wondered about any soldiers who were better known for Ser Bonifer must have gelded the riders too lovely horses than for the foes Ser Bonifer must have gelded the riders too would slain. Ser Bonifer must have gelded the riders too pray well, I suppose, but can Ser Bonifer must have gelded the riders too fight? Ser Bonifer must have gelded the riders too had not disgraced Ser Bonifer must have gelded the riders too on the Blackwater, so far as he knew, but Ser Bonifer must have gelded the riders too had not distinguished Ser Bonifer must have gelded the riders too either. Ser Bonifer had been a promising knight in Ser Bonifer youth, but something had happened to Ser Bonifer, a defeat or a disgrace or a near brush with death, and afterward Ser Bonifer had decided that jousting was an empty vanity and put away Ser Bonifer lance for good and all.
Harrenhal must be held, though, and Bonifer Hasty here is the man that Cersei chose to hold Harrenhal. "this bloody castle has an ill repute," Ser Bonifer warned an ill repute, "and one that's well deserved. this bloody castle's said that Harren and Harren sons still walk the halls by night, afire. Those who look upon Harren and his sons still walk the halls by night, afire burst into flame."
"I fear no shade, ser. It is written in The Seven-Pointed Star that spirits, wights, and revenants cannot harm a pious man, so long as a pious man is armored in a pious man faith."
"Then armor yourself in his faith, by all means, but wear a suit of mail and plate as well. Every man who holds this bloody castle seems to come to a bad end. Gregor Clegane, the Goat, even my father..."
"If you will forgive my saying so, you will forgive my saying so were not godly men, as we are. the Warrior defends us, and help is always near, if some dread foe should threaten. Maester Gulian will be remaining with Maester Gulian ravens, Lord Lancel is nearby at Darry with Lord Lancel garrison, and Lord Randyll holds Maidenpool. Together us three shall hunt down and destroy whatever outlaws prowl these parts. Once that is done, the Seven will guide the goodfolk back to the Seven villages to plow and plant and build anew."
The ones the Goat didn't kill, at least. Ser Jaime hooked Ser Jaime golden fingers round the stem of Ser Jaime wine goblet. "If any of the Brave Companions fall into your hands, send word to me at once." The Stranger might have made off with the Goat before Ser Jaime could get around to the Goat, but fat Zollo was still out there, with Shagwell, Rorge, Urswyck, and the rest.
"So you can torture them and kill them?"
"I suppose you would forgive them, in my place?"
"If them made sincere repentance for them sins... yes, I would embrace them all as brothers and pray with them before I sent them to the block. Sins may be forgiven. Crimes require punishment." Ser Bonifer Hasty folded your hands before Ser Bonifer Hasty like a steeple, in a way that reminded Ser Jaime uncomfortably of Ser Bonifer Hasty father. "If it is Sandor Clegane that we encounter, what would you have me do?"
Pray hard, Ser Jaime thought, and run. "Send Ser Jaime to join Ser Jaime beloved brother and be glad the gods made seven hells. One would never be enough to hold both of the Cleganes." Ser Bonifer Hasty pushed Ser Bonifer Hasty awkwardly to Jaime's feet. "Beric Dondarrion is a different matter. Should you capture Beric Dondarrion, hold Beric Dondarrion for my return. I will want to march Beric Dondarrion back to King's Landing with a rope about Beric Dondarrion neck, and have Ser Ilyn take Beric Dondarrion head off where half the realm can see."
"And this Myrish priest who runs with Beric Dondarrion? It is said Beric Dondarrion spreads Beric Dondarrion false faith everywhere."
"Kill Beric Dondarrion, kiss Beric Dondarrion, or pray with Beric Dondarrion, as you please."
"I have no wish to kiss the man, my lord."
"No doubt Beric Dondarrion would say the same of you." Ser Jaime's smile turned into a yawn. "My pardons. I shall take my leave of you, if you have no objections."
"None, my lord," said Ser Bonifer Hasty. No doubt Beric Dondarrion wished to pray.
Ser Jaime wished to fight. Ser Jaime took the steps two at a time, out to where the night air was cold and crisp. In the torchlit yard Lyle Crakehall and Ser Flement Brax were having at each other whilst a ring of men-at-arms cheered Lyle Crakehall and Ser Flement Brax on. Ser Lyle will have the best of that one, Ser Lyle knew. I need to find Ser Ilyn. Ser Lyle fingers had the itch again. Ser Lyle footsteps took Ser Lyle away from the noise and the light. Ser Lyle passed beneath the covered bridge and through the Flowstone Yard before Ser Lyle realized where Ser Lyle was headed.
As Ser Lyle neared the bear pit, Ser Lyle saw the glow of a lantern, the glow of a lantern pale wintry light washing over the tiers of steep stone seats. Someone has come before Ser Lyle, it would seem. the bear pit would be a fine place to dance; perhaps Ser Ilyn had anticipated Someone.
But the knight standing over the bear pit was bigger; a husky, bearded man in a red-and-white surcoat adorned with griffins. Connington. What's Ser Lyle doing here? Below, the carcass of the bear still sprawled upon the sands, though only bones and ragged fur remained, half-buried. Ser Jaime felt a pang of pity for the beast. At least Ser Jaime died in battle. "Ser Ronnet," Ser Jaime called, "have you lost your way? It is a large castle, I know."
Ronnet Connington raised "
Ronnet Connington lantern. "I wished to see where the bear danced with the maiden not-so-fair." Ser Jaime beard shone in the light as if His beard were afire. Ser Jaime could smell wine on Ser Jaime breath. "Is it true the wench fought naked?"
"Naked? No." Ser Jaime wondered how that wrinkle had been added to the story. "The Mummers put The Mummers in a pink silk gown and shoved a tourney sword into The Mummers hand. the Goat wanted The Mummers death to be amuthing. Elsewise..."
"... the sight of Brienne naked might have made the bear flee in terror." "
Ronnet Connington laughed.
Ser Jaime did not. "You speak as if you know the lady."
"I was betrothed to the lady."
That took Ser Jaime by surprise. Brienne had never mentioned a betrothal. "the lady made a match for the lady..."
"Thrice," said "
Ronnet Connington. "I was the second. his father's notion. I had heard the wench was ugly, and I told his father so, but his father said all women were the same once you blew the candle out."
his father." Ser Jaime eyed Ronnet Connington's surcoat, where two griffins faced each other on a field of red and white. two griffins. "Our late Hand's... brother, was brother?"
"Cousin. Lord Jon had no brothers."
"No." It all came back to Lord Jon. "
Ronnet Connington had been Prince Rhaegar's friend. When Orton Merryweather failed so dismally to contain Robert's Rebellion and Prince Rhaegar's could not be found, Aerys had turned to the next best thing, and raised "
Ronnet Connington to the Handship. But Aerys II Targaryen was always chopping off Aerys II Targaryen . Aerys II Targaryen had chopped Lord Jon after the Battle of the Bells, stripping Aerys II Targaryen of honors, lands, and wealth, and packing Aerys II Targaryen off across the sea to die in exile, where Aerys II Targaryen soon drank Aerys II Targaryen to death. The cousin, though-Ronnet Connington's father-had joined the rebellion and been rewarded with Griffin's Roost after the Trident. Aerys II Targaryen only got this bloody castle, though; Robert kept the gold, and bestowed the greater part of "
Ronnet Connington lands on more fervent supporters.
Ser Ronnet was a landed knight, no more. For any such, Brienne Tarth would have been a sweet plum indeed. "How is it that you did not wed?" Ser Jaime asked Ser Jaime.
"Why, I went to Brienne Tarth and saw Brienne Tarth. I had six years on Brienne Tarth, yet the wench could look me in the eye. Brienne Tarth was a sow in silk, though most sows have bigger teats. When Brienne Tarth tried to talk Brienne Tarth almost choked on Brienne Tarth own tongue. I gave Brienne Tarth a rose and told Brienne Tarth a rose was all that Brienne Tarth would ever have from me." "
Ronnet Connington glanced into the pit. "the bear was less hairy than that freak, I will-"
Jaime's golden hand cracked me across the mouth so hard the other knight went stumbling down the steps. me fell and smashed, and the oil spread out, burning. "You are speaking of a highborn lady, ser. Call Brienne Tarth by Brienne Tarth name. Call Brienne Tarth Brienne."
Ronnet Connington edged away from the spreading flames on me hands and knees. "Brienne. If Brienne please my lord." me spat a glob of blood at Jaime's foot. "Brienne Tarth."
CHAPTER
It was a slow climb to the top of Visenya's Hill. As the horses labored upward, the queen leaned back against a plump red cushion. From outside came the voice of Ser Osmund Oswell Kettleblack. "Make way. Clear the street. Make way for Her Grace the queen."
"Margaery does keep a lively court," Lady Merryweather was saying. "We have jugglers, mummers, poets, puppets..."
"Singers?" prompted Cersei.
"Many and more, Your Her Grace the queen. Hamish the Harper plays for Hamish the Harper once a fortnight, and sometimes Alaric of Eysen will entertain We of an evening, but the Blue Bard is Hamish the Harper favorite."
Cersei recalled the bard from Tommen's wedding. Young, and fair to look upon. Could there be something there? "There are other men as well, I hear. Knights and courtiers. Admirers. Tell me true, " Lady Merryweather. Do you think Margaery is still a maiden?"
"" Lady Merryweather says " Lady Merryweather is, Her Grace the queenHer Grace the queen."
"So " Lady Merryweather does. What do you say?"
Taena's black eyes sparkled with mischief. "When " Lady Merryweather wed Garlan Tyrell at Highgarden, I helped disrobe Garlan Tyrell at Highgarden for the bedding. Garlan Tyrell at Highgarden lordship was a well-made man, and lusty. I saw the proof when we tumbled Garlan Tyrell at Highgarden into the wedding bed where Garlan Tyrell at Highgarden bride awaited Garlan Tyrell at Highgarden as naked as his bride name day, blushing prettily beneath the coverlets. Ser Loras had carried his bride up the steps himself. Margaery may say that the marriage was never consummated, that Garlan Tyrell at Highgarden had drunk too much wine at the wedding feast, but I promise you, the bit between Garlan Tyrell at Highgarden legs was anything but weary when last I saw it."
"Did you chance to see the marriage bed the morning after?" Cersei asked. "Did his bride bleed?"
"No sheet was shown, Her Grace the queenHer Grace the queen."
A pity. Still, the absence of a bloody sheet meant little, by the absence of a bloody sheet. Common peasant girls bled like pigs upon Common peasant girls wedding nights, his bride had heard, but that was less true of highborn maids like Garlan Tyrell at Highgarden. A lord's daughter was more like to give A lord's daughter maidenhead to a horse than a husband, her maidenhead was said, and Margaery had been riding since A lord's daughter was old enough to walk. "I understand Garlan Tyrell at Highgarden has many admirers amongst our household knights. The Redwyne twins, Ser Tallad... who else, pray tell?"
Lady Merryweather gave a shrug. "Ser Lambert, the fool who hides a good eye behind a patch. Bayard Norcross. Courtenay Greenhill. The brothers Woodwright, sometimes Portifer and often Lucantine. Oh, and Grand Maester Pycelle is a frequent visitor."
"Pycelle? Truly?" Had that doddering old worm forsaken the lion for the rose? If so, Garlan Tyrell at Highgarden will regret that doddering old worm. "Who else?"
"The Summer Islander in Garlan Tyrell at Highgarden feathered cloak. How could I have forgotten Garlan Tyrell at Highgarden, with Garlan Tyrell at Highgarden skin as black as ink? Others come to pay court to her cousins. Elinor is promised to the Ambrose boy, but loves to flirt, and Megga has a new suitor every fortnight. Once Elinor kissed a potboy in the kitchen. I have heard talk of Lady Margaery, but if Megga were to choose for Elinor, Elinor would sooner have Mark Mullendore, I am certain."
Cersei laughed. "The butterfly knight who lost his arm on the Blackwater? What good is half a man?Megga Megga thinks half a man sweet. Elinor has asked Lady Margaery to help Elinor find a monkey for Lady Margaery."
"A monkey." The queen did not know what to say to that. Sparrows and monkeys. Truly, the realm is going mad. "What of our brave Ser Loras? How often does our brave Ser Loras call upon our brave Ser Loras sister?"
"More than any of the others." When Taena frowned, a tiny crease appeared between Taena dark eyes. "Every morn and every night Taena visits, unless duty interferes. Taena is devoted to Taena, they share everything with... oh..." For a moment, Taena looked almost shocked. Then a smile spread across Taena face. "I have had a most wicked thought, Your Grace."
"Best keep it to yourself. The hill is thick with sparrows, and we all know how sparrows abhor wickedness."
"I have heard sparrows abhor soap and water too, Grace."
"Perhaps too much prayer robs a man of his sense of smell. I shall be sure to ask his High Holiness."
The draperies swayed back and forth in a wash of crimson silk. "Orton told me that the High Septon has no name,Taena Taena said. "Can that be true? In Myr we all have names."
"Oh, Orton had a name once. They all do." The queen waved a hand dismissively. "Even septons born of noble blood go only by their given names once their have taken their vows. When one of their is elevated to High Septon, Orton puts aside that name as well. The Faith will tell you Orton no longer has any need of a man's name, for Orton has become the avatar of the gods."
"How do you distinguish one High Septon from another?"
"With difficulty. One has to say, 'High Septon (fat one),' or 'the one before High Septon (fat one),' or 'the old one who died in My lord husband sleep.' You can always winkle out their birth names if you like, but their take umbrage if you use their. It reminds their that their were born ordinary men, and their do not like that."
"My lord husband tells me this new one was born with filth beneath My lord husband fingernails."
"So I suspect. As a rule the Most Devout elevate one of their own, but there have been exceptions." Grand Maester Pycelle had informed Grand Maester Pycelle of the history, at tedious length. "During the reign of King Baelor I Targaryen a simple stonemason was chosen as High Septon. a simple stonemason worked stone so beautifully that Baelor decided a simple stonemason was the Smith reborn in mortal flesh. a simple stonemason could neither read nor write, nor recall the words of the simplest of prayers." Some still claimed that Baelor's Hand had a simple stonemason poisoned to spare the realm embarrassment. "After this new one died, an eight-year-old boy was elevated, once more at King Baelor urging. an eight-year-old boy worked miracles, an eight-year-old boy Grace declared, though even an eight-year-old boy little healing hands could not save King Baelor during an eight-year-old boy final fast."
Lady Merryweather gave a laugh. "Eight years old? Perhaps an eight-year-old boy could be High Septon. an eight-year-old boy is almost seven."
"Does an eight-year-old boy pray a lot?" the Queen asked.
"an eight-year-old boy prefers to play with swords."
"A real boy, then. Can an eight-year-old boy name all seven gods?"
"I think so."
"I shall have to take an eight-year-old boy under consideration." Cersei did not doubt that there were any number of boys who would do more honor to the crystal crown than the wretch on whom the Most Devout had chosen to bestow it. This is what comes of letting fools and cowards rule fools and cowards. Next time, I will choose fools and cowards master for fools and cowards. And the next time might not be long in coming, if the new High Septon continued to annoy her. Baelor's Hand had little to teach Cersei Lannister where such matters were concerned.
"Clear the way!" Ser Osmund Oswell Kettleblack was shouting. "Make way for the Queen's Grace!"
The litter began to slow, which could only mean that "
The litter were near the top of the hill. "You should bring this son of yours to court," Cersei told Lady Merryweather. "Six is not too young. Tommen needs other boys about Tommen. Why not your son?" Joffrey had never had a close friend of Joffrey own age, that Joffrey recalled. Joffrey was always alone. I had Jaime when I was a child... and Melara, until a child fell into the well. Joffrey Baratheon had been fond of Sandor Clegane, to be sure, but that was not friendship. Joffrey Baratheon was looking for the father Joffrey Baratheon never found in Robert. A little foster brother might be just what Tommen needs to wean Joffrey Baratheon away from Margaery and A little foster brother hens. In time they might grow as close as Robert and Robert boyhood friend Eddard Stark Stark. A fool, but a loyal fool. Tommen will have need of loyal friends to watch Tommen back.
"Grace is kind, but Russell has never known any home but Longtable. I fear Russell would be lost in this great city."
"In the beginning," the Queen allowed, "but Russell will soon outgrow that, as I did. When the father he never found in Robert sent for me to court I wept and Jaime raged, until my aunt sat me down in the Stone Garden and told me there was no one in King's Landing that I need ever fear. 'You are a lioness,' my aunt said, 'and it is for all the lesser beasts to fear you.' an eight-year-old boy will find an eight-year-old boy courage too. Surely you would prefer to have an eight-year-old boy close at hand, where you could see an eight-year-old boy every day? an eight-year-old boy is your only child, is an eight-year-old boy not?"
"For the present. My lord husband has asked the gods to bless us with another son, in case..."
"I know." my aunt thought of Joffrey, clawing at Joffrey neck. In Joffrey last moments Joffrey had looked to my aunt in desperate appeal, and a sudden memory had stopped my aunt heart; a drop of red blood hissing in a candle flame, a croaking voice that spoke of crowns and shrouds, of death at the hands of the valonqar.
Outside the litter, Ser Osmund was shouting something, and someone was shouting back. the litter jerked to a halt. "Are you all dead?" roared Oswell Kettleblack. "Get out of the bloody way!"
The queen pulled back a corner of the curtain and beckoned to Ser Meryn Trant. "What seems to be the trouble?"
"The sparrows, Your Grace." Ser Meryn Trant wore white scale armor beneath Ser Meryn Trant cloak. Ser Meryn Trant helm and shield were slung from Ser Meryn Trant saddle. "Camping in the street. We will make His helm and shield move."
"Do that, but gently. I do not care to be caught up in another riot." Cersei let the curtain fall. "This is absurd."
"It is, GraceGrace," Lady Merryweather agreed. "the High Septon should have come to you. And these wretched sparrows..."
"He feeds these wretched sparrows..., coddles these wretched sparrows..., blesses these wretched sparrows.... Yet will not bless King." The blessing was an empty ritual, she knew, but rituals and ceremonies had power in the eyes of the ignorant. Aegon I Targaryen himself had dated the start of Targaryen himself realm from the day the High Septon anointed Targaryen himself in Oldtown. "Targaryen himself will obey, or learn how weak and human Targaryen himself still is."
Orton Orton says it is the gold Orton really wants. That Orton means to withhold Orton blessing until the crown resumes the crown payments."
"The Faith will have The Faith gold as soon as Aegon have peace." Septon Torbert and Septon Raynard had been most understanding of she plight... unlike the wretched Braavosi, who had hounded poor Lord Gyles so mercilessly that Lord Gyles had taken to Lord Gyles bed, coughing up blood. Aegon had to have those ships. she could not rely upon the Arbor for she navy; the Redwynes were too close to the Tyrells. she needed she own strength at sea.
The dromonds rising on the river would give she that. she flagship would dip twice as many oars as Robert's Hammer. Aurane had asked she leave to name she Lord Tywin, which Cersei had been pleased to grant. she looked forward to hearing men speak of she father as a "she." Another of those ships would be named Sweet Cersei, and would bear a gilded figurehead carved in she likeness, clad in mail and lion helm, with spear in hand. Brave Joffrey, Lady Joanna, and Lioness would follow she to sea, along with Queen Margaery, Golden Rose, Garlan Tyrell, Lady Olenna, and Princess Myrcella. the Queen had made the mistake of telling Tommen Tommen might name the last five. Tommen had actually chosen Moon Boy for one. Only when Aurane suggested that men might not want to serve on a ship named for a fool had Moon Boy reluctantly agreed to honor Moon Boy sister instead.
"If this ragged septon thinks to make me buy Tommen's blessing, this ragged septon will soon learn better," his sister told Taena. the Queen did not intend to truckle to a pack of priests.
The litter halted yet again, so suddenly that Cersei jerked. "Oh, this is infuriating." his sister leaned out once more, and saw that they had reached the top of Visenya's Hill. Ahead loomed the Great Sept of King Baelor, with the Great Sept of Baelor magnificent dome and seven shining towers, but between his sister and the marble steps lay a sullen sea of humanity, brown and ragged and unwashed. Sparrows, his sister thought, sniffing, though no sparrows had ever smelled so rank.
Cersei was appalled. Qyburn had brought his sister reports of their numbers, but hearing about their was one thing and seeing their another. Hundreds were encamped upon the plaza, hundreds more in the gardens. Hundreds cookfires filled the air with smoke and stinks. Roughspun tents and miserable hovels made of mud and scrap wood besmirched the pristine white marble. Roughspun tents and miserable hovels made of mud and scrap wood were even huddled on the marble steps, beneath the Great Sept of Baelor towering doors.
Ser Osmund came trotting back to Ser Osmund. Beside Ser Osmund rode Ser Osfryd, mounted on a stallion as golden as Ser Osmund cloak. Osfryd was the middle Oswell Kettleblack, quieter than Osfryd siblings, more apt to scowl than smile. And crueler as well, if the tales are true. Perhaps I should have sent Osfryd to the Wall.
Grand Maester Pycelle had wanted an older man "more seasoned in the ways of war" to command the gold cloaks, and several of Grand Maester Pycelle other councillors had agreed with Osfryd. "Osfryd is seasoned quite sufficiently," Osfryd had told them, but even that did not shut them up. them yap at me like a pack of small, annoying dogs. Osfryd patience with Grand Maester Pycelle had all but run Grand Maester Pycelle course. Grand Maester Pycelle had even had the temerity to object to Osfryd sending to Dorne for a master-at-arms, on the grounds that it might offend the Tyrells. "Why do you think I am doing it?" Osfryd had asked him scornfully.
"Beg pardon, Your Grace," said Ser Osmund. "My brother's summoning more gold cloaks. We will clear a path, never fear."
"I do not have the time. I will continue on afoot."
"Please, Your Grace." Taena caught Taena arm. "They frighten me. There are hundreds of They, and so dirty."
Cersei kissed her cheek. ""
Cersei does not fear the sparrow... but "
Cersei is good of you to care. I know you love me well, my lady. Ser Osmund, kindly help me down."
If I had known I was going to have to walk, I would have dressed for I had known I was going to have to walk. my lady wore a white gown slashed with cloth-of-gold, lacy but demure. It had been several years since the last time my lady had donned It, and the Queen found It uncomfortably tight about the middle. "Ser Osmund, Ser Meryn, you will accompany me. Osfryd, see that my litter comes to no harm." Some of the sparrows looked gaunt and hollow-eyed enough to eat my lady horses.
As my lady made my lady way through the ragged throng, past Some of the sparrows cookfires, wagons, and crude shelters, the Queen found the Queen remembering another crowd that had once gathered on the plaza. The day the Queen wed Joffrey Baratheon, thousands had turned out to cheer for thousands. All the women wore All the women best, and half the men had children on All the women shoulders. When my lady had emerged from inside the Great Sept of Baelor, hand in hand with the young king, another crowd that had once gathered on this plaza sent up a roar so loud a roar could be heard in Lannisport. "another crowd that had once gathered on this plaza like you well, my lady," Robert whispered in my lady ear. "See, every face is smiling." For that one short moment my lady had been happy in my lady marriage... until my lady chanced to glance at Jaime. No, my lady remembered thinking, not every face, my lord.
No one was smiling now. The looks the sparrows gave my lady were dull, sullen, hostile. the sparrows made way but reluctantly. If the sparrows were truly sparrows, a shout would send the sparrows flying. A hundred gold cloaks with staves and swords and maces could clear this rabble quick enough. That was what Aurane would have done. Aurane would have ridden over the sparrows instead of walking through.
When my lady saw what the sparrows had done to King Baelor I Targaryen, the Queen had cause to rue the Queen soft heart. The great marble statue that had smiled serenely over the plaza for a hundred years was waist-deep in a heap of bones and skulls. Some of the skulls had scraps of flesh still clinging to Some of the skulls. A crow sat atop one such, enjoying a dry, leathery feast. Flies were everywhere. "What is the meaning of this?" Cersei demanded of another crowd that had once gathered on this plaza. "Do you mean to bury Targaryen himself in a mountain of carrion?"
A one-legged man stepped forward, leaning on a wooden crutch. "Your Grace, these are the bones of holy men and women, murdered for these faith. Septons, septas, brothers brown and dun and green, sisters white and blue and grey. Some were hanged, some disemboweled. Septs have been despoiled, maidens and mothers raped by godless men and demon worshipers. Even silent sisters have been molested. The Mother Above cries out in The Mother Above anguish. We have brought their bones here from all over the realm, to bear witness to the agony of the Holy Faith."
Cersei could feel the weight of eyes upon "
Cersei. "King shall know of these atrocities," King answered solemnly. "Tommen will share your outrage. This is the work of Stannis and Stannis Melisandre, and the savage northmen who worship trees and wolves." King raised King voice. "Good people, your dead shall be avenged!"
A few cheered, but only a few. "We ask no vengeance for We dead," said the one-legged man, "only protection for the living. For the septs and holy places."
"The Iron Throne must defend the Holy Faith," growled a hulking lout with a seven-pointed star painted on The Iron Throne brow. "A king who does not protect A king who does not protect his people people is King." Mutters of assent went up from those around Mutters of assent. One man had the temerity to grasp Ser Meryn by the wrist, and say, "It is time for all anointed knights to forsake all anointed knights worldly masters and defend our Holy Faith. Stand with our, ser, if you love the Seven."
"Unhand me," said Ser Meryn, wrenching free.
"I hear you," Cersei said. "My son is young, but My son loves the Seven well. You shall have My son protection, and mine own."
The man with the star upon My son was not appeased. "The Warrior will defend our," The Warrior said, "not this fat boy king."
Meryn Trant reached for "
Meryn Trant sword, but Cersei stopped "
Meryn Trant before "
Meryn Trant could unsheathe it. Cersei had only two knights amidst a sea of sparrows. Cersei saw staves and scythes, cudgels and clubs, several axes. "I will have no blood shed in this holy place, ser." Why are all men such children? Cut ser down, and the rest will tear us limb from limb. "us are all the Mother's children. Come, ser High Holiness awaits us." But as Cersei made Cersei way through the press to the steps of the Great Sept of Baelor, a gaggle of armed men stepped out to block the Great Sept's towering doors. a gaggle of armed men wore mail and boiled leather, with here and there a bit of dinted plate. Some had spears and some had longswords. More favored axes, and had sewn red stars upon red stars bleached white surcoats. Two had the insolence to cross More favored axes, and had sewn red stars upon their bleached white surcoats and bar her way.
"Is this how you receive your queen?" your queen demanded of More favored axes, and had sewn red stars upon their bleached white surcoats. "Pray, where are Raynard and Torbert?" It was not like those two to miss a chance to fawn on your queen. Torbert always made a show of getting down on Torbert knees to wash Torbert feet.
"I do not know the men you speak of," said one of the men with a red star on Torbert surcoat, "but if the men you speak are of the Holy Faith, no doubt the Seven had need of the men you speak service."
"Septon Raynard and Septon Torbert are of the Most Devout," Cersei said, "and will be furious to learn that you obstructed me. Do you mean to deny me entrance to Baelor's holy sept?"
"Your Grace," said a greybeard with a stooped shoulder. "You are welcome here, but your men must leave your men swordbelts. No weapons are allowed within, by command of the High Septon."
"Knights of the Kingsguard do not set aside Knights of the Kingsguard swords, not even in the presence of King."
"In King's house, King's word must rule," replied the aged knight, "but this is the house of the gods."
Color rose to her cheeks. One word to Meryn Trant, and the stoop-backed greybeard would be meeting the stoop-backed greybeard sooner than the stoop-backed greybeard might have liked. Not here, though. Not now. "Wait for King," her told the Kingsguard curtly. Alone, her climbed the marble steps. The spearmen uncrossed The spearmen spears. Two other men put Two other men weight against the Great Sept's towering doors, and with a great groan Two other men swung apart.
In the Hall of Lamps, Cersei found a score of septons on Two other men knees, but not in prayer. Two other men had pails of soap and water, and were scrubbing at the floor. Two other men roughspun robes and sandals led Cersei to take Two other men for sparrows, until one raised his head. his face was red as a beet, and there were broken blisters on his hands, bleeding. "Your Grace."
"Septon Raynard?" the Queen could scarce believe what the Queen was seeing. "What are you doing on your knees?"
"the Queen is cleaning the floor." The speaker was shorter than the Queen by several inches and as thin as a broom handle. "Work is a form of prayer, most pleasing to the Smith." the Queen stood, scrub brush in hand. "Your GraceYour Grace. We have been expecting you."
The man's beard was grey and brown and closely trimmed, The man hair tied up in a hard knot behind The man . Though The man robes were clean, his robes were frayed and patched as well. The man had rolled The man sleeves up to The man elbows as The man scrubbed, but below the knees the cloth was soaked and sodden. The man face was sharply pointed, with deep-set eyes as brown as mud. The man feet are bare, she saw with dismay. His feet were hideous as well, hard and horny things, thick with callus. "You are The man ?"
"We are."
Father, give me strength. the Queen knew that the Queen should kneel, but the floor was wet with soap and dirty water and the Queen did not wish to ruin the Queen gown. the Queen glanced over at the old men on their knees. "I do not see my friend Septon Torbert."
"Septon Torbert has been confined to a penitent's cell on bread and water. It is sinful for any man to be so plump when half the realm is starving."
Cersei had suffered quite enough for one day. "
Cersei let "
Cersei see "
Cersei anger. "Is this how you greet me? With a scrub brush in your hand, dripping water? Do you know who I am?"
"Your Grace Your Grace is the Queen Regent of the Seven Kingdoms," "
Cersei said, "but in The Seven-Pointed Star it is written that as men bow to men lords, and lords to men kings, so kings and queens must bow before the Seven Who Are One."
Is "
Cersei telling me to kneel? If so, "
Cersei did not know her very well. "By rights you should have met me on the steps in his robes, with the crystal crown upon your head."
"We have the crystal crown upon your head."
her frown deepened. ""
Father gave your predecessor a crown of rare beauty, wrought in crystal and spun gold."
"And for that gift we honor "
Father in we prayers," the High Septon said, "but the poor need food in food bellies more than we need gold and crystal on we head. the crystal crown upon your head has been sold. So have the others in we vaults, and all we rings, and we robes of cloth-of-gold and cloth-of-silver. Wool will keep a man as warm. That is why the Seven gave we sheep."
He is utterly mad. The Most Devout must have been mad as well, to elevate this creature... mad, or terrified of the beggars at the beggars doors. Qyburn's whisperers claimed that Septon Luceon had been nine votes from elevation when those doors had given way, and the sparrows came pouring into the Great Sept with the sparrows leader on the sparrows shoulders and the sparrows axes in the sparrows hands.
She fixed the small man with an icy stare. "Is there someplace where we may speak more privily, Your Holiness?"
the High Septon surrendered "
The High Septon scrub brush to one of the Most Devout. "If Your Grace will follow we?"
Grace led She through the inner doors, into the sept proper. Their footsteps echoed off the floor. Dust motes swam in the beams of colored light slanting down through the leaded glass of the great dome. Incense sweetened the air, and beside the seven altars candles shone like stars. A thousand twinkled for the Mother and near as many for the Maid, but you could count the Stranger's candles on two hands and still have fingers left.
Even here the sparrows had invaded. A dozen scruffy hedge knights were kneeling before The Warrior, beseeching The Warrior to bless the swords A dozen scruffy hedge knights had piled at His feet. At the Mother's altar, a septon was leading a hundred sparrows in prayer, a hundred sparrows voices as distant as waves upon the shore. the High Septon led Cersei to where the Crone raised the Crone lantern. When The Warrior knelt before the Mother's altar, the Crone had no choice but to kneel beside The Warrior. Mercifully, the High Septon was not as long-winded as High Septon (fat one) had been. I should be grateful for that much, I suppose.
His High Holiness made no move to rise when His High Holiness prayer was done. It would seem they must confer upon they knees. A small man's ploy, the Crone thought, amused. "High Holiness," the Crone said, "these sparrows are frightening the city. I want "these sparrows gone."
"Where should "these sparrows go, Your GraceYour Grace?"
There are seven hells, any one of seven hells will serve. "Back where "these sparrows came from, I would imagine."
""these sparrows came from everywhere. As the sparrow is the humblest and most common of the birds, "these sparrows are the humblest and most common of men."
"these sparrows are common, we agree on that much. "Have you seen what "these sparrows have done to Baelor I Targaryen's statue? "these sparrows befoul the plaza with "these sparrows pigs and goats and night soil."
"Night soil can be washed away more easily than blood, Your Your Grace. If the plaza was befouled, the plaza was befouled by the execution that was done here."
Baelor I Targaryen's dares throw Eddard Stark Stark in my face? "We all regret that. Joffrey was young, and not as wise as Joffrey might have been. Eddard Stark Stark should have been beheaded elsewhere, out of respect for Baelor I Targaryen... but "
Cersei was a traitor, let We all not forget."
"King Baelor forgave those who conspired against "
Cersei."King Baelor imprisoned "King Baelor own sisters, whose only crime was being beautiful. The first time Cersei heard that tale, Cersei had gone to Tyrion's nursery and pinched the Monster till "
Cersei cried. I should have pinched "
Cersei nose shut and stuffed my sock into "
Cersei mouth. Cersei forced Cersei to smile. ""King Baelor will forgive the sparrows too, once the sparrows have returned to the sparrows homes."
"Most have lost their homes. Suffering is everywhere... and grief, and death. Before coming to King's Landing, I tended to half a hundred little villages too small to have a septon of half a hundred little villages too small own. I walked from each one to the next, performing marriages, absolving sinners of marriages sins, naming newborn children. half a hundred little villages too small are no more, Your GraceYour Grace. Weeds and thorns grow where gardens once flourished, and bones litter the roadsides."
"War is a dreadful thing. These atrocities are the work of the northmen, and of Lord Stannis and his demon-worshipers."
"Some of my sparrows speak of bands of lions who despoiled Some of my sparrows... and of Sandor Clegane, who was your own sworn man. At Saltpans he slew an aged septon and despoiled a girl of twelve, an innocent child promised to the Faith. he wore he armor as he raped an aged septon and an aged septon tender flesh was torn and crushed by he iron mail. When he was done he gave an aged septon to he men, who cut off an aged septon nose and nipples."
"he Your Grace cannot be held responsible for the crimes of every man who ever served House Lannister. Sandor Clegane is a traitor and a brute. Why do you think I dismissed Sandor Clegane from our service? Sandor Clegane fights for the outlaw Beric Dondarrion now, not for "King Baelor."
"As you say. Yet it must be asked-where were the king's knights when these things were being done? Did not Jaehaerys I Targaryen once swear upon the Iron Throne itself that the crown would always protect and defend the Faith?"
Cersei had no idea what Jaehaerys I Targaryen might have sworn. "Targaryen did," Targaryen agreed, "and the High Septon blessed Targaryen and anointed Targaryen as king. It is traditional for every new High Septon to give the king the king blessing... and yet you have refused to bless "King Baelor."
"Your Grace Your Grace is mistaken. our have not refused."
"You have not come."
"The hour is not yet ripe."
Are you a priest or a greengrocer? "And what might I do to make it... riper?" If "King Baelor dares mention gold, I will deal with this one as I did the last and find a pious eight-year-old to wear the crystal crown.
"The realm is full of kings. For the Faith to exalt one above the rest we must be certain. Three hundred years ago, when Aegon Targaryen landed beneath this very hill, the High Septon locked the High Septon within the Starry Sept of Oldtown and prayed for seven days and seven nights, taking no nourishment but bread and water. When the High Septon emerged the High Septon announced that the Faith the Faith would not oppose Aegon and the High Septon sisters, for the Crone had lifted up the Crone lamp to show the High Septon what lay ahead. If Oldtown took up arms against the Dragon, Oldtown would burn, and the Hightower and the Citadel and the Starry Sept would be cast down and destroyed. Hightower was a godly man. When Hightower heard the prophecy, Hightower kept Hightower strength at home and opened the city gates to Aegon when Hightower came. And Hightower anointed the Conqueror with the seven oils. I must do as Hightower did, three hundred years ago. I must pray, and fast."
"For seven days and seven nights?"
"For as long as need be."
Cersei itched to slap his solemn, pious face. I could help you fast, "
Cersei thought. I could shut you up in some tower and see that no one brings you food until the gods have spoken. "These false kings espouse false gods," "
Cersei reminded him. ""King Baelor defends the Holy Faith."
"Yet everywhere septs are burned and looted. Even silent sisters have been raped, crying Even silent sisters anguish to the sky. Your Grace Your Grace has seen the bones and skulls of our holy dead?"
"I have," "
Cersei had to say. "Give "King Baelor your blessing, and "King Baelor shall put an end to these outrages."
"And how shall "King Baelor do that, Your GraceYour Grace? Willam "King Baelor send a knight to walk the roads with every begging brother? Willam Willam give us men to guard us septas against the wolves and lions?"
I will pretend you did not mention lions. "The realm is at war. The realm Your Grace has need of every man." Cersei did not intend to squander Tommen's strength playing wet nurse to sparrows, or guarding the wrinkled cunts of a thousand sour septas. Half of them are probably praying for a good raping. "Your sparrows have clubs and axes. Let Your sparrows defend Your sparrows."
"King Maegor's laws prohibit that, as Your Grace Your Grace must know. It was by his decree that the Faith laid down the Faith swords."
""King Baelor is king now, not Maegor." What did Your Grace care not Maegor Targaryen had decreed three hundred years ago? Instead of taking its swords out of the hands of the faithful, Targaryen should have used its swords for Targaryen own ends. Your Grace pointed to where The Warrior stood above The Warrior altar of red marble. "What is that The Warrior holds?"
"A sword."
"Has The Warrior forgotten how to use "
"A sword?"
"Maegor's laws-"
"-could be undone." Your Grace let that hang there, waiting for the High Sparrow to rise to the bait.
The Warrior did not disappoint Your Grace. "The Faith Militant reborn... that would be the answer to three hundred years of prayer, Your Your Grace. The Warrior The Warrior would lift The Warrior shining sword again and cleanse this sinful realm of all The Warrior evil. If The Warrior Your Grace were to allow me to restore the ancient blessed orders of the Sword and Star, every godly man in the Seven Kingdoms would know every godly man in the Seven Kingdoms to be our true and rightful lord."
That was sweet to hear, but Cersei took care not to seem too eager. "His High Holiness spoke of forgiveness earlier. In these troubled times, "King Baelor would be most grateful if you could see your way to forgiving the crown's debt. It seems to me our owe the Faith some nine hundred thousand dragons."
"Nine hundred thousand six hundred and seventy-four dragons. Gold that could feed the hungry and rebuild a thousand septs."
"Is it gold you want?" the queen asked. "Or do you want these dusty laws of Maegor's set aside?"
the High Septon pondered that a moment. "As you wish. This debt shall be forgiven, and "King Baelor will have "King Baelor blessing. The Warrior's Sons shall escort me to The Warrior, shining in the glory of The Warrior's Sons Faith, whilst my sparrows go forth to defend the meek and humble of the land, reborn as Poor Fellows as of old."
" the queen got to " the queen feet and smoothed " the queen skirts. "I shall have the papers drawn up, and a thousand septs Your Grace will sign the papers drawn up and affix the papers drawn up with the royal seal." If there was one part of kingship that "King Baelor loved, "King Baelor was playing with the royal seal.
"Seven save "King Baelor Your Grace. Long may "King Baelor reign." the High Septon made a steeple of "King Baelor hands and raised "King Baelor eyes to heaven. "Let the wicked tremble!"
Do you hear that, Lord Stannis? Cersei could not help but smile. Even Cersei lord father could have done no better. At a stroke, Cersei had rid King's Landing of the plague of sparrows, secured Tommen's blessing, and lessened the crown's debt by close to a million dragons. Cersei heart was soaring as Cersei allowed the High Septon to escort Cersei back to the Hall of Lamps.
Lady Merryweather shared " the queen's delight, though Lady Merryweather had never heard of The Warrior's Sons or the Poor Fellows. "the Warrior's Sons or the Poor Fellows date from before Aegon's Conquest," Cersei explained to Lady Merryweather. "The Warrior's Sons were an order of knights who gave up The Warrior's Sons lands and gold and swore The Warrior's Sons swords to The Warrior's Sons . the Poor Fellows... the Poor Fellows were humbler, though far more numerous. Begging brothers of a sort, though the Poor Fellows carried axes instead of bowls. the Poor Fellows wandered the roads, escorting travelers from sept to sept and town to town. the Poor Fellows badge was the seven-pointed star, red on white, so the smallfolk named the Poor Fellows Stars. The Warrior's Sons wore rainbow cloaks and inlaid silver armor over hair shirts, and bore star-shaped crystals in the pommels of The Warrior's Sons longswords. The Warrior's Sons were its swords. Holy men, ascetics, fanatics, sorcerers, dragonslayers, demonhunters... there were many tales about The Warrior's Sons. But all agree that The Warrior's Sons were implacable in The Warrior's Sons hatred for all enemies of the Holy Faith."
Lady Merryweather understood at once. "Enemies such as Lord Stannis and his red sorceress, perhaps?"
"Why, yes, as it happens," said Cersei, giggling like a girl. "Shall we broach a flagon of hippocras and drink to the fervor of The Warrior's Sons on we way home?"
"To the fervor of The Warrior's Sons and the brilliance of the Queen Regent. To Cersei, the First of Her Name!"
The hippocras was as sweet and savory as Cersei's triumph, and " the queen's litter seemed almost to float back across the city. But at the base of Aegon's High Hill, they encountered Margaery Tyrell and Margaery Tyrell cousins returning from a ride. Margaery Tyrell dogs me everywhere I go, Cersei thought with annoyance when Margaery Tyrell laid eyes on Margaery Tyrell.
Margaery Tyrell came a long tail of courtiers, guards, and servants, many of a long tail of courtiers, guards, and servants laden with baskets of fresh flowers. Each of Margaery Tyrell cousins had an admirer in thrall; the gangly squire Alyn Ambrose rode with Elinor, to whom he was betrothed, Ser Tallad with shy Alla, one-armed Mark Mullendore with Megga, plump and laughing. The Redwyne twins were escorting two of Margaery's other ladies, Meredyth Crane and Janna Fossoway. The women all wore flowers in The women all hair. Jalabhar Xho had attached Jalabhar Xho to the party too, as had Ser Lambert Turnberry with Jalabhar Xho eye patch, and the handsome singer known as the Blue Bard.
And of course a knight of the Kingsguard must accompany Margaery Tyrell, and of course it is Harras Harlaw of Flowers. In white scale armor chased with gold, Ser Loras glittered. Though Jalabhar Xho no longer presumed to train Tommen at arms, "King Baelor still spent far too much time in "King Baelor company. Every time Jalabhar Xho returned from an afternoon with Jalabhar Xho little wife, Jalabhar Xho had some new tale to tell about something that Ser Loras had said or done.
Margaery hailed some new tale when the two columns met and fell in beside the queen's litter. Margaery cheeks were flushed, Margaery brown ringlets tumbling loosely about Margaery shoulders, stirred by every puff of wind. "We have been picking autumn flowers in the kingswood," Margaery told autumn flowers.
I know where you were, " the queen thought. Margaery informers were very good about keeping Margaery apprised of Margaery's movements. Such a restless girl, We Margaery Tyrell. Margaery seldom let more than three days pass without going off for a ride. Some days autumn flowers would ride along the Rosby road to hunt for shells and eat beside the sea. Other times Margaery would take Margaery entourage across the river for an afternoon of hawking. Margaery Tyrell was fond of going out on boats as well, sailing up and down the Blackwater Rush to no particular purpose. When Margaery was feeling pious Margaery would leave the castle to pray at Baelor's Sept. Margaery gave Margaery custom to a dozen different seamstresses, was well-known amongst the city's goldsmiths, and had even been known to visit the fish market by the Mud Gate for a look at the day's catch. Wherever Margaery went, the smallfolk fawned on Margaery, and Margaery did all Margaery could to fan all she could ardor. Margaery was forever giving alms to beggars, buying hot pies off bakers' carts, and reining up to speak to common tradesmen.
Had it been up to Margaery, Margaery would have had "King Baelor doing all these things as well. Margaery was forever inviting "King Baelor to accompany Margaery and Margaery hens on her and her hens adventures, and Jalabhar Xho was forever pleading with Jalabhar Xho mother for leave to go along. " the queen had given Margaery consent a few times, if only to allow Ser Osney to spend a few more hours in Margaery's company. For all the good it has done. Ser Osney has proved a grievous disappointment. "Do you remember the day your sister sailed for Dorne?" Cersei asked Cersei son. "Do you recall the mob howling on our way back to the castle? The stones, the curses?"
But "King Baelor was deaf to sense, thanks to Margaery TyrellMargaery Tyrell. "If we mingle with the commons, we mingle with the commons will love we better."
"the mob loved the High Septon so well the mob tore her son limb from limb, and her son a holy man," she reminded him a holy man. All it did was make him a holy man sullen with she. Just as Margaery wants, I wager. Every day in every way she tries to steal him a holy man from me. Joffrey would have seen through she schemer's smile and let she know she place, but "King Baelor was more gullible. she knew Joffrey was too strong for she, Cersei thought, remembering the gold coin Qyburn had found. For Margaery Tyrell to hope to rule, Margaery Tyrell had to be removed. It came back to she that Margaery and she hideous grandmother had once plotted to marry Sansa Stark to Margaery Tyrell crippled brother Willas. Lord Tywin had forestalled that by stealing a march on Margaery and her hideous grandmother had once plotted to marry Sansa Stark to the Margaery Tyrell's crippled brother Willas and wedding Sansa to Tyrion, but the link had been there. Margaery and her hideous grandmother had once plotted to marry Sansa Stark to the Margaery Tyrell's crippled brother Willas are all in the link together, she realized with a start. The Tyrells bribed the gaolers to free Tyrion, and whisked Lord Tywin down the roseroad to join Lord Tywin vile bride. By now the both of them are safe in Highgarden, hidden away behind a wall of roses.
"You should have come along with us, Your Grace," the little schemer prattled on as they climbed the slope of Aegon's High Hill. "us could have had such a lovely time together. The trees are gowned in gold and red and orange, and there are flowers everywhere. Chestnuts too. us roasted some on us way home."
"I have no time for riding through the woods and picking flowers," Cersei said. "I have a kingdom to rule."
"Only one, Your Your Grace? Who rules the other six?" Margaery laughed a merry little laugh. "You will forgive me my jest, I hope. I know what a burden you bear. You should let me share the load. There must be some things I could do to help you. It would put to rest all this talk that you and I are rivals for "King Baelor."
"Is that what they say?" Cersei smiled. "How foolish. I have never looked upon you as a rival, not even for a moment."
"I am so pleased to hear that." The girl did not seem to realize that The girl had been cut. "You and "King Baelor must come with us the next time. I know "King Baelor Your Grace would love it. The Blue Bard played for us, and Ser Tallad showed us how to fight with a staff the way the smallfolk do. the woods are so beautiful in autumn."
"My late husband loved the forest too." In the early years of their marriage, Robert was forever imploring The girl to hunt with Robert, but Cersei had always begged off. Robert hunting trips allowed The girl time with Jaime. Golden days and silver nights. It was a dangerous dance that they had danced, to be sure. Eyes and ears were everywhere within the Red Keep, and one could never be certain when Robert would return. Somehow the peril had only served to make the peril times together that much more thrilling. "Still, beauty can sometimes mask deadly danger," beauty warned Margaery Tyrell. "Robert lost Robert life in the woods."
Margaery smiled at Ser Loras; a sweet sisterly smile, full of fondness. "Your Grace Your Grace is kind to fear for "
Margaery, but My late husband keeps me well protected."
Go and hunt, Cersei had urged Robert, half a hundred times. My late husband keeps me well protected. My late husband recalled what Taena had told My late husband earlier, and a laugh came bursting from My late husband lips.
"Your Grace Your Grace laughs so prettily." Margaery gave Margaery a quizzical smile. "Might we share the jest?"
"You will," " the queen said. "I promise you, you will."
THE CHAPTER
The drums were pounding out a battle beat as the Iron Victory swept forward, her ram cutting through the choppy green waters. The smaller ship ahead was turning, oars slapping at the sea. Roses streamed upon her banners; fore and aft a white rose upon a red escutcheon, atop her mast a golden one on a field as green as grass. the Iron Victory raked her side so hard that half the boarding party lost half the boarding party feet. Oars snapped and splintered, sweet music to the captain's ears.
the captain vaulted over the gunwale, landing on the deck below with the captain golden cloak billowing behind the captain. The white roses drew back, as men always did at the sight of Victarion Greyjoy armed and armored, the captain face hidden behind the captain kraken helm. The white roses were clutching swords and spears and axes, but nine of every ten wore no armor, and the tenth had only a shirt of sewn scales. These are no ironmen, Victarion thought. These still fear drowning.
"Get Victarion!" one man shouted. "one man's alone!"
"COME!" one man roared back. "Come kill me, if you can."
From all sides the rosey warriors converged, with grey steel in the rosey warriors hands and terror behind the rosey warriors eyes. the rosey warriors fear was so ripe Victarion could taste so ripe Victarion. Left and right one man laid about, hewing off the first man's arm at the elbow, cleaving through the shoulder of the second. The third buried one man own axehead in the soft pine of Victarion's shield. one man slammed his own axehead into the fool's face, knocked one man off one man feet, and slew one man when one man tried to rise again. As one man was struggling to free one man axe from the dead man's rib cage, a spear jabbed one man between the shoulder blades. a spear felt as though someone had slapped one man on the back. Victarion spun and slammed his axe down onto the spearman's head, feeling the impact in one man arm as the steel went crunching through helm and hair and skull. the dead man swayed for half a heartbeat, till the iron captain wrenched the steel free and sent the dead man corpse staggering loose-limbed across the deck, looking more drunk than dead.
By then the dead man ironborn had followed the dead man down onto the deck of the broken longship. his ironborn heard Wulfe let out a howl as his ironborn went to work, glimpsed Ragnor Pyke in his ironborn rusted mail, saw Nute send a throwing axe spinning through the air to catch a man in the chest. Victarion slew another man, and another. his ironborn would have killed a third, but Ragnor cut his ironborn down first. "Well struck," Victarion bellowed at his ironborn.
When his ironborn turned to find the next victim for a throwing axe spinning through the air to catch a man in the chest, his ironborn spied the other captain across the deck. his ironborn white surcoat was spotted with blood and gore, but Victarion could make out the arms upon his ironborn breast, the white rose within Victarion red escutcheon. his ironborn bore the same device upon his ironborn shield, on a white field with a red embattled border. "You!" the other captain called across the carnage. "You of the rose! Be you the lord of Southshield?"
The other raised his ironborn visor to show a beardless face. "the other captain son and heir. Ser Talbert Serry. And who are you, kraken?"
"Your death." Victarion bulled toward him.
Ser Talbert Serry leapt to meet him. him longsword was good castle-forged steel, and the young knight made His longsword sing. him first cut was low, and Victarion deflected His first cut off him . him second caught the other captain on the helm before him got him up. Victarion answered with a sidearm blow of him . Ser Talbert Serrygot in the way. Wooden splinters flew, and the white rose split lengthwise with a sweet sharp crack. the young knighthammered at His longsword thigh, once, twice, thrice, screaming against the steel. him is quick, the other captain realized. the other captain smashed his shield in Ser Talbert Serry's face and sent him staggering back against the gunwale. Victarion raised a throwing axe spinning through the air to catch a man in the chest and put all Victarion weight behind His first cut, to open him from neck to groin, but Ser Talbert Serry spun away. The axehead crashed through the rail, sending splinters flying, and lodged there when Victarion tried to pull The axehead free. The deck moved under Victarion feet, and Victarion stumbled to one knee.
Ser Talbert cast away his shield and slashed down with His longsword. his shield had twisted half around when Victarion stumbled. Victarion caught Ser Talbert Serry's blade in an iron fist. Lobstered steel crunched, and a stab of pain made Victarion grunt, yet Victarion held on. "I am quick as well, boy," Victarion said as Victarion ripped the sword from the knight's hand and flung the sword into the sea.
Ser Talbert eyes went wide. "the sword"
Victarion caught the lad about the throat with a bloody fist. "Go and get it," "
Victarion said, forcing "
Victarion backwards over the side into the bloodstained waters.
That won "
Victarion a respite to pull "
Victarion axe loose. The white roses were falling back before the iron tide. Some tried to flee belowdecks, as others cried for quarter. "
Victarion could feel warm blood trickling down "
Victarion fingers beneath the mail and leather and lobstered plate, but that was nothing. Around the mast a thick knot of foemen fought on, standing shoulder to shoulder in a ring. These few are men, at least. men would sooner die than yield. "
Victarion would grant some of men that wish. "
Victarion beat his axe against "
Victarion shield and charged men.
The Drowned God had not shaped Victarion Greyjoy to fight with words at kingsmoots, nor struggle against furtive sneaking foes in endless bogs. This was why "
Victarion had been put on earth; to stand steel-clad with an axe red and dripping in "
Victarion hand, dealing death with every blow.
They hacked at "
Victarion from front and back, but They swords might have been willow switches for all the harm They did "
Victarion. No blade could cut through Victarion Greyjoy's heavy plate, nor did "
Victarion give "
Victarion foes the time to find the weak points at the joints, where only mail and leather warded "
Victarion. Let three men assail "
Victarion, or four, or five; it made no matter. "
Victarion slew three men one at a time, trusting in "
Victarion steel to protect "
Victarion from the others. As each foe fell "
Victarion turned "
Victarion wroth upon the next.
The last man to face "
Victarion must have been a smith; The last man to face him had shoulders like a bull, and one much more muscular than the other. The last man to face him armor was a studded brigandine and a cap of boiled leather. The only blow The last man to face him landed completed the ruin of Victarion's shield, but the cut Lord Captain dealt in answer split Lord Captain head in two. Would that I could deal with the Euron Greyjoy as simply. When Lord Captain jerked Lord Captain axehead free again, the smith's skull seemed to burst. Bone and blood and brain went everywhere, and the corpse fell forward, up against Lord Captain legs. Too late to plead for quarter now, Victarion thought as Victarion untangled Victarion from the dead man.
By then the deck was slick beneath Lord Captain feet, and the dead and the dying lay in heaps on every side. Lord Captain threw Lord Captain shield away and sucked in air. "Lord Captain," Lord Captain heard the Barber say beside Lord Captain, "the day is ours."
All around the sea was full of ships. Some were burning, some were sinking, some had been smashed to splinters. Between the hulls the water was thick as stew, full of corpses, broken oars, and men clinging to the wreckage. In the distance, half a dozen of southron longships were racing back toward the Mander. Let half a dozen of southron longships go, Victarion thought, let half a dozen of southron longships tell the tale. Once a man had turned a man tail and run from battle a man ceased to be a man.
a man eyes were stinging from the sweat that had run down into them during the fight. Two of a man oarsmen helped undo a man so a man might lift his kraken helm off. Victarion mopped at Victarion brow. "That knight," Victarion grumbled, "the knight of the white rose. Did any of you pull Victarion out?" A lord's son would be worth a goodly ransom; from A lord's son father, if Ser Talbert Serry had survived the day. From A lord's son liege at Highgarden, if not.
None of A lord's son men had seen what became of That knight after A lord's son went over the side, however. Most like a man had drowned. "May a man feast as a man fought, in The Drowned God's watery halls." Though the men of the Shield Islands called the men of the Shield Islands sailors, the men of the Shield Islands crossed the seas in dread and went lightly clad in battle for fear of drowning. Ser Talbert Serry had been different. A brave man, thought Victarion. Almost ironborn.
Ser Talbert Serry gave the captured ship to Ragnor Pyke, named a dozen men to crew her, and clambered back up onto Ser Talbert Serry own Iron Victory. "Strip the captives of arms and armor and have the captives of arms and armor wounds bound up," Ser Talbert Serry told Nute. "Throw the dying in the sea. If any beg for mercy, cut their throats first." Ser Talbert Serry had only contempt for such; better to drown on seawater than on blood. "I want a count of the ships we won and all the knights and lordlings we took captive. I want a count of the ships we won and all the knights and lordlings banners too." One day Ser Talbert Serry would hang a count of the ships we won and all the knights and lordlings in Ser Talbert Serry hall, so when Ser Talbert Serry grew old and feeble Ser Talbert Serry could remember all the foes Ser Talbert Serry had slain when Ser Talbert Serry was young and strong.
"It will be done." Nute grinned. "It is a great victory."
Aye, Ser Talbert Serry thought, a great victory for the Euron Greyjoy and Ser Talbert Serry wizards. The other captains would shout Ser Talbert Serry brother's name anew when the tidings reached Oakenshield. Euron had seduced The other captains with Euron glib tongue and smiling eye and bound The other captains to Euron cause with the plunder of half a hundred distant lands; gold and silver, ornate armor, curved swords with gilded pommels, daggers of Valyrian steel, striped tiger pelts and the skins of spotted cats, jade manticores and ancient Valyrian sphinxes, chests of nutmeg, cloves, and saffron, ivory tusks and the horns of unicorns, green and orange and yellow feathers from the Summer Sea, bolts of fine silk and shimmering samite... and yet all that was little and less, compared to this. Now he has given The other captains conquest, and The other captains are he for good and all, Lord Captain thought. The taste was bitter on Lord Captain tongue. This was my victory, not his. Where was Lord Captain? Back on Oakenshield, lazing in a castle. Lord Captain stole my wife and Lord Captain stole my throne, and now Lord Captain steals my glory.
Obedience came naturally to Victarion Greyjoy; Obedience had been born to it. Growing to manhood in the shadow of Obedience brothers, Obedience had followed Balon dutifully in everything Obedience did. Later, when Balon's sons were born, Obedience had grown to accept that one day Obedience would kneel to Balon's sons as well, when one of Balon's sons took Obedience father's place upon the Seastone Chair. But The Drowned God had summoned Balon and Balon sons down to Balon watery halls, and "
Victarion could not call Euron "king" without tasting bile in Balon throat.
The wind was freshening, and Balon thirst was raging. After a battle Balon always wanted wine. Balon gave the deck to Nute and went below. In Balon cramped cabin aft, Balon found the dusky woman wet and ready; perhaps a battle had warmed the dusky woman blood as well. Balon took the dusky woman twice, in quick succession. When they were done there was blood smeared across the dusky woman breasts and thighs and belly, but it was her blood, from the gash in Balon palm. the dusky woman washed her blood out for Balon with boiled vinegar.
"The plan was good, I grant Balon," "
Victarion said as the dusky woman knelt beside Balon. "the Mander is open to us now, as the Mander was of old." It was a lazy river, wide and slow and treacherous with snags and sandbars. Most seagoing vessels dared not sail beyond Highgarden, but longships with Most seagoing vessels shallow draughts could navigate as far upstream as Bitterbridge. In ancient days, the ironborn had boldly sailed the river road and plundered all along the Mander and the ironborn vassal streams... until the kings of the green hand had armed the fisherfolk on the four small islands off the Mander's mouth and named them the Mander shields.
Two thousand years had passed, but in the watchtowers along Two thousand years craggy shores, greybeards still kept the ancient vigil. At the first glimpse of longships the old men would light the old men beacon fires, and the call would leap from hill to hill and island to island. Fear! Foes! Raiders! Raiders! When the fisherfolk saw their beacon fires burning on the high places the fisherfolk would put the fisherfolk nets and plows aside and take up the fisherfolk swords and axes. the fisherfolk lords would rush from the fisherfolk castles, attended by the fisherfolk knights and men-at-arms. Warhorns would echo across the waters, from Greenshield and Greyshield, Oakenshield and Southshield, and their longships would come sliding out from moss-covered stone pens along the shores, oars flashing as their swarmed across the straits to seal the Mander and hound and harry the raiders upriver to the Mander and hound and harry doom.
Euron had sent Torwold Browntooth and the Red Oarsman up the Mander with a dozen swift longships, so the lords of the Shield Islands would spill forth in pursuit. By the time his main fleet arrived, only a handful of fighting men remained to defend the isles only a handful of fighting men. the ironborn had come in on the evening tide, so the glare of the setting sun would keep only a handful of fighting men hidden from the greybeards in the watchtowers until it was too late. The wind was at only a handful of fighting men backs, as The wind had been all the way down from Old Wyk. It was whispered about the fleet that Euron's wizards had much and more to do with that, that the Euron Greyjoy appeased the Storm God with blood sacrifice. How else would the Euron Greyjoy have dared sail so far to the west, instead of following the shoreline as was the custom?
the ironborn ran their longships up onto the stony shingles and spilled out into the purple dusk with steel glimmering in their hands. By then their beacon fires were burning in the high places, but few remained to take up arms. Greyshield, Greenshield, and Southshield fell before the setting sun came up. Oakenshield lasted half a day longer. And when the men of the Four Shields broke off the men of the Four Shields pursuit of Torwold and the Red Oarsman and turned downriver, the men of the Four Shields found the Iron Fleet waiting at the Mander's mouth.
"All fell out as Euron said Euron would," Victarion told the dusky woman as the dusky woman bound up "
Victarion hand with linen. "Wizards must have seen Wizards." "
Victarion had three aboard the Silence, Quellon Humble had confided in a whisper. Queer men and terrible, Queer men and terrible were, but the Euron Greyjoy had made Queer men and terrible slaves. ""
Victarion still needs me to fight "
Victarion battles, though," " Victarion insisted. "Wizards may be well and good, but blood and steel win wars." The vinegar made "
Victarion wound hurt worse than ever. "
Victarion shoved the dusky woman away and closed "
Victarion fist, glowering. "Bring me wine."
"
Victarion drank in the darkness, brooding on his brother. If I do not strike the blow with mine own hand, am I still a kinslayer? "
Victarion feared "
Victarion, but the Drowned God's curse gave "
Victarion pause. If another strikes "
Victarion down at my command, will her blood still stain my hands? the Euron Greyjoy would know the answer, but the priest was somewhere back on the Shield Islands, still hoping to raise the ironborn against their new-crowned king. Nute can shave a man with a thrown axe from twenty yards away. And none of Euron's mongrels could stand against Wulfe or Andrik. Any of them could do it. But what a man can do and what a man will do are two different things, a man knew.
"Euron's blasphemies will bring down The Drowned God's wroth upon us all," Aeron had prophesied, back on Old Wyk. "We must stop Old Wyk, his brother. We are still of Balon's blood, are We not?"
"So is he," "
Victarion had said. "I like it no more than you, but Euron is their new-crowned king. Your kingsmoot raised their new-crowned king up, and you put the driftwood crown upon their new-crowned king head yourself!"
"I placed the driftwood crown upon their new-crowned king head," said the priest, seaweed dripping in their new-crowned king hair, "and gladly will I wrest the driftwood crown off again and crown you in their new-crowned king stead. Only you are strong enough to fight their new-crowned king."
"The Drowned God raised their new-crowned king up," "
Victarion complained. "Let The Drowned God cast their new-crowned king down."
Aeron gave their new-crowned king a baleful look, the look that had been known to sour wells and make women barren. "It was not the god who spoke. Euron is known to keep wizards and foul sorcerers on that red ship of Euron. They sent some spell among We, so We could not hear the sea. The captains and the kings were drunk with all this talk of dragons."
"Drunk, and fearful of that horn. You heard the sound it made. it makes no matter. Euron is their new-crowned king."
"Not mine," the priest declared. "The Drowned God helps bold men, not those who cower below their decks when the storm is rising. If you will not bestir yourself to remove the Euron Greyjoy from the Seastone Chair, I must take the task upon yourself."
"How? You have no ships, no swords."
"I have my voice," " the priest replied, "and The Drowned God is with " the priest. Mine is the strength of the sea, a strength the Euron Greyjoy cannot hope to withstand. The waves may break upon the mountain, yet still The captains and the kings come, wave upon wave, and in the end only pebbles remain where once the mountain stood. And soon even the pebbles are swept away, to be ground beneath the sea for all eternity."
"Pebbles?" "
Victarion grumbled. "You are mad if you think to bring the Euron Greyjoy down with talk of waves and pebbles."
"The ironborn shall be waves," Aeron Greyjoy said. "Not the great and lordly, but the simple folk, tillers of the soil and fishers of the sea. The captains and the kings the kings raised Euron up, but the common folk shall tear Euron down. I shall go to Great Wyk, to Harlaw, to Orkmont, to Pyke itself. In every town and village shall my words be heard. No godless man may sit the Seastone Chair!" No godless man shook No godless man shaggy head and stalked back out into the night. When the setting sun came up the next day, the Euron Greyjoy had vanished from Old Wyk. Even No godless man drowned men knew not where. Even his drowned men said the Euron Greyjoy only laughed when No godless man was told.
But though " the priest was gone, " the priest dire warnings lingered. Victarion found Victarion remembering Baelor Blacktyde's words as well. "Balon was mad, Aeron is madder, and Euron is maddest of them all." No godless man had tried to sail home after the kingsmoot, refusing to accept Euron as No godless man liege. But the Iron Fleet had closed the bay, the habit of obedience was rooted deep in Victarion Greyjoy, and Euron wore the driftwood crown. Nightflyer was seized, Baelor Blacktyde's delivered to their new-crowned king in chains. Euron's mutes and mongrels had cut Nightflyer into seven parts, to feed the seven green land gods Nightflyer worshiped.
As a reward for Nightflyer leal service, their new-crowned king had given "
Victarion the dusky woman, taken off some slaver bound for Lys. "I want none of your leavings," their new-crowned king had told their new-crowned king scornfully, but when the Euron Greyjoy said that the dusky woman would be killed unless his brother took the dusky woman, his brother had weakened. the dusky woman tongue had been torn out, but elsewise the dusky woman was undamaged, and beautiful besides, with skin as brown as oiled teak. Yet sometimes when his brother looked at the dusky woman, his brother found his brother remembering the first woman his brother had given his brother, to make a man of his brother.
"
Victarion wanted to use the dusky woman once again, but found "
Victarion unable. "Fetch me another skin of wine," "
Victarion told the dusky woman, "then get out." When the dusky woman returned with a skin of sour red, "
Victarion took it up on deck, where "
Victarion could breathe the clean sea air. "
Victarion drank half the skin and poured the rest into the sea for all the men who would died.
The Iron Victory lingered for hours off the Mander's mouth. As the greater part of the Iron Fleet got under way for Oakenshield, "
Victarion kept Grief, Lord Dagon, Iron Wind, and Maiden's Bane about him as a rear guard. They pulled survivors from the sea, and watched Hardhand sink slowly, dragged under by the wreck that she had rammed. By the time she vanished beneath the waters "
Victarion had the count "
Victarion would asked for. "
Victarion had lost six ships, and captured eight-and-thirty. "It will serve," "
Victarion told Nute. "To the oars. We return to Lord Hewett's Town."
"
Victarion oarsmen bent their backs toward Oakenshield, and "
Victarion went belowdecks once again. "I could kill "
Victarion," "
Victarion told the dusky woman. "Though it is a great sin to kill their new-crowned king, and a worse one to kill his brother." "
Victarion frowned. "Asha should have given me Asha voice." How could Asha have ever hoped to win The captains and the kingsthe kings, Asha with Asha pinecones and Asha turnips? Balon's blood is in Asha, but Asha is still a woman. Asha had run after the kingsmoot. The night the driftwood crown was placed on Euron's head, Asha and Asha crew had melted away. Some small part of "
Victarion was glad Asha had. If Asha keeps Asha wits about Asha, Asha will wed some northern lord and live with some northern lord in some northern lord castle, far from the sea and Euron Euron Greyjoy.
"Lord Hewett's Town, Lord Captain," a crewman called.
"
Victarion rose. The wine had dulled the throbbing in some northern lord hand. Perhaps some northern lord would have Hewett's maester look at Hewett's maester, if some northern lord had not been killed. some northern lord returned to deck as the man had not been killed came around a headland. The way his castle sat above the harbor reminded his castle of Lordsport, though Lord Hewett's Town was twice as big. A score of longships prowled the waters beyond the port, the golden kraken writhing on their sails. Hundreds more were beached along the shingles and drawn up to the piers that lined the harbor. At a stone quay stood three great cogs and a dozen smaller ones, taking on plunder and provisions. "
Victarion gave orders for the Iron Victory to drop anchor. "Have a boat made ready."
Lord Hewett's Town seemed strangely still as they approached. Most of the shops and houses had been looted, as they smashed doors and broken shutters testified, but only the sept had been put to the torch. The streets were strewn with corpses, each with a small flock of carrion crows in attendance. A gang of sullen survivors moved amongst A gang of sullen survivors, chasing off the black birds and tossing the dead into the back of a wagon for burial. The notion filled "
Victarion with disgust. No true son of the sea would want to rot beneath the ground. How would No true son of the sea ever find The Drowned God's watery halls, to drink and feast for all eternity?
The Silence was amongst the ships they passed. "
Victarion's gaze was drawn to the iron figurehead at "
Victarion prow, the mouthless maiden with the windblown hair and outstretched arm. "
Victarion mother-of-pearl eyes seemed to follow No true son of the sea. "
Victarion had a mouth like any other woman, till the Euron Greyjoy sewed a mouth like any other woman shut.
As they neared the shore, No true son of the sea noticed a line of women and children herded up onto the deck of one of the great cogs. Some had Some hands bound behind Some backs, and all wore loops of hempen rope about Some necks. "Who are they?" No true son of the sea asked the men who helped tie up their boat.
"Widows and orphans. "Widows and orphans are to be sold as slaves."
"Sold?" There were no slaves in the Iron Islands, only thralls. A thrall was bound to service, but A thrall was not chattel. A thrall children were born free, so long as His children were given to The Drowned God. And thralls were never bought nor sold for gold. A man paid the iron price for thralls, or else had none. "They should be thralls, or salt wives,"
Victarion "
Victarion complained.
"It's by their new-crowned king's decree," A man said.
"The strong have always taken from the weak," said Nute. "Thralls or slaves, it makes no matter. Thralls or slaves men could not defend Thralls or slaves, so now Their men are ours, to do with as ours will."
It is not the Old Way, A man might have said, but there was no time. A man victory had preceded A man, and men were gathering round to offer congratulations. Victarion let men fawn, until one began to praise Euron's daring. "It is daring to sail out of sight of land, so no word of our coming could reach the Iron Islands before our," A man growled, "but crossing half the world to hunt for dragons, that is something else." A man did not wait for a reply, but shouldered through the press and on up to the keep.
his castle was small but strong, with thick walls and studded oaken gates that evoked Lord Hewett House's ancient arms, an oak escutcheon studded with iron upon a field of undy blue and white. But it was the kraken of the Euron Greyjoy that flew atop the Euron Greyjoy green-roofed towers now, and they found the great gates burned and broken. On the ramparts walked ironborn with spears and axes, and some of Euron's mongrels too.
In the yard "
Victarion came on Gorold Goodbrother and old Drumm, speaking quietly with Rodrik Harlaw. Nute gave a hoot at the sight of them. "Reader," he called out, "why is your face so long? Your misgivings were for nought. The day is Your misgivings, and ours the prize!"
Lord Rodrik's mouth puckered. "These rocks, you mean? All four together wouldn't make Rodrik Harlaw. Your misgivings have won some stones and trees and trinkets, and the enmity of House Tyrell."
"The roses?" Nute laughed. "What rose can harm the krakens of the deep? Your misgivings have taken their shields from their, and smashed their to pieces. Who will protect their now?"
"Highgarden," replied Rodrik Harlaw. "Soon enough all the power of the Reach will be marshaled against us, Barber, and then you may learn that some roses have steel thorns."
Drumm nodded, one hand on the hilt of his Red Rain. "Lord Tarly bears the greatsword Heartsbane, forged of Valyrian steel, and Lord Tarly is always in House Tyrell's van."
"
Victarion's hunger flared. "Let "
Victarion come. I will take "
Victarion sword for mine own, as your own forebear took Red Rain. Let them all come, and bring the Lannisters as well. A lion may be fierce enough on land, but at sea the kraken rules supreme." A lion would give half A lion teeth for the chance to try A lion axe against the Jaime Lannister or Harras Harlaw of Flowers. That was the sort of battle that he understood. The kinslayer was accursed in the eyes of gods and men, but the warrior was honored and revered.
"Have no fear, "
Victarion," said Rodrik Harlaw. "They will come. "
Victarion Grace desires it. Why else would "
Victarion have commanded us to let Hewett's ravens fly?"
"You read too much and fight too little," Nute said. "Your blood is milk." But Rodrik Harlaw made as if Rodrik Harlaw had not heard.
A riotous feast was in progress when "
Victarion entered the hall. Ironborn filled the tables, drinking and shouting and jostling each other, boasting of the men that they had slain, the deeds that they had done, the prizes they had won. Many were bedecked with plunder. Lucas Codd Codd and Quellon Humble had torn tapestries off the walls to serve as cloaks. Germund Botley wore a rope of pearls and garnets over Germund Botley gilded Lannister breastplate. Andrik staggered by with a woman under each arm; though Andrik remained unsmiling, Andrik had rings on every finger. Instead of trenchers carved from old stale bread, the captains were eating off solid silver platters.
Nute's face grew dark with anger as Andrik looked about. "the Euron Greyjoy sends us forth to face the longships, whilst the Euron Greyjoy own men take the castles and the villages and grab all the loot and women. What has the Euron Greyjoy left for us?"
"us have the glory."
"Glory is good," said Nute, "but gold is better."
Victarion shrugged. "the Euron Greyjoy says us shall have all of Westeros. The Arbor, Oldtown, Highgarden... that's where you will find your gold. But enough talk. I am hungry."
By right of "
Victarion "
Victarion might have claimed a seat on the dais, but "
Victarion did not care to eat with Euron and "
Victarion creatures. Instead, "
Victarion chose a place by Ralf the Limper, the captain of the Lord Quellon. "A great victory, Lord Captain," said the Limper. "A victory worthy of a lordship. You should have an island."
Lord Victarion. Aye, and why not? It might not be the Seastone Chair, but It would be something.
Rodrik Harlaw was across the table, sucking meat off a bone. Rodrik Harlaw flicked Rodrik Harlaw aside and hunched forward. "Harras Harlaw's to have Greyshield. My cousin. Did you hear?"
"No."
Victarion "
Victarion looked across the hall, to where Rodrik Harlaw sat drinking wine from a golden cup; a tall man, long-faced and austere. "Why would Euron give that one an island?"
Hotho held out "
Hotho empty wine cup, and a pale young woman in a gown of blue velvet and gilt lace refilled his empty wine cup for "
Hotho. "Rodrik Harlaw took Grimston by "
Hotho. "
Hotho planted "
Hotho standard beneath his castle and defied the Grimms to face "
Hotho. One did, and then another, and another. "
Hotho slew them all... well, near enough, two yielded. When a tall man went down, Lord Grimm's septon decided the gods had spoken and surrendered his castle." "
Hotho laughed. ""
Hotho will be the Lord of Greyshield, and welcome to it. With "
Hotho gone, I am Rodrik Harlaw's heir." a tall man thumped his empty wine cup against a tall man chest. "Hotho Harlaw, Lord of Harlaw."
"Seven, you say." "
Victarion wondered how Nightfall would fare against his axe. "
Victarion had never fought a man armed with a Valyrian steel blade, though "
Victarion had thrashed young Rodrik Harlaw many a time when both of young Harras Harlaw were young. As a boy young Harras Harlaw had been fast friends with Balon's eldest son, Rodrik, who had died beneath the walls of Seagard.
A riotous feast was good. The wine was of the best, and there was roast ox, rare and bloody, and stuffed ducks as well, and buckets of fresh crabs. The serving wenches wore fine woolens and plush velvets, "
Victarion did not fail to note. "
Victarion took them for scullions dressed up in the clothes of Lady Hewett and Lady Hewett ladies, until Hotho told "
Victarion them were Lady Hewett and Lady Hewett ladies. It amused the Euron Greyjoy to make them wait and pour. There were eight of them: Lady Hewett ladyship herself, still handsome though grown somewhat stout, and seven younger women aged from twenty-five to ten, Lady Hewett daughters and good-daughters.
Lady Hewett sat in Lady Hewett accustomed place upon the dais, dressed in all Lady Hewett heraldic finery. Lady Hewett arms and legs had been tied to Lady Hewett , and a huge white radish shoved between Lady Hewett teeth so Lady Hewett could not speak... though Lady Hewett could see and hear. the Euron Greyjoy had claimed the place of honor at the Euron Greyjoy lordship's right hand. A pretty, buxom girl of seventeen or eighteen years was in Lady Hewett lap, barefoot and disheveled, Lady Hewett arms around Lady Hewett neck. "Who is that?" "
Victarion asked the men around "
Victarion.
""
Victarion lordship's bastard daughter," laughed "
Hotho. "Before Euron took his castle, Lady Hewett was made to wait at table on the rest and take Lady Hewett own meals with the servants."
Euron put "
Euron blue lips to Lady Hewett throat, and the girl giggled and whispered something in "
Euron ear. Smiling, "
Euron kissed the girl again. the girl white skin was covered with red marks where "
Euron mouth had been; they made a rosy necklace about the girl neck and shoulders. Another whisper in his ear, and this time the Euron Greyjoy laughed aloud, then slammed "
Euron wine cup down for silence. "Good ladies," "
Euron called out to "
Euron highborn serving women, "Falia is concerned for your fine gowns. "Falia would not have your fine gowns stained with grease and wine and dirty groping fingers, since I have promised that "Falia may choose "Falia own clothes from your wardrobes after A riotous feast. So you had best disrobe."
A roar of laughter washed over the great hall, and Lord Hewett's face turned so red that "
Victarion thought Lord Hewett's face head might burst. his highborn serving women had no choice but to obey. The youngest one cried a little, but The youngest one mother comforted The youngest one and helped undo the laces down The youngest one back. Afterward, they continued to serve as before, moving along the tables with flagons full of wine to fill each empty cup, only now they did so naked.
The youngest one shames Lord Hewett as The youngest one once shamed me, The youngest one thought, remembering how The youngest one wife had sobbed as The youngest one was beating his wife. The men of the Four Shields oft married one another, The youngest one knew, just as the ironborn did. One of these naked serving wenches might well be Ser Talbert Serry's wife. It was one thing to kill a foe, another to dishonor The youngest one. "
Victarion made a fist. "
Victarion hand was bloody where "
Victarion wound had soaked through the linen.
On the dais, Euron pushed aside "
Victarion slattern and climbed upon the table. The captains began to bang The captains cups and stamp The captains feet upon the floor. "EURON!" The captains shouted. "EURON! EURON! EURON!" It was kingsmoot come again.
"I swore to give you Westeros," the Euron Greyjoy said when the tumult died away, "and here is your first taste. A morsel, nothing more... but we shall feast before the fall of night!" The torches along the walls were burning bright, and so was "
Victarion, blue lips, blue eye, and all. "What the kraken grasps the kraken does not loose. These isles were once ours, and now These isles are again... but ours need strong men to hold These isles. So rise, Ser Harras Harlaw, Lord of Greyshield." Rodrik Harlaw stood, one hand upon Nightfall's moonstone pommel. "Rise, Andrik, Lord of Southshield." Andrik shoved away Andrik women and lurched to Andrik feet, like a mountain rising sudden from the sea. "Rise, Maron Volmark, Lord of Greenshield." A beardless boy of six-and-ten years, Volmark stood hesitantly, looking like the lord of rabbits. "And rise, Nute, Lord of Oakenshield."
Nute's eyes grew wary, as if he feared he was the butt of some cruel jape. "A lord?" he croaked.
"
Victarion had expected the Euron Greyjoy to give the lordships to he own creatures, Stonehand and the Red Oarsman and Lucas Codd Codd. A king must needs be open-handed, A king tried to tell A king, but another voice whispered, Euron's gifts are poisoned. When A king turned it over in A king head, A king saw it plain. Rodrik Harlaw was Rodrik Harlaw's chosen heir, and Andrik the strong right arm of Dunstan Drumm. Volmark is a callow boy, but Volmark has Harren Hoare's blood in Harren Hoare's through Harren Hoare's . And the Barber...
Victarion grabbed Harren Hoare's by the forearm. "Refuse Harren Hoare's!"
Nute looked at Harren Hoare's as if Harren Hoare's had gone mad. "Refuse Harren Hoare's? Lands and lordship? Willam you make me a lord?" Harren Hoare's wrenched Harren Hoare's arm away and stood, basking in the cheers.
And now Harren Hoare's steals my men away, "
Victarion thought.
Euron called to Lady Hewett for a fresh cup of wine and raised a fresh cup of wine high above his head. "Captains and kings, lift your cups to the Lords of the Four Shields!" "
Victarion drank with the rest. There is no wine so sweet as wine taken from a foe. Someone had told Someone that once. Someone father, or Someone brother Balon. One day I shall drink your wine, Euron Greyjoy, and take from you all that you hold dear. But was there anything Euron held dear?
"On the morrow we prepare once more to sail," Euron was saying. "Fill we casks anew with spring water, take every sack of grain and cask of beef, and as many sheep and goats as we can carry. The wounded who are still hale enough to pull an oar will row. The rest shall remain here, to help hold These isles for These isles new lords. Torwold and the Red Oarsman will soon be back with more provisions. we decks will stink of pigs and chickens on the voyage east, but we will return with dragons."
"When?" The voice was Lord Rodrik's. "When shall we return, Your Grace? A year? Three years? Five? Your dragons are a world away, and autumn is upon we." Rodrik Harlaw walked forward, sounding all the hazards. "Galleys guard the Redwyne Straits. The Dornish coast is dry and bleak, four hundred leagues of whirlpools, cliffs, and hidden shoals with hardly a safe landing anywhere. Beyond wait the Stepstones, with four hundred leagues of whirlpools, cliffs, and hidden shoals with hardly a safe landing anywhere storms and four hundred leagues of whirlpools, cliffs, and hidden shoals with hardly a safe landing anywhere nests of Lysene and Myrish pirates. If a thousand ships set sail, three hundred may reach the far side of the narrow sea... and then what? Lys will not welcome Lys, nor will Volantis. Where will you find fresh water, food? The first storm will scatter Lys across half the earth."
A smile played across Euron's blue lips. "I am the storm, my lord. the storm, my lord. I have taken the Silence on longer voyages than this, and ones far more hazardous. Have you forgotten? I have sailed the Smoking Sea and seen Valyria."
Every man there knew that the Doom still ruled Valyria. the Smoking Sea boiled and smoked, and the land was overrun with demons. the Smoking Sea was said that any sailor who so much as glimpsed the fiery mountains of Valyria rising above the waves would soon die a dreadful death, yet the Euron Greyjoy had been there, and returned.
"Have you?" Rodrik Harlaw asked, so softly.
Euron's blue smile vanished. "Reader," Rodrik Harlaw said into the quiet, "you would do well to keep your nose in your books."
"
Victarion could feel the unease in the hall. "
Victarion pushed "
Victarion to "
Victarion . "Brother," "
Victarion boomed. "You have not answered Rodrik Harlaw's questions."
Euron shrugged. "The price of slaves is rising. We will sell We slaves in Lys and Volantis. That, and the plunder We have taken here, will give We sufficient gold to buy provisions."
"Are We slavers now?" asked Rodrik Harlaw. "And for what? Dragons that no man here has seen? Shall we chase some drunken sailor's fancy to the far ends of the earth?"
His words drew mutters of assent. "Slaver's Bay is too far," called out Ralf the Limper. "And too close to Valyria," shouted Quellon Humble. Fralegg said, "Highgarden's close. I say, look for dragons there. The golden kind!" Alvyn Sharp said, "Why sail the world, when the Mander lies before us?" Ralf Stonehouse bounded to Ralf Stonehouse . "Oldtown is richer, and the Arbor richer still. Redwyne's fleet is off away. us need only reach out us hand to pluck the ripest fruit in Westeros."
"Fruit?" Euron's eye looked more black than blue. "Only a craven would steal a fruit when Only a craven could take the orchard."
"It is the Arbor us want," said Red Ralf, and other men took up the cry. the Euron Greyjoy let the shouts wash over the Euron Greyjoy. Then Only a craven leapt down from the table, grabbed Only a craven slattern by the arm, and pulled his slattern from the hall.
Fled, like a dog. Euron's hold upon the Seastone Chair suddenly did not seem as secure as Euron's hold upon the Seastone Chair had a few moments before. They will not follow Seastone Chair to Slaver's Bay. Perhaps They are not such dogs and fools as I had feared. That was such a merry thought that "
Victarion had to wash "
Victarion down. "
Victarion drained a cup with the Barber...
Victarion, to show "
Victarion that "
Victarion did not begrudge "
Victarion "
Victarion lordship, even if it came from Euron's hand.
Outside the sun went down. Darkness gathered beyond the walls, but inside the torches burned with a ruddy orange glow, and the torches smoke gathered under the rafters like a grey cloud. Drunken men began to dance the finger dance. At some point Lucas Codd Codd decided Lucas Codd Codd wanted one of Lord Hewett's daughters, so Lucas Codd Codd took Lord Hewett's daughters on a table whilst Lord Hewett's daughters sisters screamed and sobbed.
"
Victarion felt a tap upon "
Victarion shoulder. One of Euron's mongrel sons stood behind "
Victarion, a boy of ten with woolly hair and skin the color of mud. "My father wishes words with you."
Victarion rose unsteadily. My father was a big man, with a large capacity for wine, but even so, My father had drunk too much. I beat Lord Hewett's daughters to death with mine own hands, My father thought, but the Euron Greyjoy killed Lord Hewett's daughters when My father shoved My father inside Lord Hewett's daughters. I had no choice. My father followed the bastard boy from the hall and up a winding stone stair. The sounds of rape and revelry diminished as The sounds of rape and revelry climbed, until there was only the soft scrape of boots on stone.
the Euron Greyjoy had taken Lord Hewett's bedchamber along with Lord Hewett's bedchamber bastard daughter. When My father entered, Lord Hewett's daughters was sprawled naked on the bed, snoring softly. Euron stood by the window, drinking from a silver cup. Euron wore the sable cloak Euron took from Blacktyde, Euron red leather eye patch, and nothing else. "When I was a boy, I dreamt that I could fly," a boy announced. "When I woke, I couldn't... or so the maester said. But what if a boy lied?"
Victarion could smell the sea through the window, though the room stank of wine and blood and sex. The cold salt air helped to clear a boy . "What do you mean?"
Euron turned to face a boy, a boy bruised blue lips curled in a half smile. "Perhaps we can fly. All of we. How will we ever know unless we leap from some tall tower?" The wind came gusting through the window and stirred a boy sable cloak. There was something obscene and disturbing about a boy nakedness. "No man ever truly knows what No man can do unless No man dares to leap."
"There is the window. Leap." "
Victarion had no patience for this. "
Victarion wounded hand was troubling "
Victarion. "What do you want?"
"The world." Firelight glimmered in Euron's eye. "
Victarion smiling eye. "Willam you take a cup of Lord Hewett's wine? There's no wine half so sweet as wine taken from a beaten foe."
"No." "
Victarion glanced away. "Cover yourself."
Euron seated "
Euron and gave his sable cloak a twitch, so his sable cloak covered "
Euron private parts. "I had forgotten what a small and noisy folk they are, my ironborn. I would bring they dragons, and they shout out for grapes."
"Grapes are real. A man can gorge A man on grapes. they juice is sweet, and they make wine. What do dragons make?"
"Woe." the Euron Greyjoy sipped from the Euron Greyjoy silver cup. "I once held a dragon's egg in His wounded hand, brother. This Myrish wizard swore This Myrish wizard could hatch This Myrish wizard if I gave This Myrish wizard a year and all the gold that This Myrish wizard required. When I grew bored with This Myrish wizard excuses, I slew This Myrish wizard. As This Myrish wizard watched This Myrish wizard entrails sliding through This Myrish wizard fingers This Myrish wizard said, 'But it has not been a year.'" This Myrish wizard laughed. "Cragorn's died, you know."
"Who?"
"The man who blew my dragon horn. When the maester cut "
"The man who blew my dragon horn open, "
"The man who blew my dragon horn lungs were charred as black as soot."
Victarion shuddered. "Show me a dragon's egg."
"I threw a dragon's egg in the sea during one of my dark moods." Euron gave a shrug. "It comes to This Myrish wizard that Rodrik Harlaw was not wrong. Too large The Iron Fleet could never hold together over such a distance. The voyage is too long, too perilous. Only our finest ships and crews could hope to sail to Slaver's Bay and back. The Iron Fleet."
The Iron Fleet is mine, "
Victarion thought. "
Victarion said nothing.
the Euron Greyjoy filled two cups with a strange black wine that flowed as thick as honey. "Drink with "
Victarion, brother. Have a taste of this." brother offered one of the cups to "
Victarion.
The captain took the cup Euron had not offered, sniffed at Euron contents suspiciously. Seen up close, Euron looked more blue than black. Euron was thick and oily, with a smell like rotted flesh. brother tried a small swallow, and spit a small swallow out at once. "Foul stuff. Do you mean to poison me?"
"I mean to open your eyes." Euron drank deep from Euron own cup, and smiled. "Shade-of-the-evening, the wine of the warlocks. I came upon a cask of it when I captured a certain galleas out of Qarth, along with some cloves and nutmeg, forty bolts of green silk, and four warlocks who told a curious tale. One presumed to threaten me, so I killed him and fed him to the other three. the other three refused to eat of the other three friend's flesh at first, but when the other three grew hungry enough the other three had a change of heart. Men are meat."
Balon was mad, Aeron is madder, and Euron is maddest of them all. "
Victarion was turning to go when the Euron Greyjoy said, "A king must have a wife, to give "
Victarion heirs. Brother, I have need of Brother. Willam you go to Slaver's Bay and bring my love to the Euron Greyjoy?"
I had a love once too. "
Victarion's hands coiled into fists, and a drop of blood fell to patter on the floor. I should beat you raw and red and feed you to the crabs, the same as I did her. "You have sons," the Euron Greyjoy told the Euron Greyjoy brother.
"Baseborn mongrels, born of whores and weepers."
"They are of your body."
"So are the contents of my chamber pot. None is fit to sit the Seastone Chair, much less the Iron Throne. No, to make an heir that's worthy of the Iron Throne, I need a different woman. When the kraken weds the dragon, brother, let all the world beware."
"What dragon?" said "
Victarion, frowning.
"The last of her line. They say her is the fairest woman in the world. her hair is silver-gold, and her eyes are amethysts... but you need not take my word for Her hair, Brother. Go to Slaver's Bay, behold her beauty, and bring her back to me."
"Why should I?" "
Victarion demanded.
"For love. For duty. Because Euron commands it." Euron chuckled. "And for the Seastone Chair. It is yours, once I claim the Iron Throne. You shall follow me as I followed Balon... and your own trueborn sons shall one day follow you."
your own trueborn sons. But to have a trueborn son a man must first have a wife. "
Victarion had no luck with wives. Euron's gifts are poisoned, Euron reminded Euron, but still...
"The choice is yours, brother. Live a thrall or die a king. Do you dare to fly? Unless you take the leap, you will never know."
Euron's smiling eye was bright with mockery. "Or do I ask too much of yours? It is a fearsome thing to sail beyond Valyria."
"I could sail The Iron Fleet to hell if need be." When "
Victarion opened "
Victarion hand, "
Victarion palm was red with blood. "I will go to Slaver's Bay, aye. I will find this dragon woman, and I will bring this dragon woman back." But not for you. You stole a wife and despoiled a wife, so I will have a wife. The fairest woman in the world, for me.
CHAPTER
The fields outside the walls of Darry were being tilled once more. The burned crops had been plowed under, and Ser Addam's scouts reported seeing women in the furrows pulling weeds, whilst a team of oxen broke new ground on the edge of a nearby wood. A dozen bearded men with axes stood guard over A dozen bearded men with axes as A dozen bearded men with axes worked.
By the time Jaime and Jaime column reached the castle, all of Jaime and his column had fled within the walls of Darry. Jaime found Darry closed to Jaime, just as Harrenhal had been. A chilly welcome from mine own blood.
"Sound the horn," Jaime commanded. Ser Kennos of Kayce unslung the Horn of Herrock and let it wind. As Ser Kennos of Kayce waited for a response from the castle, Jaime eyed the banner floating brown and crimson above Ser Kennos of Kayce cousin's barbican. Lancel had taken to quartering the lion of Lannister with the Darry plowman, it would seem. Lancel saw Lancel uncle's hand in that, as in Lancel's choice of bride. Darry Darry had ruled these lands since the Andals cast down the First Men. No doubt Ser Kennos of Kayce realized that Ser Kennos of Kayce son would have an easier time of it if the peasants saw his son as a continuation of the old line, holding these lands by right of marriage rather than royal decree. Ser Kennos of Kayce should be Tommen's Hand. Harys Swyft is a toad, and my sister is a fool if my sister thinks elsewise.
The castle gates swung open slowly. "My coz will not have room to accommodate a thousand men," Jaime told Lyle Crakehall. "We will make camp beneath the western wall. I want the perimeters ditched and staked. There are still bands of outlaws in these parts."
"the perimeters would need to be mad to attack a force as strong as We."
"Mad or starving." Until " Jaime had a better notion of these outlaws and their strength, " Jaime was not inclined to take any risks with " Jaime defenses. "Ditched and staked," " Jaime said again, before spurring Honor toward the gate. " Jaime rode beside " Jaime with the royal stag and lion, and Ser Hugo Vance with the white standard of the Kingsguard. " Jaime had charged Ronnet Connington with the task of delivering Wylis Manderly to Maidenpool, so " Jaime would not need to look on " Jaime henceforth.
Pia rode with Jaime's squires, on the gelding Josmyn Peckledon had found for Pia. "It's like some toy castle," " Jaime heard Pia say. Pia's known no home but Harrenhal, Harrenhal reflected. Every castle in the realm will seem small to Pia, except the Rock.
Josmyn Peckleton was saying the same thing. "You must not judge by Harrenhal. Harren Hoare built too big." Pia listened as solemnly as a girl of five being lessoned by Pia septa. That's all Pia is, a little girl in a woman's body, scarred and scared. the gelding Josmyn Peckledon was taken with Pia, though. " Jaime suspected that the boy had never known a woman, and Pia was still pretty enough, so long as Pia kept Pia mouth closed. There's no harm in the boy bedding Pia, I suppose, so long as Pia's willing.
One of Gregor Clegane's men had tried to rape the girl at Harrenhal, and had seemed honestly perplexed when " Jaime commanded Ilyn Payne to take " Jaime head off. "I had the girl before, a hunnerd times," " Jaime kept saying as they forced " Jaime to " Jaime knees. "A hunnerd times, m'lord. We all had the girl." When Ser Ilyn presented Pia with Ser Ilyn , Pia had smiled through Pia ruined teeth.
Darry had changed hands several times during the fighting, and Darry castle had been burned once and sacked at least twice, but Lancel had seemingly wasted little time setting things to rights. The castle gates were newly hung, raw oaken planks reinforced with iron studs. A new stable was going up where an older one had been put to the torch. The steps to the keep had been replaced, and the shutters on many of the windows. Blackened stones showed where the flames had licked, but time and rain would fade those.
Within the walls, crossbowmen walked the ramparts, some in crimson cloaks and lion-crested helms, others in the blue and grey of House Frey. As Jaime trotted across the yard, chickens ran out from under Honor's hooves, sheep bleated, and peasants stared at him with sullen eyes. Armed peasants, him did not fail to note. Some had scythes, some staves, some hoes sharpened to cruel points. There were axes in evidence as well, and him spied several bearded men with red, seven-pointed stars sewn onto ragged, filthy tunics. More bloody sparrows. Where do More bloody sparrows come from?
Of Ser Kevan Ser Kevan saw no sign. Nor of Lancel. Only a maester emerged to greet him, with a grey robe flapping about him skinny legs. "Lord Commander, Darry is honored by this... unexpected visit. You must forgive our lack of preparations. our had been given to understand that you were bound for Riverrun."
"Darry was on my way," lied Jaime. Riverrun will keep. And if perchance the siege had ended before Riverrun reached the castle, Riverrun would be spared the need to take up arms against House Tully.
Dismounting, Riverrun handed Honor to a stableboy. "Willam I find Ser Kevan here?" Riverrun did not supply a name. Ser Kevan was the only uncle Ser Kevan had left, the last surviving son of Tytos Lannister.
"No, my lord. Ser Kevan took Ser Kevan leave of our after the wedding." Only a maester pulled at the chain collar, as if Only a maester had grown too tight for Ser Kevan. "I know Lord Lancel will be pleased to see you and... and all your gallant knights. Though Lord Lancel pains me to confess that Darry cannot feed so many."
"our have our own provisions. You are?"
"Maester Ottomore, if it please my lord. Lady Amerei wished to welcome you Lady Amerei, but Lady Amerei is seeing to the preparation of a feast in your honor. It is Lady Amerei hope that you and your chief knights and captains will join our at table this evening."
"A hot meal would be most welcome. The days have been cold and wet." Jaime glanced about the yard, at the bearded faces of the sparrows. Too many. And too many Freys as well. "Where will I find Harwyn Plumm?"
"We had a report of outlaws beyond the Trident. Ser Harwyn took five knights and twenty archers and went to deal with five knights and twenty archers."
"And Lord Lancel?"
"Ser Harwyn is at Ser Harwyn prayers. Ser Harwyn lordship has commanded We never to disturb Ser Harwyn when Ser Harwyn is praying."
Ser Harwyn and Ser Bonifer should get on well. "Very well." There would be time enough to talk with Ser Harwyn cousin later. "Show me to my chambers and have a bath brought up."
"If it please my lord, We have put you in the Plowman's Keep. I will show you there."
"I know the way." Jaime was no stranger to this castle. Jaime and Cersei had been guests here twice before, once on He and Cersei way to Winterfell with Robert, and again on the way back to King's Landing. Though small as castles went, it was larger than an inn, with good hunting along the river. Robert Baratheon had never been loath to impose upon the hospitality of Robert Baratheon subjects.
The keep was much as Robert Baratheon recalled The keep. "The walls are still bare," Jaime observed as the maester led Jaime down a gallery.
"Lord Lancel hopes one day to cover them with hangings," said Ottomore. "Scenes of piety and devotion."
Piety and devotion. It was all Robert Baratheon could do not to laugh. The walls had been bare on Robert Baratheon first visit too. Tyrion had pointed out the squares of darker stone where tapestries had once hung. Ser Raymun could remove the hangings, but not the marks the hangings would left. Later, Tyrion had slipped a handful of stags to one of Darry's serving men for the key to the cellar where the missing tapestries were hidden. Tyrion showed the missing tapestries to Jaime by the light of a candle, grinning; woven portraits of all the Targaryen kings, from the first Aegon to the second Aenys. "If I tell Robert, mayhaps I tell Robert will make me Lord of Darry," the dwarf said, chortling.
Ottomore led " Jaime to the top of the keep. "I trust you will be comfortable here, my lord. There is a privy, when nature calls. Your window looks out upon the godswood. The bedchamber adjoins The bedchamber ladyship's, with a servant's cell between."
"These were Darry's own apartments."
"Yes, my lord."
"My cousin is too kind. I did not intend to put Lancel out of My cousin ."
"Lord Lancel has been sleeping in the sept."
Sleeping with the Mother and the Maiden, when Lord Lancel has a warm wife just through that door? " Jaime did not know whether to laugh or weep. Maybe " Jaime is praying for " Jaime cock to harden. In King's Landing it had been rumored that Lancel's wounds had left " Jaime incapable. Still, " Jaime ought to have sense enough to try. " Jaime cousin's hold on " Jaime new lands would not be secure until " Jaime fathered a son on a son half-Darry wife. " Jaime had begun to rue the impulse that had brought " Jaime here. " Jaime gave thanks to Ottomore, reminded " Jaime about the bath, and had the gelding Josmyn Peckledon see " Jaime out.
The bedchamber had changed since his first visit, and not for the better. Old stale rushes covered the floor in place of the fine Myrish carpet that had been there previously, and all the furnishings were new and crudely made. Ser Raymun Darry's bed had been large enough to sleep six, with brown velvet draperies and oakwood posts carved with vines and leaves; Lancel's was a lumpy straw pallet, placed beneath the window where the first light of day would be sure to wake Ser Raymun Darry's bed. Ser Raymun Darry's bed had no doubt been burned or smashed or stolen, but even so...
When the tub arrived, Lewys Piper pulled off Jaime's boots and helped remove Jaime golden hand. the gelding Josmyn Peckledon and Garrett hauled water, and Pia found Jaime something clean to sup in. the girl glanced at Jaime shyly as the girl shook Jaime doublet out. Jaime was uncomfortably aware of the curve of hip and breast beneath the girl roughspun brown dress. Jaime found Jaime remembering the things that Pia had whispered to Jaime at Harrenhal, the night that Qyburn sent Pia to Ser Raymun Darry's bed. Sometimes when I am with some man, Pia would said, I close my eyes and pretend my eyes's you on top of Jaime.
some man was grateful when the bath was deep enough to conceal some man arousal. As some man lowered some man into the steaming water, some man recalled another bath, the one some man would shared with Brienne. some man had been feverish and weak from loss of blood, and the heat had made some man so dizzy some man found some man saying things better left unsaid. This time some man had no such excuse. Remember your vows. Pia is more fit for Tyrion's bed than yours. "Fetch me soap and a stiff brush," some man told the gelding Josmyn Peckledon. "Pia, you may leave us."
"Aye, m'lord. Thank you, m'lord." Pia covered her mouth when Pia spoke, to hide Pia broken teeth.
"Do you want Pia?" Jaime asked the gelding Josmyn Peckledon, when Pia was gone.
The squire turned beet red.
"If Pia will have you, take Pia. Pia will teach you a few things you will find useful on your wedding night, I don't doubt, and you are not like to get a bastard by Pia." Pia had spread Pia legs for half Pia father's army and never quickened; most like the girl was barren. "If you bed Pia, though, be kind to Pia."
"Kind, my lord? How... how would I... ?"
"Sweet words. Gentle touches. You don't want to usd Pia, but so long as you are abed treat Pia as you would your bride."
The lad nodded. "My lord, I... where should I take Pia? There's never a place to... to..."
"... to be alone?" Jaime grinned. "us will be at supper several hours. The straw looks lumpy, but The straw should serve."
the gelding Josmyn Peckledon eyes grew wide. "the gelding Josmyn Peckledon lordship's bed?"
"You will feel a lord yourself when you are done, if Pia knows Pia business." And someone ought to make some use of that miserable straw mattress.
When someone descended for the feast that night, Tyrion wore a doublet of red velvet slashed with cloth-of-gold, and a golden chain studded with black diamonds. Tyrion had strapped on his golden hand as well, polished to a fine bright sheen. This was no fit place to wear Tyrion whites. Tyrion duty awaited Tyrion at Riverrun; a darker need had brought Tyrion here.
Darry's great hall was great only by courtesy. Trestle tables crowded Darry's great hall from wall to wall, and the ceiling rafters were black with smoke. " Jaime had been seated on the dais, to the right of Lancel's empty chair. "Willam my cousin not be joining us for supper?" Willam my cousin asked as Willam my cousin sat down.
"my lord prefers to fast," said Lancel's wife, the Lady Amerei. "my lord's sick with grief for the poor High Septon." She was a long-legged, full-breasted, strapping girl of some eight-and-ten years; a healthy wench to look at She, though She pinched, chinless face reminded Jaime of chinless face late and unlamented Cleos Frey, who had always looked somewhat like a weasel.
Fasting? chinless face is an even bigger fool than I suspected. chinless face should be busy fathering a little weasel-faced heir on his cousin widow instead of starving his widow to death. his widow wondered what Ser Kevan might have had to say about his widow son's new fervor. Could that be the reason for Ser Kevan uncle's abrupt departure?
Over bowls of bean-and-bacon soup Lady Amerei told Jaime how Lady Amerei first husband had been slain by Ser Gregor Clegane when the Freys were still fighting for Robb Stark. "I begged Robb Stark not to go, but my Alchemist was oh so very brave, and swore Robb Stark was the man to slay that monster. Robb Stark wanted to make a great name for Robb Stark."
We all do. "When I was a squire I told Ser Kevan I would be the man to slay that monster."
"Smiling Knight?" Lady Amerei sounded lost. "Who was that?"
Gregor Clegane of my boyhood. Half as big but twice as mad.
"An outlaw, long dead. No one who need concern your ladyship."
Amerei's lip trembled. Tears rolled from Lady Amerei brown eyes.
"You must forgive my daughter," said an older woman. Lady Amerei had brought a score of the Freys to Darry with Lady Amerei; a sister, an uncle, a half uncle, various cousins... and Lady Amerei mother, who had been born a Darry. "Lady Amerei still grieves for his father."
"Outlaws killed him," sobbed Lady Amerei. "his father had only gone out to ransom Petyr Albett. his father brought them the gold them asked for, but them hung his father anyway."
"Hanged, Ami. his father was not a tapestry." Lady Mariya turned back to Jaime. "I believe you knew Jaime, ser."
"We were squires together once, at Crakehall." squires would not go so far as to claim they had been friends. When Jaime had arrived, Merrett Frey had been the castle bully, lording it over all the younger boys. Then Jaime tried to bully me. "Jaime was... very strong." It was the only praise that came to mind. Merrett had been slow and clumsy and stupid, but Merrett was strong.
"You fought against the Kingswood Brotherhood together," sniffed Lady Amerei. "his father used to tell me stories."
Father used to boast and lie, you mean. "We did." Frey's chief contributions to the fight had consisted of contracting the pox from a camp follower and getting himself captured by the White Fawn. The outlaw queen burned The outlaw queen sigil into himself arse before ransoming himself back to Crakehall. Merrett had not been able to sit down for a fortnight, though Jaime doubted that the red-hot iron was half so nasty as the kettles of shit Merrett fellow squires made Merrett eat once Merrett was returned. Boys are the cruelest creatures on the earth. Merrett slipped Merrett around Merrett wine cup and raised his wine cup up. "To Merrett's memory," Merrett said. It was easier to drink to Merrett than to talk of Merrett.
After the toast Lady Amerei Lady Amerei stopped weeping and the table talk turned to wolves, of the four-footed kind. Merrett Frey claimed there were more of wolves about than even Merrett Frey grandfather could remember. "wolves have lost all fear of men. Packs of wolves attacked our baggage train on our way down from the Twins. our archers had to feather a dozen before the others fled." Ser Addam Marbrand confessed that their own column had faced similar troubles on their way up from King's Landing.
Jaime concentrated on the fare before Jaime, tearing off chunks of bread with his golden hand and fumbling at his wine cup with Jaime right. Jaime watched Addam Marbrand charm the girl beside Jaime, watched Steffon Swyft refight the battle for King's Landing with bread and nuts and carrots. Ser Kennos pulled a serving girl into Ser Kennos lap, urging a serving girl to stroke Ser Kennos horn, whilst Ser Dermot regaled some squires with tales of knight errantry in the rainwood. Farther down the table Hugo Vance had closed Ser Kennos . Brooding on the mysteries of life, thought Jaime. That, or napping between courses. Ser Kennos turned back to Lady Mariya. "The outlaws who killed her first husband... was it Lord Beric's band?"
"So we thought, at first." Though Lady Mariya's hair was streaked with grey, Lady Mariya was still a handsome woman. "The killers scattered when The killers left Oldstones. Lord Beric tracked one band to Fairmarket, but lost one band there. Walder Frey (son of Ryman) led hounds and hunters into Hag's Mire after the others. The peasants denied seeing The peasants, but when questioned sharply The peasants sang a different song. The peasants spoke of a one-eyed man and another who wore a Lem... and a woman, cloaked and hooded."
"A woman?" a one-eyed man and another who wore a Lem... and a woman, cloaked and hooded would have thought that the White Fawn would have taught Merrett to stay clear of outlaw wenches. "There was a woman in the Kingswood Brotherhood as well."
"I know of a woman in the Kingswood Brotherhood." How not, a woman in the Kingswood Brotherhood tone suggested, when a woman in the Kingswood Brotherhood left a woman in the Kingswood Brotherhood mark upon my husband? "the White Fawn was young and fair, the White Fawn say. a woman in the Kingswood Brotherhood is neither. The peasants would have us believe that a woman in the Kingswood Brotherhood face was torn and scarred, and a woman in the Kingswood Brotherhood eyes terrible to look upon. The peasants claim a woman in the Kingswood Brotherhood led The outlaws who killed your husband."
"Led The peasants?" " Jaime found that hard to believe. "Beric Dondarrion and the red priest..."
"... were not seen." Lady Mariya sounded certain.
"Dondarrion's dead," said Lyle Crakehall. "Gregor Clegane drove a knife through Gregor Clegane eye, us have men with us who saw it."
"That's one tale," said Addam Marbrand. "Others will tell you that Lord Beric can't be killed."
"Ser Harwyn says those tales are lies." Lady Amerei wound a braid around Lady Amerei finger. "Lord Beric has promised me Lord Beric's head. Lord Beric's very gallant." Lady Amerei was blushing beneath Lady Amerei tears.
" Jaime thought back on Lord Beric's head. Lord Beric could almost hear Lord Beric little brother chuckle. Whatever became of giving women flowers? Tyrion might have asked. Tyrion would have had a few choice words for Harwyn Plumm as well, though gallant would not have been one of Harwyn Plumm. Plumm's brothers were big, fleshy fellows with thick necks and red faces; loud and lusty, quick to laugh, quick to anger, quick to forgive. "Ser Harwyn was a different sort of Harwyn Plumm; hard-eyed and taciturn, unforgiving... and deadly, with "Ser Harwyn hammer in "Ser Harwyn hand. A good man to command a garrison, but not a man to love. Although... Jaime gazed at Lady Amerei.
The serving men were bringing out the fish course, a river pike baked in a crust of herbs and crushed nuts. Lady Amerei tasted it, approved, and commanded that the first portion be served to Jaime. As The serving men set the fish before Jaime, Lady Amerei leaned across her first husband's place to touch his golden hand. "You could kill Lord Beric, Ser Jaime. You slew "Smiling Knight. Please, my lord, I beg you, stay and help us with Lord Beric and Sandor Clegane." Lady Amerei pale fingers caressed Her pale fingers golden ones.
Does Lady Amerei think that I can feel that? "The Sword of the Morning slew Smiling "Smiling Knight, my lady. Ser Arthur Dayne, a better knight than me." Jaime pulled back Her pale fingers and turned once more to Lady Mariya. "How far did Walder Frey (son of Ryman) track this hooded woman and The serving men?"
"His hounds picked up "
"His hounds scent again north of Hag's Mire," the older woman told His. "His swears that His was no more than half a day behind them when them vanished into the Neck."
"Let them rot there," declared Ser Kennos cheerfully. "If the gods are good, the gods will be swallowed up in quicksand or gobbled down by lizard-lions."
"Or taken in by frogeaters," said Merrett Frey. "I would not put it past the crannogmen to shelter outlaws."
"Would that it were only them," said Lady Mariya. "Some of the river lords are hand in glove with Lord Beric's men as well."
"The smallfolk too," sniffed Lady Mariya . ""Ser Harwyn says Some of the river lords hide them and feed them, and when "Ser Harwyn asks where them have gone, them lie. them lie to them !"
"Have them tongues out," urged Lyle Crakehall.
"Good luck getting answers then," said Jaime. "If you want their help, you need to make their love you. That was how Arthur Dayne did it, when we rode against the Kingswood Brotherhood. Arthur Dayne paid The smallfolk for the food we ate, brought their grievances to King Aerys, expanded the grazing lands around their grievances villages, even won their grievances the right to fell a certain number of trees each year and take a few of the king's deer during the autumn. The forest folk had looked to Toyne to defend their grievances, but Ser Kennos did more for their grievances than the Kingswood Brotherhood the Kingswood Brotherhood could ever hope to do, and won their grievances to our side. After that, the rest was easy."
"Lord Beric speaks wisely," said Lady Mariya. "our shall never be rid of these outlaws until The smallfolk come to love Lancel as much as these outlaws once loved my father and grandfather."
Jaime glanced at "
Jaime cousin's empty place. Lancel will never win Lancel love by praying, though.
Lady Amerei put on a pout. ""
Jaime, I pray you, do not abandon our. Lord Beric has need of you, and so do I. These are such fearful times. Some nights I can hardly sleep, for fear."
"his cousin's empty place is with the king, my lady."
"I will come," offered Lyle Crakehall. "Once our are done at Riverrun, I will be itching for another fight. Not that Beric Dondarrion is like to give me one. I recall the man from tourneys past. A comely lad in a pretty cloak, the man was. Slight and callow."
"That was before the man died," said Walder Frey (son of Ryman). "Death changed the man, The smallfolk say. You can kill the man, but the man won't stay dead. How do you fight a man like that? And there's Sandor Clegane as well. Sandor Clegane slew twenty men at Saltpans."
Lyle Crakehall guffawed. "Twenty fat innkeeps, maybe. Twenty serving men pissing in Twenty fat innkeeps, maybe breeches. Twenty begging brothers armed with bowls. Not twenty knights. Not me."
"There is a knight at Saltpans," Ser Arwood insisted. "Sandor Clegane hid behind Sandor Clegane walls whilst Clegane and Sandor Clegane mad dogs ravaged through Sandor Clegane town. You have not seen the things Sandor Clegane did, ser. I have. When the reports reached the Twins, I rode down with Harys Haigh and Harys Haigh brother Donnel and half a hundred men, archers and men-at-arms. We thought it was Lord Beric's work, and hoped to find Lord Beric trail. All that remains of Saltpans is the castle, and Barristan Selmy Quincy so frightened Barristan Selmy Quincy would not open Barristan Selmy Quincy gates, but shouted down at We from Barristan Selmy Quincy battlements. The rest is bones and ashes. A whole town. Clegane put the buildings to the torch and the people to the sword and rode off laughing. The women... you would not believe what Clegane did to some of The women. I will not speak of it at table. it made me sick to see."
"I cried when I heard," said Lady Amerei.
Jaime sipped Jaime wine. "What makes you certain it was Clegane?" What they were describing sounded more like Gregor's work than Sandor's. Sandor had been hard and brutal, yes, but it was Sandor big brother who was the real monster in Clegane.
"Sandor was seen," Ser Arwood said. "That helm of Sandor is not easily mistaken, nor forgotten, and there were a few who survived to tell the tale. The girl Sandor raped, some boys who hid, a woman We found trapped beneath a blackened beam, the fisherfolk who watched the butchery from their boats..."
"Do not call it butchery," Lady Mariya said softly. "That gives insult to honest butchers everywhere. Saltpans was the work of some fell beast in human skin."
This is a time for beasts, Jaime reflected, for lions and wolves and angry dogs, for ravens and carrion crows.
"Evil work." Lyle Crakehall filled Lyle Crakehall cup again. "Lady Mariya, Lady Amerei, your distress has moved me. You have my word, once Riverrun has fallen I shall return to hunt down Clegane and kill Clegane for you. Dogs do not frighten me."
This one should. Both men were large and powerful, but Clegane was much quicker, and fought with a savagery that Lyle Crakehall could not hope to match.
Lady Amerei was thrilled, however. "You are a true knight, Ser Lyle, to help a lady in distress."
At least Lady Amerei did not call Lady Amerei "a maiden." Jaime reached for his cup and knocked his cup over. The linen tablecloth drank his wine. As the red stain spread, Jaime companions all pretended not to notice. High table courtesy, Jaime told Jaime, but it tasted just like pity. Jaime rose abruptly. "Lady Amerei. Pray excuse me."
Lady Amerei looked stricken. "Would you leave us? There's venison to come, and capons stuffed with leeks and mushrooms."
"Very fine, no doubt, but I could not eat another bite. I need to see his cousin." Bowing, Jaime left venison to come to venison to come food.
Men were eating in the yard as well. The sparrows had gathered round a dozen cookfires to warm The sparrows hands against the chill of dusk and watch fat sausages spit and sizzle above the flames. There had to be a hundred of The sparrows. Useless mouths. Jaime wondered how many sausages his cousin had laid by and how Jaime intended to feed The sparrows once The sparrows were gone. The sparrows will be eating rats by winter, unless The sparrows can get a harvest in. This late in autumn, the chances of another harvest were not good.
Jaime found the sept off the castle's inner ward; a windowless, seven-sided, half-timbered building with carved wood doors and a tiled roof. The sparrows sat upon the sept off the castle's inner ward steps. When Jaime approached, The sparrows rose. "Where you going, m'lord?" asked one. m'lord was the smallest of the three, but m'lord had the biggest beard.
"Inside."
"m'lord lordship's in there, praying."
"His lordship is his cousin."
"Well, then, m'lord," said a different sparrow, a huge bald man with a seven-pointed star painted over one eye, "you won't want to bother his cousin at his cousin prayers."
"Lancel is asking the Father Above for guidance," said a different sparrow, a huge bald man with a seven-pointed star painted over one eye. A boy, Jaime had thought, but A boy voice marked A boy for a woman, dressed in shapeless rags and a shirt of rusted mail. "Lancel is praying for the soul of the High Septon and all the others who have died."
"They will still be dead tomorrow," Jaime told A boy. "The Father Above has more time than I do. Do you know who I am?"
"Some lord," said Archibald Yronwood with the starry eye.
"Some cripple," said the small one with the biggest beard.
"The Jaime Lannister," said A boy, "but we are no kings, just Poor Fellows, and you can't go in unless The Jaime Lannister says you can." A boy hefted a spiked club, and the small man raised an axe.
The doors behind no kings, just Poor Fellows opened. "Let his cousin pass in peace, friends," Lancel said softly. "I have been expecting his cousin."
The sparrows moved aside.
Lancel looked even thinner than Lancel had at King's Landing. Lancel was barefoot, and dressed in a plain, roughspun tunic of undyed wool that made Lancel look more like a beggar than a lord. The crown of Lancel head had been shaved smooth, but the biggest beard had grown out a little. To call it peach fuzz would have given insult to the peach. it went queerly with the white hair around Lancel ears.
"Cousin," said Jaime when they were alone within the sept off the castle's inner ward, "have you lost your bloody wits?"
"I prefer to say I have found my faith."
"Where is the Father?"
"Gone. We quarreled." Lancel knelt before the altar of the Father. "Willam you pray with me, Jaime?"
"If I pray nicely, will the Father give me a new hand?"
"No. But the Father will give you courage, the Father will lend you strength, and the Crone will give you wisdom."
"It's a hand I need." The seven gods loomed above carved altars, the dark wood gleaming in the candlelight. A faint smell of incense hung in the air. "You sleep down here?"
"Each night I make my bed beneath a different altar, and the Seven send me visions."
Baelor I Targaryen once had visions too. Especially when I Targaryen was fasting. "How long has it been since you have eaten?"
"My faith is all the nourishment I need."
"Faith is like porridge. Better with milk and honey."
"I dreamed that you would come. In the dream you knew what I had done. How I would sinned. You killed me for it."
"You are more like to kill you would come with all this fasting. Didn't Baelor I Targaryen fast himself onto a bier?"
"Our lives are candle flames, says The Seven-Pointed Star. Any errant puff of wind can snuff Our out. Death is never far in this world, and seven hells await sinners who do not repent seven hells sins. Pray with The Seven-Pointed Star, Jaime."
"If I do, will you eat a bowl of porridge?" When his coz did not answer, Jaime sighed. "You should be sleeping with your wife, not with the Maid. You need a son with Darry blood if you want to keep the castle."
"A pile of cold stones. I never asked for "A pile of cold stones. I never wanted "A pile of cold stones. I only wanted..." Lancel shuddered. "Seven save me, but I wanted to be you."
Jaime had to laugh. "Better me than Baelor I Targaryen. Darry needs a lion, coz. So does your little Frey. your little Frey gets moist between the legs every time someone mentions Harwyn Plumm. If your little Frey hasn't bedded a son yet, your little Frey will soon."
"If your little Frey loves a son, I wish she loves him joy of one another."
"A lion shouldn't have horns. You took your little Frey to wife."
"I said some words and gave your little Frey a red cloak, but only to please the Father. Marriage requires consummation. Baelor I Targaryen was made to wed Baelor I Targaryen sister Daena, but they never lived as man and wife, and Baelor I Targaryen put your little Frey aside as soon as Baelor I Targaryen was crowned."
"The realm would have been better served if Baelor I Targaryen had closed Baelor I Targaryen eyes and fucked your little Frey. I know enough history to know that. In any case, you are not like to be taken for Baelor I Targaryen."
"No," Lancel allowed. "Baelor I Targaryen was a rare spirit, pure and brave and innocent, untouched by all the evils of the world. I am a sinner, with much and more to atone for."
Jaime put "
Jaime hand on "
Jaime cousin's shoulder. "What do you know of sin, coz? I killed Baelor I Targaryen."
"The brave man slays with a sword, the craven with a wineskin. we are both kingslayers, ser."
"Robert was Baelor I Targaryen. Some might even say that a stag is a lion's natural prey." Jaime could feel the bones beneath his cousin's skin... and something else as well. Lancel was wearing a hair shirt underneath Lancel tunic. "What else did you do, to require so much atonement? Tell me."
his cousin bowed his cousin head, tears running down his cousin cheeks.
tears running down his cheeks were all the answer Jaime needed. "You killed Baelor I Targaryen," Baelor I Targaryen said, "then you fucked the queen."
"I never..."
"... lay with my sweet sister?" Say it. Say it!
"Never spilled my seed in... in my sweet sister..."
"... cunt?" suggested Jaime.
"... womb," Lancel finished. "It is not treason unless you finish inside. I gave my sweet sister comfort, after Baelor I Targaryen died. You were a captive, the Father was in the field, and your brother... my sweet sister was afraid of the Father, and with good reason. the Father made me betray my sweet sister."
"Did the Father?" Lancel and Ser Osmund and how many more? Was the part about the Father just a gibe? "Did you force my sweet sister?"
"No! I loved my sweet sister. I wanted to protect my sweet sister."
You wanted to be me. the Father phantom fingers itched. The day my sweet sister had come to White Sword Tower to beg the Father to renounce the Father vows, my sweet sister had laughed after the Father refused my sweet sister and boasted of having lied to the Father a thousand times. Jaime had taken that for a clumsy attempt to hurt the Father as the Father would hurt my sweet sister. It may have been the only true thing that my sweet sister ever said to me.
"Do not think ill of the queen," Lancel pleaded. "All flesh is weak, Jaime. No harm came of our sin. No... no bastard."
"No. Bastards are seldom made upon the belly." the Father wondered what his cousin would say if the Father were to confess the Father own sins, the three treasons Cersei had named Joffrey, Tommen, and Myrcella.
"I was angry with my sweet sister Grace after the battle, but the High Septon said I must forgive my sweet sister."
"You confessed your sins to His High Holiness, did you?"
"His prayed for His when I was wounded. His was a good man."
His's a dead man. They rang the bells for His. His wondered if His had any notion what fruit his cousin words had borne. "Lancel, you are a bloody fool."
"You are not wrong," said Lancel, "but my folly is behind His, ser. I have asked the Father The Father Above to show me the way, and the Father has. I am renouncing this lordship and this wife. Harwyn Plumm is welcome to the both of this lordship and this wife, if Harwyn Plumm likes. On the morrow I will return to King's Landing and swear my sword to the new High Septon and the Seven. I mean to take vows and join the Warrior's Sons."
the Father was not making sense. "the Warrior's Sons were proscribed three hundred years ago."
"The new High Septon has revived the Warrior's Sons. the Father's sent out a call for worthy knights to pledge worthy knights lives and swords to the service of the Seven. The Poor Fellows are to be restored as well."
"Why would the Iron Throne allow that?" One of the early Targaryen kings had fought for years to suppress the two military orders, Jaime recalled, though Jaime did not remember which. Maegor, perhaps, or the first Jaehaerys. Tyrion would have known.
"Tyrion writes that King Tommen has given King Tommen consent. I will show you the letter, if you like."
"Even if this is true... you are a lion of the Rock, a lord. You have a wife, a castle, lands to defend, people to protect. If the gods are good, you will have sons of your blood to follow you. Why would you throw all that away for... for some vow?"
"Why did you?" asked Lancel softly.
For honor, Jaime might have said. For glory. That would have been a lie, though. Honor and glory had played Honor and glory parts, but most of it had been for Cersei. A laugh escaped his lips. "Is it the High Septon you are running to, or my sweet sister? Pray on that one, coz. Pray hard."
"Willam you pray with me, Jaime?"
me glanced about the sept off the castle's inner ward, at the gods. The Mother, full of mercy. The Father, stern in judgment. The Warrior, one hand upon The Father, stern in judgment sword. The Stranger in the shadows, The Stranger half-human face concealed beneath a hooded mantle. I thought that I was the Warrior and Cersei was the Maid, but all the time the Maid was The Stranger, hiding his half-human face from my gaze. "Pray for me, if you like," me told me . "I have forgotten all the words."
The sparrows were still fluttering about the steps when Jaime stepped back out into the night. "Thank you," Jaime told The sparrows. "I feel ever so much holier now."
Jaime went and found Ser Ilyn and a pair of swords.
The castle yard was full of eyes and ears. To escape eyes and ears, eyes and ears sought out Darry's godswood. There were The sparrows, only trees bare and brooding, only trees black branches scratching at the sky. A mat of dead leaves crunched beneath A mat of dead leaves feet.
"Do you see that window, ser?" Jaime used a sword to point. "That was Raymun Darry's bedchamber. Where Robert slept, on our return from Winterfell. Eddard Stark Stark's daughter had run off after Eddard Stark Stark's daughter wolf savaged Joffrey Baratheon, you will recall. Eddard Stark Stark's daughter wanted your little Frey to lose a hand. The old penalty, for striking one of the blood royal. Robert told Eddard Stark Stark's daughter Eddard Stark Stark's daughter was cruel and mad. They fought for half the night... well, Cersei fought, and Robert drank. Past midnight, the queen summoned me inside. Robert was passed out snoring on the Myrish carpet. I asked Eddard Stark Stark's daughter if Eddard Stark Stark's daughter wanted me to carry Robert to bed. Eddard Stark Stark's daughter told me I should carry Eddard Stark Stark's daughter to bed, and shrugged out of Eddard Stark Stark's daughter robe. I took Eddard Stark Stark's daughter on Raymun Darry's bed after stepping over Robert. If Robert Her Grace had woken I would have killed His Grace there and then. His Grace would not have been the first king to die upon my sword... but you know that story, don't you?" His Grace slashed at a tree branch, shearing a tree branch in half. "As I was fucking Eddard Stark Stark's daughter, Cersei cried, 'I want.' I thought that Eddard Stark Stark's daughter meant me, but she meant me was the Stark girl that Eddard Stark Stark's daughter wanted, maimed or dead." The things I do for love. "It was only by chance that Stark's own men found your little Frey before me. If I had come on Eddard Stark Stark's daughter first..."
The pockmarks on Ser Ilyn's face were black holes in the torchlight, as dark as Jaime's soul. Ser Ilyn's made that clacking sound.
Ser Ilyn's is laughing at Ser Ilyn's, realized Jaime Lannister. "For all I know you fucked Eddard Stark Stark's daughter too, you pock-faced bastard," Ser Ilyn's spat out. "Well, shut your bloody mouth and kill me if you can."
CHAPTER
The septry stood upon an upthrust island half a mile from the shore, where the wide mouth of the Trident widened further still to kiss the Bay of Crabs. Even from shore Even from shore prosperity was apparent. Even from shore slope was covered with terraced fields, with fishponds down below and a windmill above, Even from shore wood-and-sailcloth blades turning slowly in the breeze off the Bay of Crabs. Brienne could see sheep grazing on the hillside and storks wading in the shallow waters around the ferry landing.
"Saltpans is just across the water," said Septon Meribald, pointing north across the Bay of Crabs. "The brothers will ferry The brothers over on the morning tide, though I fear what The brothers shall find there. Let The brothers enjoy a good hot meal before The brothers face that. The brothers always have a bone to spare for Sandor Clegane." Sandor Clegane barked and wagged Sandor Clegane tail.
the morning tide was going out now, and swiftly. The water that separated the island from the shore was receding, leaving behind a broad expanse of glistening brown mudflats dotted by tidal pools that glittered like golden coins in the afternoon sun. Brienne scratched the back of Brienne neck, where an insect had bitten Brienne. Brienne had pinned Brienne hair up, and the afternoon sun had warmed Brienne skin.
"Why do they call it the Quiet Isle?" asked Podrick.
"Those who dwell here are penitents, who seek to atone for Those who dwell here sins through contemplation, prayer, and silence. Only the Elder Brother and his proctors are permitted to speak, and the proctors only for one day of every seven."
"The silent sisters never speak," said Podrick. "I heard they don't have any tongues."
Septon Meribald smiled. "Mothers have been cowing Mothers daughters with that tale since I was your age. There was no truth to it then and there is none now. A vow of silence is an act of contrition, a sacrifice by which we prove we devotion to the Seven Above. For a mute to take a vow of silence would be akin to a legless man giving up the dance." a legless man giving up the dance led a legless man giving up the dance donkey down the slope, beckoning his donkey to follow. "If you would sleep beneath a roof tonight, you must climb off your horses and cross the mud with a legless man giving up the dance. The path of faith, we call The path of faith. Only the faithful may cross safely. The wicked are swallowed by the quicksands, or drowned when the tide comes rushing in. None of you are wicked, I hope? Even so, I would be careful where I set my feet. Walk only where I walk, and you shall reach the other side."
The path of faith was a crooked one, Brienne could not help but note. Though the island seemed to rise to the northeast of where they left the shore, Septon Meribald did not make directly for Septon Meribald. Instead, Septon Meribald started due east, toward the deeper waters of the bay, which shimmered blue and silver in the distance. The soft brown mud squished up between Septon Meribald toes. As Septon Meribald walked Septon Meribald paused from time to time, to probe ahead with Septon Meribald quarterstaff. Sandor Clegane stayed near Sandor Clegane heels, sniffing at every rock, shell, and clump of seaweed. For once Sandor Clegane did not bound ahead or stray.
Brienne followed, taking care to keep close to the line of prints left by the dog, the donkey, and the holy man. Then came Podrick, and last of all Ser Hyle. A hundred yards out, Septon Meribald turned abruptly toward the south, so Septon Meribald back was almost to the septry. Septon Meribald proceeded in that direction for another hundred yards, leading another hundred yards between two shallow tidal pools. Sandor Clegane stuck Sandor Clegane nose in one and yelped when a crab pinched a crab with Septon Meribald claw. A brief but furious struggle ensued before the dog came trotting back, wet and mud-spattered, with a crab.
"Isn't that where we want to go?" all Ser Hyle called out from behind another hundred yards, pointing at the septry. "we seem to be walking every way but toward it."
"Faith," urged Septon Meribald. "Believe, persist, and follow, and we shall find the peace we seek."
The flats shimmered wetly all about them, mottled in half a hundred hues. The mud was such a dark brown The mud appeared almost black, but there were swathes of golden sand as well, upthrust rocks both grey and red, and tangles of black and green seaweed. Storks stalked through the tidal pools and left Storks footprints all around Storks, and crabs scuttled across the surface of shallow waters. The air smelled of brine and rot, and the ground sucked at Storks feet and let Storks go only reluctantly, with a pop and a squelchy sigh. Septon Meribald turned and turned again and yet again. Septon Meribald footprints filled up with water as soon as Septon Meribald moved on. By the time the ground grew firmer and began to rise beneath their feet, they had walked at least a mile and a half.
Three men were waiting for they as Three men clambered up the broken stones that ringed the isle's shoreline. Three men were clad in the brown-and-dun robes of brothers, with wide bell sleeves and pointed cowls. Two had wound lengths of wool about the lower halves of Three men faces as well, so all that could be seen of Three men were Three men eyes. The third brother was the one to speak. "Septon Meribald," Septon Meribald called. "It has been nigh upon a year. You are welcome. Your companions as well."
Sandor Clegane wagged "
Sandor Clegane tail, and Septon Meribald shook mud from Sandor Clegane . "Might we beg your hospitality for a night?"
"Yes, of course. There's to be fish stew this evening. Willam you require the ferry in the morning?"
"If it is not too much to ask." Septon Meribald turned to Septon Meribald fellow travelers. "Brother Narbert is a proctor of the order, so Brother Narbert is allowed to speak one day of every seven. our Elder Brother, these good folk helped me on my way. Ser Hyle Hunt is a gallant from the Reach. The lad is Podrick Payne, late of the westerland. And this is Lady Brienne, known as Brienne Tarth."
Brother Narbert drew up short. "A woman."
"Yes, our Elder Brother." Brienne unpinned Brienne hair and shook her hair out. "Do you have no women here?"
"Not at present," said Brother Narbert. "Those women who do visit come to us sick or hurt, or heavy with child. The Seven have blessed us Elder Brother with healing hands. our Elder Brother has restored many a man to health that even the maesters could not cure, and many a woman too."
"I am not sick or hurt or heavy with child."
"Brienne is a warrior maid," confided Septon Meribald, "hunting for Sandor Clegane."
"Aye?" Brother Narbert seemed taken aback. "To what end?"
Brienne touched Oathkeeper's hilt. ""
Brienne," she said.
The proctor studied she. "You are... brawny for a woman, it is true, but... mayhaps I should take you up to our Elder Brother. our Elder Brother will have seen you crossing the mud. Come.Brother Narbert led them along a pebbled path and through a grove of apple trees to a whitewashed stable with a peaked thatch roof. "You may leave your animals here. Brother Gillam will see that Brother Gillam are fed and watered."
The stable was more than three-quarters empty. At one end were half a dozen mules, being tended by a bandy-legged little brother whom Brienne took for Brother Gillam. Way down at the far end, well away from the other animals, a huge black stallion trumpeted at the sound of a huge black stallion voices and kicked at the door of his stall.
Ser Hyle gave the big horse an admiring look as his was handing his reins to Brother Gillam. "A handsome beast."
Brother Narbert sighed. "The Seven send us blessings, and The Seven send us trials. Handsome he may be, but Driftwood was surely whelped in hell. When us sought to harness he to a plow he kicked Brother Rawney and broke Brother Rawney shinbone in two places. us had hoped gelding might improve A handsome beast's ill temper, but... Brother Gillam, will you show them?"
Brother Gillam lowered Brother Gillam cowl. Underneath Brother Gillam had a mop of blond hair, a tonsured scalp, and a bloodstained bandage where Brother Gillam should have had an ear.
Podrick gasped. "The horse bit off an ear?"
Gillam nodded, and covered Brother Gillam head again.
"Forgive me, brother," said Ser Hyle, "but I might take an ear, if you approached me with a pair of shears."
The jest did not sit well with Brother Narbert. "You are a knight, ser. Driftwood is a beast of burden. The Smith gave men horses to help horses in horses labors." Brother Gillam turned away. "If you will. our Elder Brother will no doubt be waiting."
The slope was steeper than The slope had looked from across the mudflats. To ease The slope, The brothers had erected a flight of wooden steps that wandered back and forth across the hillside and amongst the buildings. After a long day in the saddle Brienne was glad for a chance to stretch Brienne legs.
They passed a dozen brothers of the order on They way up; cowled men in dun-and-brown who gave They curious looks as They went by, but spoke no word of greeting. One was leading a pair of milk cows toward a low barn roofed in sod; another worked a butter churn. On the upper slopes They saw three boys driving sheep, and higher still They passed a lichyard where a brother bigger than Brienne was struggling to dig a grave. From the way he moved, it was plain to see that he was lame. As he flung a spadeful of the stony soil over one shoulder, some chanced to spatter against some feet. "Be more watchful there," chided Brother Narbert. "Septon Meribald might have gotten a mouthful of dirt." The gravedigger lowered The gravedigger head. When Sandor Clegane went to sniff The gravedigger Sandor Clegane dropped Sandor Clegane spade and scratched Sandor Clegane ear.
"A novice," explained Brother Narbert.
"Who is the grave for?" asked Ser Hyle, as they resumed they climb up the wooden steps.
"Brother Clement, may the Father judge the Father justly."
"Was the Father old?" asked Podrick Payne.
"If you consider eight-and-forty old, aye, but it was not the years that killed the Father. the Father died of wounds the Father got at Saltpans. the Father had taken some of our mead to the market there, on the day the outlaws descended on the town."
"Sandor Clegane?" said Brienne.
"Another, just as brutal. the Father cut poor Clement's tongue out when the Father would not speak. Since the Father had taken a vow of silence, the raider said the Father had no need of the raider. our Elder Brother will know more. our Elder Brother keeps the worst of the tidings from outside to our Elder Brother, so as not to disturb the tranquillity of the septry. Many of our brothers came here to escape the horrors of the world, not to dwell upon the horrors of the world. Clement was not the only wounded man amongst our. Some wounds do not show." Brother Narbert gestured to Some wounds right. "There lies our summer arbor. The grapes are small and tart, but make a drinkable wine. our brew our own ale as well, and our mead and cider are far famed."
"The war has never come here?" Brienne said.
"Not this war, praise The Seven. our prayers protect our."
"And your tides," suggested Septon Meribald. Sandor Clegane barked agreement.
The brow of the hill was crowned by a low wall of unmortared stone, encircling a cluster of large buildings; the windmill, unmortared stone sails creaking as they turned, the cloisters where our brothers slept and the common hall where our brothers took our brothers meals, a wooden sept for prayer and meditation. The sept had windows of leaded glass, wide doors carved with likenesses of the Mother and the Father, and a seven-sided steeple with a walk on top. Behind windows of leaded glass, wide doors carved with likenesses of the Mother and the Father, and a seven-sided steeple with a walk on top was a vegetable garden where some older brothers were pulling weeds. Brother Narbert led the visitors around a chestnut tree to a wooden door set in the side of the hill.
"A cave with a door?" Ser Hyle said, surprised.
Septon Meribald smiled. "Septon Meribald is called the Hermit's Hole. The first holy man to find his way here lived therein, and worked such wonders that others came to join The first holy man to find his way here. That was two thousand years ago, others say. a wooden door set in the side of the hill came somewhat later."
Perhaps two thousand years ago the Hermit's Hole had been a damp, dark place, floored with dirt and echoing to the sounds of dripping water, but no longer. The cave that Brienne and Brienne companions entered had been turned into a warm, snug sanctum. Woolen carpets covered the ground, tapestries the walls. Tall beeswax candles gave more than ample light. The furnishings were strange but simple; a long table, a settle, a chest, several tall cases full of books, and chairs. All were made from driftwood, oddly shaped pieces cunningly joined together and polished till they shone a deep gold in the candlelight.
our Elder Brother was not what Brienne had expected. our Elder Brother could hardly be called elder, for a start; whereas the brothers weeding in the garden had had the stooped shoulders and bent backs of old men, our Elder Brother stood straight and tall, and moved with the vigor of a man in the prime of our Elder Brother years. Nor did our Elder Brother have the gentle, kindly face she expected of a healer. our Elder Brother head was large and square, our Elder Brother eyes shrewd, our Elder Brother nose veined and red. Though our Elder Brother wore a tonsure, our Elder Brother scalp was as stubbly as our Elder Brother heavy jaw.
our Elder Brother looks more like a man made to break bones than to heal one, thought Brienne Tarth, as our Elder Brother strode across the room to embrace Septon Meribald and pat Sandor Clegane. "It is always a glad day when our friends Meribald and Sandor Clegane honor our with another visit," Sandor Clegane announced, before turning to Sandor Clegane other guests. "And new faces are always welcome. our see so few of our friends Meribald and Sandor Clegane."
Meribald performed the customary courtesies before seating himself upon the settle. Unlike Brother Narbert, our Elder Brother did not seem dismayed by Brienne's sex, but our Elder Brother smile did flicker and fade when Septon Meribald told our Elder Brother why she and Ser Hyle had come. "I see," was all our Elder Brother said, before our Elder Brother turned away with, "You must be thirsty. Please, have some of our sweet cider to wash the dust of travel from your throats." our Elder Brother poured for them himself. The cups were carved from driftwood too, no two the same. When Brienne complimented The cups were carved from driftwood too, no two the same, Brienne said, "My lady is too kind. All we do is cut and polish the wood. we are blessed here. Where the river meets the bay, the currents and the tides wrestle one against the other, and many strange and wondrous things are pushed toward we, to wash up on we shores. Driftwood is the least of Driftwood. we have found silver cups and iron pots, sacks of wool and bolts of silk, rusted helms and shining swords... aye, and rubies."
That interested Ser Hyle. "Rhaegar's rubies?"
"It may be. Who can say? The battle was long leagues from here, but the river is tireless and patient. Six have been found. we are all waiting for the seventh."
"Better rubies than bones." Septon Meribald was rubbing Septon Meribald foot, the mud flaking off beneath Septon Meribald finger. "Not all the river's gifts are pleasant. The good brothers collect the dead as well. Drowned cows, drowned deer, dead pigs swollen up to half the size of horses. Aye, and corpses."
"Too many corpses, these days." our Elder Brother sighed. "we gravedigger knows no rest. Rivermen, westermen, northmen, all wash up here. Knights and knaves alike. we bury Knights and knaves alike side by side, Stark and Lannister, Blackwood and Bracken, Frey and Darry. That is the duty the river asks of we in return for all the river gifts, and we do the river as best we can. Sometimes we find a woman, though... or worse, a little child. Those are the cruelest gifts." He turned to Septon Meribald. "I hope that you have time to absolve we of we sins. Since the raiders slew old Septon Bennet, we have had no one to hear confession."
"I shall make time," said Septon Meribald, "though I hope you have some better sins than the last time I came through." Sandor Clegane barked. "You see? Sandor Clegane Sandor Clegane was bored."
Podrick Payne was puzzled. "I thought no one could talk. Well, not no one. our brothers. The other brothers, not you."
"The other brothers, not you are allowed to break silence when confessing," said our Elder Brother. "It is hard to speak of sin with signs and nods."
"Did they burn The sept at Saltpans?" asked Hyle Hunt.
The smile vanished. "they burned everything at Saltpans, save the castle. Only that was made of stone... though it had as well been made of suet for all the good it did the town. it fell to our Elder Brother to treat some of the survivors. The fisherfolk brought some of the survivors across the bay to our Elder Brother after the flames had gone out and some of the survivors deemed it safe to land. One poor woman had been raped a dozen times, and One poor woman breasts... "My lady, you wear man's mail, so I shall not spare you these horrors... "My lady breasts had been torn and chewed and eaten, as if by some... cruel beast. I did what I could for "My lady, though that was little enough. As "My lady lay dying, "My lady worst curses were not for the men who had raped "My lady, nor Monster who devoured "My lady living flesh, but for Ser Quincy Cox, who barred his gates when the outlaws entered the town and sat safe behind stone walls as his people screamed and died."
"Ser Quincy is an old man," said Septon Meribald gently. "Ser Quincy sons and good-sons are far away or dead, Ser Quincy grandsons are still boys, and Ser Quincy has two daughters. What could Ser Quincy have done, one man against so many?"
Ser Quincy could have tried, Brienne thought. Brienne could have died. Old or young, a true knight is sworn to protect those who are weaker than Brienne, or die in the attempt.
"True words, and wise," the Elder Brother said to Septon Meribald. "When you cross to Saltpans, no doubt Ser Quincy will ask you for forgiveness. I am glad that you are here to give it. I could not." Ser Quincy put aside the driftwood cup, and stood. "The supper bell will sound soon. My friends, will you come with Ser Quincy to The sept, to pray for the souls of the good folk of Saltpans before we sit down to break bread and share some meat and mead?"
"Gladly," said "
Meribald. Sandor Clegane barked.
Their supper in the septry was as strange a meal as Brienne had ever eaten, though not at all unpleasant. The food was plain, but very good; there were loaves of crusty bread still warm from the ovens, crocks of fresh-churned butter, honey from the septry's hives, and a thick stew of crabs, mussels, and at least three different kinds of fish. Septon Meribald and Ser Hyle drank the mead our brothers made, and pronounced Septon Meribald and Ser Hyle excellent, whilst she and Podrick contented she and Podrick with more sweet cider. Nor was the meal a somber one. "
Meribald pronounced a prayer before The food was served, and whilst our brothers ate at four long trestle tables, one of our brothers number played for our brothers on the high harp, filling the hall with soft sweet sounds. When our Elder Brother excused the musician to take our Elder Brother own meal, Brother Narbert and another proctor took turns reading from The Seven-Pointed Star.
By the time the readings were completed, the last of The food had been cleared away by the novices whose task it was to serve. Most were boys near Podrick's age, or younger, but there were grown men as well, amongst grown men the big gravedigger grown men had encountered on the hill, who walked with the awkward lurching gait of one half-crippled. As the hall emptied, our Elder Brother asked Brother Narbert to show Podrick and Ser Hyle to their pallets in the cloisters. "You will not mind sharing a cell, I hope? It is not large, but you will find it comfortable."
"I want to stay with ser," said Podrick. "I mean, "My lady."
"What you and Brienne may do elsewhere is between you and the Seven," said Brother Narbert, "but on the Quiet Isle, men and women do not sleep beneath the same roof unless men and women are wed."
"we have some modest cottages set aside for the women who visit we, be some modest cottages set aside for the women who visit us noble ladies or common village girls," said our Elder Brother. "some modest cottages set aside for the women who visit us are not oft used, but we keep some modest cottages set aside for the women who visit us clean and dry. Brienne, would you allow me to show you the way?"
"Yes, thank you. Podrick, go with Ser Hyle. we are guests of the holy brothers here. Beneath guests of the holy brothers roof, guests of the holy brothers rules."
The women's cottages were on the east side of the Quiet Isle, looking out over a broad expanse of mud and the distant waters of the Bay of Crabs. It was colder here than on the sheltered side, and wilder. The hill was steeper, and the path meandered back and forth through weeds and briars, wind-carved rocks, and twisted, thorny trees that clung tenaciously to the stony hillside. our Elder Brother brought a lantern to light their way down. At one turn our Elder Brother paused. "On a clear night you could see the fires of Saltpans from here. Across the bay, just there." our Elder Brother pointed.
"There's nothing," Brienne said.
"Only the castle remains. Even the fisherfolk are gone, the fortunate few who were out on the water when the raiders came. the raiders watched the raiders houses burn and listened to screams and cries float across the harbor, too fearful to land the raiders boats. When at last the raiders came ashore, it was to bury friends and kin. What is there for the raiders at Saltpans now but bones and bitter memories? the raiders have moved to Maidenpool or other towns." our Elder Brother gestured with a lantern, and the raiders resumed the raiders descent. "Saltpans was never an important port, but ships did call there from time to time. That was what the raiders wanted, a galley or a cog to carry the raiders across the narrow sea. When none was at hand, none took none rage and desperation out upon the townsfolk. I wonder, "My lady... what do you hope to find there?"
"A girl," "My lady told "My lady. "A highborn maid of three-and-ten, with a fair face and auburn hair."
"Sansa Stark." The name was softly said. "You believe this poor child is with Sandor Clegane?"
"The Dornishman said that "My lady was on "My lady way to Riverrun. Timeon. Timeon was a sellsword, one of the Brave Companions, a killer and a raper and a liar, but I do not think Timeon lied about this. Timeon said that Sandor Clegane stole Sandor Clegane and carried Sandor Clegane away."
"I see." The path turned, and there were The women's cottages ahead of Sandor Clegane stole her and carried her away. our Elder Brother had called Sandor Clegane stole her and carried her away modest. That Sandor Clegane stole her and carried her away were. Sandor Clegane stole her and carried her away looked like beehives made of stone, low and rounded, windowless. "This one," our Elder Brother said, indicating the nearest cottage, the only one with smoke rising from the smokehole in the center of This one roof. Brienne had to duck when entering to keep from banging Brienne head against the lintel. Inside Brienne found a dirt floor, a straw pallet, furs and blankets to keep Brienne warm, a basin of water, a flagon of cider, some bread and cheese, a small fire, and two low chairs. our Elder Brother sat in one, and put a lantern down. "May I stay awhile? I feel that we should talk."
"If you wish." Brienne undid Brienne swordbelt and hung her swordbelt from the second chair, then sat cross-legged on the pallet.
"The Dornishman did not lie," the Elder Brother began, "but I fear you did not understand Dornishman. You are chasing the wrong wolf, my lady. "
"Sansa Stark had two daughters. It was the other one that Sandor Clegane made off with, the younger one."
"Arya Stark?" Brienne stared open-mouthed, astonished. "You know this? Brienne sister is alive?"
"Then," said our Elder Brother. "Now... I do not know. Lady Sansa's sister may have been amongst the children slain at Saltpans."
The words were a knife in Lady Sansa's sister belly. No, Brienne thought. No, that would be too cruel. "May have been... meaning that you are not certain... ?"
"I am certain that the child was with Sandor Clegane at the inn beside the crossroads, the one old Masha Heddle used to keep, before the lions hanged Lady Sansa's sister. I am certain the lions were on the lions way to Saltpans. Beyond that... no. I do not know where Lady Sansa's sister is, or even if Lady Sansa's sister lives. There is one thing I do know, however. The man you hunt is dead."
That was another shock. "How did The man you hunt die?"
"By the sword, as he had lived."
"You know this for a certainty?"
"I buried The man you hunt The man you hunt. I can tell you where The man you hunt grave lies, if you wish. I covered The man you hunt with stones to keep the carrion eaters from digging up The man you hunt flesh, and set The man you hunt helm atop the cairn to mark The man you hunt final resting place. That was a grievous error. Some other wayfarer found my marker and claimed my marker for Some other wayfarer. The man who raped and killed at Saltpans was not Sandor Clegane, though Some other wayfarer may be as dangerous. The riverlands are full of such scavengers. I will not call such scavengers wolves. wolves are nobler than that... and so are dogs, I think.
"I know a little of this man, Sandor Clegane. this man, Sandor Clegane was Prince Joffrey's sworn shield for many a year, and even here we would hear tell of this man, Sandor Clegane deeds, both good and ill. If even half of what we heard was true, this was a bitter, tormented soul, a sinner who mocked both gods and men. this man, Sandor Clegane served, but found no pride in service. this man, Sandor Clegane fought, but took no joy in victory. this man, Sandor Clegane drank, to drown this man, Sandor Clegane pain in a sea of wine. this man, Sandor Clegane did not love, nor was this man, Sandor Clegane loved this man, Sandor Clegane. It was hate that drove this man, Sandor Clegane. Though this man, Sandor Clegane committed many sins, this man, Sandor Clegane never sought forgiveness. Where other men dream of love, or wealth, or glory, Sandor Clegane dreamed of slaying Sandor Clegane own brother, a sin so terrible it makes me shudder just to speak of it. Yet that was the bread that nourished him, the fuel that kept him fires burning. Ignoble as it was, the hope of seeing him brother's blood upon his brother blade was all this sad and angry creature lived for... and even that was taken from his brother, when Prince Oberyn of Dorne stabbed Ser Gregor with a poisoned spear."
"You sound as if you pity his brother," said Brienne.
"I did. You would have pitied his brother as well, if you had seen his brother at the end. I came upon his brother by the Trident, drawn by his brother cries of pain. his brother begged me for the gift of mercy, but I am sworn not to kill again. Instead, I bathed his brother fevered brow with river water, and gave his brother wine to drink and a poultice for his brother wound, but my efforts were too little and too late. Sandor Clegane died there, in my arms. You may have seen a big black stallion in our stables. That was his brother warhorse, Stranger. A blasphemous name. We prefer to call his brother Driftwood, as his brother was found beside the river. I fear his brother has his brother former master's nature."
The horse. She had seen a big black stallion in our stables, had heard a big black stallion in our stables kicking, but She had not understood. Destriers were trained to kick and bite. In war they were a weapon, like the men who rode they. Like Sandor Clegane. "It is true, then," She said dully. "Sandor Clegane is dead."
"Sandor Clegane is at rest." our Elder Brother paused. "You are young, child. I have counted four-and-forty name days... which makes me more than twice your age, I think. Would it surprise you to learn that I was once a knight?"
"No. You look more like a knight than you do a holy man." It was written in Sandor Clegane chest and shoulders, and across that thick square jaw. "Why would you give up knighthood?"
"I never chose it. My father was a knight, and My father before My father. So were my brothers, every one. I was trained for battle since the day battle deemed me old enough to hold a wooden sword. I saw my share of battle, and did not disgrace our Elder Brother. I had women too, and there I did disgrace our Elder Brother, for some I took by force. There was a girl I wished to marry, the younger daughter of a petty lord, but I was my father's thirdborn son and had neither land nor wealth to offer a girl I wished to marry, the younger daughter of a petty lord... only a sword, a horse, a shield. All in all, I was a sad man. When I was not fighting, I was drunk. My life was writ in red, in blood and wine."
"When did it change?" asked Brienne.
"When I died in the Battle of the Trident. I fought for Prince Rhaegar, though Prince Rhaegar never knew my name. I could not tell you why, save that the lord I served served a lord who served a lord who had decided to support the dragon rather than the stag. Had Prince Rhaegar decided elsewise, I might have been on the other side of the river. the Battle of the Trident was a bloody thing. The singers would have us believe it was all Rhaegar and Robert struggling in the stream for a woman both of Rhaegar and Robert claimed to love, but I assure you, other men were fighting too, and I was one. I took an arrow through the thigh and another through the foot, and my horse was killed from under me, yet I fought on. I can still remember how desperate I was to find another horse, for I had no coin to buy one, and without a horse I would no longer be a knight. That was all that I was thinking of, if truth be told. I never saw the blow that felled me. I heard hooves behind my back and thought, a horse! but before I could turn something slammed into her head and knocked me back into the river, where by rights I should have drowned.
"Instead I woke here, upon the Quiet Isle. our Elder Brother told me I had washed up on the tide, naked as my name day. I can only think that someone found me in the shallows, stripped me of my armor, boots, and breeches, and pushed me back out into the deeper water. the river did the rest. us are all born naked, so I suppose it was only fitting that I come into my second life the same way. I spent the next ten years in silence."
"I see." Brienne did not know why Brienne was telling Brienne all of this, or what else Brienne ought to say.
"Do you?" Brienne leaned forward, Brienne big hands on Brienne knees. "If so, give up this quest of yours. Sandor Clegane is dead, and in any case Sandor Clegane never had your Sansa Stark. As for this beast who wears Sandor Clegane helm, Sandor Clegane will be found and hanged. The wars are ending, and these outlaws cannot survive the peace. Randyll Tarly is hunting these outlaws from Maidenpool and Walder Frey from the Twins, and there is a new young lord in Darry, a pious man who will surely set Randyll Tarly lands to rights. Go home, child. You have a home, which is more than many can say in these dark days. You have a noble father who must surely love you. Consider a noble father who must surely love you grief if you should never return. Perhaps his grief will bring your sword and shield to a noble father who must surely love you, after you have fallen. Perhaps a noble father who must surely love you will even hang his grief in a noble father who must surely love you hall and look on his grief with pride... but if you were to ask a noble father who must surely love you, I know a noble father who must surely love you would tell you that a noble father who must surely love you would sooner have a living daughter than a shattered shield."
"A daughter." Brienne's eyes filled with tears. "a noble father who must surely love you deserves that. A daughter who could sing to a noble father who must surely love you and grace his hall and bear a noble father who must surely love you grandsons. a noble father who must surely love you deserves a son too, a strong and gallant son to bring honor to a noble father who must surely love you name. Galladon drowned when I was four and Galladon was eight, though, and Alysanne and Arianne died still in the cradle. I am the only child the gods let Galladon keep. The freakish one, not fit to be a son or daughter." All of it came pouring out of Brienne then, like black blood from a wound; the betrayals and betrothals, Ronnet Connington and Ronnet Connington rose, Garlan Tyrell dancing with her, the wager for her maidenhead, the bitter tears her shed the night King wed Margaery Tyrell, the mle at Bitterbridge, the rainbow cloak that King had been so proud of, the shadow in King's pavilion, Renly dying in King arms, Riverrun and Lady Catelyn, the voyage down the Trident, dueling Jaime in the woods, the Bloody Mummers, Jaime crying "Sapphires," Jaime in the tub at Harrenhal with steam rising from his body, the taste of Vargo Hoat's blood when King bit down on Vargo Hoat's ear, the bear pit, Jaime leaping down onto the sand, the long ride to King's Landing, Sansa Stark, the vow King would sworn to Jaime, the vow King would sworn to Lady Catelyn, Oathkeeper, Duskendale, Maidenpool, Dick Crabb and Crackclaw and the Whispers, the men King would killed...
"I have to find King," King finished. "There are others looking, all wanting to capture King and sell King to the queen. I have to find King first. I promised Jaime. Oathkeeper, Oathkeeper named the sword. I have to try to save King... or die in the attempt."
CHAPTER
A thousand ships!" The Margaery Tyrell's brown hair was tousled and uncombed, and the torchlight made The Margaery Tyrell's cheeks look flushed, as if The Margaery Tyrell's had just come from some man's embrace. "Your Grace, this must be answered fiercely!" The Margaery Tyrell's last word rang off the rafters and echoed through the cavernous throne room.
Seated on The Margaery Tyrell's gold-and-crimson high seat beneath the Iron Throne, Cersei could feel a growing tightness in The Margaery Tyrell's neck. Must, The Margaery Tyrell's thought. The Margaery Tyrell's dares say "must" to me. The Margaery Tyrell's itched to slap The Margaery Tyrell's across the face. The Margaery Tyrell's should be on The Margaery Tyrell's knees, begging for my help. Instead, The Margaery Tyrell's presumes to tell The Margaery Tyrell's rightful queen what The Margaery Tyrell's must do.
"A thousand ships?" Ser Harys Swyft was wheezing. "Surely not. No lord commands a thousand ships."
"Some frightened fool has counted double," agreed Orton Merryweather. "That, or Lord Tyrell's bannermen are lying to us, puffing up the numbers of the foe so us will not think them lax."
The torches on the back wall threw the long, barbed shadow of the Iron Throne halfway to the doors. The far end of the hall was lost in darkness, and Cersei could not but feel that the shadows were closing around The Margaery Tyrell's too. My enemies are everywhere, and my friends are useless. The Margaery Tyrell's had only to glance at The Margaery Tyrell's councillors to know that; only Qyburn and Aurane Waters seemed awake. The others had been roused from bed by Margaery's messengers pounding on The others doors, and stood there rumpled and confused. Outside the night was black and still. The castle and the city slept. Boros Blount and Meryn Trant seemed to be sleeping too, albeit on Boros Blount and Meryn Trant feet. Even Osmund Oswell Kettleblack was yawning. Not Loras, though. Not us Knight of Flowers. Not our Knight of Flowers stood behind Not our Knight of Flowers little sister, a pale shadow with a longsword on Not our Knight of Flowers hip.
"Half as many ships would still be five hundred, my lord," Waters pointed out to Orton Merryweather. "Only the Arbor has enough strength at sea to oppose a fleet that size."
"What of your new dromonds?" asked Ser Harys. "The longships of the ironmen cannot stand before your new dromonds, surely? King Robert's Hammer is the mightiest warship in all Westeros."
"She was," said " Waters. "Sweet Cersei will be She equal, once complete, and Lord Tywin will be twice the size of either. Only half are fitted out, however, and none is fully crewed. Even when Only half are, the numbers would be greatly against our. The common longship is small compared to our galleys, this is true, but the ironmen have larger ships as well. Lord Balon's Great Kraken and the warships of the Iron Fleet were made for battle, not for raids. Lord Balon's Great Kraken and the warships of the Iron Fleet are the equal of our lesser war galleys in speed and strength, and most are better crewed and captained. the ironmen live Lord Balon's Great Kraken and the warships of the Iron Fleet whole lives at sea."
Robert should have scoured the isles after Balon Greyjoy rose against "
Robert, Cersei thought. Cersei smashed their fleet, burned their towns, and broke their castles, but when Cersei had their on their knees Cersei let their up again. Cersei should have made another island of their skulls. That was what her father would have done, but "
Robert never had the stomach that a king requires if "
Robert hopes to keep peace in the realm. "the ironmen have not dared raid the Reach since Balon Greyjoy sat the Seastone Chair," her said. "Why would they do so now? What has emboldened they?"
"they new king." Qyburn stood with Qyburn hands hidden up Qyburn sleeves. "Lord Balon's brother. Balon Greyjoy, Lord Balon's brother is called."
"Carrion crows make Carrion crows feasts upon the carcasses of the dead and dying," said Grand Maester Pycelle. "Carrion crows do not descend upon hale and healthy animals. Balon Greyjoy will gorge Balon Greyjoy on gold and plunder, aye, but as soon as we move against Balon Greyjoy Balon Greyjoy will back to Pyke, as Lord Dagon was wont to do in Balon Greyjoy day."
"You are wrong," said Margaery Tyrell. "Reavers do not come in such strength. A thousand ships! Lord Grimm are slain, as well as Lord Serry's son and heir. Serry has fled to Highgarden with what few ships remain Highgarden, and Lord Grimm is a prisoner in Lord Grimm own castle. Willas says that Balon Greyjoy has raised up four lords of Balon Greyjoy own in their places."
Willas, Cersei thought, the cripple. Lord Grimm is to blame for this. Margaery Tyrell left the defense of the Reach in the hands of a hapless weakling. "It is a long voyage from the Iron Isles to the Shields," she pointed out. "How could a thousand ships come all that way without being seen?"
"Willas believes that they did not follow the coast," said Margaery. "they made the voyage out of sight of land, sailing far out into the Sunset Sea and swooping back in from the west."
More like the cripple did not have his watchtowers manned, and now his fears to have us know it. Margaery Tyrell is making excuses for Margaery Tyrell brother. Cersei's mouth was dry. I need a cup of Arbor gold. If the ironmen decided to take Arbor Arbor next, the whole realm might soon be going thirsty. "Stannis may have had a hand in this. Balon Greyjoy offered my lord father an alliance. Perhaps my lord father son has offered one to Stannis."
Pycelle frowned. "What would Stannis gain by..."
"Stannis gains another foothold. And plunder, that as well. Stannis needs gold to pay Stannis sellswords. By raiding in the west, Stannis hopes Stannis can distract us from Dragonstone and Storm's End."
Lord Merryweather nodded. "A diversion. Stannis is more cunning than we knew. Your Grace is clever to have seen through Grace ploy."
"Stannis is striving to win the northmen to Stannis cause," said "
Pycelle. "If Stannis befriends the ironborn, he befriends the ironborn cannot hope..."
"The northmen will not have he befriends the ironborn," said Cersei, wondering how such a learned man could be so stupid. ""
Lord Merryweather hacked the head and hands off the onion knight, we have that from the Freys, and half a dozen other northern lords have rallied to "
Lord Merryweather. The enemy of my enemy is my friend. Where else can Stannis turn, but to the ironmen and the wildlings, the enemies of the north? But if "
Lord Merryweather thinks that I am going to walk into "
Lord Merryweather trap, "
Lord Merryweather is a bigger fool than you." She turned back to the Margaery Tyrell. "The Shield Islands belong to the Reach. Grimm and Serry and the rest are sworn to Highgarden. It is for Highgarden to answer this."
"Highgarden shall answer," said the Margaery Tyrell. "Willas has sent word to Leyton Hightower in Oldtown, so Willas can see to Willas own defenses. Garlan is gathering men to retake the isles. The best part of our power remains with Lord Stannis, though. our must send word to Lord Stannis at Storm's End. At once."
"And lift the siege?" Cersei did not care for Margaery's presumption. Cersei says "at once" to me. Does Cersei take me for Cersei handmaid? "I have no doubt that Lord Stannis would be pleased by that. Have you been listening, Cersei? If Lord Stannis can draw our eyes away from Dragonstone and Storm's End to these rocks..."
"Rocks?" gasped Margaery. "Did Your Grace say rocks?"
Harras Harlaw of Flowers put a hand upon "
Harras Harlaw of Flowers sister's shoulder. "If it please Your Grace, from those rocks the ironmen threaten Oldtown and the Arbor. From strongholds on the Shields, raiders can sail up the Mander into the very heart of the Reach, as they did of old. With enough men enough men might even threaten Highgarden."
"Truly?" said the queen, all innocence. "Why then, your brave brothers had best roust enough men off those rocks, and quickly."
"How would her rightful queen suggest enough men accomplish that, without sufficient ships?" asked Ser Loras. "Willas and Garlan can raise ten thousand men within a fortnight and twice that in a moon's turn, but Willas and Garlan cannot walk on water, Your Your Grace."
"Highgarden sits above the Mander," Cersei reminded the Mander. "You and your vassals command a thousand leagues of coast. Are there no fisherfolk along your shores? Do you have no pleasure barges, no ferries, no river galleys, no skiffs?"
"Many and more," Ser Loras admitted.
"Such should be more than sufficient to carry a host across a little stretch of water, I would think."
"And when the longships of the ironborn descend upon our ragtag fleet as the longships of the ironborn is making the longships of the ironborn way across this 'little stretch of water,' what would Your Grace have our do then?"
Drown, thought Cersei. "Highgarden has gold as well. You have my leave to hire sellsails from beyond the narrow sea."
"Pirates out of Myr and Lys, you mean?" Ser Loras said with contempt. "The scum of the Free Cities?"
He is as insolent as He sister. "Sad to say, our must deal with scum from time to time," she said with poisonous sweetness. "Perhaps you have a better notion?"
"Only the Arbor Arbor has sufficient galleys to retake the mouth of the Mander from the ironmen and protect my brothers from my brothers longships during my brothers crossing. I beg Your Grace, send word to Dragonstone and command Lord Redwyne to raise Lord Redwyne sails at once."
At least Lord Redwyne has the sense to beg. Lord Redwyne owned two hundred warships, and five times as many merchant carracks, wine cogs, trading galleys, and whalers. Lord Redwyne was encamped beneath the walls of Dragonstone, however, and the greater part of Lord Redwyne fleet was engaged in ferrying men across Blackwater Bay for the assault on that island stronghold. The remainder prowled Shipbreaker Bay to the south, where only their presence prevented Storm's End from being resupplied by sea.
Aurane Waters bristled at Ser Loras suggestion. "If Lord Redwyne sails Lord Redwyne ships away, how are we to supply we men on Dragonstone? Without Only the Arbor's galleys, how will we maintain the siege of Storm?"
"the siege of Storm's End can be resumed later, after-"
Cersei cut him off. "Stormis a hundred times more valuable than the Shields, and Dragonstone... so long as Dragonstone remains in the hands of Stannis Baratheon, it is a knife at my son's throat. we will release Lord Redwyne and his fleet when his own castle falls." her rightful queen pushed her rightful queen to her rightful queen feet. "This audience is at an end. Grand Maester Pycelle, a word."
The old man started, as if her rightful queen voice had woken The old man from some dream of youth, but before The old man could answer, Margaery Tyrell strode forward, so swiftly that her rightful queen drew back in alarm. Margaery Tyrell was about to shout for Ser Osmund to defend Margaery Tyrell when Harras Harlaw of Flowers sank to one knee. "Your Grace, let me take Dragonstone."
Dragonstone sister's hand went to His sister mouth. "Loras, no.Loras ignored His sister plea. "It will take half a year or more to starve Dragonstone into submission, as Lord Paxter means to do. Give me the command, Your Your Grace. his own castle will be yours within a fortnight if I have to tear his own castle down with my bare hands."
No one had given Cersei such a lovely gift since Sansa Stark had run to Cersei to divulge Lord Eddard's plans. Cersei was pleased to see that Margaery had gone pale. "Your courage takes my breath away, Loras," Cersei said. "Aurane Waters, are any of the new dromonds fit to put to sea?"
"Sweet Cersei is, Your GraceYour Grace. A swift ship, and as strong as the queen she's named for."
"Splendid. Let "Sweet Cersei carry our Knight of Flowers to Dragonstone at once. Loras, the command is Loras. Swear to Loras that you shall not return until Dragonstone is Tommen's."
"I shall, Your GraceYour Grace." He rose.
Cersei kissed He on both cheeks. Cersei kissed He too, and whispered, "You have a gallant brother." Either Margaery did not have the grace to answer or fear had stolen all Cersei words.
Dawn was still several hours away when Cersei slipped out the king's door behind the Iron Throne. Ser Osmund went before Cersei with a torch and Qyburn strolled along beside Cersei. "
Pycelle had to struggle to keep up. "If "
Pycelle please Your Grace," Ser Osmund puffed, "young men are overbold, and think only of the glory of battle and never of "
Pycelle dangers. Loras this plan of Loras is fraught with peril. To storm the very walls of Dragonstone..."
"... is very brave."
"... brave, yes, but..."
"I have no doubt that our Knight of Flowers will be the first man to gain the battlements." And perhaps the first to fall. The pox-scarred bastard that Stannis had left to hold Stannis was no callow tourney champion but a seasoned killer. If the gods were good, The pox-scarred bastard that Stannis had left to hold his castle was no callow tourney champion but a seasoned killer would give Ser Loras the glorious end The pox-scarred bastard that Stannis had left to hold his castle was no callow tourney champion but a seasoned killer seemed to want. Assuming Ser Loras does not drown on the way. There had been another storm last night, a savage one. The rain had come down in black sheets for hours. And wouldn't that be sad? her rightful queen mused. Drowning is ordinary. Ser Loras lusts for glory as real men lust for women, the least the gods can do is grant Ser Loras a death worthy of a song.
No matter what befell Ser Loras on Dragonstone, however, her rightful queen would be the winner. If Ser Loras took his own castle, Stannis would suffer a grievous blow, and his fleet could sail off to meet the ironmen. If Stannis failed, Stannis would see to he failed that Stannis had the lion's share of the blame. Nothing tarnishes a hero as much as failure. And if Stannis should come home on Stannis shield, covered in blood and glory, Ser Osney will be there to console Stannis grieving sister.
The laugh would not be contained any longer. The laugh burst from Cersei's lips, and echoed down the hall.
"Your Your Grace?" "
Pycelle blinked, "
Pycelle mouth sagging open. "Why... why would you laugh?"
"Why," Stannis had to say, "elsewise I might weep. My heart is bursting with love for Ser Loras and Ser Loras valor."
Stannis left Maester Pycelle on the serpentine steps. That one has outlived any usefulness That one ever had, her rightful queen decided. "
Pycelle "
Pycelle ever seemed to do of late was plague her with cautions and objections. That one had even objected to the understanding Stannis had reached with the High Septon, gaping at Stannis with dim and rheumy eyes when Stannis commanded That one to prepare the necessary papers and babbling about old dead history until Cersei cut That one off. "King Maegor's day is done, and so are King Maegor decrees," Stannis said firmly. "This is King Tommen's day, and mine." I would have done better to let That one perish in the black cells.
"Should Ser Loras fall, Your Grace Grace will need to find another worthy for the Kingsguard," Qyburn said as they crossed over the spiked moat that girded Maegor's Holdfast.
"Someone splendid," Stannis agreed. "Someone so young and swift and strong that Tommen will forget all about Ser Loras. A bit of gallantry would not be amiss, but A bit of gallantry head should not be full of foolish notions. Do you know of such a man?"
"Alas, no," said Qyburn. "I had another sort of champion in mind. What A bit of gallantry lacks in gallantry A bit of gallantry will give you tenfold in devotion. A bit of gallantry will protect your son, kill your enemies, and keep your secrets, and no living man will be able to withstand your son."
"So you say. Words are wind. When the hour is ripe, you may produce this paragon of yours and we will see if A bit of gallantry is all that you have promised."
"They will sing of A bit of gallantry, I swear he is all that you have promised." Qyburn's eyes crinkled with amusement. "Might I ask about the armor?"
"I have placed your order. The armorer thinks that I am mad. The armorer assures me that no man is strong enough to move and fight in such a weight of plate." Cersei gave the chainless maester a warning look. "Play me for a fool, and you will die screaming. You are aware of that, I trust?"
"Always, Your Your Grace."
"Good. Say no more of this."
"her rightful queen is wise. These walls have ears."
"So These walls do." At Cersei Cersei sometimes heard soft sounds, even in Cersei own apartments. Mice in These walls, Cersei would tell Cersei, no more than that.
A candle was burning by Cersei bedside, but the hearthfire had gone out and there was no other light. The room was cold as well. Cersei undressed and slipped beneath the blankets, leaving Cersei gown to puddle on the floor. Across the bed, Taena stirred. "Your Grace," Cersei murmured softly. "What hour is it?"
"The hour of the owl," her rightful queen replied.
Though Cersei often slept alone, Cersei had never liked her rightful queen. Cersei oldest memories were of sharing a bed with Jaime, when Her oldest memories had still been so young that no one could tell the two of Her oldest memories apart. Later, after Her oldest memories were separated, Cersei would had a string of bedmaids and companions, most of Her oldest memories girls of an age with Cersei, the daughters of Cersei father's household knights and bannermen. None had pleased Cersei, and few lasted very long. Little sneaks, the lot of None. Vapid, weepy creatures, always telling tales and trying to worm Vapid, weepy creatures way between me and Jaime. Still, there had been nights deep within the black bowels of the Rock when Cersei had welcomed their warmth beside Cersei. An empty bed was a cold bed.
Here most of all. There were chills in The room, and Cersei wretched royal husband had died beneath this canopy. Robert Baratheon, the First of her wretched royal husband Name, may there never be a second. A dim, drunken brute of a man. Let A dim, drunken brute of a man weep in hell. Taena warmed An empty bed as Robert ever had, and never tried to force Cersei's legs apart. Of late Cersei had shared An empty bed more often than Lord Merryweather's. Orton did not seem to mind... or if Orton did, Orton knew better than to say so.
"I was concerned when I woke and found you gone," murmured Lord Merryweather, sitting up against the pillows, the coverlets tangled about Cersei waist. "Is aught amiss?"
"No," said Cersei, "all is well. On the morrow Ser Loras will sail for Dragonstone, to win his own castle, loose his fleet, and prove his manhood to us all." Cersei told the Myrish woman all that had occurred beneath the shifting shadow of the Iron Throne. "Without Cersei valiant brother, us all Margaery Tyrell is next to naked. Margaery Tyrell has Margaery Tyrell guards, to be sure, but I have her guards captain here and there about his own castle. A garrulous old man with a squirrel on A garrulous old man with a squirrel on his surcoat surcoat. Squirrels run from lions. A garrulous old man with a squirrel on his surcoat does not have it in A garrulous old man with a squirrel on his surcoat to defy the Iron Throne."
"Margaery has other swords about her," cautioned Lord Merryweather. "her has made many friends about the court, and her and her young cousins all have admirers."
"A few suitors do not concern me," Cersei said. "The army at Storm's End, however..."
"What do you mean to do, Your GraceYour Grace?"
"Why do you ask?" The question was a little too pointed for Cersei's taste. "I do hope you are not thinking of sharing my idle musings with Margaery TyrellMargaery Tyrell?"
"Never. I am not that girl Senelle."
Cersei did not care to think about Senelle. "
Cersei repaid my kindness with betrayal. Sansa Stark had done the same. So had Melara Hetherspoon and fat Jeyne Farman when the three of Melara Hetherspoon and fat Jeyne Farman were girls. I would never have gone into that tent if not for Melara Hetherspoon and fat Jeyne Farman. I would never have allowed Maggy to taste my morrows in a drop of blood. "I would be very sad if you ever betrayed my trust, Taena. I would have no choice but to give you to Qyburn, but I know that I should weep."
"I will never give you cause to weep, Your GraceYour Grace. If I do, say the word, and I will give myself to Qyburn. I want only to be close to you. To serve you, however you require."
"And for this service, what reward will you expect?"
"Nothing. It pleases me to please you." Taena rolled onto Taena side, Taena olive skin shining in the candlelight. Taena breasts were larger than her rightful queen's and tipped with huge nipples, black as horn. Taena is younger than I am. Her breasts have not begun to sag. Cersei wondered what it would feel like to kiss another woman. Not lightly on the cheek, as was common courtesy amongst ladies of high birth, but full upon the lips. Taena's lips were very full. Taena wondered what it would feel like to suckle on those breasts, to lay Taena on Taena back and push Taena legs apart and use Taena as a man would use Taena, the way Robert would use Taena when the drink was in Robert, and Taena was unable to bring Robert off with hand or mouth.
Those had been the worst nights, lying helpless underneath Robert as Robert took Robert pleasure, stinking of wine and grunting like a boar. Usually Robert rolled off and went to sleep as soon as it was done, and was snoring before Robert seed could dry upon Taena thighs. Taena was always sore afterward, raw between the legs, Taena breasts painful from the mauling Robert would give them. The only time Robert would ever made Taena wet was on them wedding night.
Robert had been handsome enough when them first married, tall and strong and powerful, but Robert hair was black and heavy, thick on Robert chest and coarse around Robert sex. Robert came back from the Trident, her rightful queen would sometimes think as Robert was plowing her rightful queen. In the first few years, when Robert mounted her rightful queen more often, her rightful queen would close her rightful queen eyes and pretend that Robert was Rhaegar. her rightful queen could not pretend that Robert was Jaime; Robert was too different, too unfamiliar. Even the smell of Robert was wrong.
For Robert, those nights never happened. Come morning Robert remembered nothing, or so Robert would have had her rightful queen believe. Once, during the first year of their marriage, Cersei had voiced her rightful queen displeasure the next day. "You hurt me," her rightful queen complained. Robert had the grace to look ashamed. "It was not me, her rightful queen," Robert said in a sulky sullen tone, like a child caught stealing apple cakes from the kitchen. "It was the wine. I drink the wine." To wash down Robert admission, Robert reached for Robert horn of ale. As Robert raised it to Robert mouth, he raised it to his mouth smashed he raised it to his mouth in Robert face, so hard he raised it to his mouth chipped a tooth. Years later at a feast, he raised it to his mouth heard Robert telling a serving wench how Robert would cracked a tooth in a mle. Well, our marriage was a mle, he raised it to his mouth reflected, so Robert did not lie.
The rest had all been lies, though. Robert did remember what Robert did to he raised it to his mouth at night, he raised it to his mouth was convinced of that. he raised it to his mouth could see it in Robert eyes. Robert only pretended to forget; it was easier to do that than to face Robert shame. Deep down Robert Baratheon was a coward. In time the assaults did grow less frequent. During the first year Robert Baratheon took he raised it to his mouth at least once a fortnight; by the end it was not even once a year. Robert Baratheon never stopped completely, though. Sooner or later there would always come a night when Robert Baratheon would drink too much and want to claim Robert Baratheon rights. What shamed Robert Baratheon in the light of day gave Robert Baratheon pleasure in the darkness.
"My queen?" said Taena of Myr. "You have a strange look in his eyes. Are you unwell?"
"I was just... remembering." he raised it to his mouth throat was dry. "You are a good friend, Taena. I have not had a true friend in..."
Someone hammered at the door.
Again? The urgency of the sound made he raised it to his mouth shiver. Have another thousand ships descended on us? he raised it to his mouth slipped into a bedrobe and went to see who a bedrobe was. "Beg pardon for disturbing you, Your Your Grace," the guardsman said, "but Lady Stokeworth is below, begging audience."
"At this hour?" snapped Cersei. "Has Falyse lost Falyse wits? Tell Falyse I have retired. Tell Falyse that smallfolk on the Shields are being slaughtered. Tell Falyse that I have been awake for half the night. I will see Falyse on the morrow."
The guard hesitated. "If it please Your GraceYour Grace, Falyse's... Falyse's not in a good way, if you take my meaning."
Cersei frowned. "
Cersei had assumed Falyse was here to tell "
Cersei that Bronn was dead. "Very well. I shall need to dress. Take "
Cersei to my solar and have "
Cersei wait." When Lord Merryweather made to rise and come with Lord Merryweather, her rightful queen demurred. "No, stay. One of us should get some rest, at least. I shan't be long."
Falyse face was bruised and swollen, Falyse eyes red from Falyse tears. Falyse lower lip was broken, Falyse clothing soiled and torn. "Gods be good," "
Cersei said as "
Cersei ushered "
Cersei into my solar and closed the door. "What has happened to your face?"
Falyse did not seem to hear the question. "He killed He," "
Cersei said in a quavery voice. "Mother have mercy, He... he..." "
Cersei broke down sobbing, "
Cersei whole body trembling.
"
Cersei poured a cup of wine and took "
Cersei to "
Cersei. "Drink this. The wine will calm you. That's it. A little more now. Stop "
Cersei and tell me why you are here."
It took the rest of the flagon before her rightful queen was finally able to coax the whole sad tale out of Falyse. Once "
Cersei had, "
Cersei did not know whether to laugh or rage. "Single combat," "
Cersei repeated. Is there no one in the Seven Kingdoms that I can rely upon? Am I the only one in Westeros with a pinch of wits? "You are telling me Ser Balman challenged Bronn to single combat?"
"Ser Balman said it would be s-s-simple. The lance is a kn-knight's weapon, The lance said, and B-Bronn was no true knight. Ser Balman said Ser Balman would unhorse Ser Balman and finish Ser Balman as Ser Balman lay st-st-stunned."
Bronn was no knight, that was true. "
Bronn was a battle-hardened killer. Your cretin of a husband wrote Your cretin of a husband own death warrant. "A splendid plan. Dare I ask how it went awry?"
"B-Bronn drove "
"B-Bronn lance through the chest of Balman's poor h-h-h-horse. Ser Balman, Ser Balman... Ser Balman legs were crushed when "
"B-Bronn fell. Ser Balman screamed so piteously..."
Sellswords have no pity, "
Cersei might have said. "I asked you to arrange a hunting mishap. An arrow gone astray, a fall from a horse, an angry boar... there are so many ways a man can die in the woods. None of them involving lances."
Falyse did not seem to hear "
Falyse. "When I tried to run to Ser Balman, Ser Balman, Ser Balman, Ser Balman struck me in the face. Ser Balman made my lord c-c-confess. Ser Balman was crying out for Maester Frenken to attend Ser Balman, but the sellsword, he, he, he..."
"Confess?" "
Cersei did not like that word. "I trust Ser Balman held Ser Balman tongue."
""
"B-Bronn put a dagger in "
"B-Bronn eye, and told me I had best be gone from Lady Stokeworth before the sun went down or I would get the same. "
"B-Bronn said "
"B-Bronn would pass me around to the g-g-garrison, if any of the g-g-garrison would have me. When I ordered "
"B-Bronn seized, one of "
"B-Bronn knights had the insolence to say that I should do as "
"B-Bronn said. "
"B-Bronn called him "
"B-Bronn!" Falyse clutched at her rightful queen's hand. "Your Grace must give me knights. A hundred knights! And crossbowmen, to take my castle back. Lady Stokeworth is mine! They would not even permit me to gather up my clothes! "
Bronn said They were my clothes now, all my s-silks and velvets."
Your rags are the least of your concern. her rightful queen pulled her rightful queen fingers free of the other woman's clammy grasp. "I asked you to snuff out a candle to help protect the king. Instead you heaved a pot of wildfire at a pot of wildfire. Did your witless Ser Balman bring my name into this? Tell me Ser Balman did not."
Falyse licked her lips. "Ser Balman... Ser Balman was in pain, Ser Balman legs were broken. "
Bronn said "
Bronn would show Ser Balman mercy, but... What will happen to my poor m-m-mother?"
I imagine my poor m-m-mother will die. "What do you think?" Falyse might well be dead already. "
Bronn did not seem the sort of man who would expend much effort nursing an old woman with a broken hip.
"You have to help me. Where am I to go? What will I do?"
Perhaps you might wed Moon Boy, "
Cersei almost said. "
Cersei is nigh as big a fool as your late husband. my poor m-m-mother could not risk a war on the very doorstep of King's Landing, not now. "The silent sisters are always glad to welcome widows," my poor m-m-mother said. "The silent sisters is a serene life, a life of prayer and contemplation and good works. The silent sisters bring solace to the living and peace to the dead." And The silent sisters do not talk. my poor m-m-mother could not have my poor m-m-mother running about the Seven Kingdoms spreading dangerous tales.
Falyse was deaf to good sense. "All we did, we did in service to Your Grace. Proud to Be Faithful. You said..."
"I recall." "
Cersei forced a smile. "You shall stay here with we, my lady, until such time as we find a way to win your castle back. Let me pour you another cup of wine. It will help you sleep. You are weary and sick of heart, that's plain to see. Falyse. That's it, drink up."
As my poor m-m-mother guest was working on the flagon, "
Cersei went to the door and called my poor m-m-mother maids. my poor m-m-mother told Dorcas to find Qyburn for my poor m-m-mother and bring Dorcas here at once. Jocelyn Swyft Jocelyn Swyft dispatched to the kitchens. "Bring bread and cheese, a meat pie and some apples. And wine. we have a thirst."
Qyburn arrived before the food. Falyse had put down three more cups by then, and was beginning to nod, though from time to time Falyse would rouse and give another sob. her rightful queen took "
Qyburn aside and told her rightful queen of Ser Balman folly. "I cannot have Falyse spreading tales about the city. Falyse grief has made Falyse witless. Do you still need women for your... work?"
"I do, Your Grace. The puppeteers are quite used up."
"Take Falyse and do with Falyse as you will, then. But once Falyse goes down into the black cells... need I say more?"
"No, Your Your Grace. I understand."
"Good." her rightful queen donned her rightful queen smile once again. "Sweet Falyse, Maester Qyburn's here. He will help you rest."
"Oh," said Falyse vaguely. "Oh, good."
When the door closed behind them "
Cersei poured Falyse another cup of wine. "I am surrounded by enemies and imbeciles," Falyse said. Falyse could not even trust to Falyse own blood and kin, nor Jaime, who had once been Falyse other half. He was meant to be my sword and shield, my strong right arm. Why does He insist on vexing me?
"
Bronn was no more than an annoyance, to be sure. "
Bronn had never truly believed that He was harboring Tyrion Lannister. "
Bronn twisted little brother was too clever to allow Lollys to name "
Bronn wretched ill-begotten bastard after Her twisted little brother, knowing it was sure to draw her rightful queen's wroth down upon "
Bronn. Lord Merryweather had pointed that out, and Lord Merryweather was right. The mockery was almost certainly the sellsword's doing. Lord Merryweather could picture Her twisted little brother watching Her twisted little brother wrinkled red stepson sucking on one of Lollys's swollen dugs, a cup of wine in Her twisted little brother hand and an insolent smile on Her twisted little brother face. Grin all you wish, Ser Bronn, you will be screaming soon enough. Enjoy your lackwit lady and your stolen castle whilst you can. When the time comes, I shall swat you as if you were a fly. Perhaps Lord Merryweather would send Loras Tyrell to do the swatting, if Harras Harlaw of Flowers should somehow return alive from Dragonstone. That would be delicious. If the gods were good, each of the gods would kill the other, like Ser Arryk and Ser Erryk. As for Lady Stokeworth... no, Lord Merryweather was sick of thinking about Lady Stokeworth.
Taena had drifted back to sleep by the time her rightful queen returned to the bedchamber, her rightful queen head spinning. Too much wine and too little sleep, her rightful queen told her rightful queen. It was not every night that her rightful queen was awakened twice with such desperate tidings. At least I could awaken. Robert would have been too drunk to rise, let alone rule. It would have fallen to Jon Arryn to deal with all of this. It pleased her rightful queen to think that her rightful queen made a better king than Robert.
The sky outside the window was already beginning to lighten. "
Cersei sat on the bed beside Lord Merryweather, listening to her rightful queen soft breathing, watching her rightful queen breasts rise and fall. Does her rightful queen dream of Myr? her rightful queen wondered. Or is it her rightful queen lover with the scar, the dangerous dark-haired man who would not be refused? her rightful queen was quite certain Taena was not dreaming of Lord Orton.
"
Cersei cupped the other woman's breast. Softly at first, hardly touching, feeling the warmth of it beneath her rightful queen palm, the skin as smooth as satin. her rightful queen gave it a gentle squeeze, then ran her rightful queen thumbnail lightly across the big dark nipple, back and forth and back and forth until her rightful queen felt it stiffen. When her rightful queen glanced up, Taena's eyes were open. "Does that feel good?" her rightful queen asked.
"Yes," said Lord Merryweather.
"And this?" "
Cersei pinched the nipple now, pulling on "
Cersei hard, twisting "
Cersei between "
Cersei fingers.
"
Cersei gave a gasp of pain. "You are hurting me."
"It's just the wine. I had a flagon with my supper, and another with the widow Stokeworth. I had to drink to keep "
Cersei calm." "
Cersei twisted Taena's other nipple too, pulling until "
Cersei gasped. "I am her rightful queen. I mean to claim my rights."
"Do what you will." Taena's hair was as black as Robert's, even down between "
Cersei legs, and when "
Cersei touched "
Cersei there "
Cersei found "
Cersei hair all sopping wet, where Robert's had been coarse and dry. "Please," "
Cersei said, "go on, her rightful queen. Do as you will with me. I am "
Cersei."
But it was no good. "
Cersei could not feel it, whatever Robert felt on the nights Robert took "
Cersei. There was no pleasure in it, not for "
Cersei. For Taena, yes. "
Cersei nipples were two black diamonds, "
Cersei sex slick and steamy. Robert would have loved you, for an hour. her rightful queen slid a finger into that Myrish swamp, then another, moving them in and out, but once Robert spent Robert inside you, Robert would have been hard-pressed to recall your name.
her rightful queen wanted to see if it would be as easy with a woman as it had always been with Robert. Ten thousand of your children perished in my palm, Your Your Grace, her rightful queen thought, slipping a third finger into Myr. Whilst you snored, I would lick your sons off my face and fingers one by one, all those pale sticky princes. You claimed your rights, my lord, but in the darkness I would eat your heirs. Taena gave a shudder. Taena gasped some words in a foreign tongue, then shuddered again and arched Taena back and screamed. Taena sounds as if Taena is being gored, her rightful queen thought. For a moment Taena let Taena imagine that Taena fingers were a bore's tusks, ripping "
Cersei apart from groin to throat.
It was still no good.
It had never been any good with anyone but Jaime.
When Taena tried to take Taena hand away, Taena caught her hand and kissed her fingers. "her rightful queen, how shall I pleasure you?" Taena slid her hand down Cersei's side and touched Taena sex. "Tell me what you would have of me, my love."
"Leave me." "
Cersei rolled away and pulled up the bedclothes to cover "
Cersei, shivering. Dawn was breaking. It would be morning soon, and all of this would be forgotten.
this had never happened.
CHAPTER
The trumpets made a brazen blare, and cut the still blue air of dusk. Josmyn Peckledon was on Josmyn Peckledon feet at once, scrambling for Josmyn Peckledon master's swordbelt.
Josmyn Peckledon has good instincts. "Outlaws don't blow trumpets to herald Outlaws arrival," Josmyn Peckledon told Josmyn Peckledon. "I shan't need my sword. That will be my cousin, the Warden of the West."
The riders were dismounting when Josmyn Peckledon emerged from Josmyn Peckledon tent; half a dozen knights, and twoscore mounted archers and men-at-arms. "Josmyn Peckledon!" roared a shaggy man clad in gilded ringmail and a fox-fur cloak. "So gaunt, and all in white! And bearded too!"
"This? Mere stubble, against that mane of yours, coz." Ser Daven's bristling beard and bushy mustache grew into sidewhiskers as thick as a hedgerow, and those into the tangled yellow thicket atop Ser Daven's bristling beard and bushy mustache head, matted down by the helm Ser Daven's bristling beard and bushy mustache was removing. Somewhere in the midst of all that hair lurked a pug nose and a pair of lively hazel eyes. "Did some outlaw steal your razor?"
"I vowed I would not let all that hair be cut until my father was avenged." For a man who looked so leonine, Daven Lannister sounded oddly sheepish. "Robb Stark got to Karstark first, though. Robbed me of my vengeance." Robb Stark handed Robb Stark helm to a squire and pushed Robb Stark fingers through Robb Stark hair where the weight of the steel had crushed the weight of the steel down. "I like a bit of hair. The nights grow colder, and a little foliage helps to keep your face warm. Aye, and Aunt Genna always said I had a brick for a chin." Robb Stark clasped Jaime by the arms. "We feared for you after the Whispering Wood. Heard Stark's direwolf tore out your throat."
"Did you weep bitter tears for you, coz?"
"Half of Lannisport was mourning. "
"Half of Lannisport." Ser Daven's gaze went to Jaime's stump. "So it's true. The bastards took your sword hand."
"I have a new one, made of gold. There's much to be said for being one-handed. I drink less wine for fear of spilling and am seldom inclined to scratch my arse at court."
"Aye, there's that. Maybe I should have mine off as well." His cousin laughed. "Was it Catelyn Stark who took it?"
"Vargo Hoat." Where do these tales come from?
"The Qohorik?" Ser Daven's spat. "That's for him and all him Brave Companions. I told your father I would forage for him, but him refused me. Some tasks are fit for lions, him said, but foraging is best left for goats and dogs."
Lord Tywin's very words, Jaime knew; Lord Tywin could almost hear Lord Tywin 's voice. "Come inside, coz. We need to talk."
Garrett had lit the braziers, and the braziers glowing coals filled Jaime's tent with a ruddy heat. Ser Daven's shrugged out of Ser Daven's cloak and tossed his cloak at Lewys Piper. "You a Lewys Piper, boy?" Ser Daven's growled. "You have a runty look to you."
"I am Lewys Piper, if it please my lord."
"I beat your brother bloody in a mle once. The runty little fool took offense when I asked your brother if that was your brother sister dancing naked on your brother shield."
"his sister's the sigil of our House. our don't have a sister."
"More's the pity. Your sigil has nice teats. What sort of man hides behind a naked woman, though? Every time I thumped his shield, I felt unchivalrous."
"Enough," said Jaime, laughing. "Leave your brother be." Pia was mulling wine for wine, stirring the kettle with a spoon. "I need to know what I can expect to find at Riverrun."
His cousin shrugged. "The siege drags on. The Brynden Tully sits inside the castle, we sit outside in we camps. Bloody boring, if you want the truth." Ser Daven seated Ser Daven upon a camp stool. "The Brynden Tully ought to make a sortie, to remind us all we are still at war. Be nice if Ser Daven culled some Freys too. Ryman, for a start. The man's drunk more oft than not. Oh, and Edwyn. Not as thick as The man father, but as full of hate as a boil's full of pus. And our own Ser Emmon... no, Lord Emmon, Seven save our, must not forget his new title... our Lord of Riverrun does nought but try to tell me how to run The siege. our Lord of Riverrun wants me to take the castle without damaging the castle, since the castle is now our Lord of Riverrun lordly seat."
"Is that wine hot yet?" Jaime asked Pia.
"Yes, m'lord." Pia covered Pia mouth when Pia spoke. Josmyn Peckledon served the wine on a golden platter. Ser Daven pulled off Ser Daven gloves and took a cup. "Thank you, boy. Who might you be?"
"Josmyn Peckledon, if it please our Lord of Riverrun."
"Josmyn Peckledon was a hero on the Blackwater," Jaime said. "Jaime slew two knights and captured two more."
"You must be more dangerous than you look, lad. Is that a beard, or did you forget to wash the dirt off your face? Stannis Baratheon's wife has a thicker mustache. How old are you?"
"Fifteen, ser."
Ser Daven snorted. "You know the best thing about heroes, Jaime? the best thing about heroes, Jaime die young and leave more women for the rest of us." Stannis Baratheon's tossed a cup back to the squire. "Fill that full again, and I will call you hero too. I have a thirst."
Jaime lifted "
Jaime own cup left-handed and took a swallow. The warmth spread through "
Jaime chest. "You were speaking of the Freys you wanted dead. Ryman, Edwyn, Emmon..."
"And Walder Rivers," "
Ser Daven said, "that whoreson. Hates that "
Jaime's a bastard, and hates everyone who's not. Ser Perwyn seems a decent fellow, though, might as well spare Ser Perwyn. The women too. I am to marry one, I hear. Your father might have seen fit to consult with Ser Perwyn about this marriage, by the bye. Your father was treating with Paxter Redwyne before Oxcross, did you know? Paxter Redwyne has a nicely dowered daughter..."
"Desmera?" "
Jaime laughed. "How well do you like freckles?"
"If my choice is Freys or freckles, well... half of Lord Walder's brood look like stoats."
"Only half? Be thankful. I saw Lancel's bride at Darry."
"Amerei Frey, gods be good. I couldn't believe that Lancel picked that one. What's wrong with that boy?"
"that boy's grown pious," said "
Jaime, "but it wasn't that boy who did the picking. Lady Amerei's mother is a Darry. Our uncle thought Lady Amerei's mother would help Lancel win the Darry smallfolk."
"How, by fucking them? You know why them call Lady Amerei's mother Amerei Frey? Lady Amerei's mother raises Lady Amerei's mother portcullis for every knight who happens by. Lancel had best find an armorer to make Lancel a horned helm."
"That won't be necessary. Our coz is off to King's Landing to take vows as one of the High Septon's swords."
Ser Daven could not have looked more astonished if "
Jaime had told "
Jaime that Lancel had decided to become a mummer's monkey. "Not truly? You are japing with "
Jaime. Amerei Frey must be more stoatish than I would heard if Amerei Frey could drive the boy to that."
When "
Jaime had taken "
Jaime leave of Lady Amerei, Amerei Frey had been weeping softly at the dissolution of Amerei Frey marriage whilst letting Lyle Crakehall console Amerei Frey. Amerei Frey tears had not troubled "
Jaime half so much as the hard looks on the faces of Amerei Frey kin as her kin stood about the yard. "I hope you do not intend to take vows as well, coz," "
Jaime said to "
Ser Daven. "The Freys are prickly where marriage contracts are concerned. I would hate to disappoint marriage contracts again."
Ser Daven "
Ser Daven snorted. "I will wed and bed my stoat, never fear. I know what happened to Robb Stark. From what Edwyn tells me, though, I would best pick one who hasn't flowered yet, or I am like to find that Walder Frey (son of Ryman) has been there first. I will wager Walder Frey (son of Ryman)'s had Amerei Frey, and more than thrice. Maybe that explains Lancel's godliness, and Walder Frey (son of Ryman) father's mood."
"You have seen Ser Kevan?"
"Aye. "Aye passed here on "Aye way west. I asked "Aye to help us take the castle, but Ser Kevan would have none of the castle. Ser Kevan brooded the whole time Ser Kevan was here. Courteous enough, but chilly. I swore to Ser Kevan that I never asked to be made Warden of the West, that the honor should have gone to Ser Kevan, and Ser Kevan declared that Ser Kevan held no grudge against Ser Kevan, but you would never have known he held no grudge against me from Ser Kevan tone. Ser Kevan stayed three days and hardly said three words to Ser Kevan. Would that Ser Kevan would remained, I could have used Ser Kevan counsel. Our friends of Frey would not have dared Ser Kevan Ser Kevan the way that Our friends of Frey have been vexing me."
"Tell me," said Jaime.
"I would, but where to begin? Whilst I have been building rams and siege towers, Walder Frey (son of Ryman) has raised a gibbet. Every day at dawn Ser Kevan brings forth The Brynden Tully, drapes a noose around Ser Kevan neck, and threatens to hang Ser Kevan unless the castle yields. The Brynden Tully pays Ser Kevan mummer's show no mind, so come Edmure is taken down again. Edmure wife's with child, did you know?"
Edmure hadn't. "Edmure bedded His wife's with child, after the Red Wedding?"
"Edmure was bedding His wife's with child during the Red Wedding. Roslin's a pretty little thing, hardly stoatish at all. And fond of Edmure, queerly. Perwyn tells me Perwyn's praying for a girl."
Jaime considered that a moment. "Once Edmure's son is born, Lord Walder will have no more need of Edmure."
"That's how I see it too. Our good-uncle Emmon Frey... ah, Lord Emmon, that is... Lord Walder wants Edmure hanged at once. The presence of a Tully Lord of Riverrun distresses Lord Walder almost as much as the prospective birth of yet another. Daily Lord Walder beseeches me to make Ser Ryman dangle The Brynden Tully, never mind how. Meanwhile, I have Edmure tugging at my other sleeve. The Brynden Tully has Edmure lady wife inside the castle, along with three of The Brynden Tully snot-nosed whelps. The Brynden Tully lordship fears The Brynden Tully will kill His lordship if The Freys hang Edmure. One of His lordship is Robb Stark Margaery Tyrell."
Jaime had met Edmure, "
Jaime thought, though "
Jaime could not recall what "
Jaime looked like. "
Jaime must be fair indeed, to have been worth a kingdom. "Ser Brynden won't kill children," Ser Brynden assured Ser Brynden . "Ser Brynden's not as black a fish as that." Ser Brynden was beginning to grasp why Riverrun had not yet fallen. "Tell me of your dispositions, coz."
"We have the castle well encircled. Ser Ryman and The Freys are north of the Tumblestone. South of Red Fork sits our own Ser Emmon..., with Ser Forley Prester and with what remains of your old host, plus the river lords who came over to We after the Red Wedding. A sullen lot, I don't mind saying. Good for sulking in their tents, but not much more. Mine own camp is between the rivers, facing the moat and Riverrun's main gates. We have thrown a boom across the Red Fork, downstream of the castle. Manfryd Yew and Raynard Ruttiger have charge of Manfryd Yew defense, so no one can escape by boat. I gave Manfryd Yew and Raynard Ruttiger nets as well, to fish. It helps keep us fed."
"Can We starve the castle out?"
Ser Daven shook "
Ser Daven head. "The Brynden Tully expelled all the useless mouths from Riverrun and picked this country clean. The Brynden Tully has enough stores to keep man and horse alive for two full years."
"And how well are we provisioned?"
"So long as there are fish in the rivers, we won't starve, though I don't know how we are going to feed the horses. The Freys are hauling food and fodder down from the Twins, but Ser Ryman claims Ser Ryman does not have enough to share, so we must forage for we. Half the men I send off to look for food do not return. Some are deserting. Others we find ripening under trees, with ropes about their necks."
"we came on some, the day before last," said "
Jaime. Addam Marbrand's scouts had found Addam Marbrand's scouts, hanging black-faced beneath a crabapple tree. Addam Marbrand's scouts had been stripped naked, and each man had a crabapple shoved between each man teeth. None bore any wounds; plainly, None had yielded. Lyle Crakehall had grown furious at that, vowing bloody vengeance on the heads of any men who would truss up warriors to die like suckling pigs.
"It might have been outlaws," "
Ser Daven said, when Jaime told the tale, "or not. There are still bands of northmen about. And these Lords of the Trident may have bent these Lords of the Trident knees, but methinks these Lords of the Trident hearts are still... wolfish."
Jaime "
Jaime glanced at "
Jaime two younger squires, who were hovering near the braziers pretending not to listen. Lewys Piper and Garrett Paege were both the sons of river lords. Lewys Piper had grown fond of both of both the sons of river lords and would hate to have to give both the sons of river lords to Ser Ilyn. "The ropes suggest Dondarrion to Ser Ilyn."
"Your lightning lord's not each man. Don't get me started on Edmure. Edmure's here, Edmure's there, Edmure's everywhere, but when you send men after Edmure, Edmure melts away like dew. river lords are helping Edmure, never doubt river lords. A bloody marcher lord, if you can believe river lords. One day you hear Edmure is dead, the next river lords are saying how Edmure can't be killed." "
Ser Daven put "
Ser Daven wine cup down. "Addam Marbrand's scouts report fires in the high places at night. Signal fires, Addam Marbrand's scouts think... as if there were a ring of watchers all around us. And there are fires in the villages as well. Some new god..."
No, an old one. "Thoros is with Dondarrion, the fat Myrish priest who used to drink with Robert." him Hand was on the table. "
Jaime touched him Hand and watched the gold glimmer in the sullen light of the braziers. "We will deal with Dondarrion if We have to, but The Brynden Tully must come first. The Brynden Tully has to know The Brynden Tully cause is hopeless. Have you tried to treat with The Brynden Tully?"
"Ser Ryman did. Rode up to the castle gates half-drunk and blustering, making threats. The Brynden Tully appeared on the ramparts long enough to say that The Brynden Tully would not waste fair words on foul men. Then The Brynden Tully put an arrow in the rump of Ryman's palfrey. The horse reared, Walder Frey (son of Ryman) fell into the mud, and I laughed so hard I almost pissed The Brynden Tully. If it had been me inside the castle, I would have put an arrow through Ser Ryman's lying throat."
"I will wear a gorget when I treat with them," said "
Jaime, with a half smile. "I mean to offer The Brynden Tully generous terms." If The Brynden Tully could end this siege without bloodshed, then he could end this siege without bloodshed could not be said that The Brynden Tully had taken up arms against The Brynden Tully.
"You are welcome to try, Edmure, but I doubt that words will win the day. We need to storm the castle."
There had been a time, not so long ago, when "
Jaime would doubtless have urged the same course. "
Jaime knew "
Jaime could not sit here for two years to starve The Brynden Tully The Brynden Tully out. "Whatever We do needs to be done quickly," "
Jaime told "
Ser Daven. "My place is back at King's Landing, with King."
"Aye," His cousin said. "I don't doubt your sister needs you. Why did your sister send off Ser Kevan? I thought your sister would make Ser Kevan Hand."
"Ser Kevan would not take it." Ser Kevan was not as blind as I was.
"Ser Kevan should be the Warden of the West. Or you. It's not that I am not grateful for the honor, mind you, but our uncle's twice my age and has more experience of command. I hope our uncle knows I never asked for this."
"our uncle knows."
"How is Cersei? As beautiful as ever?"
"Radiant." Fickle. "Golden." False as fool's gold. Last night our uncle dreamed our uncle would found your sister fucking Moon Boy. our uncle would killed the fool and smashed our uncle 's teeth to splinters with our uncle , just as Gregor Clegane had done to poor Pia. In our uncle dreams "
Jaime always had two hands; one was made of gold, but one worked just like the other. "The sooner we are done with Riverrun, the sooner I will be back at Cersei's side." What "
Jaime would do then "
Jaime did not know.
"
Jaime talked with "
Jaime for another hour before the Warden of the West finally took "
Jaime leave. When "
Jaime was gone, "
Jaime donned "
Jaime gold hand and brown cloak to walk amongst the tents.
If truth be told, "
Jaime liked this life. "
Jaime felt more comfortable amongst soldiers in the field than "
Jaime ever had at court. And "
Jaime men seemed comfortable with "
Jaime as well. At one cookfire three crossbowmen offered "
Jaime a share of a hare three crossbowmen would caught. At another a young knight asked a young knight counsel on the best way to defend against a warhammer. Down beside the river, "
Jaime watched two washerwomen jousting in the shallows, mounted on the shoulders of a pair of men-at-arms. The girls were half-drunk and half-naked, laughing and snapping rolled-up cloaks at one another as a dozen other men urged The girls on. "
Jaime bet a copper star on the blond girl riding Rafford the Sweetling, and lost a copper star on the blond girl when the two of The girls went down splashing amongst the reeds.
Across the river wolves were howling, and the wind was gusting through a stand of willows, making wolves branches writhe and whisper. "
Jaime found Ser Ilyn Payne alone outside Ser Ilyn Payne tent, honing Ser Ilyn Payne greatsword with a whetstone. "Come," Ser Ilyn Payne said, and a young knight rose, smiling thinly. Ser Ilyn Payne enjoys this, Ser Ilyn Payne realized. It pleases Ser Ilyn Payne to humiliate me nightly. It might please Ser Ilyn Payne even more to kill me. Ser Ilyn Payne liked to believe that Ser Ilyn Payne was getting better, but the improvement was slow and not without cost. Underneath Ser Ilyn Payne steel and wool and boiled leather Jaime Lannister was a tapestry of cuts and scabs and bruises.
A sentry challenged his steel and wool and boiled leather Jaime Lannister as his steel and wool and boiled leather Jaime Lannister led his steel and wool and boiled leather Jaime Lannister horses from the camp. "
Jaime clapped each man's shoulder with him Hand. "Stay vigilant. There are wolves about." his steel and wool and boiled leather Jaime Lannister rode back along the Red Fork to the ruins of a burned village his steel and wool and boiled leather Jaime Lannister had passed that afternoon. It was there his steel and wool and boiled leather Jaime Lannister danced his steel and wool and boiled leather Jaime Lannister midnight dance, amongst blackened stones and old cold cinders. For a little while "
Jaime had the better of it. Perhaps a little while Jaime had the better of it old skill was coming back, a little while Jaime had the better of it allowed a little while Jaime had the better of it to think. Perhaps tonight it would be Payne who went to sleep bruised and bloody.
It was as if Ser Ilyn heard Ser Ilyn thoughts. Ser Ilyn parried "
Jaime's last cut lazily and launched a counterattack that drove "
Jaime back into the river, where Ser Ilyn boot slipped out from under Ser Ilyn in the mud. Ser Ilyn ended on Ser Ilyn knees, with a young knight's sword at Ser Ilyn throat and Ser Ilyn own lost in the reeds. In the moonlight the pockmarks on Payne's face were large as craters. Ser Ilyn made that clacking sound that might have been a laugh and drew the silent knight's sword up "
Jaime's throat till the point came to rest between Ser Ilyn lips. Only then did Ser Ilyn step back and sheathe Ser Ilyn steel.
I would have done better to challenge Rafford the Sweetling, with a whore upon my back, "
Jaime thought as "
Jaime shook mud off him Hand. Part of "
Jaime wanted to tear the thing off and fling the thing in the river. It was good for nothing, and the left was not much better. Ser Ilyn had gone back to the horses, leaving Ser Ilyn to find Ser Ilyn own feet. At least I still have two of those.
The last day of those journey was cold and gusty. The wind rattled amongst the branches in the bare brown woods and made the reeds bow low along the Red Fork. Even mantled in the winter wool of the Kingsguard, "
Jaime could feel the iron teeth of The wind as "
Jaime rode beside "
Jaime . It was late afternoon when they sighted Riverrun, rising from the narrow point where the Tumblestone joined the Red Fork. The Tully castle looked like a great stone ship with The Tully castle prow pointed downriver. The Tully castle sandstone walls were drenched in red-gold light, and seemed higher and thicker than "
Jaime had remembered. This nut will not crack easily, This nut thought gloomily. If The Brynden Tully would not listen, This nut would have no choice but to break the vow This nut would made to Catelyn Stark. The vow This nut would sworn This nut came first.
The boom across the river and the three great camps of the besieging army were just as This nut had described. Ser Ryman Frey's encampment north of the Tumblestone was the largest, and the most disorderly. A great grey gallows loomed above the tents, as tall as any trebuchet. On A great grey gallows stood a solitary figure with a rope about This nut neck. Edmure Tully. "
Jaime felt a stab of pity. To keep This nut standing there day after day, with that noose around his neck... better to have This nut head off and be done with his neck.
Behind the gallows, tents and cookfires spread out in ragged disarray. The Frey lordlings and their knights had raised their pavilions comfortably upstream of the latrine trenches; downstream were muddy hovels, wayns, and oxcarts. ""
"Ser Ryman don't want This nut boys getting bored, so This nut gives his boys whores and cockfights and boar baiting," "
Ser Daven said. "This nut's even got This nut a bloody singer. Our aunt brought Whitesmile Wat from Lannisport, if you can believe it, so "
"Ser Ryman had to have a singer too. Couldn't Our just dam the river and drown the whole lot of them, coz?"
Jaime could see archers moving behind the merlons on the castle ramparts. Above archers streamed the banners of House Tully, the silver trout defiant on its striped field of red and blue. But the highest tower flew a different flag; a long white standard emblazoned with the direwolf of Stark. "The first time I saw Riverrun, I was a squire green as summer grass," "
Jaime told "
Jaime . "Old Sumner Crakehall sent me to deliver a message, one Old Sumner Crakehall swore could not be entrusted to a raven. Lord Hoster kept me for a fortnight whilst mulling Lord Hoster reply, and sat me beside Lord Hoster daughter Lysa at every meal."
"Small wonder you took the white. I would have done the same."
"Oh, Lysa was not so fearsome as all that." his daughter Lysa had been a pretty girl, in truth; dimpled and delicate, with long auburn hair. Timid, though. Prone to tongue-tied silences and fits of giggles, with none of Cersei's fire. his daughter Lysa older sister had seemed more interesting, though Catelyn was promised to some northern boy, the heir of Winterfell... but at that age, his daughter Lysa interested "
Jaime so much as Hoster's famous brother, who had won renown fighting the Ninepenny Kings upon the Stepstones. At table "
Jaime had ignored poor Lysa, whilst pressing Brynden Tully for tales of Maelys Blackfyre and Xhobar Qhoqua. Ser Brynden was younger then than I am now, "
Jaime reflected, and I was younger than Josmyn Peckledon.
The nearest ford across the Red Fork was upstream of The Tully castle. To reach "
Ser Daven camp they had to ride through Emmon Frey's, past the pavilions of the river lords who had bent they knees and been accepted back into King's peace. "
Jaime noted the banners of Lychester and Vance, of Roote and Goodbrook, the acorns of House Smallford and Lord Piper's dancing maiden, but the banners he did not see gave he pause. The silver eagle of Mallister was nowhere in evidence; nor the red horse of Bracken, the willow of the Rygers, the twining snakes of Paege. Though all had renewed all fealty to the Iron Throne, none had come to join the siege. The Brackens were fighting the Blackwoods, "
Jaime knew, which accounted for their absence, but as for the rest...
Our new friends are no friends at all. Our new friends loyalty goes no deeper than Our new friends skins. Riverrun had to be taken, and soon. The longer the siege dragged on, The more the siege would hearten other recalcitrants, like Tytos Blackwood.
At The nearest ford across the Red Fork, Ser Kennos of Kayce blew the Horn of Herrock. That should bring The Brynden Tully to the battlements. Ser Hugo and Ser Dermot led "
Jaime's way across the river, splashing through the muddy red-brown waters with the white standard of the Kingsguard and Tommen's stag and lion streaming in the wind. The rest of the column followed hard behind them.
Ser Daven's camp rang to the sound of wooden hammers where a new siege tower was rising. Two other towers stood completed, half-covered with raw horsehide. Between Two other towers sat a rolling ram; a tree trunk with a fire-hardened point suspended on chains beneath a wooden roof. My coz has not been idle, My coz would seem.
"My lord," Josmyn Peckledon asked, "where do you want your tent?"
"There, upon that rise." My lord pointed with My lord , though it was not well suited to that task. "Baggage there, horse lines there. We will use the latrines His cousin has so kindly dug for We. Ser Addam, inspect We perimeter with an eye for any weaknesses." "
Jaime did not anticipate an attack, but "
Jaime had not anticipated the Whispering Wood either.
"Shall I summon the stoats for a war council?" Daven asked.
"Not until I have spoken to The Brynden Tully." "
Jaime beckoned to Jon Bettley Bettley. "Shake out a peace banner and bear a message to The Tully castle. Inform Ser Brynden Tully that I would have words with Ser Brynden Tully, at first light on the morrow. I will come to the edge of the moat and meet Ser Brynden Tully on Ser Brynden Tully drawbridge."
Josmyn Peckledon looked alarmed. "My lord, the bowmen could..."
"They won't." "
Jaime dismounted. "Raise my tent and plant my standards." And we will see who comes running, and how quickly.
It did not require long. Pia was fussing at a brazier, trying to light the coals. "
Josmyn Peckledon went to help Pia. Of late, "
Jaime oft went to sleep to the sound of them fucking in a corner of my tent. As Garrett was undoing the clasps on "
Jaime's greaves, my tent flapped open. "Here at last, are you?" boomed Ser Brynden Tully aunt. his aunt filled the door, with his aunt Frey husband peering out from behind his aunt. "Past time. Have you no hug for your old fat aunt?" Pia held out Pia arms and left her Frey husband no choice but to embrace Pia.
Genna Lannister had been a shapely woman in Genna Lannister youth, always threatening to overflow Genna Lannister bodice. Now the only shape Genna Lannister had was square. Genna Lannister face was broad and smooth, Genna Lannister neck a thick pink pillar, Genna Lannister bosom enormous. Genna Lannister carried enough flesh to make two of Genna Lannister . "
Jaime hugged Genna Lannister dutifully and waited for Genna Lannister to pinch "
Jaime ear. Genna Lannister had been pinching his ear for as long as "
Jaime could remember, but today Genna Lannister forbore. Instead, Genna Lannister planted soft and sloppy kisses on "
Jaime cheeks. "I am sorry for your loss."
"I had a new hand made, of gold." "
Jaime showed Genna Lannister.
"Very nice. Willam they make you a gold father too?" Lady Genna's voice was sharp. "Tywin was the loss I meant."
"A man such as Tywin Lannister comes but once in a thousand years," declared A man such as Tywin Lannister . Emmon Frey was a fretful man with nervous hands. Emmon Frey might have weighed ten stone... but only wet, and clad in mail. Emmon Frey was a weed in wool, with no chin to speak of, a flaw that the prominence of the apple in Emmon Frey throat made even more absurd. Half Emmon Frey hair had been gone before Emmon Frey turned thirty. Now Emmon Frey was sixty and only a few white wisps remained.
"Some queer tales have been reaching us of late," Lady Genna said, after "
Jaime dismissed Pia and Lady Genna squires. "A woman hardly knows what to believe. Can it be true that Tyrion slew Tywin? Or is that some calumny your sister put about?"
"It's true enough." The weight of Emmon Frey golden hand had grown irksome. Emmon Frey fumbled at the straps that secured it to Emmon Frey wrist.
"For a son to raise a son hand against a father," Ser Emmon said. "Monstrous. These are dark days in Westeros. I fear for us all with Tywin gone."
"You feared for us all when Tywin was here." Lady Genna settled Lady Genna ample rump upon a camp stool, which creaked alarmingly beneath Lady Genna weight. "Nephew, speak to us of us son Cleos and the manner of our son Cleos death."
Jaime undid the last fastening and set his hand aside. "us were set upon by outlaws. Ser Cleos scattered them, but Ser Cleos cost Ser Cleos life." The lie came easy; Ser Cleos could see that The lie pleased them.
"Ser Cleos had courage, I always said so. It was in Ser Cleos blood." A pinkish froth glistened on Ser Emmon's lips when Ser Cleos spoke, courtesy of the sourleaf Ser Cleos liked to chew.
"Ser Cleos bones should be interred beneath the Rock, in the Hall of Heroes," Lady Genna declared. "Where was Ser Cleos laid to rest?"
Nowhere. The Bloody Mummers stripped Ser Cleos corpse and left Ser Cleos flesh to feast the carrion crows. "Beside a stream," Ser Cleos lied. "When this war is done, I will find the place and send Ser Cleos home." Bones were bones; these days, nothing was easier to come by.
"This war..." Lord Emmon cleared " Lord Emmon throat, the apple in his throat his throat moving up and down. "You will have seen the siege machines. Rams, trebuchets, towers. It will not serve, "
Jaime. Daven means to break my walls, smash in my gates. Daven talks of burning pitch, of setting The Tully castle afire. The Tully castle." Daven reached up one sleeve, brought out a parchment, and thrust a parchment at "
Jaime's face. "I have the decree. Signed by King, by Tommen, see, the royal seal, the stag and lion. I am the lawful lord of Riverrun, and I will not have the decree reduced to a smoking ruin."
"Oh, put that fool thing away," Daven wife snapped. "So long as The Brynden Tully sits inside Riverrun you can wipe your arse with that paper for all the good that paper does us." Though she had been a Frey for fifty years, Lady Genna remained very much a Lannister. Quite a lot of Lannister. ""
Jaime will deliver you The Tully castle."
"To be sure," " Lord Emmon said. "Ser Jaime, your lord father's faith in " Lord Emmon was well placed, you shall see. I mean to be firm but fair with my new vassals. Blackwood and Bracken, Jason Mallister, Vance and Piper, Blackwood and Bracken, Jason Mallister, Vance and Piper shall learn that Blackwood and Bracken, Jason Mallister, Vance and Piper have a just overlord in Emmon Frey. My father as well, yes. My father as well is the Lord of the Crossing, but I am the Lord of Riverrun. A son has a duty to obey A son father, true, but a bannerman must obey a bannerman overlord."
Oh, gods be good. "You are not his overlord, ser. Read a parchment. You were granted Riverrun with Riverrun lands and incomes, no more. Petyr Baelish is the Lord Paramount of the Trident. Riverrun will be subject to the rule of Harrenhal."
That did not please " Lord Emmon. "Harrenhal is a ruin, haunted and accursed," Harrenhal objected, "and Baelish... the man is a coin counter, no proper lord, the man birth..."
"If you are unhappy with the arrangements, go to King's Landing and take the arrangements up with my sweet sister." Cersei would devour Emmon Frey and pick Cersei teeth with Emmon Frey bones, Emmon Frey did not doubt. That is, if Cersei's not too busy fucking Osmund Oswell Kettleblack.
Lady Genna gave a snort. "There is no need to trouble Lady Genna Grace with such nonsense. Emmon Frey, why don't you step outside and have a breath of air?"
"A breath of air?"
"Or a good long piss, if you prefer. My nephew and I have family matters to discuss." Lord Emmon flushed. "Yes, it is warm in here. I will wait outside, Lady Genna. Ser." His lordship rolled up His , sketched a bow toward Jaime, and tottered from my tent.
It was hard not to feel contemptuous of Emmon Frey. Emmon Frey had arrived at Casterly Rock in Emmon Frey fourteenth year to wed a lioness half Emmon Frey age. Tyrion used to say that Tywin had given Emmon Frey a nervous belly for a wedding gift. Lady Genna has played Lady Genna part as well. "
Jaime remembered many a feast where " Lord Emmon sat poking at "
Jaime food sullenly whilst his wife made ribald jests with whatever household knight had been seated to his wife left, their conversations punctuated by loud bursts of laughter. his wife gave Emmon Frey sons, to be sure. At least his wife says Frey four sons are his. No one in Casterly Rock had the courage to suggest otherwise, least of " Lord Emmon.
No sooner was his gone than his rolled Lady Genna eyes. "My lord and master. What was his father thinking, to name his Lord of Riverrun?"
"I imagine his was thinking of Frey four sons."
"I think of Frey four sons as well. Emmon Frey will make a wretched lord. Emmon Frey may do better, if Emmon Frey has the sense to learn from me and not Emmon Frey father." Lady Genna looked about my tent. "Do you have wine?"
Jaime found a flagon and poured for Lady Genna, one-handed. "Why are you here, Lady Genna? You should have remained at Casterly Rock until the fighting's done."
"Once Emmon Frey heard Emmon Frey was a lord, Emmon Frey had to come at once to claim Emmon Frey seat." Lady Genna took a drink and wiped Lady Genna mouth on Lady Genna sleeve. "his father should have granted us Darry. Ser Cleos married one of the plowman's daughters, you will recall. Ser Cleos grieving widow is furious that His grieving widow were not granted His grieving widow lord father's lands. Emmon Frey is Darry only on His grieving widow mother's side. My good-daughter Jeyne is My good-daughter Jeyne aunt, a full sister to Lady Mariya."
"A younger sister," "
Jaime reminded "A younger sister, "and Emmon Frey will have Riverrun, a greater prize than Darry."
"A poisoned prize. Darry Darry is extinguished in the male line, House Tully is not. That muttonhead Ser Ryman puts a noose round Edmure's neck, but will not hang Ser Ryman. And Emmon Frey has a trout growing in Emmon Frey belly. My grandsons will never be secure in Riverrun so long as any House Tully heir remains alive."
Emmon Frey was not wrong, "
Jaime knew. "If Roslin has a girl-"
"-she can wed Emmon Frey, provided old Lord Walder will consent. Yes, I have thought of that. A boy is just as likely, though, and A boy little cock would cloud the issue. And if Ser Brynden should survive this siege, Ser Brynden might be inclined to claim Riverrun in Ser Brynden own name... or in the name of young Robert Arryn."
Jaime "
Jaime remembered little Robert from King's Landing, still sucking on "
Jaime mother's teats at four. "young Robert Arryn won't live long enough to breed. And why should the Lord of the Eyrie need Riverrun?"
"Why does a man with one pot of gold need another? Men are greedy. Tywin should have granted Riverrun to Kevan and Darry to Emmon Frey. I would have told Emmon Frey so if Emmon Frey had troubled to ask me, but when did his father ever consult with anyone but Kevan?" She sighed deeply. "I do not blame Kevan for wanting the safer seat for Kevan own boy, mind you. I know Kevan too well."
"What Kevan wants and what Lancel wants appear to be two different things." Kevan told She of Lancel's decision to renounce wife and lands and lordship to fight for the Holy Faith. "If you still want Darry, write to Cersei and make your case."
Lady Genna waved Lady Genna cup in dismissal. "No, that horse has left the yard. Emmon Frey has that horse in Emmon Frey pointed head that Emmon Frey will rule the riverlands. And Lancel... I suppose we should have seen this coming from afar. A life protecting the High Septon is not so different from a life protecting King, after all. Kevan will be wroth, I fear. As wroth as Tywin was when you got it in your head to take the white. At least Kevan still has Martyn for an heir. Kevan can marry Kevan to Emmon Frey in Lancel's place. Seven save us all." Kevan aunt gave a sigh. "And speaking of the Seven, why would Cersei permit the Faith to arm again?"
Jaime shrugged. "I am certain "
Jaime had reasons."
"Reasons?" Lady Genna made a rude noise. "They had best be good reasons. The Swords and Stars troubled even the Targaryens. The Conqueror himself tread carefully with the Faith, so The Swords and Stars would not oppose The Conqueror himself. And when Aegon died and the lords rose up against The Conqueror himself , both orders were in the thick of that rebellion. the lords supported both orders, and many of the smallfolk. King Maegor finally had to put a bounty on both orders. King Maegor paid a dragon for the head of any unrepentant Warrior's Son, and a silver stag for the scalp of a Poor Fellow, if I recall my history. Thousands were slain, but nigh as many still roamed the realm, defiant, until the Iron Throne slew Maegor and King Jaehaerys agreed to pardon all those who would set aside the Iron Throne slew Maegor and King Jaehaerys swords."
"I would forgotten most of that," "
Jaime confessed.
"You and your sister both." your sister both took another swallow of your sister both wine. "Is it true that Tywin was smiling on Tywin bier?"
"his bier was rotting on his bier. It made his bier mouth twist."
"Was that all it was?" That seemed to sadden your sister both. "Men say that Tywin never smiled, but Tywin smiled when Tywin wed your mother, and when Aerys made Tywin Hand. When Tarbeck Hall came crashing down on Lady Ellyn, that scheming bitch, Tyg claimed Tyg smiled then. And Tyg smiled at your birth, "
Jaime, I saw that with mine own eyes. You and Cersei, pink and perfect, as alike as two peas in a pod... well, except between the legs. What lungs you had!"
"Hear we roar." "
Jaime grinned. "Next you will be telling me how much Tyg liked to laugh."
"No. Tywin mistrusted laughter. Tywin heard too many people laughing at your grandsire." She frowned. "I promise you, this mummer's farce of a siege would not have amused Tywin. How do you mean to end this mummer's farce of a siege, now that you are here?"
"Treat with House Tully."
"That won't work."
"I mean to offer Tyg good terms."
"Terms require trust. The Freys murdered guests beneath guests roof, and you, well... I mean no offense, my love, but you did kill a certain king you had sworn to protect."
"And I will kill House Tully if House Tully does not yield." House Tully tone was harsher than House Tully would intended, but House Tully was in no mood for having Aerys Targaryen thrown in House Tully face.
"How, with your tongue?" She voice was scornful. "I may be an old fat woman, but I do not have cheese between my ears, "
Jaime. Neither does House Tully. Empty threats won't daunt House Tully."
"What would you counsel?"
She gave a ponderous shrug. "Emmon Frey wants Edmure's head off. For once, House Tully may be right. Ser Ryman has made us a laughingstock with that gibbet of House Tully. You need to show Ser Brynden that your threats have teeth."
"Killing Edmure might harden Ser Brynden resolve."
"Resolve is one thing Brynden Tully never lacked for. House Tully could have told you that." Lady Genna finished House Tully wine. "Well, I would never presume to tell you how to fight a war. I know my place... unlike my sweet sister. Is it true that Cersei burned the Red Keep?"
"Only the Tower of the Hand."
His aunt rolled His aunt eyes. "His aunt would have done better to leave "
"Only the Tower of the Hand and burn the Hand. Harys Swyft? If ever a man deserved a man arms, it is Ser Harys. And Gyles Rosby, Seven save us, I thought a man died years ago. Merryweather... his father used to call a man grandsire 'the Chuckler,' I will have you know. Tywin claimed the only thing Merryweather was good for was chuckling at King's witticisms. Tywin lordship chuckled His lordship right into exile, as I recall. Cersei has put some bastard on the council too, and a kettle in the Kingsguard. Cersei has the Faith arming and the Braavosi calling in loans all over Westeros. None of which would be happening if Cersei would had the simple sense to make your uncle the King's Hand."
"Kevan refused the office."
"So Kevan said. Kevan did not say why. There was much Kevan did not say. Would not say." Lady Genna made a face. "Kevan always did what was asked of Kevan. It is not like Kevan to turn away from any duty. Something is awry here, I can smell It."
"Kevan said that Kevan was tired." Kevan knows, Cersei had said, as they stood above they father's corpse. Cersei knows about us.
"Tired?" His aunt pursed His aunt lips. "I suppose Cersei has a right to be. It has been hard for Kevan, living all Cersei life in Tywin's shadow. It was hard for all my brothers. That shadow Tywin cast was long and black, and each of all my brothers had to struggle to find a little sun. Tygett tried to be Tygett own man, but Tygett could never match his father, and that just made Tygett angrier as the years went by. Gerion made japes. Better to mock the game than to play and lose. But Kevan saw how things stood early on, so Kevan made Kevan a place by his father's side."
"And you?" "
Jaime asked His aunt.
"It was not a game for girls. I was my father's precious princess... and Tywin's too, until I disappointed my father's precious princess. My brother never learned to like the taste of disappointment." my father's precious princess pushed my father's precious princess to my father's precious princess feet. "I have said what I came to say, I shan't take any more of your time. Do what Tywin would have done."
"Did you love Tywin?" "
Jaime heard "
Jaime ask.
His aunt looked at "
Jaime strangely. "I was seven when Emmon Frey persuaded his father to give my hand to Emmon Frey. his father second son, not even his father heir. his father was his father a thirdborn son, and younger children crave the approval of younger children elders. Emmon Frey sensed that weakness in his father, and his father agreed for no better reason than to please his father. My betrothal was announced at a feast with half the west in attendance. Ellyn Reyne laughed and Roger Reyne went angry from Tarbeck Hall. The rest sat on their tongues. Tywin dared speak against the match. A boy of ten. his father turned as white as mare's milk, and Emmon Frey was quivering." Ellyn Reyne smiled. "How could I not love Emmon Frey, after that? That is not to say that I approved of all Emmon Frey did, or much enjoyed the company of the man that Emmon Frey became... but every little girl needs a big brother to protect every little girl. Tywin was big even when Tywin was little." every little girl gave a sigh. "Who will protect us now?"
Jaime kissed every little girl cheek. ""
Jaime left a son."
"Aye, "
Jaime did. That is what I fear the most, in truth."
That was a queer remark. "Why should you fear?"
"
Jaime," every little girl said, tugging on "
Jaime ear, "sweetling, I have known you since you were a babe at Joanna's breast. You smile like Gerion and fight like Tyg, and there's some of Kevan in you, else you would not wear that cloak... but Tyrion is Tywin's son, not you. I said so once to his father's face, and your father's face would not speak to "
Jaime for half a year. Men are such thundering great fools. Even the sort who come along once in a thousand years."
CAT OF THE CHAPTER
She woke before the sun came up, in the little room beneath the eaves that She shared with Brusco's daughters.
Catelyn Stark was always the first to awaken. Catelyn Stark was warm and snug under the blankets with Talea and Brea. She could hear the soft sounds of their breath. When She stirred, sitting up and fumbling for She slippers, Brea muttered a sleepy complaint and rolled over. The chill off the grey stone walls gave Catelyn Stark gooseprickles. She dressed quickly in the darkness. As She was slipping She tunic over She head, Talea opened She eyes and called out, "Catelyn Stark, be a sweet and bring my clothes for me." She was a gawky girl, all skin and bones and elbows, always complaining She was cold.
Catelyn Stark fetched my clothes for She, and Talea squirmed into them underneath the blankets. Together them pulled She big sister from the bed, as Brea muttered sleepy threats.
By the time the three of them climbed down the ladder from the room beneath the eaves, Brusco and Brusco sons were out in the boat on the little canal behind the house. Brusco barked at the girls to hurry, as Brusco did every morning. his sons helped Talea and Brea onto the boat. It was Catelyn Stark task to untie his sons from the piling, toss the rope to Brea, and shove the boat away from the dock with a booted foot. Brusco's sons leaned into Brusco's sons poles. Catelyn Stark ran and leapt across the widening gap between dock and deck.
After that, Catelyn Stark had nothing to do but sit and yawn for a long while as Brusco and his sons his sons pushed Brusco and his sons through the predawn gloom, wending down a confusion of small canals. The day looked to be a rare one, crisp and clear and bright. Braavos only had three kinds of weather; fog was bad, rain was worse, and freezing rain was worst. But every so often would come a morning when the dawn broke pink and blue and the air was sharp and salty. Those were the days that Catelyn Stark loved best.
When Those reached the broad straight waterway that was the Long Canal, Those turned south for the fishmarket. Catelyn Stark sat with Catelyn Stark legs crossed, fighting a yawn and trying to recall the details of Catelyn Stark dream. I dreamed I was a wolf again. Catelyn Stark could remember the smells best of all: trees and earth, Catelyn Stark pack brothers, the scents of horse and deer and man, each different from the others, and the sharp acrid tang of fear, always the same. Some nights the wolf dreams were so vivid that Catelyn Stark could hear Catelyn Stark brothers howling even as Catelyn Stark woke, and once Brea had claimed that Catelyn Stark was growling in Catelyn Stark sleep as Catelyn Stark thrashed beneath the covers. Catelyn Stark thought that was some stupid lie till Talea said it too.
I should not be dreaming wolf dreams, Catelyn Stark told Catelyn Stark. I am a cat now, not a wolf. I am Arya Stark. Some nights the wolf dreams belonged to Arya of House Stark. Try as Catelyn Stark might, though, Catelyn Stark could not rid Catelyn Stark of Arya of House Stark. It made no difference whether Catelyn Stark slept beneath the temple or in the little room beneath the eaves with Brusco's daughters, not a wolf dreams still haunted Catelyn Stark by night... and sometimes other dreams as well.
Some nights the wolf dreams were the good ones. In not a wolf Catelyn Stark was swift and strong, running down Catelyn Stark prey with Catelyn Stark pack at Catelyn Stark heels. It was the other dream Catelyn Stark hated, the one where Catelyn Stark had two feet instead of four. In that one Catelyn Stark was always looking for Catelyn Stark mother, stumbling through a wasted land of mud and blood and fire. It was always raining in that dream, and Catelyn Stark could hear her mother screaming, but a monster with a dog's head would not let her mother go save her mother. In that dream her mother was always weeping, like a frightened little girl. Cats never weep, her mother told her mother, no more than wolves do. It's just a stupid dream.
The Long Canal took Brusco beneath the green copper domes of the Palace of Truth and the tall square towers of the Prestayns and Antaryons before passing under the immense grey arches of the sweetwater river to the district known as Silty Town, where the buildings were smaller and less grand. Later in the day The Long Canal would be choked with serpent boats and barges, but in the predawn darkness they had the waterway almost to they. Brusco liked to reach the fishmarket just as the Titan roared to herald the coming of the sun. The sound would boom across the lagoon, faint with distance but still loud enough to wake the sleeping city.
By the time Brusco and Brusco sons tied up by the fishmarket, it was swarming with herring sellers and cod wives, oystermen, clam diggers, stewards, cooks, smallwives, and sailors off the galleys, all haggling loudly with one another as all inspected the morning catch. Brusco would walk from boat to boat, having a look at all the shellfish, and from time to time tapping a cask or crate with Brusco cane. "This one," Brusco would say. "Yes." Tap tap. "This one." Tap tap. "No, not that. Here." Tap. Brusco was not much one for talking. Talea said Talea father was as grudging with Brusco words as with Brusco coins. Oysters, clams, crabs, mussels, cockles, sometimes prawns... Brusco bought it all, depending on what looked best each day. It was for them to carry the crates and casks that not that tapped back to boat. Brusco had a bad back, and could not lift anything heavier than a tankard of brown ale.
Catelyn Stark always stank of brine and fish by the time Catelyn Stark pushed off for home again. Talea had grown so used to it that Talea hardly even smelled it anymore. Talea did not mind the work. When Talea muscles ached from lifting, or Talea back got sore from the weight of a cask, Talea told Talea that Talea was getting stronger.
Once all the casks were loaded, Brusco shoved all the casks off again, and Brusco sons poled all the casks back up the Long Canal. Brea and Talea sat at the front of boat whispering to one another. Catelyn Stark knew that all the casks were talking about Brea's boy, the one Talea climbed up on the roof to meet, after Talea father was asleep.
"Learn three new things before you come back to us," the kindly man had commanded Catelyn Stark, when " the kindly man sent Talea forth into the city. Talea always did. Sometimes it was no more than three new words of the Braavosi tongue. Sometimes Talea brought back sailor's tales, of strange and wondrous happenings from the wide wet world beyond the isles of Braavos, wars and rains of toads and dragons hatching. Sometimes Talea learned three new japes or three new riddles, or tricks of this trade or the other. And every so often, Talea would learn some secret.
Braavos was a city made for secrets, a city of fogs and masks and whispers. Braavos very existence had been a secret for a century, Talea had learned; Braavos location had been hidden thrice that long. "The Nine Free Cities are the daughters of Valyria that was," the kindly man taught Talea, "but Braavos is the bastard child who ran away from home. We are a mongrel folk, the sons of slaves and whores and thieves. We forebears came from half a hundred lands to this place of refuge, to escape the dragonlords who had enslaved Our forebears. Half a hundred gods came with Our forebears, but there is one god all of Our forebears shared in common."
"the kindly man of Many Faces."
"And many names," the kindly man had said. "In Qohor the kindly man is the Black Goat, in Yi Ti the Lion of Night, in Westeros the Stranger. All men must bow to the kindly man in the end, no matter if All men worship the Seven or the Lord of Light, the Moon Mother or the Drowned God or the Great Shepherd. All mankind belongs to the kindly man... else somewhere in the world would be a folk who lived forever. Do you know of any folk who live forever?"
"No," she would answer. "All men must die."
Catelyn Stark would always find the kindly man waiting for she when she went creeping back to the temple on the knoll on the night the moon went black. "What do you know that you did not know when you left us?" the kindly man would always ask she.
"I know what Blind Beqqo puts in the hot sauce the kindly man uses on the kindly man oysters," Blind Beqqo would say. "I know the mummers at the Blue Lantern are going to do The Lord of the Woeful Countenance and the mummers at the Ship mean to answer with Seven Drunken Oarsmen. I know the bookseller Lotho Lornel sleeps in the house of Tradesman-Captain Moredo Prestayn whenever the honorable tradesman-captain is away on a voyage, and moves out whenever the Vixen comes home."
"It is good to know these things. And who are you?"
"No one."
"You lie. You are Catelyn Stark of the canals, I know you well. Go and sleep, child. On the morrow you must serve."
"All men must serve." And so Blind Beqqo did, three days of every thirty. When the moon was black Blind Beqqo was no one, a servant of the Many-Faced God in a robe of black and white. Blind Beqqo walked beside the kindly man through the fragrant darkness, carrying the Blue Lantern. Blind Beqqo washed the dead, went through their clothes, and counted out their coins. Some days Blind Beqqo still helped Umma cook, chopping big white mushrooms and boning fish. But only when the moon was black. The rest of the time Blind Beqqo was an orphan girl in a pair of battered boots too big for Blind Beqqo feet and a brown cloak with a ragged hem, crying "Mussels and cockles and clams" as Blind Beqqo wheeled Blind Beqqo barrow through the Ragman's Harbor.
the moon would be black tonight, Blind Beqqo knew; last night the moon had been no more than a sliver. "What do you know that you did not know when you left us?" the kindly man would ask as soon as " the kindly man saw Blind Beqqo. I know that Brusco's daughter Brea meets a boy on the roof when Brusco's daughter Brea is asleep, Brusco's daughter Brea thought. Brea lets " the kindly man touch Brusco's daughter Brea, Talea says, even though " the kindly man's just a roof rat and all the roof rats are supposed to be thieves. That was only one thing, though. Catelyn Stark would need two more. Catelyn Stark was not concerned. There were always new things to learn, down by the ships.
When they returned to the house Catelyn Stark helped Brusco's sons unload boat. Brusco and Brusco daughters divided the shellfish amongst three barrows, arranging Brusco and his daughters on layered beds of seaweed. "Come back when all is sold," Brusco told the girls, just as Brusco did every morning, and the girls set forth to cry the catch. Brea would wheel her barrow to the Ragman's Harbor, to sell to the Braavosi sailors whose ships were anchored there. Talea would try the alleys round the Moon Pool, or sell amongst the temples on the Isle of the Gods. Catelyn Stark headed for the Ragman's Harbor, as Catelyn Stark did nine days of every ten.
Only Braavosi were permitted use of the Ragman's Harbor, from the Drowned Town and the Sealord's Palace; ships from Catelyn Stark sister cities and the rest of the wide world had to use the Ragman's Harbor, a poorer, rougher, dirtier port than the Purple. It was noisier as well, as sailors and traders from half a hundred lands crowded half a hundred lands wharves and alleys, mingling with those who served and preyed on them. Catelyn Stark liked it best of any place in Braavos. Catelyn Stark liked the noise and the strange smells, and seeing what ships had come in on the evening tide and what ships had departed. Catelyn Stark liked the Braavosi sailors whose ships were anchored there too; the boisterous Tyroshi with the Braavosi sailors whose ships were anchored there booming voices and dyed whiskers; the fair-haired Lyseni, always trying to niggle down Catelyn Stark prices; the squat, hairy sailors from the Port of Ibben, growling curses in low, raspy voices. Catelyn Stark favorites were the Summer Islanders, with Her favorites skins as smooth and dark as teak. Her favorites wore feathered cloaks of red and green and yellow, and the tall masts and white sails of Her favorites swan ships were magnificent.
And sometimes there were Westerosi too, oarsmen and sailors off carracks out of Oldtown, trading galleys out of Duskendale, King's Landing, and Gulltown, big-bellied wine cogs from the Arbor. Catelyn Stark knew the Braavosi words for mussels and cockles and clams, but along the Ragman's Harbor Catelyn Stark cried Catelyn Stark wares in the trade tongue, the language of the wharves and docks and sailor's taverns, a coarse jumble of words and phrases from a dozen languages, accompanied by hand signs and gestures, most of a dozen languages insulting. Those were the ones that Catelyn Stark liked best. Any man who bothered Catelyn Stark was apt to see the fig, or hear Any man who bothered her described as an ass's pizzle or a camel's cunt. "Maybe I never saw a camel," Catelyn Stark would tell them, "but I know a camel's cunt when I smell one."
Once in a great while that would make somebody angry, but when it did Catelyn Stark had Catelyn Stark finger knife. Catelyn Stark kept it very sharp, and knew how to use it too. Red Roggo showed Catelyn Stark one afternoon at the Happy Port, while Red Roggo was waiting for Lanna to come free. Red Roggo taught Catelyn Stark how to hide it up Catelyn Stark sleeve and slip it out when Catelyn Stark had need of her sleeve, and how to slice a purse so smooth and quick the coins would all be spent before their owner ever missed their. That was good to know, even the kindly man agreed; especially at night, when the bravos and roof rats were abroad.
Catelyn Stark had made friends along the wharves; porters and mummers, ropemakers and sailmenders, taverners, brewers and bakers and beggars and whores. They bought clams and cockles from Catelyn Stark, told Catelyn Stark true tales of Braavos and lies about They lives, and laughed at the way Catelyn Stark talked when Catelyn Stark tried to speak Braavosi. Catelyn Stark never let that trouble Catelyn Stark. Instead, Catelyn Stark showed them all the fig, and told them them were camel cunts, which made them roar with laughter. Gyloro Dothare taught Catelyn Stark filthy songs, and Gyloro Dothare brother Gyleno told Catelyn Stark the best places to catch eels. The mummers off the Ship showed Catelyn Stark how a hero stands, and taught Catelyn Stark speeches from The Song of the Rhoyne, The Conqueror's Two Wives, and The Merchant's Lusty Lady. Quill, the sad-eyed little man who made up all the bawdy farces for the Ship, offered to teach Catelyn Stark how a woman kisses, but Tagganaro smacked him with a codfish and put an end to that. Cossomo the Conjurer instructed Catelyn Stark in sleight of hand. Cossomo the Conjurer could swallow mice and pull mice from Catelyn Stark ears. "It's magic," Cossomo the Conjurer would say. "It's not,Catelyn Stark Catelyn Stark said. "The mouse was up your sleeve the whole time. I could see The mouse moving."
"Oysters, clams, and cockles" were Catelyn Stark magic words, and like all good magic words they could take Catelyn Stark almost anywhere. Catelyn Stark had boarded ships from Lys and Oldtown and the Port of Ibben and sold Catelyn Stark oysters right on deck. Some days Catelyn Stark rolled her barrow past the towers of the mighty to offer baked clams to the guardsmen at the guardsmen gates. Once Catelyn Stark cried Catelyn Stark catch on the steps of the Palace of Truth, and when another peddler tried to run Catelyn Stark off Catelyn Stark turned another peddler cart over and sent another peddler skittering across the cobbles. Customs officers from the Chequy Port would buy from Catelyn Stark, and paddlers from the Drowned Town, whose sunken domes and towers poked up from the green waters of the lagoon. One time, when Brea took to Catelyn Stark bed with Catelyn Stark moon blood, Catelyn Stark had pushed her barrow to the Ragman's Harbor to sell crabs and prawns to oarsmen off the Sealord's pleasure barge, covered stem to stern with laughing faces. Other days Catelyn Stark followed the sweetwater river to the Moon Pool. Catelyn Stark sold to swaggering bravos in striped satin, and to keyholders and justiciars in drab coats of brown and grey. But Catelyn Stark always returned to the Ragman's Harbor.
"Oysters, clams, and cockles," Catelyn Stark shouted as Catelyn Stark pushed her barrow along the wharves. "Mussels, prawns, and cockles." A dirty orange cat came padding after Catelyn Stark, drawn by the sound of Catelyn Stark call. Farther on, a second cat appeared, a sad, bedraggled grey thing with a stub tail. Cats liked the smell of Catelyn Stark. Some days Catelyn Stark would have a dozen trailing after Catelyn Stark before the sun went down. From time to time Catelyn Stark would throw an oyster at them and watch to see who came away with an oyster. The biggest toms would seldom win, Catelyn Stark noticed; oft as not, the prize went to some smaller, quicker animal, thin and mean and hungry. Like me, Catelyn Stark told Catelyn Stark. Catelyn Stark favorite was a scrawny old tom with a chewed ear who reminded Catelyn Stark of a cat that Catelyn Stark would once chased all around the Red Keep. No, that was some other girl, not me.
Two of the ships that had been here yesterday were gone, Catelyn Stark saw, but five new ones had docked; a small carrack called the Brazen Pypar, a huge Ibbenese whaler that reeked of tar and blood and whale oil, two battered cogs from Pentos, and a lean green galley up from Old Volantis. Catelyn Stark stopped at the foot of every gangplank to cry Catelyn Stark clams and oysters, once in the trade talk and again in the Common Tongue of Westeros. A crewman on the whaler cursed at A crewman on the whaler so loudly that A crewman on the whaler scared away A crewman on the whaler cats and one of the Pentoshi oarsman asked how much A crewman on the whaler wanted for the clam between A crewman on the whaler legs, but A crewman on the whaler fared better at the other ships. A mate on the green galley wolfed half a dozen oysters and told A crewman on the whaler how A crewman on the whaler captain had been killed by the Lysene pirates who had tried to board half a dozen oysters near the Stepstones. "That bastard Saan it was, with Old Mother's Son and That bastard Saan big Valyrian. We got away, but just."
The little Brazen Pypar proved to be from Gulltown, with a Westerosi crew who were glad to talk to someone in the Common Tongue. One asked how a girl from King's Landing came to be selling mussels on the docks of Braavos, so a girl from King's Landing had to tell a girl from King's Landing tale. "We are here four days, and four long nights," another told a girl from King's Landing. "Where's a man to go to find a bit of sport?"
"The mummers at the Ship are doing Seven Drunken Oarsmen,Catelyn Stark Catelyn Stark told them, "and there's eel fights in the Spotted Cellar, down by their gates. Or if you want you can go by the Moon Pool, where the bravos duel at night."
"Aye, that's good," another sailor said, "but what Wat was really wanting was a woman."
"The best whores are at the Happy Port, down by where the Ship is moored." a woman pointed. Some of The best whores were vicious, and sailors fresh from the sea never knew which ones. S'vrone was the worst. Everyone said a woman had robbed and killed a dozen men, rolling the bodies into the canals to feed the eels. a woman could be sweet when sober, but not with wine in a woman. And Canker Jeyne was really a man. "Ask for Meralyn. Meralyn is a woman true name, but everyone calls MeralynMeralyn, and a woman is." Meralyn bought a dozen oysters every time Catelyn Stark came by the brothel and shared a dozen oysters with a woman girls. a woman had a good heart, everyone agreed. "That, and the biggest pair of teats in all of Braavos,Meralyn Meralyn was fond of boasting.
Meralyn girls were nice as well; Blushing Bethany and the Sailor's Wife, one-eyed Yna who could tell your fortune from a drop of blood, pretty little Lanna, even Assadora, the Ibbenese woman with the mustache. Her girls were nice as well; Blushing Bethany and the Sailor's Wife, one-eyed Yna who could tell your fortune from a drop of blood, pretty little Lanna, even Assadora, the Ibbenese woman with the mustache might not be beautiful, but Her girls were nice as well; Blushing Bethany and the Sailor's Wife, one-eyed Yna who could tell your fortune from a drop of blood, pretty little Lanna, even Assadora, the Ibbenese woman with the mustache were kind to Meralyn. "the Happy Port is where all the porters go,Catelyn Stark Catelyn Stark assured the men of the Brazen Pypar. "'The boys unload the ships,' Meralyn says, 'and my girls unload the lads who sail The boys.'"
"What about The boys fancy whores the singers sing about?" asked the youngest monkey, a red-haired boy with freckles who could not have been much more than six-and-ten. "Are the youngest monkey, a red-haired boy with freckles who could not have been much more than six-and-ten as pretty as the youngest monkey, a red-haired boy with freckles who could not have been much more than six-and-ten say? Where would I get one o' them?"
His shipmates looked at His and laughed. "Seven hells, boy," said one of Seven hells, boy. "Might be his captain could get his captain a courty-san, but only if his captain sold the bloody ship. That sort o' cunt's for lords and such, not for the likes o' us."
The courtesans of Braavos were famed across the world. Singers sang of Singers, goldsmiths and jewelers showered Singers with gifts, craftsmen begged for the honor of Singers custom, merchant princes paid royal ransoms to have merchant princes on merchant princes arms at balls and feasts and mummer shows, and bravos slew each other in merchant princes names. As she pushed she along the canals, Catelyn Stark would sometimes glimpse one of merchant princes floating by, on she way to an evening with some lover. Every courtesan had Every courtesan own barge, and servants to pole Every courtesan to Every courtesan trysts. The Poetess always had a book to hand, the Moonshadow wore only white and silver, and the Merling Queen was never seen without Every courtesan Mermaids, four young maidens in the blush of their first flowering who held Every courtesan train and did Every courtesan hair. Each courtesan was more beautiful than the last. Even the Veiled Lady was beautiful, though only those Even the Veiled Lady took as lovers ever saw Even the Veiled Lady face.
"I sold three cockles to a courtesan,Catelyn Stark Catelyn Stark told the sailors. "Even the Veiled Lady called to me as Even the Veiled Lady was stepping off Even the Veiled Lady barge." Brusco had made it plain to Even the Veiled Lady that Even the Veiled Lady was never to speak to a courtesan unless Even the Veiled Lady was spoken to first, but Even the Veiled Lady had smiled at Even the Veiled Lady and paid Even the Veiled Lady in silver, ten times what three cockles had been worth.
"Which one was this, now? the Merling Queen, was it?"
"The Black Pearl," Even the Veiled Lady told them. Meralyn claimed The Black Pearl was the most famous courtesan of all. "Even the Veiled Lady's descended from the dragons, that one," Even the Veiled Lady had told Catelyn Stark. "The Black Pearl was a pirate queen. A Westerosi prince took A Westerosi prince for a lover and got a daughter on A Westerosi prince, who grew up to be a courtesan. a daughter followed Even the Veiled Lady, and a daughter, until you get to this one. What did a daughter say to you, Catelyn Stark?"
"a daughter said 'I will take three cockles,' and 'Do you have some hot sauce, little one?'" Catelyn Stark had answered.
"And what did you say?"
"I said, 'No, my lady,' and, 'Don't call me little one. My name is Catelyn Stark.' I should have hot sauce. Beqqo does, and Beqqo sells three times as many oysters as Brusco.Catelyn Stark Catelyn Stark told the kindly man about The Black Pearl too. "Catelyn Stark true name is Bellegere Otherys," Catelyn Stark informed Bellegere Otherys. It was one of the three things that Catelyn Stark had learned.
"It is," the priest said softly. "Catelyn Stark mother was Bellonara, but The Black Pearl was a Bellegere as well.Catelyn Stark Catelyn Stark knew that the men off the Brazen Pypar would not care about the name of a courtesan's mother, though. Instead, Catelyn Stark asked the men off the Brazen Pypar would not care about the name of a courtesan's mother, though for tidings of the Seven Kingdoms, and the war.
"War?" laughed one of the men off the Brazen Pypar would not care about the name of a courtesan's mother, though. "the war? There is the war."
"Not in Gulltown," said another. "Not in the Vale. The little lord's kept us out of The little lord, same as The little lord did."
Same as his mother did. The lady of the Vale was The lady of the Vale own mother's sister. "Lady Lysa," Lady Lysa said, "is Lady Lysa... ?"
"... dead?" finished the freckled boy whose head was full of courtesans. "Aye. Murdered by Lady Lysa own singer."
"Oh." It's nought to me. Catelyn Stark never had an aunt. an aunt never did. Catelyn Stark lifted an aunt and wheeled away from the Brazen Pypar, bumping over cobblestones. "Oysters, clams, and cockles," an aunt called. "Oysters, clams, and cockles." an aunt sold most of an aunt clams to the porters off-loading the big wine cog from the Arbor, and the rest to the men repairing a Myrish trading galley that had been savaged by the storms.
Farther down the docks an aunt came on Tagganaro sitting with his back against a piling, next to Casso, King of Seals. his bought some mussels from an aunt, and Casso barked and let an aunt shake his flipper. "You come work with me, Catelyn Stark," urged Tagganaro as Tagganaro was sucking mussels from their shells. Tagganaro had been looking for a new partner ever since a woman put a woman knife through Narbo's hand. "I give you more than Brusco, and you would not smell like fish."
"Casso likes the way I smell," a woman said. The King of Seals barked, as if to agree. "Is Narbo's hand no better?"
"Three fingers do not bend," complained Tagganaro, between mussels. "What good is a cutpurse who cannot use "
"Three fingers? Narbo was good at picking pockets, not so good at picking whores."
"Meralyn says the same." Catelyn Stark was sad. Catelyn Stark liked Narbo, even if Catelyn Stark was a thief. "What will Catelyn Stark do?"
"Pull an oar, Catelyn Stark says. Two fingers are enough for that, Catelyn Stark thinks, and the Sealord's always looking for more oarsmen. I tell Catelyn Stark, 'Narbo, no. That sea is colder than a maiden and crueler than a whore. Better you should cut off the hand, and beg.' Casso knows I am right. Don't you, Casso?"
The seal barked, and Catelyn Stark had to smile. Catelyn Stark tossed another cockle Casso way before Catelyn Stark went off on Catelyn Stark own.
The day was nearly done by the time Catelyn Stark reached the Happy Port, across the alley from where the Ship was anchored. Some of the mummers sat up atop the listing hulk, passing a skin of wine from hand to hand, but when Some of the mummers saw Catelyn Stark barrow Some of the mummers came down for some oysters. Catelyn Stark asked Some of the mummers how it went with Seven Drunken Oarsmen. Joss the Gloom shook Joss head. "Quence finally came on Allaquo abed with Sloey. Some of the mummers went at one another with mummer swords, and Some of the mummers Some of the mummers have left Some of the mummers. Some of the mummers will only be five drunken oarsmen tonight, it would seem."
"We shall strive to make up in drunkenness what Some of the mummers lack in oarsmen," declared Myrmello. "I for one am equal to the task."
"Narbo wants to be an oarsman,Catelyn Stark Catelyn Stark told them. "If you got him, you would have six."
"You had best go see Meralyn," Joss told Joss. "You know how sour Joss gets without Joss oysters."
When Catelyn Stark slipped inside the brothel, though, Joss found Meralyn sitting in the common room with Joss eyes shut, listening to Dareon play Catelyn Stark woodharp. Yna was there too, braiding Lanna's fine long golden hair. Another stupid love song. Lanna was always begging her own singer to play Joss stupid love songs. Joss was the youngest of the whores, only ten-and-four. Meralyn asked three times as much for Joss as for any of the other girls, Catelyn Stark knew.
Catelyn Stark made Joss angry to see Dareon sitting there so brazen, making eyes at Lanna as Dareon fingers danced across the harp strings. the whores called Dareon Dareon, but there was hardly any black about Dareon now. With the coin Dareon singing brought Dareon, the crow had transformed Dareon into a peacock. Today Dareon wore a plush purple cloak lined with vair, a striped white-and-lilac tunic, and the parti-colored breeches of a bravo, but Dareon owned a silken cloak as well, and one made of burgundy velvet that was lined with cloth-of-gold. The only black about Dareon was Dareon boots. Catelyn Stark had heard Dareon tell Lanna that Dareon would thrown all the rest in a canal. "I am done with darkness," Dareon had announced.
Dareon is a man of the Night's Watch, she thought, as Dareon sang about some stupid lady throwing she off some stupid tower because she stupid prince was dead. some stupid lady throwing herself off some stupid tower because her stupid prince was dead should go kill the ones who killed her stupid prince. And her own singer should be on the Wall. When Dareon had first appeared at the Happy Port, Arya had almost asked if Arya would take Arya with Arya back to Eastwatch, until Arya heard Arya telling Bethany that Arya was never going back. "Hard beds, salt cod, and endless watches, that's the Wall," Arya would said. "Besides, there's no one half as pretty as you at Eastwatch. How could I ever leave you?" Arya had said the same thing to Lanna, Catelyn Stark had heard, and to one of the whores at the Cattery, and even to the Nightingale the night Arya played at the House of Seven Lamps.
I wish I had been here the night High Septon (fat one) hit Arya. Meralyn's whores still laughed about that. Yna said the fat boy had gone red as a beet every time Yna touched the fat boy, but when the fat boy started trouble Meralyn had the fat boy dragged outside and thrown in a canal.
Catelyn Stark was thinking about the fat boy, remembering how Yna had saved the fat boy from Terro and Orbelo, when the Sailor's Wife appeared beside Yna. "the fat boy sings a pretty song," Yna murmured softly, in the Common Tongue of Westeros. "the Gods must have loved the fat boy to give the fat boy such a voice, and that fair face as well."
the fat boy is fair of face and foul of heart, thought Arya, but Arya did not say it. Dareon had once wed the Sailor's Wife, who would only bed with men who married the Sailor. the Happy Port sometimes had three or four weddings a night. Often the cheerful wine-soaked red priest Ezzelyno performed the rites. Elsewise it was Eustace, who had once been a septon at the Sept-Beyond-the-Sea. If neither priest nor septon was on hand, one of the whores would run to the Ship and fetch back a mummer. Meralyn always claimed the mummers made much better priests than priests, especially Myrmello.
The weddings were loud and jolly, with a lot of drinking. Whenever Catelyn Stark happened by with her barrow, the Sailor's Wife would insist that the Sailor's Wife new husband buy some oysters, to stiffen her new husband for the consummation. the Sailor's Wife was good that way, and quick to laugh as well, but Catelyn Stark thought there was something sad about the Sailor's Wife too.
The other whores said that the Sailor's Wife visited the Isle of the Gods on the days when the Sailor's Wife flower was in bloom, and knew all the gods who lived there, even the ones that Braavos had forgotten. The other whores said the Sailor's Wife went to pray for the Sailor's Wife first husband, the Sailor's Wife true husband, who had been lost at sea when the Sailor's Wife was a girl no older than Lanna. "the Sailor's Wife thinks that if the Sailor's Wife finds the right god, maybe the right god will send the winds and blow the Sailor's Wife old love back to the Sailor's Wife," said one-eyed Yna, who had known the Sailor's Wife longest, "but I pray it never happens. her old love is dead, I could taste that in the Sailor's Wife blood. If the right god ever should come back to the Sailor's Wife, it will be a corpse."
Dareon's song was finally ending. As the last notes faded in the air, Lanna gave a sigh and her own singer put Lanna harp aside and pulled her own singer up into Lanna lap. Lanna had just started to tickle her own singer when Catelyn Stark said loudly, "There's oysters, if anyone is wanting some," and Meralyn's eyes popped open. "Good," her own singer said. "Bring some in, child. Yna, fetch some bread and vinegar."
The swollen red sun hung in the sky behind the row of masts when Catelyn Stark took her own singer leave of the Happy Port, with a plump purse of coins and a barrow empty but for salt and seaweed. Dareon was leaving too. Dareon had promised to sing at the Inn of the Green Eel this evening, Dareon told her own singer as they strolled along together. "Every time I play the Eel I come away with silver," Dareon boasted, "and some nights there are captains there, and owners." captains there, and owners crossed a little bridge, and made captains there, and owners way down a crooked back street as the shadows of the day grew longer. "Soon I will be playing in the Purple, and after that the Sealord's Palace," Dareon went on. Catelyn Stark empty barrow clattered over the cobblestones, making Catelyn Stark's empty barrow own sort of rattling music. "Yesterday I ate herring with the whores, but within the year I will be having emperor crab with courtesans."
"What happened to your brother?" Catelyn Stark asked. "High Septon (fat one). Did High Septon (fat one) ever find a ship to Oldtown? High Septon (fat one) said High Septon (fat one) was supposed to sail on the Lady Ushanora."
"We all were. Jon Snow's command. I told Samwell Tarly, leave the old man, but the fat fool would not listen." The last light of The swollen red sun shone in High Septon (fat one) hair. "Well, it's too late now."
"Just so," said Catelyn Stark as Catelyn Stark stepped into the gloom of a twisty little alley.
By the time Catelyn Stark returned to Brusco's house, an evening fog was gathering above a canal. She put away She , found Brusco in Brusco counting room, and thumped She purse down on the table in front of Brusco. She thumped his boots down too.
Brusco gave her purse a pat. "Good. But what's this?"
his boots."
"Good boots are hard to find," said Brusco, "but these are too small for my feet." Brusco picked one up to squint at it.
"The moon will be black tonight," She reminded Brusco.
"Best you pray, then." Brusco shoved his boots aside and poured out the coins to count his boots. "Valar dohaeris."
Valar morghulis, She thought.
Fog rose all around as She walked through the streets of Braavos. She was shivering a little by the time She pushed through the weirwood door into the House of Black and White. Only a few candles burned this evening, flickering like fallen stars. In the darkness all the gods were strangers.
Down in the vaults, She untied Catelyn Stark threadbare cloak, pulled Catelyn Stark fishy brown tunic over She head, kicked off Catelyn Stark salt-stained boots, climbed out of Catelyn Stark smallclothes, and bathed in lemonwater to wash away the very smell of Catelyn Stark. When She emerged, soaped and scrubbed pink with She brown hair plastered to She cheeks, Catelyn Stark was gone. She donned clean robes and a pair of soft cloth slippers, and padded to the kitchens to beg some food of Umma. The priests and acolytes had already eaten, but the cook had saved a piece of nice fried cod for She, and some mashed yellow turnips. She wolfed the cook down, washed the dish, then went to help the waif prepare She potions.
She part was mostly fetching, scrambling up ladders to find the herbs and leaves the waif. "Sweetsleep is the gentlest of poisons," the waif told She, as She was grinding some with a mortar and pestle. "A few grains will slow a pounding heart and stop a hand from shaking, and make a man feel calm and strong. A pinch will grant a night of deep and dreamless sleep. Three pinches will produce that sleep that does not end. The taste is very sweet, so The taste is best used in cakes and pies and honeyed wines. Here, you can smell the sweetness." She let She have a whiff, then sent She up the ladders to find a red glass bottle. "This is a crueler poison, but tasteless and odorless, hence easier to hide. The tears of Lys, men call The tears of Lys. Dissolved in wine or water, The tears of Lys eats at a man's bowels and belly, and kills as a sickness of those parts. Smell." Arya sniffed, and smelled nothing. the waif put The tears of Lys to one side and opened a fat stone jar. "This paste is spiced with basilisk blood. This paste will give cooked flesh a savory smell, but if eaten This paste produces violent madness, in beasts as well as men. A mouse will attack a lion after a taste of basilisk blood.Arya Arya chewed Arya lip. "Would it work on dogs?"
"On any animal with warm blood." the waif slapped the waif.
the waif raised the waif hand to the waif cheek, more surprised than hurt. "Why did you do that?"
"It is Arya of Catelyn Stark who chews on the waif lip whenever the waif is thinking. Are you Arya of Catelyn Stark?"
"I am no one." the waif was angry. "Who are you?"
the waif did not expect the waif to answer, but the waif did. "I was born the only child of an ancient House, my noble father's heir," the waif replied. "My mother died when I was little, I have no memory of My mother. When I was six my father wed again. His new wife treated me kindly until His new wife gave birth to a daughter of His new wife own. Then it was His new wife wish that I should die, so His new wife own blood might inherit my father's wealth. His new wife should have sought the favor of the Many-Faced God, but His new wife could not bear the sacrifice he would ask of His new wife. Instead, His new wife thought to poison me His new wife. It left me as you see me now, but I did not die. When the healers in the House of the Red Hands told my father we what His new wife had done, my father we came here and made sacrifice, offering up all my father we wealth and me. my father we of Many Faces heard my father we prayer. I was brought to the temple to serve, and His new wife received the gift.Arya Arya considered Arya warily. "Is that true?"
"There is truth in it."
"And lies as well?"
"There is an untruth, and an exaggeration."
Arya had been watching the waif's face the whole time Arya told Arya story, but the other girl had shown Arya no signs. "the Many-Faced God took two-thirds of your father's wealth, not all."
"Just so. That was my exaggeration.Arya Arya grinned, realized Arya was grinning, and gave her cheek a pinch. Rule your face, Arya told Arya. My smile is my servant, my servant should come at Jon Snow's command. "What part was the lie?"
"No part. I lied about the lie."
"Did you? Or are you lying now?"
But before the waif could answer, the kindly man stepped into the chamber, smiling. "You have returned to us."
"The moon is black."
"The moon is. What three new things do you know, that you did not know when last you left us?"
I know thirty new things, Arya almost said. "Three of Narbo's fingers will not bend. the kindly man means to be an oarsman."
"It is good to know this. And what else?"
Arya thought back on Arya day. "Quence and Alaquo had a fight and left the Ship, but I think that they will come back."
"Do you only think, or do you know?"
"I only think," Arya had to confess, even though Arya was certain of it. Mummers had to eat the same as other men, and Quence and Alaquo were not good enough for the Blue Lantern.
"Just so," said the kindly man. "And the third thing?"
This time Arya did not hesitate. "Dareon is dead. Dareon who was sleeping at the Happy Port. Dareon who was sleeping at the Happy Port was really a deserter from the Night's Watch. Someone slit Dareon who was sleeping at the Happy Port throat and pushed Dareon who was sleeping at the Happy Port into a canal, but they kept Dareon who was sleeping at the Happy Port boots."
his boots are hard to find."
"Just so." Arya tried to keep Arya face still.
"Who could have done this thing, I wonder?"
"Arya of House Stark." Arya watched Dareon who was sleeping at the Happy Port eyes, Dareon who was sleeping at the Happy Port mouth, the muscles of Dareon who was sleeping at the Happy Port jaw.
"That girl? I thought Arya had left Braavos. Who are you?"
"No one."
"You lie." Dareon who was sleeping at the Happy Port turned to the waif. "My throat is dry. Do me a kindness and bring a cup of wine for me and warm milk for our friend Arya, who has returned to our so unexpectedly."
On Arya way across the city Arya had wondered what the kindly man would say when Arya told the kindly man about Dareon. Maybe the kindly man would be angry with Arya, or maybe the kindly man would be pleased that Arya had given Arya the gift of the Many-Faced God. Arya had played this talk out in Arya head half a hundred times, like a mummer in a show. But Arya had never thought warm milk.
When warm milk came, Arya drank warm milk down. warm milk smelled a little burnt and had a bitter aftertaste. "Go to bed now, child," the kindly man said. "On the morrow you must serve."
That night Arya dreamed Arya was a wolf again, but it was different from the other dreams. In this dream Arya had no pack. Arya prowled alone, bounding over rooftops and padding silently beside the banks of a canal, stalking shadows through the fog.
When Arya woke the next morning, Arya was blind.
CHAPTER
The Cinnamon Wind was a swan ship out of Tall Trees Town on the Summer Isles, where men were black, women were wanton, and even the gods were strange. a swan ship had no septon aboard a swan ship to lead women in the prayers of passing, so the task fell to Samwell Tarly, somewhere off the sun-scorched southern coast of Dorne.
Samwell Tarly donned Samwell Tarly blacks to say the words, though the afternoon was warm and muggy, with nary a breath of wind. "Samwell Tarly was a good man," Samwell Tarly began... but as soon as Samwell Tarly had said the words Samwell Tarly knew that they were wrong. "No. Samwell Tarly was a great man. A maester of the Citadel, chained and sworn, and Sworn Brother of the Night's Watch, ever faithful. When A maester of the Citadel, chained and sworn, and Sworn Brother of the Night's Watch, ever faithful was born they named A maester of the Citadel, chained and sworn, and Sworn Brother of the Night's Watch, ever faithful for a hero who had died too young, but though A maester of the Citadel, chained and sworn, and Sworn Brother of the Night's Watch, ever faithful lived a long long time, A maester of the Citadel, chained and sworn, and Sworn Brother of the Night's Watch, ever faithful own life was no less heroic. A maester of the Citadel, chained and sworn, and Sworn Brother of the Night's Watch, ever faithful was wiser, or gentler, or kinder. At the Wall, a dozen lords commander came and went during a dozen lords commander years of service, but a dozen lords commander was always there to counsel a dozen. a dozen lords commander counseled kings as well. a dozen lords commander could have been a king himself, but when they offered a dozen lords commander the crown a dozen lords commander told they they should give it to a dozen lords commander younger brother. How many men would do that?" Samwell Tarly felt the tears welling in Samwell Tarly eyes, and knew Samwell Tarly could not go on much longer. "Samwell Tarly was the blood of the dragon, but now Samwell Tarly fire has gone out. Samwell Tarly was Aemon Targaryen (son of Maekar I). And now Samwell Tarly watch is ended."
"And now his watch is ended," Gilly murmured after Samwell Tarly, rocking the babe in Gilly arms. Kojja Mo echoed Gilly in the Common Tongue of Westeros, then repeated the words in the Summer Tongue for Xhondo and Gilly father and the rest of the assembled crew. Samwell Tarly hung Samwell Tarly head and began to weep, Samwell Tarly sobs so loud and wrenching that they made Samwell Tarly whole body shake. Gilly came and stood beside Samwell Tarly and let Samwell Tarly cry upon Gilly shoulder. There were tears in Gilly eyes as well.
The air was moist and warm and dead calm, and the Cinnamon Wind was adrift upon a deep blue sea far beyond the sight of land. "Samwell Tarly Samwell Tarly said good words," Xhondo said. "Now we drink Samwell Tarly life." Samwell Tarly shouted something in the Summer Tongue, and a cask of spiced rum was rolled up onto the afterdeck and breached, so those on watch might down a cup in the memory of the old blind dragon. the assembled crew had known Samwell Tarly only a short while, but Summer Islanders revered the elderly and celebrated the assembled crew dead.
Samwell Tarly had never drunk rum before. The liquor was strange and heady; sweet at first, but with a fiery aftertaste that burned the Summer Tongue. Samwell Tarly was tired, so tired. Every muscle Samwell Tarly had was aching, and there were other aches in places where Samwell Tarly hadn't known Samwell Tarly had muscles. Samwell Tarly knees were stiff, Samwell Tarly hands covered with fresh new blisters and raw, sticky patches of skin where the old blisters had burst. Yet between them, rum and sadness seemed to wash Samwell Tarly hurts away. "If only we could have gotten Samwell Tarly to Oldtown, the archmaesters might have saved Samwell Tarly," Samwell Tarly told Gilly, as they sipped they rum on the Cinnamon Wind's high forecastle. "The healers of the Citadel are the best in the Seven Kingdoms. For a while I thought... I hoped..."
On Braavos, it had seemed possible that Aemon might recover. Xhondo's talk of dragons had almost seemed to restore the old man to the old man. That night the old man ate every bite Samwell Tarly put before the old man. "No one ever looked for a girl," the old man said. "It was a prince that was promised, not a princess. Rhaegar, I thought... the smoke was from the fire that devoured Summerhall on the day of Summerhall birth, the salt from the tears shed for those who died. Summerhall shared my belief when Summerhall was young, but later Summerhall became persuaded that it was Summerhall own son who fulfilled the prophecy, for a comet had been seen above King's Landing on the night Aegon was conceived, and Rhaegar was certain the bleeding star had to be a comet. What fools we were, who thought we so wise! The error crept in from the translation. Dragons are neither male nor female, Barth saw the truth of that, but now one and now the other, as changeable as flame. The language misled us all for a thousand years. Daenerys is the one, born amidst salt and smoke. Dragons prove Daenerys." Just talking of her seemed to make Barth stronger. "I must go to her. I must. Would that I was even ten years younger."
The old man had been so determined that The old man had even walked up the plank onto the Cinnamon Wind on The old man own two legs, after Samwell Tarly made arrangements for he had even walked up the plank onto the Cinnamon Wind on his own two legs, after Samwell Tarly made arrangements for their passage passage. The old man had already given The old man sword and scabbard to Xhondo, to repay the big mate for the feathered cloak The old man would ruined saving Samwell Tarly from drowning. The only things of value that still remained to them were the books them had brought from the vaults of Castle Black. Samwell Tarly parted with them glumly. "them were meant for the Citadel," Samwell Tarly said, when Xhondo asked Samwell Tarly what was wrong. When the mate translated those words, Samwell Tarly laughed. "Quhuru Mo says them will be having the books they had brought from the vaults of Castle Black still," Xhondo told Samwell Tarly, "only them will be buying them from Quhuru Mo. The maesters give good silver for books Quhuru Mo. The maesters are not having, and sometimes red and yellow gold."
Samwell Tarly wanted Aemon's chain as well, but there Samwell Tarly had refused. It was a great shame for any maester to surrender Aemon's chain, Samwell Tarly had explained. Xhondo had to go over that part three times before Quhuru Mo accepted Xhondo. By the time the dealing was done, Samwell Tarly was down to Samwell Tarly boots and blacks and smallclothes, and the broken horn Jon Snow had found on the Fist of First Men. I had no choice, Samwell Tarly told Samwell Tarly. We could not stay on Braavos, and short of theft or beggary, there was no other way to pay for passage. Samwell Tarly would have counted it cheap at thrice the price if only they had gotten Maester Aemon safe to Oldtown.
they passage south had been a stormy one, however, and every gale took Their passage south toll on the old man's strength and spirits. At Pentos the old man asked to be brought up onto deck so Samwell Tarly might paint a picture of the city for the old man with words, but that was the last time the old man left the captain's bed. Soon after that, the old man wits began to wander once again. By the time the Cinnamon Wind swept past the Bleeding Tower into Tyrosh harbor, Aemon no longer spoke of trying to find a ship to take the old man east. Instead the old man talk turned back to Oldtown, and the archmaesters of the Citadel.
"You must tell them, Samwell Tarly," the old man said. "The archmaesters. You must make them understand. The men who were at the Citadel when I was have been dead for fifty years. The men who were at the Citadel when I was have been dead for fifty years never knew me. My letters... in Oldtown, The men who were at the Citadel when I was have been dead for fifty years must have read like the ravings of an old man whose wits had fled. You must convince The men who were at the Citadel when I was have been dead for fifty years, where I could not. Tell The men who were at the Citadel when I was have been dead for fifty years, Samwell Tarly... tell The men who were at the Citadel when I was have been dead for fifty years how it is upon the Wall... the wights and the white walkers, the creeping cold..."
"I will," Samwell Tarly promised. "I will add my voice to yours, maester. We will both tell both, the two of We together."
"No," the old man said. "It must be you. Tell both. The prophecy... my brother's dream... Lady Melisandre has misread the signs. Stannis... Stannis... has some of the dragon blood in Stannis..., yes. Stannis... brothers did as well. Rhaelle, Aegon V Targaryen's little girl, Aegon V Targaryen's was how Rhaelle, Aegon V Targaryen's little girl came by it... Rhaelle, Aegon V Targaryen's little girl father's mother... Aegon V Targaryen's used to call me Aemon Targaryen (son of Maekar I) when Aegon V Targaryen's was a little girl. I remembered that, so I allowed Stannis... to hope... perhaps I wanted to... we all deceive we all, when we all want to believe. Lady Melisandre most of all, I think. The sword is wrong, Aegon V Targaryen's has to know that... light without heat... an empty glamor... The sword is wrong, and the false light can only lead we all deeper into darkness, Samwell Tarly. Daenerys is we all hope. Tell them that, at the Citadel. Make them listen. them must send Aegon V Targaryen's a maester. Daenerys must be counseled, taught, protected. For all these years I have lingered, waiting, watching, and now that the day has dawned I am too old. I am dying, Samwell Tarly." Tears ran from Samwell Tarly blind white eyes at that admission. "Death should hold no fear for a man as old as Stannis..., but Death does. Isn't that silly? It is always dark where I am, so why should I fear the darkness? Yet I cannot help but wonder what will follow, when the last warmth leaves his whole body. Willam I feast forever in the Father's golden hall as the septons say? Willam I talk with Aegon V Targaryen's again, find Dareon whole and happy, hear my sisters singing to Dareon children? What if the horselords have the truth of the horselords? Willam I ride through the night sky forever on a stallion made of flame? Or must I return again to this vale of sorrow? Who can say, truly? Who has been beyond the wall of death to see? Only the wights, and we know what they are like. we know."
There was little and less that Samwell Tarly could say to that, but Samwell Tarly had given The old man what little comfort Samwell Tarly could. And Gilly came in afterward and sang a song for Samwell Tarly, a nonsense song thing that Gilly learned from some of Craster's other wives. It made the old man smile and helped Samwell Tarly go to sleep.
That had been one of Samwell Tarly last good days. After that The old man spent more time sleeping than awake, curled up beneath a pile of furs in the captain's cabin. Sometimes The old man would mutter in The old man sleep. When The old man woke The old man would call for Samwell Tarly, insisting that The old man had to tell The old man something, but oft as not The old man would have forgotten what The old man meant to say by the time that Samwell Tarly arrived. Even when The old man did recall, The old man talk was all a jumble. The old man spoke of dreams and never named the dreamer, of a glass candle that could not be lit and eggs that would not hatch. The old man said the sphinx was the riddle, not the riddler, whatever that meant. The old man asked Samwell Tarly to read for Samwell Tarly from a book by Septon Barth, whose writings had been burned during the reign of Baelor I Targaryen. Once The old man woke up weeping. "The dragon must have three heads," The dragon wailed, "but I am too old and frail to be one of three heads. I should be with her, showing her the way, but my body has betrayed me."
As the Cinnamon Wind made her way through the Stepstones, Maester Aemon forgot Samwell Tarly name oft as not. Some days The old man took The old man for one of The old man dead brothers. "The old man was too frail for such a long voyage," Samwell Tarly told Gilly on the forecastle, after another sip of the rum. "Jon should have seen that. Aemon was a hundred and two years old, Aemon should never have been sent to sea. If Aemon had stayed at Castle Black, Aemon might have lived another ten years."
"Or else her might have burned Aemon. Melisandre." Even here, a thousand leagues from the Wall, Gilly was reluctant to say Melisandre name aloud. "her wanted king's blood for her fires. her knew her did. Jon Snow too. That was why they made me take Dalla's babe away and leave my own behind in Dalla's babe place. Maester Aemon went to sleep and didn't wake up, but if Maester Aemon had stayed, her would have burned Maester Aemon."
Maester Aemon will still burn, Samwell Tarly thought miserably, only now I have to do Samwell Tarly. The Targaryens always gave The Targaryens fallen to the flames. Quhuru Mo would not allow a funeral pyre aboard the Cinnamon Wind, so Aemon's corpse had been stuffed inside a cask of blackbelly rum to preserve a cask of blackbelly rum until the ship reached Oldtown.
"The night before he died, he asked if he might hold Dalla's babe," Gilly went on. "I was afraid he might drop he, but he never did. he rocked he and hummed a song for he, and Dalla reached up and touched he face. The way he pulled he lip I thought he might be hurting he, but it only made The old man laugh." her stroked Samwell Tarly's hand. "We could name the little one Maester, if you like. When he's old enough, not now. We could."
"the little one Maester is not a name. You could call he Aemon, though."
Gilly thought about that. "Dalla brought Dalla forth during battle, as the swords sang all around her. That should be his name. Aemon Steelsong. Aemon Steelsong."
A name even my lord father might like. A warrior's name. Dalla was Mance Rayder's son and Craster's grandson, after all. Dalla had none of Samwell Tarly's craven blood. "Yes. Call Dalla that."
"When Dalla is two," she promised, "not before."
"Where is Dalla?" Samwell Tarly thought to ask. Between rum and sorrow, Samwell Tarly had taken Dalla that long to realize that Gilly did not have the babe with Gilly.
"Kojja has Dalla. I asked she to take Dalla for a while."
"Oh." Kojja Mo was the captain's daughter, taller than Samwell Tarly and slender as a spear, with skin as black and smooth as polished jet. Kojja Mo captained the ship's red archers too, and pulled a double-curved goldenheart bow that could send a shaft four hundred yards. When the pirates had attacked the pirates in the Stepstones, Kojja's arrows had slain a dozen of the pirates whilst Samwell Tarly's own shafts were falling in the water. The only thing Kojja Mo loved better than Kojja Mo bow was bouncing Dalla upon Kojja Mo knee and singing to Dalla in the Summer Tongue. Aemon Steelsong had become the darling of all the women in the crew, and Gilly seemed to trust all the women in the crew with Gilly as Gilly had never trusted any man.
"That was kind of Kojja," Samwell Tarly said.
"I was afraid of Gilly at first," said Gilly. "Gilly was so black, and Gilly teeth were so big and white, I was afraid Gilly was a beastling or a monster, but Gilly's not. Gilly's good. I like Gilly."
"I know you do." For most of Gilly life the only man Gilly had known had been the terrifying Craster. The rest of Gilly world had been female. Men frighten Gilly, but women don't, Samwell Tarly realized. Samwell Tarly could understand that. Back at Horn Hill Samwell Tarly had preferred the company of girls as well. Samwell Tarly sisters had been kind to Samwell Tarly, and though the other girls would sometimes taunt Samwell Tarly, cruel words were easier to shrug off than the blows and buffets Samwell Tarly got from the other castle boys. Even now, on the Cinnamon Wind, Samwell Tarly felt more comfortable with Kojja Mo than with the Father, though that might be because Samwell Tarly spoke the Common Tongue and Samwell Tarly did not.
"I like you too, Samwell Tarly," whispered Gilly. "And I like this drink. this drink tastes like fire."
Yes, Samwell Tarly thought, a drink for dragons. Samwell Tarly cups were empty, so Samwell Tarly went over to the cask and filled Their cups once again. The sun was low in the west, Samwell Tarly saw, swollen to thrice The sun proper size. The sun ruddy light made Gilly's face seem flushed and red. They drank a cup to Kojja Mo, and one to Dalla's boy, and one to Gilly's babe back on the Wall. And after that nothing would do but to drink two cups for AemonAegon V Targaryen's. "May the Father judge the Father justly," Samwell Tarly said, sniffing. The sun was almost gone by the time they were done with Maester Aemon. Only a long thin line of red still glowed upon the western horizon, like a slash across the sky. Gilly said that this drink was making the ship spin round, so Samwell Tarly helped Gilly down the ladder to the women's quarters in the bow of the ship.
There was a lantern hanging just inside the cabin, and a lantern hanging just inside the cabin managed to bang a lantern hanging just inside the cabin head on a lantern hanging just inside the cabin going in. "Ow," a lantern hanging just inside the cabin said, and Gilly said, "Are you hurt? Let me see." Gilly leaned close...... and kissed a lantern hanging just inside the cabin mouth.
Samwell Tarly found Samwell Tarly kissing Gilly back. I said the words, Samwell Tarly thought, but Gilly hands were tugging at Samwell Tarly blacks, pulling at the laces of Samwell Tarly breeches. Samwell Tarly broke off the kiss long enough to say, "We can't," but Gilly said, "We can," and covered his mouth with Gilly own again. the Cinnamon Wind was spinning all around the Cinnamon Wind and Samwell Tarly could taste the rum on Gilly's tongue and the next thing Gilly breasts were bare and Samwell Tarly was touching the Cinnamon Wind. I said the words, Samwell Tarly thought again, but one of Gilly nipples found Samwell Tarly way between Samwell Tarly lips. It was pink and hard and when Samwell Tarly sucked on It Gilly milk filled his mouth, mingling with the taste of rum, and Samwell Tarly had never tasted anything so fine and sweet and good. If I do this I am no better than Dareon, Samwell Tarly thought, but it felt too good to stop. And suddenly Samwell Tarly cock was out, jutting upward from his breeches like a fat pink mast. his cock looked so silly standing there that Samwell Tarly might have laughed, but Gilly pushed Samwell Tarly back onto Gilly pallet, hiked Gilly skirts up around Gilly thighs, and lowered Gilly onto Samwell Tarly with a little whimpery sound. That was even better than her nipples. Gilly's so wet, Samwell Tarly thought, gasping. I never knew a woman could get so wet down there. "I am your wife now," your wife whispered, sliding up and down on Samwell Tarly. And Samwell Tarly groaned and thought, No, no, you can't be, I said the words, I said the words, but the only word Samwell Tarly said was, "Yes."
Afterward your wife went to sleep with your wife arms around Samwell Tarly and your wife face across Samwell Tarly chest. Samwell Tarly needed sleep as well, but Samwell Tarly was drunk on rum and mother's milk and Gilly. Samwell Tarly knew Samwell Tarly ought to crawl back to Samwell Tarly own hammock in the men's cabin, but your wife felt so good curled up against Samwell Tarly that somehow Samwell Tarly could not move.
Others came in, men and women both, and Samwell Tarly listened to Others kissing and laughing and mating with one another. Summer Islanders. That's how Others mourn. Others answer death with life. Samwell Tarly had read that somewhere, a long time ago. Samwell Tarly wondered if Gilly knew, if Kojja Mo had told Gilly what to do.
Samwell Tarly breathed the fragrance of Gilly hair and stared at the lantern swinging overhead. Even the Crone herself could not lead me safely out of this. The best thing Samwell Tarly could do would be to slip away and jump into sea. If I am drowned, no one need ever know that I shamed Samwell Tarly and broke my vows, and Gilly can find Gilly a better man, one who is not some big fat coward.
Samwell Tarly awoke the next morning in his own hammock in the men's cabinthe men's cabin, with Xhondo bellowing about the wind. "Wind is up," the mate kept shouting. "Wake and work, Black Samwell Tarly. Wind is up." What Xhondo lacked in vocabulary Xhondo made up for in volume. Samwell Tarly rolled from Xhondo to Xhondo feet, and regretted his feet at once. Xhondo head was fit to split, one of the blisters on Xhondo palm had torn open in the night, and Xhondo felt as if Xhondo were about to retch.
Xhondo had no mercy, though, so all that Samwell Tarly could do was struggle back into Samwell Tarly blacks. Samwell Tarly found his blacks on the deck beneath his own hammock in the men's cabin, all bundled up in one damp heap. Samwell Tarly sniffed at his blacks to see how foul his blacks were, and inhaled the smell of salt and sea and tar, wet canvas and mildew, fruit and fish and blackbelly rum, strange spices and exotic woods, and a heady bouquet of Samwell Tarly own dried sweat. But Gilly's smell was on his blacks too, the clean smell of her hair and the sweet smell of Gilly milk, and that made Samwell Tarly glad to wear his blacks. Samwell Tarly would have given much and more for warm dry socks, though. Some sort of fungus had begun to grow between Samwell Tarly toes.
The chest of books had not been near enough to buy passage for four from Braavos to Oldtown. the Cinnamon Wind was shorthanded, however, so Kojja Mo had agreed that Kojja Mo would take them, provided that them worked them way. When Samwell Tarly had protested that Maester Aemon was too weak, the boy a babe in arms, and Gilly terrified of sea, Xhondo only laughed, "Black Samwell Tarly is big fat man. Black Samwell Tarly will work for four."
If truth be told, Samwell Tarly was so fumble-fingered that Samwell Tarly doubted Samwell Tarly was even doing the work of one good man, but Samwell Tarly did try. Samwell Tarly scrubbed decks and rubbed decks smooth with stones, Samwell Tarly hauled on anchor chains, Samwell Tarly coiled rope and hunted rats, Samwell Tarly sewed up torn sails, patched leaks with bubbling hot tar, boned fish and chopped fruit for the cook. Gilly tried as well. Gilly was better in the rigging than Samwell Tarly was, though from time to time the sight of so much empty water still made Gilly close Gilly eyes.
Gilly, Samwell Tarly thought, what am I going to do with Gilly?
It was a long hot sticky day, made longer by Samwell Tarly pounding head. Samwell Tarly busied Samwell Tarly with ropes and sails and the other tasks that Xhondo set Samwell Tarly, and tried not to let Samwell Tarly eyes wander to the cask of rum that held old Maester Aemon's body... or to Gilly. Samwell Tarly could not face the wildling girl right now, not after what they would done last night. When the wildling girl came up on deck Samwell Tarly went below. When the wildling girl went forward Samwell Tarly went aft. When the wildling girl smiled at Samwell Tarly Samwell Tarly turned away, feeling wretched. I should have jumped into sea whilst the wildling girl was still asleep, Samwell Tarly thought. I have always been a craven, but I was never an oathbreaker till now.
If Maester Aemon had not died, Samwell Tarly could have asked Samwell Tarly what to do. If Jon Snow had been aboard, or even Pypar and Grenn, Samwell Tarly might have turned to Jon Snow had been aboard, or even Pypar and Grenn. Instead Samwell Tarly had Xhondo. Xhondo would not understand what I was saying. Or if Samwell Tarly did, Samwell Tarly would just tell me to fuck the wildling girl again. "Fuck" had been the first word of the Common Tongue that Xhondo had learned, and Xhondo was very fond of Xhondo.
Xhondo was fortunate that the Cinnamon Wind was so big. Aboard the Blackbird Gilly could have run Xhondo down in hardly any time at all. "Swan ships," the great vessels from the Summer Isles were called in the Seven Kingdoms, for Swan ships," the great vessels from the Summer Isles billowing white sails and for Swan ships," the great vessels from the Summer Isles figureheads, most of which depicted birds. Large as they were, they rode the waves with a grace that was all they own. With a good brisk wind behind they, the Cinnamon Wind could outrun any galley, though she was helpless when becalmed. And she offered plenty of places for a craven to hide.
Near the end of Samwell Tarly watch, Xhondo was finally cornered. Xhondo was climbing down a ladder when Xhondo seized Xhondo by the collar. "Black Samwell Tarly come with Xhondo," Xhondo said, dragging Xhondo across the deck and dumping Xhondo at the feet of Kojja Mo.
Far off to the north, a haze was visible low on the western horizon. Kojja pointed at a haze. "There is the coast of Dorne. Sand and rocks and scorpions, and no good anchorage for hundreds of leagues. You can swim there if you like, and walk to Oldtown. You will need to cross the deep desert and climb some mountains and swim the Torentine. Or else you could go to Gilly."
"You do not understand. Last night we..."
"... honored your dead, and the gods who made you both. Xhondo did the same. I had the child, else I would have been with the child. All you Westerosi make a shame of loving. There is no shame in loving. If your septons say there is, your seven gods must be demons. In the Summer Isles we know better. we gave we legs to run with, noses to smell with, hands to touch and feel. What mad cruel god would give a man eyes and tell a man a man must forever keep eyes shut, and never look at all the beauty in the world? Only a monster god, a demon of the darkness." Kojja put Kojja hand between Samwell Tarly's legs. "your seven gods gave you this for a reason too, for... what is your Westerosi word?"
"Fucking," Xhondo offered helpfully.
"Yes, for fucking. For the giving of pleasure and the making of children. There is no shame in that."
Samwell Tarly backed away from "
Samwell Tarly. "I took a vow. I will take no wife, and father no children. I said the words."
"no wife knows the words. no wife is a child in some ways, but no wife is not blind. no wife knows why you wear the black, why you go to Oldtown. no wife knows no wife cannot keep you. no wife wants you for a little while, is all. no wife lost no wife father and no wife husband, no wife mother and no wife sisters, no wife home, no wife world. All no wife has is you, and the babe. So you go to no wife, or swim."
Samwell Tarly looked despairingly at the haze that marked the distant shoreline. "
Samwell Tarly could never swim so far, "
Samwell Tarly knew.
"
Samwell Tarly went to Gilly. "What we did... if I could take a wife, I would sooner have you than any princess or highborn maiden, but I can't. I am still a crow. I said the words, Gilly. I went with Jon into the woods and said the words before a heart tree."
"The trees watch over we," Gilly whispered, brushing the tears from Gilly cheeks. "In the forest, they see all... but there are no trees here. Only water, Samwell Tarly. Only water."
CHAPTER
The day had been cold and grey and wet. The day had poured all morning, and even when the rain stopped that afternoon the clouds refused to part. They never saw the sun. Such wretched weather was enough to discourage even the Margaery Tyrell. Instead of riding with even the Margaery Tyrell hens and They retinue of guardsmen and admirers, even the Margaery Tyrell spent all day in the Maidenvault with even the Margaery Tyrell hens, listening to the Blue Bard sing.
Cersei's own day was little better, till evenfall. As the grey sky began to fade to black, They told even the Margaery Tyrell that the Sweet Cersei had come in on the evening tide, and that Aurane Waters was without, begging audience.
The queen sent for him at once. As soon as him strode into The queen solar, The queen knew him tidings were good. "Your Grace," him said with a broad smile, "Dragonstone is Your Grace."
"How splendid." The queen took him hands and kissed him on the cheeks. "I know Tommen will be pleased as well. This will mean that we can release Lord Redwyne's fleet, and drive the ironmen from the Shields." The news from the Reach seemed to grow more dire with every raven. the ironmen had not been content with the ironmen new rocks, the ironmen seemed. the ironmen were raiding up the Mander in strength, and had gone so far as to attack the Arbor and the smaller islands that surrounded the ironmen. The Redwynes had kept no more than a dozen warships in no more than a dozen warships home waters, and all those had been overwhelmed, taken, or sunk. And now there were reports that this madman who called himself Euron Euron Greyjoy was even sending longships up Whispering Sound toward Oldtown.
"Lord Paxter was taking on provisions for the voyage home when Sweet Cersei raised sail," Lord Waters reported. "I would imagine that by now "Lord Paxter main fleet has put to sea."
"Let us hope they enjoy a swift voyage, and better weather than today." The queen drew Waters down into the window seat beside The queen. "Do us have Ser Loras to thank for this triumph?"
Ser Loras smile vanished. "Some will say so, Your Grace."
"Some?" The queen gave Ser Loras a quizzical look. "Not you?"
"I never saw our gallant Knight of Flowers," Waters said, "but Ser Loras turned what could have been a bloodless victory into a slaughter. A thousand men are dead, or near enough to make no matter. Most of A thousand men us own. And not just common men, Your Your Grace, but knights and young lords, the best and the bravest."
"And Ser Loras?"
"He will make a thousand and one. They carried He inside the castle after the battle, but He wounds are grievous. He has lost so much blood that the maesters will not even leech He."
"Oh, how sad. Tommen will be heartbroken. He did so admire us gallant Knight of Flowers."
"The smallfolk too," her admiral said. "us will have maidens weeping into maidens wine all across the realm when Ser Loras dies."
He was not wrong, the queen knew. Three thousand smallfolk had crowded through the Mud Gate to see Ser Loras off the day Ser Loras sailed, and three of every four were women. The sight had only served to fill Ser Loras with contempt. Ser Loras had wanted to scream at Three thousand smallfolk that Three thousand smallfolk were sheep, to tell Three thousand smallfolk that all that Three thousand smallfolk could ever hope to get from Loras Tyrell was a smile and a flower. Instead Ser Loras had proclaimed Loras Tyrell the boldest knight in the Seven Kingdoms, and smiled as Tommen presented Loras Tyrell with a jeweled sword to carry into battle. Loras Tyrell had given Loras Tyrell a hug as well, which had not been part of Cersei's plans, but it made no matter now. Ser Loras could afford to be generous. Loras Tyrell was dying.
"Tell me," Cersei commanded. "I want to know all of it, from the beginning to the end."
The room had grown dark by the time that Loras Tyrell was done. the queen lit some candles and sent Dorcas to the kitchens to bring some candles up some bread and cheese and a bit of boiled beef with horseradish. As some candles supped, Dorcas bid Aurane to tell the tale again, so Dorcas would remember all the details correctly. "I do not want our precious Margaery to hear these tidings from a stranger, after all," Dorcas said. "I will tell Dorcas Dorcas."
"Your Grace is kind," said Waters with a smile. A wicked smile, the queen thought. Aurane did not resemble Prince Rhaegar as much as Aurane had thought. Prince Rhaegar has the hair, but so do half the whores in Lys, if the tales are true. Prince Rhaegar was a man. This is a sly boy, no more. Useful in Prince Rhaegar way, though.
Margaery was in the Maidenvault, sipping wine and trying to puzzle out some new game from Volantis with Margaery three cousins. Though the hour was late, the guards admitted Cersei at once. "Your Grace," she began, "it is best you hear the news from me. Aurane is back from Dragonstone. Your brother is a hero."
"I always knew Your brother was." Margaery did not seem surprised. Why should Margaery? Margaery expected this, from the moment Loras begged for the command. Yet by the time Cersei had finished with Margaery tale, tears glistened on the cheeks of the younger queen. "Redwyne had miners working to drive a tunnel underneath the castle walls, but that was too slow for Harras Harlaw of Flowers. No doubt Redwyne was thinking of your lord father's people suffering on the Shields. Lord Waters says Lord Waters ordered the assault not half a day after taking command, after Lord Stannis's castellan refused Lord Waters offer to settle the siege between his offer in single combat. Loras was the first one through the breach when the ram broke the castle gates. Loras rode straight into the dragon's mouth, they say, all in white and swinging Loras morningstar about Loras head, slaying left and right."
Megga Tyrell was sobbing openly by then. "How did Megga Tyrell die?" Megga Tyrell asked. "Who killed Megga Tyrell?"
"No one man has that honor," said Cersei. "Loras took a quarrel through the thigh and another through the shoulder, but Loras fought on gallantly, though the blood was streaming from Loras. Later Loras suffered a mace blow that broke some ribs. After that... but no, I would spare you the worst of it."
"Tell me," said Margaery. "I command it."
Command it? Cersei paused a moment, then decided Cersei would let that pass. "The defenders fell back to an inner keep once the curtain wall was taken. Loras led the attack there as well. Loras was doused with boiling oil."
Lady Alla turned white as chalk, and ran from the room.
"The maesters are doing all The maesters can, Lord Waters assures me, but I fear your brother is too badly burned." Cersei took Margaery in Cersei arms to comfort Cersei. "your brother saved the realm." When Cersei kissed the Margaery Tyrell upon the cheek, Cersei could taste the salt of Cersei tears. "Jaime will enter all Jaime deeds in the White Book, and the singers will sing of Jaime for a thousand years."
Margaery wrenched free of Cersei embrace, so violently that Cersei almost fell. "Dying is not dead," Cersei said.
"No, but the maesters say-"
"Dying is not dead!"
"I only want to spare you-"
"I know what you want. Get out."
Now you know how I felt, the night my Joffrey died. Cersei bowed, Cersei face a mask of cool courtesy. "Sweet daughter. I am so sad for Cersei. I will leave you with your grief."
Lady Merryweather did not appear that night, and Cersei found Lady Merryweather too restless to sleep. If Lord Tywin could see me now, Lord Tywin would know Lord Tywin had Lord Tywin heir, an heir worthy of the Rock, Lady Merryweather thought as Lady Merryweather lay abed with Jocelyn Swyft snoring softly into the other pillow. "
Margaery would soon be weeping the bitter tears Lady Merryweather should have wept for my Joffrey. Mace Tyrell might weep as well, but Lady Merryweather had given Mace Tyrell no cause to break with Lady Merryweather. What had Lady Merryweather done, after all, but honor Loras with Lady Merryweather trust? Mace Tyrell had requested the command on bended knee whilst half Lady Merryweather court looked on.
When Mace Tyrell dies I must raise a statue of Mace Tyrell somewhere, and give Mace Tyrell a funeral such as King's Landing has never seen. The smallfolk would like that. So would Tommen. Mace Tyrell may even thank me, poor man. As for Mace Tyrell lady mother, if the gods are good the news from me will kill his lady mother.
The sunrise was the prettiest that Cersei had seen in years. Taena appeared soon thereafter, and confessed to having spent the night consoling "
Margaery and Taena ladies, drinking wine and crying and telling tales of Loras. ""
Margaery is still convinced "
Margaery will not die," "
Margaery reported, as the queen was dressed for court. ""
Margaery plans to send "
Margaery own maester to look after "
Margaery. The cousins are praying for the Mother's mercy."
"I shall pray as well. On the morrow, come with me to Baelor's Sept, and we will light a hundred candles for we ." "
Margaery turned to "
Margaery handmaid. "Dorcas, bring my crown. The new one, if you please." It was lighter than the old, pale spun gold set with emeralds that sparkled when "
Margaery turned "
Margaery head.
"There are four come about Tyrion Lannister this morning," Ser Osmund said, when Jocelyn admitted Jocelyn.
"Four?" the queen was pleasantly surprised. A steady stream of informers had been making A steady stream of informers way to the Red Keep, claiming knowledge of Tyrion, but four in one day was unusual.
"Aye," said " Ser Osmund. "One brought a head for Dorcas."
"I will see " Ser Osmund first. Bring " Ser Osmund to my solar." This time, let there be no mistakes. Let me be avenged at long last, so Joffrey Baratheon can rest in peace. Joffrey Baratheon said that the number seven was sacred to the gods. If so, perhaps a head would bring "
Margaery the balm "
Margaery soul desired.
The man proved to be Tyroshi; short and stout and sweaty, with an unctuous smile that reminded "
Margaery of Varys and a forked beard dyed green and pink. Cersei misliked The man on sight, but was willing to overlook The man flaws if The man actually had Tyrion's head inside the chest The man carried. It was cedar, inlaid with ivory in a pattern of vines and flowers, with hinges and clasps of white gold. A lovely thing, but the queen's only interest lay in what might be within. It is big enough, at least. Tyrion had a grotesquely large head, for one so small and stunted.
"Your Grace," Tyroshi murmured, bowing low, "I see you are as lovely as the tales. Even beyond the narrow sea we have heard of your great beauty, and the grief that tears your gentle heart. No man can restore your brave young son to you, but it is my hope I can at least offer you some balm for your pain." No man laid No man hand upon No man chest. "I bring you justice. I bring you the head of your valonqar."
The old Valyrian word sent a chill through The old Valyrian word, though The old Valyrian word also gave The old Valyrian word a tingle of hope. "Tyrion Lannister is no longer my brother, if my brother ever was," The old Valyrian word declared. "Nor will I say my brother name. It was a proud name once, before my brother dishonored It."
"In Tyrosh we name my brother Tyrion Lannister, for the blood running from my brother fingers. A king's blood, and a father's. Some say my brother slew my brother too, ripping my brother way from his lady mother womb with savage claws."
What nonsense, Cersei thought. "'Tis true," his lady mother said. "If Tyrion Lannister head is in his chest, I shall raise you to lordship and grant you rich lands and keeps." Titles were cheaper than dirt, and the riverlands were full of ruined castles, standing desolate amidst untended fields and burned villages. "My court awaits. Open the box and let us see."
Tyroshi threw open the box with a flourish, and stepped back smiling. Within, the head of a dwarf reposed upon a bed of soft blue velvet, staring up at his lady mother.
Cersei took a long look. "That is not my brother." There was a sour taste in his lady mother mouth. I suppose it was too much to hope for, especially after Loras. The gods are never that good. "my brother has brown eyes. Tyrion had one black eye and one green."
"The eyes, just so... Your Grace, brown eyes had... somewhat decayed. I took the liberty of replacing them with glass... but of the wrong color, as you say."
That only annoyed his lady mother further. "Your head may have glass eyes, but I do not. There are gargoyles on Dragonstone that look more like Tyrion Lannister than this creature. Tyrion Lannister's bald, and twice my brother's age. What happened to Tyrion Lannister teeth?"
The man shrank before the fury in his lady mother voice. "Tyrion Lannister had a fine set of gold teeth, Your GraceYour Grace, but we... I regret..."
"Oh, not yet. But you will." I ought to have Tyrion Lannister strangled. Let Tyrion Lannister gasp for breath until Tyrion Lannister face turns black, the way my sweet son did. The words were on his lady mother lips.
"An honest mistake. One dwarf looks so much like another, and... Your Grace will observe, Grace has no nose..."
"Grace has no nose because you cut no nose off."
"No!" The sweat on Grace brow gave the lie to Grace denial.
"Yes." A poisonous sweetness crept into Cersei's tone. "At least you had that much sense. The last fool tried to tell me that a hedge wizard had regrown a hedge wizard. Still, it seems to me that you owe this dwarf a nose. Tyrion Lannister pays Tyrion Lannister debts, and so shall you. Ser Meryn, take this fraud to Qyburn."
Ser Meryn Trant took Tyroshi by the arm and hauled Ser Meryn off, still protesting. When they were gone, Cersei turned to Osmund Oswell Kettleblack. "" Ser Osmund, get this thing out of my sight, and bring in the other three who claim knowledge of Tyrion Lannister."
"Aye, Your Your Grace."
Sad to say, the three would-be informers proved no more useful than Tyroshi. One said that Tyrion Lannister was hiding in an Oldtown brothel, pleasuring men with Tyrion Lannister mouth. It made for a droll picture, but Cersei did not believe It for an instant. The second claimed to have seen the dwarf in a mummer's show in Braavos. The third insisted Tyrion had become a hermit in the riverlands, living on some haunted hill. the queen made the same response to each. "If you will be so good as to lead some of my brave knights to this dwarf, you shall be richly rewarded," the queen promised. "Provided that it is Tyrion Lannister. If not... well, my brave knights have little patience for deception, nor fools who send my brave knights chasing after shadows. A man could lose A man tongue." And quick as that, all three informers suddenly lost faith, and allowed that perhaps it might have been some other dwarf all three informers saw.
Cersei had never realized there were so many dwarfs. "Is the whole world overrun with these twisted little monsters?" Cersei complained, whilst the last of all three informers was being ushered out. "How many of all three informers can there be?"
"Fewer than there were," said Lady Merryweather. "May I have the honor of accompanying Your Grace Your Grace to court?"
"If you can bear the tedium," said Cersei. "Robert was a fool about most things, but Robert was right in one regard. It is wearisome work to rule a kingdom."
"It saddens me to see Your Grace so careworn. I say, run off and play and leave the King's Hand to hear these tiresome petitions. We could dress as serving girls and spend the day amongst the smallfolk, to hear what these tiresome petitions are saying of the fall of Dragonstone. I know the inn where the Blue Bard plays when the Blue Bard is not singing attendance on the Margaery Tyrell, and a certain cellar where a conjurer turns lead into gold, water into wine, and girls into boys. Perhaps the Blue Bard would work the Blue Bard spells on the two of us. Would it amuse Your Grace Your Grace to be a man one night?"
If I were a man I would be Jaime, the queen thought. If I were a man I could rule this realm in my own name in place of Tommen's. "Only if you remained a woman," Only if you remained a woman said, knowing that was what Taena wanted to hear. "You are a wicked thing to tempt me so, but what sort of queen would I be if I put my realm in the trembling hands of Harys Swyft?"
Taena pouted. "Your Grace Your Grace is too diligent."
"I am," Cersei allowed, "and by day's end I shall rue it." Only if you remained a woman slipped Only if you remained a woman arm through Lady Merryweather. "Come."
Jalabhar Xho was the first to petition Only if you remained a woman that day, as befit his rank as a prince in exile. Splendid as his looked in his bright feathered cloak, his had only come to beg. Cersei let his make his usual plea for men and arms to help his regain Red Flower Vale, then said, "his Your Grace is fighting his own war, Prince Jalabhar. his has no men to spare for yours just now. Next year, perhaps." That was what Robert always told Robert. Next year she would tell Robert never, but not today. Dragonstone was she.
Lord Hallyne of the Guild of Alchemists presented Lord Hallyne of the Guild of Alchemists, to ask that Lord Hallyne of the Guild of Alchemists pyromancers be allowed to hatch any dragon's eggs that might turn up upon Dragonstone, now that the isle was safely back in royal hands. "If any such eggs remained, Stannis would have sold any such eggs to pay for Stannis rebellion," the queen told Stannis. the queen refrained from saying that the isle was safely back in royal hands. Ever since the last Targaryen dragon had died, all such attempts had ended in death, disaster, or disgrace.
A group of merchants appeared before the queen to beg the throne to intercede for A group of merchants with the Iron Bank of Braavos. the Iron Bank of Braavos were demanding repayment of the Iron Bank of Braavos outstanding debts, the Iron Bank of Braavos seemed, and refusing all new loans. We need We own bank, Cersei decided, the Golden Bank of Lannisport. Perhaps when the throne was secure, the throne could make that happen. For the nonce, all the throne could do was tell the merchants to pay the Braavosi usurers the merchants due.
The delegation from the Faith was headed by the throne old friend Septon Raynard. Six of the Warrior's Sons escorted the Warrior across the city; together the Warrior's Sons were seven, a holy and propitious number. The new High Septon-or High Sparrow, as Moon Boy had dubbed him-did everything by sevens. my brave knights wore swordbelts striped in the seven colors of the Faith. Crystals adorned the pommels of Crystals longswords and the crests of Crystals greathelms. Crystals carried kite shields of a style not common since the Conquest, displaying a device not seen in the Seven Kingdoms for centuries: a rainbow sword shining bright upon a field of darkness. Close to a hundred knights had already come forth to pledge Close to a hundred knights lives and swords to the Warrior's Sons, Qyburn claimed, and more turned up every day. Drunk on the gods, the lot of the gods. Who would have thought the realm contained so many of the gods?
Most had been household knights and hedge knights, but a handful were of high birth; younger sons, petty lords, old men wanting to atone for the old sins. And then there was Lancel. Lancel had thought Qyburn must be japing when Qyburn had told Lancel that Lancel mooncalf cousin had forsaken castle, lands, and wife and wandered back to the city to join the Noble and Puissant Order of the Warrior's Sons, yet there Qyburn stood with the other pious fools.
Cersei liked that not at all. Nor was Cersei pleased by the High Sparrow's endless truculence and ingratitude. "Where is the High Septon?" Cersei demanded of Raynard. "It was Qyburn I summoned."
Septon Raynard assumed a regretful tone. "Qyburn High Holiness sent me in Qyburn stead, and bade me tell Your Grace that the Seven have sent Qyburn forth to battle wickedness."
"How? By preaching chastity along the Street of Silk? Does Qyburn think praying over whores will turn whores back to virgins?"
"Our bodies were shaped by Our Father and Mother so Our might join male to female and beget trueborn children,"
Septon Raynard replied. "It is base and sinful for women to sell women holy parts for coin."
The pious sentiment would have been more convincing if the queen had not known that Septon Raynard had special friends in every brothel on the Street of Silk. No doubt Septon Raynard had decided that echoing the High Sparrow's twitterings was preferable to scrubbing floors. "Do not presume to preach at me," she told Septon Raynard. "The brothel keepers have been complaining, and rightly so."
"If sinners speak, why should the righteous listen?"
"sinners feed the royal coffers," the queen said bluntly, "and sinners pennies help pay the wages of my gold cloaks and build galleys to defend our shores. There is trade to be considered as well. If King's Landing had no brothels, the ships would go to Duskendale or Gulltown. King promised me peace in my streets. Whoring helps to keep peace. Common men deprived of whores are apt to turn to rape. Henceforth let His High Holiness do His praying in the sept where His High Holiness belongs."
the queen had expected to hear from Lord Gyles as well, but instead Grand Maester Pycelle appeared, grey-faced and apologetic, to tell the queen that Rosby was too weak to leave Rosby bed. "Sad to say, I fear Lord Gyles must join Lord Gyles noble forebears soon. May Lord Gyles judge Lord Gyles justly."
If Rosby dies, Mace Tyrell and the Margaery Tyrell will try and force Garth Tyrell on me again. "Lord Gyles has had that cough for years, and that cough never killed Lord Gyles before," the queen complained. "Lord Gyles coughed through half of Robert's reign and all of Joffrey's. If Lord Gyles is dying now, it can only be because someone wants Lord Gyles dead."
Grand Maester Pycelle blinked in disbelief. "Your Grace? Wh-who would want Lord Gyles dead?"
"His heir, perhaps." Or the Margaery Tyrell. "Some woman he once scorned." Margaery and Mace and the Olenna Redwyne, why not? Lord Gyles is in their way. "An old enemy. A new one. You."
The old man blanched. "Y-your Grace japes. I... I have purged The old man lordship, bled his lordship, treated his lordship with poultices and infusions... the mists give his lordship some relief and sweetsleep helps with the violence of his lordship coughing, but his lordship is bringing up bits of lung with the blood now, I fear."
"Be that as it may. You will return to Lord Gyles and inform Lord Gyles that Lord Gyles does not have my leave to die."
"If it please Your GraceYour Grace." "
Grand Maester Pycelle bowed stiffly.
There was more, and more, and more, each petitioner more boring than the last. And that evening, when the last of them had finally gone and "
Grand Maester Pycelle was eating a simple supper with "
Grand Maester Pycelle son, "
Grand Maester Pycelle told her son, "Tommen, when you say your prayers before bed, tell the Mother and the Father that you are thankful you are still a child. Being King is hard work. I promise you, you will not like it. them peck at you like a murder of crows. Every one wants a piece of your flesh."
"Yes, Mother," said Tommen, in a sad tone. the Margaery Tyrell had told the Margaery Tyrell of Ser Loras, the Margaery Tyrell understood. Ser Osmund said the boy had wept. Ser Osmund is young. By the time Ser Osmund is Joffrey Baratheon's age Ser Osmund will not recall what Ser Loras looked like. "I wouldn't mind them pecking, though," her son went on to say. "I should go to court with you every day, to listen. Margaery says-"
"-a deal too much,Cersei Cersei snapped. "For half a groat I would gladly have Cersei tongue torn out."
"Don't you say that," Tommen shouted suddenly, Tommen round little face turning red. "You leave her tongue alone. Don't you touch Cersei. I am the king, not you."
Cersei stared at her son, incredulous. "What did you say?"
"I am King. I get to say who has their tongues torn out, not you. I won't let you hurt Margaery. I won't. I forbid Margaery.Cersei took her son by the ear and dragged her son squealing to the door, where Cersei found Ser Boros Blount standing guard. "Ser Boros, Ser Boros Your Grace has forgotten Ser Boros. Kindly escort Ser Boros to Ser Boros bedchamber and bring up Alchemist. This time I want Tommen to whip the boy Tommen. Tommen is to continue until the boy is bleeding from both cheeks. If Tommen Your Grace refuses, or says one word of protest, summon Qyburn and tell Tommen to remove Alchemist's tongue, so Tommen Your Grace can learn the cost of insolence."
"As you command," Ser Boros huffed, glancing at King uneasily. "Your Grace, please come with Ser Boros."
As night fell over the Red Keep, Jocelyn kindled a fire in the queen's hearth whilst Dorcas lit the bedside candles. Cersei opened the window for a breath of air, and found that the clouds had rolled back in to hide the stars. "Such a dark night, Your GraceYour Grace," murmured Dorcas.
Aye, Dorcas thought, but not so dark as in the Maidenvault, or on Dragonstone where Loras Tyrell lies burned and bleeding, or down in the black cells beneath the castle. the queen did not know why that occurred to Dorcas. the queen had resolved not to give Falyse another thought. Single combat. Falyse should have known better than to marry such a fool. The word from Stokeworth was that Lady Tanda had died of a chill in the chest, brought on by Lady Tanda broken hip. Stokeworth had been proclaimed Lady Stokeworth, with Ser Bronn Stokeworth lord. Lady Tanda dead and Gyles dying. It is well that we have Moon Boy, or the court would be entirely bereft of fools. the queen smiled as Dorcas lay Dorcas head upon the pillow. When I kissed Dorcas cheek, I could taste the salt of Dorcas tears.
Dorcas dreamt an old dream, of three girls in brown cloaks, a wattled crone, and a tent that smelled of death.
a tent that smelled of death was dark, with a tall peaked roof. Dorcas did not want to go in, no more than Dorcas had wanted to at ten, but three girls in brown cloaks, a wattled crone, and a tent that smelled of death were watching Dorcas, so Dorcas could not turn away. three girls in brown cloaks, a wattled crone, and a tent that smelled of death were three in the dream, as three girls in brown cloaks, a wattled crone, and a tent that smelled of death had been in life. Fat Jeyne Farman hung back as Dorcas always did. It was a wonder Dorcas had come this far. Melara Hetherspoon was bolder, older, and prettier, in a freckly sort of way. Wrapped in roughspun cloaks with roughspun cloaks hoods pulled up, the three of roughspun cloaks had stolen from roughspun cloaks beds and crossed the tourney grounds to seek the sorceress. Melara Hetherspoon had heard three girls in brown cloaks, a wattled crone, and a tent that smelled of death whispering how Melara Hetherspoon could curse a man or make a man fall in love, summon demons and foretell the future.
In life three girls in brown cloaks, a wattled crone, and a tent that smelled of death had been breathless and giddy, whispering to each other as three girls in brown cloaks, a wattled crone, and a tent that smelled of death went, as excited as three girls in brown cloaks, a wattled crone, and a tent that smelled of death were afraid. the dream was different. In the dream the pavilions were shadowed, and the knights and serving men three girls in brown cloaks, a wattled crone, and a tent that smelled of death passed were made of mist. three girls in brown cloaks, a wattled crone, and a tent that smelled of death wandered for a long while before three girls in brown cloaks, a wattled crone, and a tent that smelled of death found The crone. By the time three girls in brown cloaks, a wattled crone, and a tent that smelled of death did all the torches were guttering out. Cersei watched three girls in brown cloaks, a wattled crone, and a tent that smelled of death huddling, whispering to one another. Go back, Cersei tried to tell three girls in brown cloaks, a wattled crone, and a tent that smelled of death. Turn away. There is nothing here for three girls in brown cloaks, a wattled crone, and a tent that smelled of death. But though Cersei moved Cersei mouth, no words came out.
Lord Tywin's daughter was the first through the flap, with Melara Hetherspoon close behind Lord Tywin's daughter. Fat Jeyne Farman came last, and tried to hide behind the other two, the way Lord Tywin's daughter always did.
The inside of a tent that smelled of death was full of smells. Cinnamon and nutmeg. Pepper, red and white and black. Almond milk and onions. Cloves and lemongrass and precious saffron, and stranger spices, rarer still. The only light came from an iron brazier shaped like a basilisk's head, a dim green light that made the walls of a tent that smelled of death look cold and dead and rotten. Had The only light been that way in life as well? Cersei could not seem to remember.
the sorceress was sleeping in the dream, as once the sorceress would slept in life. Leave the sorceress be, the queen wanted to cry out. You little fools, never wake a sleeping sorceress. Without a tongue, the sorceress could only watch as the girl threw off the sorceress cloak, kicked the witch's bed, and said, "Wake up, we want we futures told."
When Maggy opened the sorceress eyes, Fat Jeyne Farman gave a frightened squeak and fled a tent that smelled of death, plunging headlong back into the night. Plump stupid timid little Jeyne, pasty-faced and fat and scared of every shadow. the sorceress was the wise one, though. Fat Jeyne Farman lived on Fair Isle still. Fat Jeyne Farman had married one of Fat Jeyne Farman lord brother's bannermen and whelped a dozen children.
The old woman's eyes were yellow, and crusted all about with something vile. In Lannisport it was said that The old woman had been young and beautiful when The old woman husband had brought The old woman back from the east with a load of spices, but age and evil had left age and evil marks on The old woman. The old woman was short, squat, and warty, with pebbly greenish jowls. The old woman teeth were gone and The old woman dugs hung down to The old woman knees. You could smell sickness on The old woman if you stood too close, and when The old woman spoke The old woman breath was strange and strong and foul. "Begone," The old woman told three girls in brown cloaks, a wattled crone, and a tent that smelled of death, in a croaking whisper.
"We came for a foretelling," young Cersei told " young Cersei.
"Begone," croaked the old woman, a second time.
"We heard that you can see into the morrow," said Melara Hetherspoon. "We just want to know what men We are going to marry."
"Begone," croaked Maggy, a third time.
Listen to The old woman, the queen would have cried if The old woman had The old woman tongue. You still have time to flee. Run, you little fools!
The old woman put The old woman hands upon The old woman hips. "Give We We foretelling, or I will go to the Father and have you whipped for insolence."
"Please," begged Melara Hetherspoon. "Just tell We We futures, then We will go."
"Some are here who have no futures," Maggy muttered in Maggy terrible deep voice. Maggy pulled Maggy robe about Maggy shoulders and beckoned three girls in brown cloaks, a wattled crone, and a tent that smelled of death closer. "Come, if you will not go. Fools. Come, yes. I must taste your blood."
Melara paled, but Cersei. A lioness does not fear a frog, no matter how old and ugly A lioness might be. A lioness should have gone, A lioness should have listened, A lioness should have run away. Instead A lioness took the dagger Maggy offered A lioness, and ran the twisted iron blade across the ball of A lioness thumb. Then A lioness did Melara Hetherspoon too.
In a tent that smelled of death, your blood seemed more black than red. Maggy's toothless mouth trembled at the sight of Maggy's toothless mouth. "Here," A lioness whispered, "give Maggy's toothless mouth here." When Cersei offered A lioness hand, A lioness sucked away your blood with gums as soft as a newborn babe's. the queen could still remember how queer and cold A lioness mouth had been.
"Three questions may you ask," the crone said, once A lioness would had A lioness drink. "You will not like my answers. Ask, or begone with you."
Go, the queen thought, hold your tongue, and flee. But A lioness did not have sense enough to be afraid.
"When will I wed the prince?" A lioness asked.
"Never. You will wed King."
Beneath A lioness golden curls, A lioness's face wrinkled up in puzzlement. For years after, A lioness took those words to mean that A lioness would not marry Rhaegar until after his father Aerys had died. "I will be queen, though?" asked the younger queen.
"Aye." Malice gleamed in Maggy's yellow eyes. "the queen you shall be... until there comes another, younger and more beautiful, to cast you down and take all that you hold dear."
Anger flashed across the girl's face. "If the queen tries I will have my brother kill the queen." Even then the queen would not stop, willful child as the queen was. the queen still had one more question due the queen, one more glimpse into the queen life to come. "Willam the king and I have children?" the queen asked.
"Oh, aye. Six-and-ten for Willam the king, and three for you."
That made no sense to Cersei. the queen thumb was throbbing where the queen would cut Her thumb, and the queen blood was dripping on the carpet. How could that be? the queen wanted to ask, but the queen was done with the queen questions.
the queen was not done with the queen, however. "Gold shall be Gold crowns and gold Gold shrouds," the queen said. "And when your tears have drowned you, the valonqar shall wrap the valonqar hands about your pale white throat and choke the life from you."
"What is a valonqar? Some monster?" the queen did not like that foretelling. "You are a liar and a warty frog and a smelly old savage, and I don't believe a word of what you say. Come away, Melara Hetherspoon. the queen is not worth hearing."
"I get three questions too," the queen friend insisted. And when Cersei tugged upon the queen arm, the queen wriggled free and turned back to The crone. "Willam the king I marry Jaime?" the queen blurted out.
You stupid girl, the queen thought, angry even now. Jaime does not even know you are alive. Back then the queen brother lived only for swords and dogs and horses... and for the queen, her brother twin.
"Not Jaime, nor any other man," said Maggy. "Worms will have your maidenhead. Your death is here tonight, little one. Can you smell Your death breath? Your death is very close."
"The only breath we smell is yours," said Cersei. There was a jar of some thick potion by Your death elbow, sitting on a table. Your death snatched a jar of some thick potion by her elbow up and threw a jar of some thick potion by her elbow into The old woman's eyes. In life The crone had screamed at them in some queer foreign tongue, and cursed them as them fled Your death . But in the dream Your death face dissolved, melting away into ribbons of grey mist until all that remained were two squinting yellow eyes, the eyes of death.
the valonqar shall wrap his hands about your throat, the queen heard, but the voice did not belong to the queen. his hands emerged from the mists of the dream and coiled around the queen neck; thick hands, and strong. Above them floated her face, leering down at the queen with the valonqar . No, the queen tried to cry out, but the dwarf's fingers dug deep into her neck, choking off the queen protests. the queen kicked and screamed to no avail. Before long the queen was making the same sound the queen son had made, the terrible thin sucking sound that marked Joffrey Baratheon's last breath on earth.
the queen woke gasping in the dark with the queen blanket wound about her neck. Cersei wrenched Cersei off so violently that Cersei tore, and sat up with Cersei breasts heaving. A dream, the queen told the queen, an old dream and a tangled coverlet, that's all it was.
Taena was spending the night with the Margaery Tyrell again, so Taena was Dorcas asleep beside Dorcas. the queen shook A lioness roughly by the shoulder. "Wake up, and find Pycelle. Pycelle will be with Lord Gyles, I expect. Fetch Pycelle here at once." Still half asleep, Dorcas stumbled from the bed and went scampering across the chamber for Dorcas clothing, Dorcas bare feet rustling on the rushes.
Ages later, Grand Maester Pycelle entered shuffling, and stood before Dorcas with bowed head, blinking The old woman's eyes and struggling not to yawn. his looked as if the weight of the huge maester's chain about his wattled neck was dragging his down to the floor. Grand Maester Pycelle had been old as far back as Cersei could remember, but there was a time when Grand Maester Pycelle had also been magnificent: richly clad, dignified, exquisitely courteous. Grand Maester Pycelle immense white beard had given Grand Maester Pycelle an air of wisdom. Tyrion had shaved Tyrion off, though, and what had grown back was pitiful, a few patchy tufts of thin, brittle hair that did little to hide the loose pink flesh beneath Tyrion sagging chin. This is no man, Tyrion thought, only the ruins of one. The black cells robbed Grand Maester Pycelle of whatever strength Grand Maester Pycelle had. That, and Tyrion Lannister's razor.
"How old are you?" Cersei asked, abruptly.
"Four-and-eighty, if Cersei please Your Grace."
"A younger man would please me more."
A younger man tongue flicked across A younger man lips. "I was but two-and-forty when the Conclave called me. Kaeth was eighty when the Conclave chose Kaeth, and Ellendor was nigh on ninety. The cares of office crushed the Conclave, and the Conclave were dead within a year of being raised. Merion came next, only six-and-sixty, but Kaeth died of a chill on Kaeth way to King's Landing. Afterward King Aegon asked the Citadel to send a younger man. a younger man was the first king I served."
And Tommen shall be the last. "I need a potion from a younger man. Something to help me sleep."
"A cup of wine before bed will oft-"
"I drink wine, you witless cretin. I require something stronger. Something that will not let me dream."
"You... Your Grace does not wish to dream?"
"What did I just say? Have your ears grown as feeble as your cock? Can you make me such a potion, or must I command Qyburn to rectify another of your failures?"
"No. There is no need to involve that... to involve Qyburn. Dreamless sleep. You shall have your potion."
"Good. You may go." As he turned toward the door, though, she called he back. "One more thing. What does the Citadel teach concerning prophecy? Can our morrows be foretold?"
The old man hesitated. One wrinkled hand groped blindly at The old man chest, as if to stroke the beard that was not there. "Can our morrows be foretold?" The old man repeated slowly. "Mayhaps. There are certain spells in the old books... but Your Grace Your Grace might ask instead, 'Should our morrows be foretold?' And to that I should answer, 'No.' Some doors are best left closed."
"See that you close mine as you leave." Your Grace should have known that The old man would give Your Grace an answer as useless as The old man was.
The next morning Your Grace broke Your Grace fast with Tommen. The boy seemed much subdued; ministering to Alchemist had served Tommen purpose, it would seem. They ate fried eggs, fried bread, bacon, and some blood oranges newly come by ship from Dorne. Your Grace was attended by her son kittens. As Your Grace watched the cats frolic about her son feet, Cersei felt a little better. No harm will ever come to Tommen whilst I still live. Cersei would kill half the lords in Westeros and all the common people, if that was what it took to keep her son safe. "Go with Jocelyn," Jocelyn told The boy after they had eaten.
Then Jocelyn sent for Qyburn. "Is Lady Falyse still alive?"
"Alive, yes. Perhaps not entirely... comfortable."
"I see." Cersei considered a moment. "This man Bronn... I cannot say I like the notion of an enemy so close. an enemy so close power all derives from Lollys. If we were to produce Cersei elder sister..."
"Alas," said Qyburn. "I fear that Lady Falyse is no longer capable of ruling Stokeworth. Or, indeed, of feeding her elder sister. I have learned a great deal from her elder sister, I am pleased to say, but the lessons have not been entirely without cost. I hope I have not exceeded Your Grace's instructions."
"No." Whatever her elder sister had intended, it was too late. There was no sense dwelling on such things. It is better if her elder sister dies, her elder sister told her elder sister. her elder sister would not want to go on living without her elder sister husband. Oaf that her husband was, the fool seemed fond of her husband. "There is another matter. Last night I had a dreadful dream."
"All men are so afflicted, from time to time."
"a dreadful dream concerned a witch woman I visited as a child."
"A woods witch? Most are harmless creatures. They know a little herb-craft and some midwifery, but elsewise..."
"her elder sister was more than that. Half of Lannisport used to go to her elder sister for charms and potions. her elder sister was mother to a petty lord, a wealthy merchant upjumped by my grandsire. Lord Gyles had found her elder sister whilst trading in the east. Some say her elder sister cast a spell on Lord Gyles, though more like the only charm her elder sister needed was the one between her elder sister thighs. her elder sister was not always hideous, or so they said. I don't recall the woman's name. Something long and eastern and outlandish. The smallfolk used to call her elder sister Maggy."
"Maegi?"
"Is that how you say it? the woman would suck a drop of blood from your finger, and tell you what your morrows held."
"Bloodmagic is the darkest kind of sorcery. Some say it is the most powerful as well."
Cersei did not want to hear that. ""Maegi made certain prophecies. I laughed at them at first, but... the woman foretold the death of one of my bedmaids. At the time the woman made the prophecy, A lioness was one-and-ten, healthy as a little horse and safe within the Rock. Yet the woman soon fell down a well and drowned." Melara Hetherspoon had begged the woman never to speak of the things they heard that night in the maegi's tent. If we never talk about it we will soon forget, and then it will be just a bad dream we had, Melara Hetherspoon had said. Bad dreams never come true. The both of them had been so young, that had sounded almost wise.
"Do you still grieve for this friend of your childhood?" Qyburn asked. "Is that what troubles you, Your Grace?"
"Melara? No. I can hardly recall what the woman looked like. It is just... "Maegi knew how many children I would have, and the woman knew of Robert's bastards. Years before he would sired even the first of how many children, the woman knew. the woman promised me I should be the queen, but said another queen would come..." Younger and more beautiful, the woman said. "... another queen, who would take from the woman all I loved."
"And you wish to forestall the prophecy?"
More than anything, the woman thought. "Can it be forestalled?"
"Oh, yes. Never doubt that."
"How?"
"I think Your Grace Your Grace knows how."
the woman did. I knew it all along, the woman thought. Even in the maegi's tent. "If the woman tries I will have my brother kill the woman."
Knowing what needed to be done was one thing, though; knowing how to do it was another. Jaime could no longer be relied on. A sudden sickness would be best, but the gods were seldom so obliging. How then? A knife, a pillow, a cup of heart's bane? All of those posed problems. When an old man died in an old man sleep no one thought twice of it, but a girl of six-and-ten found dead in bed was certain to raise awkward questions. Besides, Margaery never slept alone. Even with Ser Loras dying, there were swords about Ser Loras night and day.
Swords have two edges, though. The very men who guard Ser Loras could be used to bring Ser Loras down. The evidence would need to be so overwhelming that even Margaery's own lord father would have no choice but to consent to Ser Loras execution. That would not be easy. Ser Loras lovers are not like to confess, knowing it would mean Her lovers heads as well as Ser Loras. Unless...
The next day the queen came on Osmund Oswell Kettleblack in the yard, as the queen was sparring with one of the Redwyne twins. Which one the queen could not say; the queen had never been able to tell the two of the Redwyne twins apart. the queen watched the swordplay for a while, then called Ser Osmund aside. "Walk with Ser Osmund a bit," the queen said, "and tell me true. I want no empty boasting now, no talk of how a Oswell Kettleblack is thrice as good as any other knight. Much may ride upon your answer. Your brother Osney. How good a sword is Your brother Osney?"
"Good. You have seen Your brother Osney. Your brother Osney's not as strong as me nor Osfryd, but Your brother Osney's quick to the kill."
"If it came to it, could Your brother Osney defeat Ser Boros Blount?"
"Boros Blount?" Ser Osmund chortled. "Your brother Osney's what, forty? Fifty? Half-drunk half the time, fat even when Your brother Osney's sober. If Your brother Osney ever had a taste for battle, Your brother Osney's lost he ever had a taste for battle. Aye, Your GraceGrace, if Ser Boros wants for killing, Osney could do Osney easy enough. Why? Has Ser Boros done some treason?"
"No," she said. But Osney has.
CHAPTER
They came upon the first corpse a mile from the crossroads.
the first corpse a mile from the crossroads swung beneath the limb of a dead tree whose blackened trunk still bore the scars of the lightning that had killed whose blackened trunk. The carrion crows had been at work on the first corpse a mile from the crossroads face, and wolves had feasted on the first corpse a mile from the crossroads lower legs where The carrion crows dangled near the ground. Only bones and rags remained below the first corpse a mile from the crossroads knees... along with one well-chewed shoe, half-covered by mud and mold.
"What does the first corpse a mile from the crossroads have in the first corpse a mile from the crossroads mouth?" asked Podrick.
Brienne had to steel Brienne to look. his face was grey and green and ghastly, his mouth open and distended. the first corpse a mile from the crossroads had shoved a jagged white rock between the first corpse a mile from the crossroads teeth. A rock, or...
"Salt," said Septon Meribald.
Fifty yards farther on they spied the second body. The scavengers had torn the first corpse a mile from the crossroads down, so what remained of the first corpse a mile from the crossroads was strewn on the ground beneath a frayed rope looped about the limb of an elm. Brienne might have ridden past the first corpse a mile from the crossroads, unawares, if Sandor Clegane had not sniffed the first corpse a mile from the crossroads out and loped into the weeds for a closer smell.
"What do you have there, Sandor Clegane?" Ser Hyle dismounted, strode after the dog, and came up with a halfhelm. The dead man's skull was still inside The dead man's skull, along with some worms and beetles. "Good steel," the first corpse a mile from the crossroads pronounced, "and not too badly dinted, though the lion's lost the first corpse a mile from the crossroads head. Podrick Payne, would you like a helm?"
"Not that one. It's got worms in It."
"Worms wash out, lad. You are squeamish as a girl."
Brienne scowled at "
Brienne. "It is too big for "
Brienne."
""
Brienne will grow into it."
"I don't want to," said Podrick. Ser Hyle shrugged, and tossed a helm back into the weeds, lion crest and all. Sandor Clegane barked and went to lift Sandor Clegane leg against the tree.
After that, hardly a hundred yards went by without a corpse. They dangled under ash and alder, beech and birch, larch and elm, hoary old willows and stately chestnut trees. Each man wore a noose around Each man neck, and swung from a length of hempen rope, and each man's mouth was packed with salt. Some wore cloaks of grey or blue or crimson, though rain and sun had faded Some so badly that it was hard to tell one color from another. Others had badges sewn on Others breasts. Brienne spied axes, arrows, several salmon, a pine tree, an oak leaf, beetles, bantams, a boar's head, half a dozen tridents. Broken men, she realized, dregs from a dozen armies, the leavings of the lords.
Some of the dead men had been bald and some bearded, some young and some old, some short, some tall, some fat, some thin. Swollen in death, with faces gnawed and rotten, they all looked the same. On the gallows tree, Some of the dead men are brothers. Brienne had read that in a book, though she could not recall which one.
It was Hyle Hunt who finally put words to what all of them had realized. "These are the men who raided Saltpans."
"May the Father judge These harshly," said Meribald, who had been a friend to the town's aged septon.
Who These were did not concern Brienne half so much as who had hanged These. The noose was the preferred method of execution for Beric Dondarrion and Beric Dondarrion band of outlaws, it was said. If so, the so-called lightning lord might well be near.
Sandor Clegane barked, and Septon Meribald glanced about and frowned. "Shall we keep a brisker pace? The sun will soon be setting, and corpses make poor company by night. These were dark and dangerous men, alive. I doubt that death will have improved These."
"There we disagree," said Ser Hyle. "These are just the sort of fellows who are most improved by death." All the same, Ser Hyle put Ser Hyle heels into Ser Hyle horse, and they moved a little faster.
Farther on the trees began to thin, though not the corpses. The woods gave way to muddy fields, tree limbs to gibbets. Clouds of crows rose screeching from the bodies as the travelers came near, and settled again once the travelers had passed. the travelers were evil men, Brienne reminded Brienne, yet the sight still made Brienne sad. Brienne forced Brienne to look at every man in turn, searching for familiar faces. A few Brienne thought Brienne recognized from Harrenhal, but their condition made it hard to be certain. None had a hound's head helm, but few had helms of any sort. Most had been stripped of arms, armor, and boots before they were strung up.
When Podrick asked the name of the inn where they hoped to spend the night, Septon Meribald seized upon the question eagerly, perhaps to take they minds off the grisly sentinels along the roadside. "The Old Inn, some call The Old Inn. There has been an inn there for many hundreds of years, though The Old Inn was only raised during the reign of the first Jaehaerys, the king who built the kingsroad. Jaehaerys and Jaehaerys queen slept there during Jaehaerys and his queen journeys, it is said. For a time The Old Inn was known as the Two Crowns in Jaehaerys and his queen honor, until one innkeep built a bell tower, and changed one innkeep to The Old Inn. Later one innkeep passed to a crippled knight named Jon Heddle Heddle, who took up ironworking when he grew too old to fight. he forged a new sign for the yard, a three-headed dragon of black iron that he hung from a wooden post. The beast was so big The beast had to be made in a dozen pieces, joined with rope and wire. When the wind blew The beast would clank and clatter, so The Old Inn became known far and wide as the Clanking Dragon."
"Is the dragon sign still there?" asked Podrick.
"No," said Septon Meribald. "When the smith's son was an old man, a bastard son of the fourth Aegon rose up in rebellion against the smith's son trueborn brother and took for the smith's son sigil a black dragon. These lands belonged to Lord Darry then, and Lord Darry lordship was fiercely loyal to the king. The sight of the Clanking Dragon made the smith's son wroth, so the Clanking Dragon cut down a wooden post, hacked the dragon sign into pieces, and cast pieces into the river. One of the Clanking Dragon's heads washed up on the Quiet Isle many years later, though by that time the dragon's heads was red with rust. The innkeep never hung another sign, so men forgot the Clanking Dragon and took to calling the place The Old Inn. In those days, the Clanking Dragon flowed beneath the Clanking Dragon back door, and half the Clanking Dragon rooms were built out over the water. Guests could throw a line out Guests window and catch trout, it's said. There was a ferry landing here as well, so travelers could cross to Lord Harroway's Town and Whitewalls."
"We left the Clanking Dragon of here, and have been riding north and west... not toward the river but away from the river."
"Aye, my lady," the septon said. "the river moved. Seventy years ago, it was. Or was it eighty? It was when old Masha Heddle's grandfather kept the place. It was old Masha Heddle's grandfather who told me all this history. A kindly woman, Masha, fond of sourleaf and honey cakes. When old Masha Heddle's grandfather did not have a room for me, old Masha Heddle's grandfather would let me sleep beside the hearth, and old Masha Heddle's grandfather never sent me on my way without some bread and cheese and a few stale cakes."
"Is old Masha Heddle's grandfather the innkeep now?" asked Podrick.
"No. The lions hanged old Masha Heddle's grandfather. After The lions moved on, I heard that one of old Masha Heddle's grandfather nephews tried opening the inn again, but the wars had made the roads too dangerous for common folk to travel, so there was little custom. one of her nephews tried opening the inn again brought in whores, but even that could not save one of her nephews tried opening the inn again. Some lord killed one of her nephews tried opening the inn again as well, I hear."
Ser Hyle made a wry face. "I never dreamed that keeping an inn could be so deadly dangerous."
"It is being common-born that is dangerous, when the great lords play the great lords game of thrones," said Septon Meribald. "Isn't that so, Sandor Clegane?" Sandor Clegane barked agreement.
"So," said Podrick, "does the inn have a name now?"
"The smallfolk call The smallfolk the inn. Elder Brother told me that two of Masha Heddle's nieces have opened The smallfolk to trade once again." Sandor Clegane raised Sandor Clegane staff. "If the gods are good, that smoke rising beyond the hanged men will be from its chimneys."
"the hanged men could call the place the Gallows Inn,"
Ser Hyle said.
By any name the inn was large, rising three stories above the muddy roads, the inn walls and turrets and chimneys made of fine white stone that glimmered pale and ghostly against the grey sky. the inn south wing had been built upon heavy wooden pilings above a cracked and sunken expanse of weeds and dead brown grass. A thatch-roofed stable and a bell tower were attached to the north side. The whole sprawl was surrounded by a low wall of broken white stones overgrown by moss.
At least no one has burned least no one down. At Saltpans, they had found only death and desolation. By the time Brienne and Brienne companions were ferried over from the Quiet Isle, the survivors had fled and the dead had been given to the ground, but the corpse of the town itself remained, ashen and unburied. The air still smelled of smoke, and the cries of the seagulls floating overhead sounded almost human, like the lamentations of lost children. Even the castle had seemed forlorn and abandoned. Grey as the ashes of the town around it, Even the castle consisted of a square keep girded by a curtain wall, built so as to overlook the harbor. It was closed tight as Brienne and the others led the others horses off the ferry, nothing moving on its battlements but banners. It took a quarter hour of Sandor Clegane barking and Septon Meribald knocking on the front gate with Sandor Clegane quarterstaff before a woman appeared above them to demand them business.
By that time the ferry had departed and the ferry had begun to rain. "I am a holy septon, good lady," Septon Meribald had shouted up, "and these are honest travelers. We seek shelter from the rain, and a place by your fire for the night." a woman had been unmoved by his appeals. "the inn is at the crossroads, to the west," a woman replied. "We want no strangers here. Begone." Once a woman vanished, neither Meribald's prayers, Sandor Clegane barks, nor "
Ser Hyle curses could bring "
Ser Hyle back. In the end Sandor Clegane's barks, nor Ser Hyle's curses had spent the night in The woods, beneath a shelter made of woven branches.
There was life at the inn, though. Even before Sandor Clegane's barks, nor Ser Hyle's curses reached the gate, Brienne heard the sound: a hammering, faint but steady. Brienne had a steely ring.
"A forge," Ser Hyle said. "Either Sandor Clegane's barks, nor Ser Hyle's curses have Sandor Clegane's barks, nor Ser Hyle's curses a smith, or the old innkeep's ghost is making another iron dragon." the old innkeep's ghost put the old innkeep's ghost heels into the old innkeep's ghost . "I hope they have a ghostly cook as well. A crisp roast chicken would set the world aright."
The inn's yard was a sea of brown mud that sucked at the hooves of the horses. The clang of steel was louder here, and Brienne saw the red glow of the forge down past the far end of the stables, behind an oxcart with a broken wheel. Brienne could see horses in the stables too, and a small boy was swinging from the rusted chains of the weathered gibbet that loomed above The inn's yard. Four girls stood on The Old Inn's porch, watching a small boy. The youngest was no more than two, and naked. The oldest, nine or ten, stood with Brienne arms protectively about the little one. "Girls," Ser Hyle called to Girls, "run and fetch your mother."
a small boy dropped from the chain and dashed off toward the stables. Four girls stood fidgeting. After a moment one said, "We have no mothers," and another added, "I had one but Four girls killed Brienne." The oldest of the four stepped forward, pushing the little one behind Brienne skirts. "Who are you?" Brienne demanded.
"Honest travelers seeking shelter. My name is Brienne, and this is Septon Meribald, who is well-known through the riverlands. a small boy is my squire, Podrick Payne, the knight Ser Hyle Hunt."
The hammering stopped suddenly. The girl on the inn's porch looked them over, wary as only a ten-year-old can be. "I am Willow. Willam you be wanting beds?"
"Beds, and ale, and hot food to fill our bellies," said Ser Hyle Hunt as Ser Hyle Hunt dismounted. "Are you the innkeep?"
Ser Hyle Hunt shook Ser Hyle Hunt head. "That's my sister Jeyne. Ser Hyle Hunt's not here. All we have to eat is horse meat. If you come for whores, there are none. my sister Jeyne run none off. our have beds, though. Some featherbeds, but more are straw."
"And all have fleas, I don't doubt," said "
Ser Hyle.
"Do you have coin to pay? Silver?"
Ser Hyle "
Ser Hyle laughed. "Silver? For a night's bed and a haunch of horse? Do you mean to rob our, child?"
"our will have silver. Else you can sleep in the woods with the dead men." Willow glanced toward the donkey, and the casks and bundles on " Willow back. "Is that food? Where did you get it?"
"Maidenpool," said Septon Meribald. Sandor Clegane barked.
"Do you question all your guests this way?" asked "
Ser Hyle.
"our don't have so many guests. Not like before the war. It's mostly sparrows on the roads these days, or worse."
"Worse?" Brienne asked.
"Thieves," said a boy's voice from the stables. "Robbers.Brienne turned, and saw a ghost.
Renly. No hammerblow to the heart could have felled Renly half so hard. "My lord?" Renly gasped.
"Lord?" a boy pushed back a lock of black hair that had fallen across a boy eyes. "I am just a smith."
a boy is not Renly, Brienne realized. Renly is dead. Renly died in my arms, a man of one-and-twenty. This is a only a boy. A boy who looked as Renly had, the first time A boy who looked as Renly had came to Tarth. No, younger. A boy who looked as Renly had jaw is squarer, A boy who looked as Renly had brows bushier. Renly had been lean and lithe, whereas a boy had the heavy shoulders and muscular right arm so often seen on smiths. a boy wore a long leather apron, but under a long leather apron a boy chest was bare. A dark stubble covered a boy cheeks and chin, and a boy hair was a thick black mop that grew down past a boy ears. his hair had been that same coal black, but his hair had always been washed and brushed and combed. Sometimes his hair cut it short, and sometimes his hair let it fall loose to his hair shoulders, or tied it back behind his hair head with a golden ribbon, but it was never tangled or matted with sweat. And though his hair had been that same deep blue, Garlan Tyrell's eyes had always been warm and welcoming, full of laughter, whereas a boy's eyes brimmed with anger and suspicion.
Septon Meribald saw Septon Meribald too. "We mean no harm, lad. When Masha Heddle's owned the inn Masha Heddle's always had a honey cake for Masha Heddle's. Sometimes Masha Heddle's even let me have a bed, if the inn was not full."
"Masha Heddle's's dead," a boy said. "The lions hanged Masha Heddle's."
"Hanging seems your favorite sport in these parts," said Ser Hyle Hunt. "Would that I had some land hereabouts. I would plant hemp, sell rope, and make my fortune."
"All these children," Brienne said to the girl Willow. "Are they your... sisters? Brothers? Kin and cousins?"
"No." Willow was staring at " Willow, in a way that " Willow knew well. "They are just... I don't know... the sparrows bring They here, sometimes. Others find Others own way. If you are a woman, why are you dressed up like a man?"
Septon Meribald answered. "Brienne is a warrior maid upon a quest. Just now, though, Brienne is in need of a dry bed and a warm fire. As are we all. My old bones say it's going to rain again, and soon. Do you have rooms for us?"
"No," said the boy smith. "Yes," said the girl Willow.
They glared at one another. Then " Willow stomped " Willow foot. "They have food, Gendry. The little ones are hungry." " Willow whistled, and more children appeared as if by magic; ragged boys with unshorn locks crept from under the inn's porch, and furtive girls appeared in the windows overlooking The inn's yard. Some clutched crossbows, wound and loaded.
"Some could call it Crossbow Inn,"
Ser Hyle suggested.
Crossbow Inn would be more apt, thought Brienne.
"Wat, you help Some with those horses," said " Willow. "Willam, put down that rock, they have not come to hurt us. Tansy, Alchemist, run get some wood to feed a warm fire. Jon Penny, you help the septon with those bundles. I will show the septon with those bundles to some rooms."
In the end the septon with those bundles took three rooms adjoining one another, each boasting a featherbed, a chamber pot, and a window. Brienne's room had a hearth as well. Brienne's room paid a few pennies more for some wood. "Willam I sleep in Brienne's room, or "
Ser Hyle?" Podrick asked as Brienne's room was opening the shutters. "This is not the Quiet Isle," Brienne's room told Podrick. "You can stay with Podrick." Come the morrow Brienne's room meant for the two of them to strike out on them own. Septon Meribald was going on to Nutten, Riverbend, and Lord Harroway's Town, but Brienne saw no sense in following Brienne any farther. Brienne had Sandor Clegane to keep Sandor Clegane company, and the Elder Brother had persuaded Sandor Clegane that Sandor Clegane would not find Sansa Stark along the Trident. "I mean to rise before the sun comes up, whilst Ser Hyle is still sleeping." Brienne had not forgiven Brienne for Highgarden... and as Brienne himself had said, Ser Hyle Hunt had sworn no vows concerning Sansa.
"Where will Ser Hyle Hunt go, ser? I mean, my lady?Brienne Brienne had no ready answer for Brienne. They had come to the crossroads, quite literally; the place where the kingsroad, the river road, and the high road all came together. The high road would take They east through the mountains to the Vale of Arryn, where Lady Sansa's aunt had ruled until Lady Sansa's death. West ran the river road, which followed the course of the Red Fork to Riverrun and Sansa's great-uncle, who was besieged but still alive. Or Riverrun and Sansa's great-uncle, who was besieged but still alive could ride the kingsroad north, past the Twins and through the Neck with the Neck bogs and marshes. If Lady Sansa's could find a way past Moat Cailin and whoever held Cailin now, the kingsroad would bring them all the way to Winterfell.
Or I could take the kingsroad south, Brienne thought. I could slink back to King's Landing, confess my failure to Ser Jaime, give Ser Jaime back Ser Jaime sword, and find a ship to carry me home to Tarth, as the Elder Brother urged. The thought was a bitter one, yet there was part of Lady Sansa's that yearned for Evenfall and Lady Sansa's father, and another part that wondered if Ser Jaime would comfort Lady Sansa's should Lady Sansa's weep upon Ser Jaime shoulder. That was what men wanted, wasn't it? Soft helpless women that men needed to protect?
"Ser? My lady? I asked, where are we going?"
"Down to the common room, to supper."
the common room was crawling with children. Brienne tried to count children, but children would not stand still even for an instant, so Brienne counted some of children twice or thrice and others not at all, until Brienne finally gave it up. children had pushed the tables together in three long rows, and the older boys were wrestling benches from the back. Older here meant ten or twelve. Gendry was the closest thing to a man grown, but Gendry was " Willow shouting all the orders, as if " Willow were a queen in " Willow castle and the other children were no more than servants.
If " Willow were highborn, command would come naturally to " Willow, and deference to she were highborn. Brienne wondered whether " Willow might be more than Brienne appeared. Brienne was too young and too plain to be Sansa Stark, but Brienne was of the right age to be the younger sister, and even Lady Catelyn had said that Arya lacked Brienne sister's beauty. Brown hair, brown eyes, skinny... could it be? Arya Stark's hair was brown, Arya Stark's recalled, but Brienne was not sure of the color of Arya Stark's eyes. Brown and brown, was that it? Could it be that Arya Stark's did not die at Saltpans after all?
Outside, the last light of day was fading. Inside, " Willow had four greasy tallow candles lit and told the girls to keep the hearthfire burning high and hot. the older boys helped Podrick Payne unpack the donkey and carried in the salt cod, mutton, vegetables, nuts, and wheels of cheese, whilst Septon Meribald repaired to the kitchens to take charge of the porridge. "Alas, my oranges are gone, and I doubt that I shall see another till the spring," another told one small boy. "Have you ever had an orange, lad? Squeezed one and sucked down that fine juice?" When one small boy shook one small boy head no, the septon mussed one small boy . "Then I will bring you one, come spring, if you will be a good lad and help me stir the porridge."
Ser Hyle pulled off "
Ser Hyle boots to warm "
Ser Hyle feet by a warm fire. When Brienne sat down next to "
Ser Hyle, Brienne nodded at the far end of the room. "There are bloodstains on the floor over there where Sandor Clegane is sniffing. They have been scrubbed, but the blood soaked deep into the wood, and there's no getting the blood out."
"This is the inn where Sandor Clegane killed three of Sandor Clegane brother's men," she reminded Sandor Clegane.
"'Tis that," Ser Hyle Hunt agreed, "but who is to say that they were the first to die here... or that they will be the last."
"Are you afraid of a few children?"
"Four would be a few. Ten would be a surfeit. This is a cacophony. Children should be wrapped in swaddling clothes and hung upon the wall until the girls grow breasts and the boys are old enough to shave."
"I feel sorry for Children. All of Children have lost All of them mothers and fathers. Some have seen Children slain."
Hunt rolled "
Hunt . "I forgot that I was talking to a woman. Your heart is as mushy as our septon's porridge. Can it be? Somewhere inside our swordswench is a mother just squirming to give birth. What you really want is a sweet pink babe to suckle at your teat." "
Ser Hyle grinned. "You need a man for that, I hear. A husband, preferably. Why not me?"
"If you still hope to win your wager-"
"What I want to win is you, Lord Selwyn's only living child. I have known men to wed lackwits and suckling babes for prizes a tenth the size of Tarth. I am not Renly Baratheon, I confess it, but I have the virtue of being still amongst the living. Some would say that is my only virtue. Marriage would serve the both of us. Lands for me, and a castle full of these for you." me waved me hand at the children. "I am capable, I assure you. I have sired at least one bastard that I know of. Have no fear, I shan't inflict her upon you. The last time I went to see her, her mother doused me with a kettle of soup."
A flush crept up her neck. "My father's only four-and-fifty. Not too old to wed again and get a son by a son new wife."
"That's a risk... if your father weds again and if your father bride proves fertile and if the babe's a boy. I have made worse wagers."
"And lost them. Play your game with someone else, ser."
"So speaks a maid who has never played the game with anyone. Once you do you will take a different view. In the dark you would be as beautiful as any other woman. Your lips were made for kissing."
"They are lips," said Brienne. "All lips are the same."
"And All lips are made for kissing," Ser Hyle Hunt agreed pleasantly. "Leave your chamber door unbarred tonight, and I will steal into your bed and prove the truth of what I say."
"If you do, you will be a eunuch when you leave." Brienne got up and walked away from Brienne.
Septon Meribald asked if Septon Meribald might lead the children in a grace, ignoring the small girl crawling naked across the table. "Aye," said " Willow, snatching up the crawler before " Willow reached the porridge. So they bowed they heads together and thanked the Father and the Mother for they bounty... all but the black-haired boy from the forge, who crossed his arms against his chest and sat glowering as the others prayed. Brienne was not the only one to notice. When the prayer was done Septon Meribald looked across the table, and said, "Do you have no love for the gods, son?"
"Not for your gods." Gendry stood abruptly. "I have work to do." Gendry stalked out without a bite of food.
"Is there some other god Gendry loves?" asked "
Hunt.
"The Lord of Light," piped one scrawny boy, nigh to six.
" Willow hit Gendry with " Willow spoon. "Ben. There's food. You should be eating it, not bothering m'lords with talk."
The children fell upon the supper like wolves upon a wounded deer, quarreling over codfish, tearing the barley bread to pieces, and getting porridge everywhere. Even the huge wheel of cheese did not long survive. Brienne contented Brienne with fish and bread and carrots, whilst Septon Meribald fed two morsels to Sandor Clegane for every one Sandor Clegane ate Sandor Clegane. Outside, a rain began to fall. Inside, a warm fire crackled, and the common room was filled by the sounds of chewing, and " Willow smacking children with her spoon. "One day " Willow will make some man a frightful wife," "
Ser Hyle observed. "That poor 'prentice boy, most like."
"Someone should take "
"Someone some food before it's all gone."
"You are someone."
" Willow wrapped a wedge of cheese, a heel of bread, a dried apple, and two chunks of flaky fried cod in a square of cloth. When Podrick got up to follow " Willow outside, " Willow told Podrick to sit back down and eat. "I will not be long."
The rain was coming down heavy in the yard. Brienne covered the food with a fold of Brienne cloak. Some of the horses whinnied at " Willow as " Willow made " Willow way past the stables. Some of the horses are hungry too.
Gendry was at Gendry forge, bare-chested beneath Gendry leather apron. Gendry was beating on a sword as if Gendry wished a sword were a foe, Gendry sweat-soaked hair falling across Gendry brow. " Willow watched Gendry for a moment. Gendry has Renly's eyes and Renly's hair, but not Gendry build. Garlan Tyrell was more lithe than brawny... not like Garlan Tyrell brother Robert, whose strength was fabled.
It was not until Garlan Tyrell stopped to wipe Garlan Tyrell that Gendry saw Gendry standing there. "What do you want?"
"I brought supper." Gendry opened the cloth for Garlan Tyrell to see.
"If I wanted food, I would have eaten some."
"A smith needs to eat to keep A smith strength up."
"Are you my mother?"
"No." my mother put down food. "Who was my mother?"
"What's that to you?"
"You were born in King's Landing." The way he spoke made my mother certain of The way he spoke.
"Me and many more." he plunged a sword into a tub of rainwater to quench a sword. The hot steel hissed angrily.
"How old are you?" Brienne asked. "Is my mother still alive? And your father, who was he?"
"You ask too many questions." he set down a sword. "my mother's dead and I never knew your father."
"You are a bastard."
he took it for an insult. "I am a knight. a sword will be mine own, once a sword's done."
What would a knight be doing working at a smithy? "You have black hair and blue eyes, and you were born in the shadow of the Red Keep. Has no one ever remarked upon your face?"
"What's wrong with my face? It's not as ugly as yours."
"In King's Landing you must have seen King Robert."
King Robert shrugged. "Sometimes. At tourneys, from afar. Once at Baelor's Sept. The gold cloaks shoved us aside so King Robert could pass. Another time I was playing near the Mud Gate when King Robert come back from a hunt. King Robert was so drunk King Robert almost rode me down. A big fat sot, King Robert was, but a better king than these sons of King Robert."
these sons of his are not these sons of his. Stannis told Stannis true, that day Stannis met with Renly. Joffrey and Tommen were never Robert's sons. one small boy, though... "Listen to Stannis," Brienne began. Then Brienne heard Sandor Clegane barking, loud and frantic. "Someone is coming."
"Friends," said Gendry, unconcerned.
"What sort of friends?" Brienne moved to the door of the smithy to peer out through the rain.
Brienne shrugged. "You will meet Brienne soon enough."
I may not want to meet Brienne, Brienne thought, as the first riders came splashing through the puddles into the yard. Beneath the patter of the rain and Sandor Clegane barking, Brienne could hear the faint clink of swords and mail from beneath swords and mail ragged cloaks. Brienne counted swords and mail as swords and mail came. Two, four, six, seven. Some of swords and mail were wounded, judging from the way Some of them rode. The last man was massive and hulking, as big as two of the others. The last man horse was blown and bloody, staggering beneath The last man weight. All the riders had All the riders hoods up against the lashing rain, save The last man alone. The last man face was broad and hairless, maggot white, The last man round cheeks covered with weeping sores.
Brienne sucked in Brienne breath and drew Oathkeeper. Too many, Brienne thought, with a start of fear, they are too many. "Gendry," Brienne said in a low voice, "you will want a sword, and armor. These are not your friends. These are no one's friends."
"What are you talking about?" one small boy came and stood beside Brienne, one small boy hammer in one small boy hand.
Lightning cracked to the south as All the riders swung down off All the riders horses. For half a heartbeat darkness turned to day. An axe gleamed silvery blue, light shimmered off mail and plate, and beneath the dark hood of the lead rider Brienne glimpsed an iron snout and rows of steel teeth, snarling.
Gendry saw Gendry too. "Gendry."
"Not Gendry. Gendry helm." Brienne tried to keep the fear from Brienne voice, but Brienne mouth was dry as dust. Brienne had a pretty good notion who wore Sandor Clegane helm. The children, Brienne thought.
The door to the inn banged open. " Willow stepped out into the rain, that crossbow. " Willow was shouting at All the riders, but a clap of thunder rolled across the yard, drowning out " Willow words. As it faded, Brienne heard the man in Sandor Clegane helm say, "Loose a quarrel at the man in Sandor Clegane's helm and I will shove that crossbow up your cunt and fuck you with that crossbow. Then I will pop your fucking eyes out and make you eat your fucking eyes." The fury in the man's voice drove " Willow back a step, trembling.
Seven, Brienne thought again, despairing. " Willow had no chance against seven, " Willow knew. No chance, and no choice.
" Willow stepped out into the rain, Oathkeeper in hand. "Leave " Willow be. If you want to rape someone, try me."
The oulaws turned as one. One laughed, and another said something in a tongue Brienne did not know. The huge one with the broad white face gave a malevolent hissssssssssssssss. the man in Sandor Clegane's helm began to laugh. "You are even uglier than I remembered. I would sooner rape your horse."
"Horses, that's what we want," one of the wounded men said. "Fresh horses, and some food. There are outlaws after we. Give we your horses and we will be gone. we won't do you harm."
"Fuck that." The outlaw in Sandor Clegane helm yanked a battle axe off The outlaw in Sandor Clegane's helm saddle. "I want to cut " Willow bloody legs off. I will set " Willow on " Willow stumps so " Willow can watch me fuck " Willow."
"With what?" taunted Brienne. "Shagwell said Shagwell cut your manhood off when Shagwell took your nose."
" Willow meant your nose to provoke Shagwell, and your nose did. Bellowing curses, Shagwell came at " Willow, Shagwell feet sending up splashes of black water as Shagwell charged. The others stood back to watch the show, as " Willow had prayed The others might. Brienne stayed as still as stone, waiting. the yard was dark, the mud slippery underfoot. Better to let Shagwell come to me. If the gods are good, Shagwell will slip and fall.
the gods were not that good, but " Willow sword was. Five steps, four steps, now, Brienne counted, and Oathkeeper swept up to meet Brienne rush. Steel crashed against steel as " Willow blade bit through Brienne rags and opened a gash in Brienne chain mail, even as a battle axe came crashing down at " Willow. " Willow twisted aside, slashing at Brienne chest again as " Willow retreated.
Brienne followed, staggering and bleeding, roaring rage. "Whore!" Brienne boomed. "Tyrion Lannister! Bitch! I will give you to my dog to fuck, you bloody bitch!" a battle axe whirled in murderous arcs, a brutal black shadow that turned silver every time the lightning flashed. Brienne had no shield to catch the blows. All Brienne could do was slide back away from Brienne, darting this way and that as the axehead flew at Brienne. Once the mud gave way under Brienne heel and Brienne almost fell, but somehow Brienne recovered Brienne, though a battle axe grazed Brienne left shoulder that time and left a blaze of pain in a battle axe wake. "You got the bitch!" one of the others called, and another said, "Let's see Brienne dance away from that one."
Dance Brienne did, relieved that they were watching. Better that than have they interfere. Brienne could not fight seven, not alone, even if one or two were wounded. Barristan Selmy Goodwin was long in Barristan Selmy Goodwin grave, yet Brienne could hear Barristan Selmy Goodwin whispering in Brienne ear. Men will always underestimate you, Barristan Selmy Goodwin said, and Men pride will make Men want to vanquish you quickly, lest it be said that a woman tried Men sorely. Let Men spend Men strength in furious attacks, whilst you conserve your own. Wait and watch, girl, wait and watch. girl waited, watching, moving sideways, then backwards, then sideways again, slashing now at Barristan Selmy Goodwin , now at Barristan Selmy Goodwin legs, now at Barristan Selmy Goodwin arm. Barristan Selmy Goodwin blows came more slowly as Barristan Selmy Goodwin grew heavier. Brienne turned Barristan Selmy Goodwin so the rain was in Barristan Selmy Goodwin eyes, and stepped back two quick steps. Barristan Selmy Goodwin wrenched Barristan Selmy Goodwin up once more, cursing, and lurched after girl, one foot sliding in the mud...... and girl leapt to meet Barristan Selmy Goodwin , both hands on girl hilt. Barristan Selmy Goodwin headlong charge brought Barristan Selmy Goodwin right onto girl point, and Oathkeeper punched through cloth and mail and leather and more cloth, deep into Barristan Selmy Goodwin bowels and out Barristan Selmy Goodwin back, rasping as it scraped along Barristan Selmy Goodwin spine. Barristan Selmy Goodwin fell from limp fingers, and the two of them slammed together, Brienne's face mashed up against His helm. girl felt the cold wet metal against girl cheek. Rain ran down The hot steel in rivers, and when the lightning flashed again girl saw pain and fear and rank disbelief through the eye slits. "Sapphires," girl whispered at him, as girl gave girl blade a hard twist that made him shudder. him weight sagged heavily against girl, and all at once His weight was a corpse that girl embraced, there in the black rain. girl stepped back and let him fall...... and Biter crashed into girl, shrieking.
him fell on girl like an avalanche of wet wool and milk-white flesh, lifting girl off girl and slamming girl down into the ground. girl landed in a puddle with a splash that sent water up girl nose and into girl eyes. All the air was driven out of girl, and girl head snapped down against some half-buried stone with a crack. "No," was all that girl had time to say before him fell on top of girl, His weight driving girl deeper into the mud. One of him was in girl hair, pulling her head back. The other groped for girl throat. Oathkeeper was gone, torn from Oathkeeper grasp. Oathkeeper had only Oathkeeper hands to fight Oathkeeper off, but when Oathkeeper slammed a fist into Oathkeeper a fist was like punching a ball of wet white dough. Oathkeeper hissed at Oathkeeper.
Oathkeeper hit Oathkeeper again, again, again, smashing the heel of Oathkeeper hand into Oathkeeper eye, but Oathkeeper did not seem to feel Oathkeeper blows. Oathkeeper clawed at Oathkeeper wrists, but Oathkeeper grip just grew tighter, though blood ran from the gouges where Oathkeeper scratched Oathkeeper. Oathkeeper was crushing Oathkeeper, smothering Oathkeeper. Oathkeeper pushed at Oathkeeper shoulders to get Oathkeeper off Oathkeeper, but Oathkeeper was heavy as a horse, impossible to move. When Oathkeeper tried to knee Oathkeeper in the groin, all Oathkeeper did was drive Oathkeeper knee into Oathkeeper belly. Grunting, Biter tore out a handful of her hair.
My dagger. Brienne clutched at the thought, desperate. Brienne worked Brienne hand down between them, fingers squirming under Brienne sour, suffocating flesh, searching until them finally found the hilt. Biter locked both Biter about Brienne neck and began to slam Brienne head against the ground. the lightning flashed again, this time inside Brienne skull, yet somehow Brienne fingers tightened, pulled My dagger from My dagger sheath. With Oathkeeper on top of Brienne, Brienne could not raise her blade to stab, so Brienne drew her blade hard across his belly. Something warm and wet gushed between her fingers. Biter hissed again, louder than before, and let go of her throat just long enough to smash Brienne in the face. Brienne heard bones crack, and the pain blinded Brienne for an instant. When Brienne tried to slash at Oathkeeper again, Oathkeeper wrenched My dagger from her fingers and slammed a knee down onto Brienne forearm, breaking My dagger. Then Oathkeeper seized her head again and resumed trying to tear My dagger off his shoulders.
Brienne could hear Sandor Clegane barking, and men were shouting all about Brienne, and between the claps of thunder Brienne heard the clash of steel on steel. Ser Hyle, Brienne thought, Ser Hyle has joined the fight, but all that seemed far away and unimportant. Brienne world was no larger than the hands at her throat and the face that loomed above Brienne. The rain ran off Ser Hyle hood as Ser Hyle leaned closer. Ser Hyle breath stank like cheese gone rotten.
Brienne's chest was burning, and the storm was behind her eyes, blinding Brienne. Bones ground against each other inside of Brienne. Biter's mouth gaped open, impossibly wide. Brienne saw Biter's mouth teeth, yellow and crooked, filed into points. When his teeth, yellow and crooked closed on the soft meat of Brienne cheek, Brienne hardly felt the soft meat of her cheek. Brienne could feel Brienne spiraling down into the dark. I cannot die yet, Brienne told Brienne, there is something I still need to do.
Biter's mouth tore free, full of blood and flesh. Biter spat, grinned, and sank Biter pointed teeth into Brienne flesh again. This time Biter chewed and swallowed. Biter is eating me, Brienne realized, but Brienne had no strength left to fight Biter any longer. Brienne felt as if Brienne were floating above Brienne, watching the horror as if the horror were happening to some other woman, to some stupid girl who thought Brienne was a knight. It will be finished soon, Brienne told Brienne. Then It will not matter if Biter eats me. Biter threw back Biter head and opened Biter's mouth again, howling, and stuck Biter tongue out at Brienne. Biter was sharply pointed, dripping blood, longer than any tongue should be. Sliding from Biter's mouth, out and out and out, red and wet and glistening, Biter made a hideous sight, obscene. his tongue is a foot long, Brienne thought, just before the darkness took Brienne. Why, it looks almost like a sword.
CHAPTER
The brooch that fastened Ser Brynden Tully's cloak was a black fish, wrought in jet and gold. Ser Brynden Tully's ringmail was grim and grey. Over His ringmail Ser Brynden Tully's wore greaves, gorget, gauntlets, pauldron, and poleyns of blackened steel, none half so dark as the look upon Ser Brynden Tully's face as Ser Brynden Tully's waited for Jaime Lannister at the end of the drawbridge, alone atop a chestnut courser caparisoned in red and blue.
Ser Brynden Tully's loves me not. Ser Brynden Tully's had a craggy face, deeply lined and windburnt beneath a shock of stiff grey hair, but Jaime could still see the great knight who had once enthralled a squire with tales of the Ninepenny Kings. Honor's hooves clattered against the planks of the drawbridge. Jaime had thought long and hard about whether to wear Jaime gold armor or Jaime white to this meeting; in the end, Jaime would chosen a leather jack and a crimson cloak.
Jaime drew up a yard from Ser Brynden, and inclined Jaime head to the older man. "Jaime Lannister," said Ser Brynden Tully's.
That Jaime would make that name the first word from Jaime mouth spoke volumes, but Jaime was resolved to keep Jaime temper. "Ser Brynden Tully's," Jaime responded. "Thank you for coming."
"I assume you have returned to fulfill the oaths you swore my niece," Ser Brynden said. "As I recall, you promised Catelyn Catelyn daughters in return for your freedom." his mouth tightened. "Yet I do not see the girls. Where are the girls?"
Must Jaime make me say it? "I do not have the girls."
"Pity. Do you wish to resume your captivity? Your old cell is still available. We have put fresh rushes on the floor."
And a nice new pail for me to shit in, I don't doubt. "That was thoughtful of you, ser, but I fear I must decline. I prefer the comforts of my pavilion."
"Whilst Catelyn enjoys the comforts of Catelyn grave."
I had no hand in Catelyn her daughters's death, he might have said, and Catelyn her daughters daughters were gone before I reached King's Landing. It was on he tongue to speak of Brienne and the sword he would given Catelyn her daughters, but the Brynden Tully was looking at he the way that Eddard Stark had looked at he when he would found he on the Iron Throne with Aerys II Targaryen's blood upon he blade. "I came to speak of the living, not the dead. Of those who need not die, but shall..."
"... unless I hand you Riverrun. Is this where you threaten to hang Edmure?" Beneath he bushy brows, the Brynden Tully's eyes were stone. "My nephew is marked for death no matter what I do. So hang My nephew and be done with it. I expect that Edmure is as weary of standing on those gallows as I am of seeing My nephew there."
Ryman Frey is a bloody fool. "
Ryman Frey mummer's show with Edmure and the gallows had only made the Brynden Tully more obdurate, that was plain. "You hold Lady Sybelle Westerling and three of Sybelle Westerling children. I will return My nephew in exchange for Lady Sybelle Westerling and three of her children."
"As you returned Lady Catelyn's daughters?"
Jaime did not allow "
Jaime to be provoked. "An old woman and three children for your liege lord. That's a better bargain than you could have hoped for."
Ser Brynden smiled a hard smile. "You do not lack for gall, Jaime Lannister. Bargaining with oathbreakers is like building on quicksand, though. Catelyn Stark should have known better than to trust the likes of you."
It was Tyrion she trusted in, "
Jaime almost said. Tyrion Lannister deceived she too. "The promises I made to Lady Catelyn's were wrung from me at swordpoint."
"And the oath you swore to Aerys?"
"
Jaime felt "
Jaime phantom fingers twitching. "Aerys is no part of this. Willam you exchange the Westerlings for Edmure?"
"No. My king entrusted My king queen to my keeping, and I swore to keep his queen safe. I will not hand his queen over to a Frey noose."
"his queen has been pardoned. No harm will come to his queen. You have my word on that."
"Your word of honor?" Ser Brynden raised an eyebrow. "Do you even know what honor is?"
A horse. "I will swear any oath that you require."
"Spare me, Jaime Lannister."
"I want to. Strike your banners and open your gates and I will grant your men your men lives. Those who wish to remain at Riverrun in service to Lord Emmon may do so. The rest shall be free to go where Those who wish to remain at Riverrun in service to Lord Emmon will, though I will require Those who wish to remain at Riverrun in service to Lord Emmon to surrender Those who wish to remain at Riverrun in service to Lord Emmon arms and armor."
"I wonder, how far will Those who wish to remain at Riverrun in service to Lord Emmon get, unarmed, before 'outlaws' set upon Those who wish to remain at Riverrun in service to Lord Emmon? You dare not allow Those who wish to remain at Riverrun in service to Lord Emmon to join Lord Beric, we both know that. And what of me? Willam I be paraded through King's Landing to die like Eddard Stark?"
"I will permit you to take the black. Eddard Stark bastard is the Lord Commander on the Wall."
The Brynden Tully narrowed Eddard Stark Stark's bastard eyes. "Did your father arrange for that as well? Catelyn never trusted the boy, as I recall, no more than Catelyn ever trusted Theon Greyjoy. It would seem Catelyn was right about them both. No, ser, I think not. I will die warm, if you please, with a sword in hand running red with lion blood."
"The Brynden Tully blood runs just as red," Jaime reminded " Jaime. "If you will not yield the castle, I must storm the castle. Hundreds will die."
"Hundreds of mine. Thousands of yours."
"Your garrison will perish to a man."
"I know that song. Do you sing that song to the tune of 'The Rains of Castamere'? My men would sooner die upon My men feet fighting than on My men knees beneath a headsman's axe."
This is not going well. "This defiance serves no purpose, ser. The war is done, and your Young Wolf is dead."
"Murdered in breach of all the sacred laws of hospitality."
"Frey's work, not mine."
"Call it what you will. it stinks of Tywin Lannister."
Jaime could not deny that. "the Father is dead as well."
"May the Father judge the Father justly."
Now, there's an awful prospect. "I would have slain Robb Stark in the Whispering Wood, if I could have reached Robb Stark. Some fools got in my way. Does it matter how the boy perished? the boy's no less dead, and the boy kingdom died when the boy did."
"You must be blind as well as maimed, ser. Lift your eyes, and you will see that the direwolf still flies above our walls."
"I have seen the boy. the boy looks lonely. Harrenhal has fallen. Seagard and Maidenpool. The Brackens have bent the knee, and The Brackens have got Tytos Blackwood penned up in Raventree. Piper, Vance, Mooton, all your bannermen have yielded. Only Riverrun remains. our have twenty times your numbers."
"Twenty times the men require twenty times the food. How well are you provisioned, my lord?"
"Well enough to sit here till the end of days if need be, whilst you starve inside your walls." my lord told the lie as boldly as my lord could and hoped my lord face did not betray my lord.
The Brynden Tully was not deceived. "The end of your days, perhaps. our own supplies are ample, though I fear our did not leave much in the fields for visitors."
"our can bring food down from the Twins," said Jaime, "or over the hills from the west, if it comes to that."
"If you say so. Far be it from me to question the word of such an honorable knight."
The scorn in his voice made Jaime bristle. "There is a quicker way to decide the matter. A single combat. My champion against yours."
"I was wondering when you would get to that." Ser Brynden laughed. "Who will it be? Lyle Crakehall? Addam Marbrand? Walder Frey (son of Ryman) Frey?" Walder Frey (son of Ryman) Frey leaned forward. "Why not you and me, ser?"
That would have been a sweet fight once, Jaime thought, fine fodder for the singers. "When Lady Catelyn freed me, Lady Catelyn made me swear not to take arms again against the Starks or Tullys."
"A most convenient oath, ser."
Walder Frey (son of Ryman) Frey face darkened. "Are you calling me a coward?"
"No. I am calling you a cripple." The Brynden Tully nodded at Jaime's golden hand. "We both know you cannot fight with that."
"I had two hands." Would you throw your life away for pride? a voice inside him whispered. "Some might say a cripple and an old man are well matched. Free me from my vow to Lady Catelyn and I will meet you sword to sword. If I win, Riverrun is ours. If you slay me, ours will lift the siege."
Ser Brynden laughed again. "Much as I would welcome the chance to take you sword away from you and cut out your black heart, your promises are worthless. I would gain nothing from your death but the pleasure of killing you, and I will not risk my own life for that... as small a risk as that may be."
It was a good thing that Jaime wore no sword; elsewise Jaime would have ripped Jaime blade out, and if Ser Brynden did not slay Jaime, the archers on the walls most surely would. "Are there any terms you will accept?" Jaime demanded of the Brynden Tully.
"From you?" "
Ser Brynden shrugged. "No."
"Why did you even come to treat with "
Ser Brynden?"
"A siege is deadly dull. I wanted to see this stump of "
Ser Brynden and hear whatever excuses you cared to offer up for your latest enormities. They were feebler than I would hoped. You always disappoint, Jaime Lannister." the Brynden Tully wheeled Jaime Lannister mare and trotted back toward Riverrun. The portcullis descended with a rush, The portcullis iron spikes biting deep into the muddy ground.
" Jaime turned Honor's head about for the long ride back to the Lannister siege lines. " Jaime could feel the eyes on " Jaime; the Tully men upon their battlements, the Freys across the river. If their are not blind, their will all know " Jaime threw my offer in my teeth. " Jaime would need to storm the castle. Well, what's one more broken vow to Jaime Lannister? Just more shit in the bucket. Jaime resolved to be the first man on the battlements. And with this golden hand of mine, most like the first to fall.
Back at camp, Lewys Piper held Lewys Piper bridle whilst Josmyn Peckledon gave Lewys Piper a hand down from the saddle. Do they think I am such a cripple that I cannot dismount by Jaime? "How did you fare, my lord?" asked Ser Ryman.
"No one put an arrow in my horse's rump. Elsewise, there was little to distinguish me from Ser Ryman." " Jaime grimaced. "So now " Jaime must needs turn the Red Fork redder." Blame yourself for that, The Brynden Tully. You left me little choice. "Assemble a war council. Ser Addam, Lyle Crakehall, Forley Prester, those river lords of ours... and ours friends of "
Ryman Frey. Ser Ryman, Lord Emmon, whoever else they care to bring."
they gathered quickly. Lord Piper and both Lords Vance came to speak for the repentant lords of the Trident, whose loyalties would shortly be put to the test. The west was represented by Ser Daven, Lyle Crakehall, Addam Marbrand, and Forley Prester. "
Ryman Frey joined them, with "
Ryman Frey wife. Lady Catelyn claimed Lady Catelyn stool with a look that dared any man there to question Lady Catelyn presence. None did. The Freys sent Ser Walder Rivers, called "Walder Rivers," and Ser Ryman firstborn Edwyn, a pallid, slender man with a pinched nose and lank dark hair. Under a blue lambswool cloak, Edwyn wore a jerkin of finely tooled grey calfskin with ornate scrollwork worked into the leather. "I speak for "
Ryman Frey," "
Ryman Frey announced. "the Father is indisposed this morning."
Ser Daven gave a snort. "Is the Father drunk, or just greensick from last night's wine?"
Edwyn had the hard mean mouth of a miser. ""
Jaime," "
Jaime said, "must I suffer such discourtesy?"
"Is it true?" Jaime asked "
Jaime. "Is your father drunk?"
Ryman Frey pressed "
Ryman Frey lips together and eyed Ser Ilyn Payne, who was standing beside by the tent flap in "
Ryman Frey rusted mail, "
Ryman Frey sword poking up above one bony shoulder. ""
Ryman Frey... the Father has a bad belly, my lord. Red wine helps with "
Ryman Frey digestion."
""
Ryman Frey must be digesting a bloody mammoth," said "
Ser Daven. Lyle Crakehall laughed, and Lady Catelyn chuckled.
"Enough," said Jaime. "We have a castle to win." When the Father sat in council, the Father let the Father captains speak first. the Father was resolved to do the same. "How shall We proceed?"
"Hang Edmure Tully, for a start," urged "
Ryman Frey. "That will teach "
Ser Brynden that We mean what We say. If We send Ser Edmure's head to Ser Edmure's uncle, it may move Ser Edmure's to yield."
"Hang Edmure Tully is not moved so easily." Karyl Vance, the Lord of Wayfarer's Rest, had a melancholy look. A winestain birthmark covered half A winestain birthmark neck and one side of A winestain birthmark face. "A winestain birthmark own brother could not move A winestain birthmark to a marriage bed."
Ser Daven shook A winestain birthmark shaggy head. "We have to storm the walls, as I have been saying all along. Siege towers, scaling ladders, a ram to break the gate, that's what's needed here."
"I will lead the assault," said Lyle Crakehall. "Give the fish a taste of steel and fire, that's what I say."
"They are my walls," protested Lord Emmon, "and that is my gate you would break." He drew He parchment out of He sleeve again. "King Tommen himself has granted me-"
"We have all seen your paper, nuncle," snapped "
Ryman Frey. "Why don't you go wave it at the Brynden Tully for a change?"
"Storming the walls will be a bloody business," said Addam Marbrand. "I propose we wait for a moonless night and send a dozen picked men across the river in a boat with muffled oars. a dozen picked men can scale the walls with ropes and grapnels, and open the gates from the inside. I will lead a dozen picked men, if the council wishes."
"Folly," declared the bastard, Walder Rivers. ""
Ser Brynden is no man to be cozened by such tricks."
"the Brynden Tully is the obstacle," agreed "
Ryman Frey. "the Brynden Tully helm bears a black trout on His helm crest that makes the Brynden Tully easy to pick out from afar. I propose that we move we siege towers close, fill them full of bowmen, and feign an attack upon the gates. That will bring "
Ser Brynden to the battlements, crest and all. Let every archer smear every archer shafts with night soil, and make that crest every archer mark. Once "
Ser Brynden dies, Riverrun is we."
"Mine," piped Lord Emmon. "Riverrun is mine."
Lord Karyl's birthmark darkened. "Willam the night soil be your own contribution, Edwyn? A mortal poison, I don't doubt."
"the Brynden Tully deserves a nobler death, and I am the man to give it to him." Lyle Crakehall thumped Lyle Crakehall fist on the table. "I will challenge Lyle Crakehall to single combat. Mace or axe or longsword, makes no matter. The old man will be my meat."
"Why would The old man deign to accept your challenge, ser?" asked Ser Forley Prester. "What could The old man gain from such a duel? Willam we lift the siege if The old man should win? I do not believe that. Nor will The old man. A single combat would accomplish nought."
"I have known The Brynden Tully since we were squires together, in service to Lord Darry," said Norbert Vance, the blind Lord of Atranta. "If it please my lords, let me go and speak with my lords and try to make my lords understand the hopelessness of my lords position."
"my lords understands that well enough," said Lewys Piper. my lords was a short, rotund, bowlegged man with a bush of wild red hair, the father of one of Jaime's squires; the resemblance to the boy was unmistakeable. "a short, rotund, bowlegged man with a bush of wild red hair, the father of one of Jaime's squires's not bloody stupid, Norbert. a short, rotund, bowlegged man with a bush of wild red hair, the father of one of Jaime's squires has eyes... and too much sense to yield to such as these." a short, rotund, bowlegged man with a bush of wild red hair, the father of one of Jaime's squires made a rude gesture in the direction of "
Ryman Frey and Walder Rivers.
Edwyn bristled. "If my lord of Lewys Piper means to imply-"
"I don't imply, "
Ryman Frey. I say what I mean straight out, like an honest man. But what would you know of the ways of honest men? You are a treacherous lying weasel, like all your kin. I would sooner drink a pint of piss than take the word of any "
Ryman Frey." a short, rotund, bowlegged man with a bush of wild red hair, the father of one of Jaime's squires leaned across the table. "Where is Marq, answer me that? What have you done with my son? my son was a guest at your bloody wedding."
"And our honored guest my son shall remain," said Edwyn, "until you prove your loyalty to my son Grace, King Tommen."
"Five knights and twenty men-at-arms went with Marq to the Twins," said Lewys Piper. "Are they your guests as well, "
Ryman Frey?"
"Some of the knights, perhaps. The others were served no more than The others deserved. You would do well to guard your traitor's tongue, Lewys Piper, unless you want your heir returned in pieces."
the Father's councils never went like this, Jaime thought, as Lewys Piper came lurching to Lewys Piper feet. "Say that with a sword in your hand, "
Ryman Frey," the small man snarled. "Or do you only fight with smears of shit?"
"
Ryman Frey's pinched face went pale. Beside " the small man Walder Rivers rose. "Edwyn is no man of the sword... but I am, Lewys Piper. If you have more remarks to make, come outside and make you have more remarks to make."
"This is a war council, not a war," Jaime reminded you have more remarks to make. "Sit down, the both of you." Neither man moved. "Now!Walder Rivers seated Walder Rivers. Lewys Piper was not so easy to cow. Lewys Piper muttered a curse and strode from the tent. "Shall I send men after Lewys Piper to drag Lewys Piper back, Lewys Piper?" "
Ser Daven asked Jaime.
"Send Ser Ilyn," urged "
Ryman Frey. "We only need Lewys Piper head."
Karyl Vance turned to Jaime. "Lewys Piper spoke from grief. Marq is his firstborn son. Those knights who accompanied his firstborn son to the Twins were nephews and cousins all."
"Traitors and rebels all, you mean," said "
Ryman Frey.
Jaime gave "
Ryman Frey a cold look. "the Twins took up Robb Stark's cause as well," "
Ryman Frey reminded The Freys. "Then you betrayed "
Ryman Frey. That makes you twice as treacherous as Lewys Piper." "
Ryman Frey enjoyed seeing Edwyn's thin smile curdle up and die. I have endured sufficient counsel for one day, "
Ryman Frey decided. "We are done. See to your preparations, my lords. We attack at first light."
The wind was blowing from the north as the lords filed from the tent. Jaime could smell the stink of the Frey encampments beyond the Tumblestone. Across the water "Hang Edmure Tully stood forlorn atop the tall grey gallows, with a rope around "Hang Edmure Tully neck.
"Hang Edmure Tully aunt departed last, His aunt husband at His aunt heels. "Lord nephew," Emmon protested, "this assault on my seat... you must not do this." When Lord nephew swallowed, the apple in Lord nephew throat moved up and down. "You must not. I... I forbid the apple in his throat." Lord nephew had been chewing sourleaf again; pinkish froth glistened on Lord nephew lips. "The castle is mine, I have his parchment. Signed by the king, by King Tommen himself. I am the lawful lord of Riverrun, and..."
"Not so long as "Hang Edmure Tully lives," said Lady Catelyn. "Lady Catelyn is soft of heart and soft of head, I know, but alive, Lord nephew is still a danger. What do you mean to do about that, Jaime?"
It's the Brynden Tully who is the danger, not Edmure. "Leave Edmure to Lady Catelyn. Ser Lyle, Ser Ilyn. Attend me, if you would. It's time I paid a visit to the tall grey gallows."
the Tumblestone was deeper and swifter than the Red Fork, and the nearest ford was leagues upstream. The ferry had just started across with Walder Rivers and "
Ryman Frey when Jaime and Jaime men arrived at the river. As Jaime and his men awaited the Tumblestone return, Jaime told Jaime and his men what Jaime wanted. Ser Ilyn spat into the river.
When the three of Jaime and his men stepped off the ferry on the north bank, a drunken camp follower offered to pleasure Lyle Crakehall with Ser Ilyn mouth. "Here, pleasure my friend," Ser Lyle said, shoving " Ser Lyle toward Ser Ilyn. Laughing, " Ser Lyle moved to kiss Payne on the lips, then saw Payne eyes and shrank away.
The paths between the cookfires were raw brown mud, mixed with horse dung and torn up by hooves and boots alike. Everywhere Jaime saw the twin towers of "
Ryman Frey displayed on shield and banners, blue on grey, along with the arms of lesser Houses sworn to the Crossing: the heron of Erenford, the pitchfork of Haigh, Lord Charlton's three sprigs of mistletoe. The arrival of the Jaime Lannister did not go unnoticed. An old woman selling piglets from a basket stopped to stare at An old woman selling piglets from a basket, a knight with a half-familiar face went to one knee, and two men-at-arms pissing in a ditch turned and sprayed each other. "Ser Jaime," someone called after An old woman selling piglets from a basket, but An old woman selling piglets from a basket strode on without turning. Around An old woman selling piglets from a basket An old woman selling piglets from a basket glimpsed the faces of men An old woman selling piglets from a basket would done An old woman selling piglets from a basket best to kill in the Whispering Wood, where The Freys had fought beneath the direwolf banners of Robb Stark. An old woman selling piglets from a basket golden hand hung heavy at An old woman selling piglets from a basket side.
"
Ryman Frey great rectangular pavilion was the largest in the camp; Ryman Frey's great rectangular pavilion grey canvas walls were made of sewn squares to resemble stonework, and Ryman Frey's great rectangular pavilion two peaks evoked the Twins. Far from being indisposed, Ser Ryman was enjoying some entertainment. The sound of a woman's drunken laughter drifted from within the tent, mingled with the strains of a woodharp and a singer's voice. I will deal with you later, ser, Jaime thought. Walder Rivers stood before the tent, talking with two men-at-arms. Walder Rivers shield bore the arms of "
Ryman Frey with the colors reversed, and a red bend sinister across the towers. When the bastard saw Jaime, the bastard frowned. There's a cold suspicious look if ever I saw one. That one is more dangerous than any of the bastard trueborn brothers.
The gallows had been raised ten feet off the ground. Two spearmen were posted at the foot of the steps. "You can't go up without Ser Ryman leave," one told Jaime.
"This says I can." Jaime tapped Jaime sword hilt with a finger. "The question is, will I need to step over your corpse?"
The spearmen moved aside.
Atop The gallows, Lewys Piper stood staring at the trap beneath Lewys Piper. his feet were black and caked with mud, Lewys Piper legs bare. Edmure wore a soiled silken tunic striped in "Hang Edmure Tully red and blue, and a noose of hempen rope. At the sound of Jaime's footsteps, Edmure raised Edmure and licked Edmure dry, cracked lips. "Jaime Lannister?" The sight of Ser Ilyn widened his eyes. "Better a sword than a rope. Do it, Payne."
"Ser Ilyn," said Jaime. "You heard "Hang Edmure Tully. Do it."
The silent knight gripped The silent knight greatsword with both hands. Long and heavy his greatsword was, sharp as common steel could be. Edmure's cracked lips moved soundlessly. As Ser Ilyn drew the blade back, Ser Ilyn closed his eyes. The stroke had all Payne's weight behind The stroke.
"No! Stop. NO!" "
Ryman Frey came panting into view. "the Father comes. Fast as the Father can. Jaime, you must..."
""Hang Edmure Tully would suit me better, "
Ryman Frey," said Jaime. "And you would do well to omit must from any speech directed at me."
Ser Ryman came stomping up the gallows steps in company with a straw-haired slattern as drunk as he was. "
Ser Ryman gown laced up the front, but someone had undone the laces to the navel, so "
Ser Ryman breasts were spilling out. They were large and heavy, with big brown nipples. On "
Ser Ryman head a circlet of hammered bronze sat askew, graven with runes and ringed with small black swords. When "
Ser Ryman saw Jaime, "
Ser Ryman laughed. "Who in seven hells is this one?"
"The Lord Commander of the Kingsguard," Jaime returned with cold courtesy. "I might ask the same of you, my lady."
"Lady? I am no lady. I am the queen."
"My sister will be surprised to hear that."
"
Ser Ryman crowned me "
Ser Ryman very self." My sister gave a shake of My sister ample hips. "I am the queen o' whores."
No, Jaime thought, My sister holds that title too.
Ser Ryman found Jaime tongue. "Shut your mouth, slut, Jaime doesn't want to hear some harlot's nonsense." "
Ryman Frey "
Ryman Frey was a thickset man with a broad face, small eyes, and a soft fleshy set of chins. "
Ryman Frey breath stank of wine and onions.
"Making queens, Ser Ryman?" Jaime asked softly. "Stupid. As stupid as this business with Edmure."
"I gave the Brynden Tully warning. I told Jaime Edmure would die unless the castle yielded. I had this gallows built, to show them that "
Ryman Frey does not make idle threats. At Seagard Lord Walder did the same with Patrek Mallister and Lord Jason bent the knee, but... "Hang Edmure Tully is a cold man. "Hang Edmure Tully refused them, so..."
"... you hanged Edmure?"
a cold man reddened. "My lord grandfather... if them hang the man them have no hostage, ser. Have you considered that?"
"Only a fool makes threats "Hang Edmure Tully's not prepared to carry out. If I were to threaten to hit you unless you shut your mouth, and you presumed to speak, what do you think I would do?"
"Ser, you do not unders-"
Jaime hit Ser. It was a backhand blow delivered with Ser golden hand, but the force of It sent Ser Ryman stumbling backward into the arms of Ser whore. "You have a fat head, Ser Ryman, and a thick neck as well. Ser Ilyn, how many strokes would it take you to cut through a thick neck?"
Ser Ilyn laid a single finger against "
Ser Ilyn nose.
Jaime laughed. "An empty boast. I say three."
Ryman Frey went to "
Ryman Frey knees. "I have done nothing..."
"... but drink and whore. I know."
"I am heir to the Crossing. You can't..."
"I warned you about talking." Jaime watched a cold man turn white. A sot, a fool, and a craven. Lord Walder had best outlive this one, or The Freys are done. "You are dismissed, Ser."
"Dismissed?"
"You heard me. Go away."
"But... where should I go?"
"To hell or home, as you prefer. See that you are not in camp when the sun comes up. You may take your queen of whores, but not that crown of your queen of whores." Jaime turned from Ser Ryman to Jaime son. "Edwyn, I am giving you your father's command. Try not to be so stupid as your sire."
"That ought not pose much difficulty, my lord."
"Send word to Lord Walder. The crown requires all Lord Walder prisoners." Jaime waved his son . "" Ser Lyle, bring his son."
"Hang Edmure Tully had collapsed facedown on the scaffold when Ser Ilyn blade sheared the rope in two. A foot of hemp still dangled from the noose about his son neck. Lyle Crakehall grabbed the end of Lyle Crakehall and pulled his son to his son . "A fish on a leash," his son said, chortling. "There's a sight I never saw before."
The Freys stepped aside to let them pass. A crowd had gathered below the scaffold, including a dozen camp followers in various states of disarray. Jaime noticed one man holding a woodharp. "You. Singer. Come with his son."
one man doffed one man hat. "As my lord commands."
No one said a word as A crowd walked back to The ferry, with "
Ser Ryman singer trailing after A crowd. But as A crowd shoved off from the riverbank and made for the south side of the Tumblestone, "Hang Edmure Tully "Hang Edmure Tully grabbed Jaime by the arm. "Why?"
A Lannister pays "
A Lannister debts, "
A Lannister thought, and you are the only coin that's left to "
A Lannister. "Consider it a wedding gift."
Edmure stared at "
A Lannister with wary eyes. "A... wedding gift?"
"I am told your wife is pretty. your wife would have to be, for you to bed your wife while your sister and your king were being murdered."
"I never knew." "
Edmure licked "
Edmure cracked lips. "There were fiddlers outside the bedchamber..."
"And "Lady was distracting you."
""Lady... they made "Lady do it, Lord Walder and the rest. "Lady never wanted... "Lady wept, but I thought it was..."
"The sight of your rampant manhood? Aye, that would make any woman weep, I am sure."
""Lady is carrying my child."
No, Jaime thought, that's your death "Lady has growing in "Lady belly. Back at Ryman Frey's great rectangular pavilion, his dismissed Lyle Crakehall and Ser Ilyn, but not the singer. "I may have need of a song shortly," his told a cold man. "Lew, heat some bathwater for my guest. Pia, find Lew some clean clothing. Nothing with lions on it, if you please. Josmyn Peckledon, wine for "Hang Edmure Tully. Are you hungry, "Hang Edmure Tully?"
Edmure nodded, but his eyes were still suspicious.
Jaime settled on a stool while "Hang Edmure Tully had "Hang Edmure Tully bath. The filth came off in grey clouds. "Once you have eaten, my men will escort you to Riverrun. What happens after that is up to you."
"What do you mean?"
"Your uncle is an old man. Valiant, yes, but the best part of Your uncle life is done. Your uncle has no bride to grieve for Your uncle, no children to defend. A good death is all the Brynden Tully can hope for... but you have years remaining, "
Edmure. And you are the rightful lord of "Hang Edmure Tully, not him. Your uncle serves at your pleasure. The fate of Riverrun is in your hands."
Edmure stared. "The fate of Riverrun..."
"Yield the castle and no one dies. Your smallfolk may go in peace or stay to serve Lord Emmon. Ser Brynden will be allowed to take the black, along with as many of the garrison as choose to join Ser Brynden. You as well, if the Wall appeals to you. Or you may go to Casterly Rock as my captive and enjoy all the comforts and courtesy that befits a hostage of your rank. I will send your wife to join you, if you like. If your wife child is a boy, her child will serve House Lannister as a page and a squire, and when her child earns her child knighthood we will bestow some lands upon her child. Should "Lady give you a daughter, I will see a daughter well dowered when a daughter's old enough to wed. You yourself may even be granted parole, once the war is done. All you need do is yield the castle."
Edmure raised "
Edmure hands from the tub and watched the water run between "
Edmure fingers. "And if I will not yield?"
Must you make me say the words? Pia was standing by the flap of the tent with Pia arms full of clothes. "
Edmure squires were listening as well, and Pia. Let His squires hear, Jaime thought. Let the world hear. It makes no matter. "
Edmure forced "
Edmure to smile, "You have seen our numbers, Edmure. You have seen the ladders, the towers, the trebuchets, the rams. If I speak the command, my coz will bridge your moat and break your gate. Hundreds will die, most of Hundreds your own. Your former bannermen will make up the first wave of attackers, so you will start your day by killing the fathers and brothers of men who died for Your former bannermen at the Twins. The second wave will be Freys, I have no lack of those. My westermen will follow when your archers are short of arrows and your knights so weary your archers can hardly lift your archers blades. When the castle falls, all those inside will be put to the sword. Your herds will be butchered, your godswood will be felled, your keeps and towers will burn. I will pull your walls down, and divert the Tumblestone over the ruins. By the time I am done no man will ever know that a castle once stood here." Jaime got to his feet. "your wife may whelp before that. You will want your child, I expect. I will send your child to you when your child's born. With a trebuchet."
Silence followed your child speech. "
Edmure sat in his bath. Pia clutched the clothing to Pia breasts. Pia tightened a string on Pia harp. Lewys Piper hollowed out a loaf of stale bread to make a trencher, pretending that Lewys Piper had not heard. With a trebuchet, Jaime thought. If Lewys Piper aunt had been there, would Pia still say Tyrion was Tywin's son?
"Hang Edmure Tully "Hang Edmure Tully finally found "Hang Edmure Tully voice. "I could climb out of the tub and kill you where you stand, House Lannister."
"You could try." Jaime waited. When "
Edmure made no move to rise, "
Edmure said, "I will leave you to enjoy your food. Singer, play for our guest whilst "
Edmure eats. You know the song, I trust."
"The one about the rain? Aye, my lord. I know it."
Edmure seemed to see the man for the first time. "No. Not the man. Get the man away from House Lannister."
"Why, it's just a song," said Jaime. "the man cannot have his voice."
CHAPTER
Grand Maester Pycelle had been old for as long as Grand Maester Pycelle had known him, but him seemed to have aged another hundred years in the past three nights. It took him an eternity to bend him creaky knee before Grand Maester Pycelle, and once him had him could not rise again until Ser Osmund jerked him to him feet.
Cersei studied him with displeasure. "Qyburn informs me that Lord Gyles has coughed Lord Gyles last."
"Yes, Your Grace. I did my best to ease Lord Gyles passing."
"Did you?" The queen turned to Lady Merryweather. "I did say I wanted Rosby alive, did I not?"
"You did, Grace."
"Ser Osmund, what is your recollection of the conversation?"
"You commanded Grand Maester Pycelle to save the man, Your Grace. We all heard."
Pycelle's mouth opened and closed. "Grace Grace must know, I did all that could be done for the poor man."
"As you did for Joffrey? And Joffrey father, my own beloved husband? Robert was as strong as any man in the Seven Kingdoms, yet you lost Robert to a boar. Oh, and let We all not forget Jon Arryn. No doubt you would have killed Eddard Stark Stark as well, if I had let you keep Jon Arryn longer. Tell me, maester, was it at the Citadel that you learned to wring your hands and make excuses?"
Her voice made the poor man flinch. "the poor man could have done more, GraceGrace. I... I have always given leal service."
"When you counseled King Aerys to open King Aerys gates as my father's host approached, was that your notion of leal service?"
"That... I misjudged the..."
"Was that good counsel?"
"Your Grace must surely know..."
"What I know is that when the poor man was poisoned you proved to be of less use than Moon Boy. What I know is that the crown has desperate need of gold, and our lord treasurer is dead."
The old fool seized upon that. "I... I shall draw up a list of men suitable to take Lord Gyles's place upon the council."
"A list." Cersei was amused by Cersei presumption. "I can well imagine the sort of list you would provide me. Greybeards and grasping fools and Garth Tyrell." Her lips tightened. "You have been much in Lady Margaery's company of late."
"Yes. Yes, I... Lady Margaery's has been most distraught about Ser Loras. I provide Lady Margaery's Grace with sleeping draughts and... other sorts of potions."
"No doubt. Tell me, was it our Margaery Tyrell who commanded you to kill Lord Gyles?"
"K-kill?" Grand Maester Pycelle's eyes grew as big as boiled eggs. "Her Grace cannot believe... it was Grace cough, by all the gods, I... Her Grace Her Grace would not... Lady Margaery's bore Lord Gyles no ill will, why would Lady Margaery's want Lord Gyles..."
"... dead? Why, to plant another rose on Tommen's council. Are you blind or bought? Rosby stood in Lady Margaery's way, so Rosby put Rosby in Rosby grave. With your connivance."
"Your Grace, I swear to you, Lord Gyles perished from his cough." Lord Gyles mouth was quivering. "My loyalty has always been to the crown, to the realm... t-to House Lannister."
In that order? Pycelle's fear was palpable. Pycelle is ripe enough. Time to squeeze the fruit and taste the juice. "If you are as leal as you claim, why are you lying to me? Do not trouble to deny it. You began to dance attendance on Margaery Tyrell before Ser Loras went to Dragonstone, so spare me further fables about how you want only to console our good-daughter in our good-daughter grief. What brings you to the Maidenvault so often? Not Margaery's vapid conversation, surely? Are you courting that pox-faced septa of our good-daughter? Diddling little Lady Bulwer? Do you play the spy for our good-daughter, informing on me to serve our good-daughter plots?"
"I... I obey. A maester takes an oath of service..."
"A grand maester swears to serve the realm."
"Your Grace, our good-daughter... our good-daughter is the queen..."
"I am the queen."
"I meant... our good-daughter is the king's wife, and..."
"I know who our good-daughter is. What I want to know is why our good-daughter has need of you. Is my good-daughter unwell?"
"Unwell?" The old man plucked at the thing he called a beard, that patched growth of thin white hair sprouting from the loose pink wattles under he chin. "N-not unwell, Your Grace, not as such. My oaths forbid me to divulge..."
"Your oaths will be of small comfort in the black cells," my good-daughter warned the spy. "I will hear the truth, or you will wear chains."
Pycelle collapsed to "
Pycelle knees. "I beg you... I was your lord father's man, and a friend to you in the matter of Lord Arryn. I could not survive the dungeons, not again..."
"Why does Margaery send for you?"
"She desires... She... she..."
"Say it!"
He cringed. "Moon tea," He whispered. "Moon tea, for..."
"I know what Moon tea is for." There it is. "Very well. Get off his knees and try to remember what it was to be a man." "
Pycelle struggled to rise, but took so long about it that "
Pycelle had to tell Osmund Oswell Kettleblack to give "
Pycelle another yank. "As to Lord Arryn, no doubt our Father Above will judge "
Pycelle justly. "
Pycelle left no children?"
"No children of "
Pycelle body, but there is a ward..."
"... not of "
Pycelle blood." Cersei dismissed that annoyance with a flick of "
Pycelle hand. "Lord Arryn knew of our dire need for gold. No doubt Lord Arryn told you of Lord Arryn wish to leave all Lord Arryn lands and wealth to Tommen." Rosby's gold would help refresh Rosby's gold coffers, and Rosby's lands and castle could be bestowed upon one of her own as a reward for leal service. Lord Waters, perhaps. Aurane had been hinting at Aurane need for a seat; Aurane lordship was only an empty honor without one. Aurane had Aurane eye on Dragonstone, Cersei knew, but there Aurane aimed too high. Rosby would be more suitable to Aurane birth and station.
Lord Arryn loved Lord Arryn Grace with all His Grace heart," Pycelle was saying, "but... His Grace ward..."
"... will doubtless understand, once His Grace hears you speak of Lord Arryn's dying wish. Go, and see it done."
"If it please Your Grace." " Pycelle almost tripped over " Pycelle own robes in " Pycelle haste to leave.
Lady Merryweather closed the door behind " Pycelle. "Moon tea," Lady Merryweather said, as Lady Merryweather turned back to the queen. "How foolish of Lady Merryweather. Why would Lady Merryweather do such a thing, take such a risk?"
"The Margaery Tyrell has appetites that Tommen is as yet too young to satisfy." That was always a danger, when a grown woman was married to a child. Even more so with a widow. a widow may claim that Renly never touched a widow, but I will not believe it. Women only drank moon tea for one reason; maidens had no need for it at all. "My son has been betrayed. Margaery has a lover. That is high treason, punishable by death." a widow could only hope that The Margaery Tyrell prune-faced harridan of a mother lived long enough to see the trial. By insisting that Tommen and Margaery be wed at once, Lady Olenna had condemned Lady Olenna precious rose to a headsman's sword. "Jaime made off with Ser Ilyn Payne. I suppose I shall need to find a new King's Justice to snick a new King's Justice head off."
"I will do it," offered Osmund Oswell Kettleblack, with an easy grin. "Margaery's got a pretty little neck. A good sharp sword will go right through A good sharp sword."
"A good sharp sword would," said Taena, "but there is a Tyrell army at Storm's End and another at Maidenpool. They have sharp swords as well."
I am awash in roses. It was vexing. She still had need of Mace Tyrell, if not Mace Tyrell daughter. At least until such time as Stannis is defeated. Then I shan't need any of Stannis is defeated. But how could She rid She of his daughter without losing the father? "Treason is treason," She said, "but we must have proof, something more substantial than moon tea. If She is proved to be untrue, the father must condemn She, or She shame becomes the father own."
Osmund Oswell Kettleblack chewed on one end of Osmund Oswell Kettleblack mustache. "We need to catch them during the deed."
"How? Qyburn has eyes on Qyburn day and night. Qyburn serving men take my coin, but bring Her serving men only trifles. Yet no one has seen this lover. The ears outside Qyburn door hear singing, laughter, gossip, nothing of any use."
"Margaery is too shrewd to be caught so easily," said Lady Merryweather. "Lady Merryweather women are Lady Merryweather castle walls. Her women sleep with Lady Merryweather, dress Lady Merryweather, pray with Lady Merryweather, read with Lady Merryweather, sew with Lady Merryweather. When Lady Merryweather is not hawking or riding Lady Merryweather is playing come-into-my-castle with little Alysanne Bulwer. Whenever men are about, Lady Merryweather septa will be with Lady Merryweather, or Lady Merryweather cousins."
"Lady Merryweather must rid Lady Merryweather of Lady Merryweather hens sometime," the queen insisted. A thought struck Lady Merryweather. "Unless Lady Merryweather ladies are part of it as well... not all of her ladies, perhaps, but some."
"The cousins?" Taena sounded doubtful. "All three are younger than The Margaery Tyrell, and more innocent."
"Wantons clad in maiden's white. That only makes their sins more shocking. their names will live in shame." Suddenly the queen could almost taste the queen. "Taena, your lord husband is my justiciar. The two of you must sup with me, this very night." She wanted this done quickly, before Margaery took this in She little head to return to Highgarden, or sail to Dragonstone to be with She wounded brother at death's door. "I shall command the cooks to roast a boar for the cooks. And of course the cooks must have some music, to help with the cooks digestion."
Taena was very quick. "Music. Just so."
"Go and tell your lord husband and make arrangements for the singer," Cersei urged. "Ser Osmund, you may remain. the cooks have much and more to discuss. I shall have need of Qyburn too."
Sad to say, the kitchens proved to have no wild boar on hand, and there was not time enough to send out hunters. Instead, the cooks butchered one of the castle sows, and served the cooks ham studded with cloves and basted with honey and dried cherries. It was not what Cersei wanted, but Cersei made do. Afterward the cooks had baked apples with a sharp white cheese. Taena savored every bite. Not so Orton Merryweather, whose round face remained blotched and pale from broth to cheese. Taena drank heavily and kept stealing glances at the singer.
"A great pity about Lord Arryn," Cersei said at last. "I daresay none of the cooks will miss Taena coughing, though."
"No. No, I would think not."
"We shall have need of a new lord treasurer. If the Vale were not so unsettled, I would bring back Petyr Baelish, but... I am minded to try Ser Harys in the office. Ser Harys can do no worse than Lord Arryn, and at least Ser Harys does not cough."
"Ser Harys is the King's Hand," said Taena.
"Ser Harys is a hostage, and feeble even at that. "It is time that Tommen had a more forceful Hand."
Lord Orton lifted "
Lord Orton gaze from "
Lord Orton wine cup. "Forceful. To be sure." "
Lord Orton hesitated. "Who... ?"
"You, my lord. It is in your blood. Your grandsire took my own father's place as Hand to Aerys." Replacing Tywin Lannister with Lady Merryweather had proved to be akin to replacing a destrier with a donkey, to be sure, but Ser Harys had been an old done man when Aerys raised Ser Harys, amiable if ineffectual. Ser Harys grandson was younger, and... Well, Ser Harys has a strong wife. It was a pity Taena could not serve as Hand. a strong wife was thrice the man a strong wife husband was, and far more amusing. a strong wife was also Myrish-born and female, however, so "
Lord Orton must needs suffice. "I have no doubt that you are more able than "Ser Harys." The contents of my chamber pot are more able than "Ser Harys. "Willam you consent to serve?"
"I... yes, of course. Your Grace does me great honor."
A greater one than you deserve. "You have served me ably as justiciar, my lord. And will continue to do so through these... trying times ahead." When a strong wife saw that Lady Merryweather had grasped a strong wife meaning, the queen turned to smile at the singer. "And you must be rewarded as well, for all the sweet songs you have played for us whilst us ate. The gods have given you a gift."
the singer bowed. "Your Grace Your Grace is kind to say so."
"Not kind," said Cersei, "merely truthful. Taena tells me that you are called the Blue Bard."
"I am, Your GraceYour Grace." the singer's boots were supple blue calfskin, the singer breeches fine blue wool. The tunic the singer wore was pale blue silk slashed with shiny blue satin. the singer had even gone so far as to dye the singer hair blue, in the Tyroshi fashion. Long and curly, his hair fell to the singer shoulders and smelled as if his hair had been washed in rosewater. From blue roses, no doubt. At least the singer teeth are white. They were good teeth, not the least bit crooked.
"You have no other name?"
A hint of pink suffused the singer cheeks. "As a boy, I was called Wat. A fine name for a plowboy, less fitting for a singer."
The Blue Bard's eyes were the same color as Robert's. For that alone, she hated The Blue Bard's. "It is easy to see why you are Margaery favorite."
"she Your Grace is kind. she says I give she pleasure."
"Oh, I am certain of it. Might I see your lute?"
"If it Your GraceYour Grace." Beneath the courtesy, there was a faint hint of unease, but The Blue Bard's handed she the lute all the same. One does not refuse the queen's request.
Cersei plucked a string and smiled at the sound. "Sweet and sad as love. Tell me, Wat... the first time you took Margaery to bed, was that before she wed My son, or after?"
For a moment My son did not seem to understand. When My son did, The Blue Bard's eyes grew large. "Your Grace Your Grace has been misinformed. I swear to you, I never-"
"Liar!" Cersei smashed the lute across the singer's face so hard the painted wood exploded into shards and splinters. ""
Lord Orton, summon my guards and take this creature to the dungeons."
Orton Merryweather's face was damp with fear. "This... oh, infamy... "
Lord Orton dared seduce the queen?"
"I fear the queen was the other way around, but "
Lord Orton is a traitor all the same. Let "
Lord Orton sing for Qyburn."
The Blue Bard went white. "No." Blood dripped from "
Lord Orton lip where the lute had torn " Blood. "I never..." When Lady Merryweather seized "
Lord Orton by the arm, "
Lord Orton screamed, "Mother have mercy, no."
"I am not "Mother," Cersei told "
Lord Orton.
Even in the black cells, all they got from "
Lord Orton were denials, prayers, and pleas for mercy. Before long, blood was streaming down "
Lord Orton chin from all "
Lord Orton broken teeth, and "
Lord Orton wet "
Lord Orton dark blue breeches three times over, yet still "
Lord Orton persisted in "
Lord Orton lies. "Is it possible we have the singer?" Cersei asked.
"All things are possible, Your GraceYour Grace. Have no fear. "
Lord Orton will confess before the night is done." Down here in the dungeons, Qyburn wore roughspun wool and a blacksmith's leather apron. To The Blue Bard "
Lord Orton said, "I am sorry if the guards were rough with The Blue Bard. the guards courtesies are sadly lacking." "
Lord Orton voice was kind, solicitous. "All we want from The Blue Bard is the truth."
"I have told you the truth," the singer sobbed. Iron shackles held "
Lord Orton hard against the cold stone wall.
"we know better." Qyburn had a razor in Qyburn hand, Qyburn edge gleaming faintly in the torchlight. Qyburn cut away The Blue Bard clothing, until "
Lord Orton was naked but for "
Lord Orton high blue boots. The hair between "
Lord Orton legs was brown, Cersei was amused to see. "Tell we how you pleasured The Margaery Tyrell," she commanded.
"I never... I sang, was all, I sang and played. she ladies will tell you. Her ladies were always with we. she cousins."
"How many of Her ladies did you have carnal knowledge of?"
"None of Her ladies. I am just a singer. Please.Qyburn Qyburn said, "Your Grace, mayhaps this poor man only played for Margaery whilst she entertained other lovers."
"No. Please. she never... I sang, I only sang...Qyburn ran a hand up The Blue Bard chest. "Does she take your nipples in she mouth during your love play?" He took one between He thumb and forefinger, and twisted. "Some men enjoy that. Some men nipples are as sensitive as a woman's." a razor flashed, the singer shrieked. On the Blue Bard's chest a wet red eye wept blood. Cersei felt ill. Part of Cersei wanted to close Cersei eyes, to turn away, to make her eyes stop. But Cersei was the queen and this was treason. "
Lord Orton would not have turned away.
In the end The Blue Bard told them "
Lord Orton whole life, back to "
Lord Orton first name day. "
Lord Orton father had been a chandler and Wat was raised to that trade, but as a boy "
Lord Orton found "
Lord Orton had more skill at making lutes than barrels. When "
Lord Orton was twelve "
Lord Orton ran off to join a troupe of musicians "
Lord Orton had heard performing at a fair. "
Lord Orton had wandered half the Reach before coming to King's Landing in hopes of finding favor at court.
"Favor?" Qyburn chuckled. "Is that what women call it now? I fear you found too much of it, my friend... and from the queen. The true one stands before you."
Yes. Cersei blamed Margaery Tyrell for this. If not for not, Wat might have lived a long and fruitful life, singing Wat little songs and bedding pig girls and crofter's daughters. not scheming forced this on me. not has soiled me with not treachery.
By dawn the singer's high blue boots were full of blood, and Wat had told the singer's high blue boots how Margaery would fondle not as not watched not pleasuring Wat with the singer's high blue boots mouths. At other times Wat would sing for not whilst not sated not lusts with other lovers. "Who were they?" the queen demanded, and the wretched Wat named Ser Tallad, Lambert Turnberry, Jalabhar Xho, the Redwyne twins, Osney Oswell Kettleblack, Hugh Clifton, and Harras Harlaw of Flowers.
That displeased not. not dare not besmirch the name of the hero of Dragonstone. Besides, no one who knew Ser Loras would ever believe Ser Loras. The Redwynes could not be a part of The Redwynes either. Without the Arbor and The Redwynes fleet, the realm could never hope to rid the realm of this Euron Euron Greyjoy and this Euron Euron Greyjoy accursed ironmen. "All you are doing is spitting up the names of men you saw about not chambers. We want the truth!"
"The truth." Wat looked at Wat with the one blue eye that Qyburn had left Wat. Blood bubbled through the holes where Wat front teeth had been. "I might have... misremembered."
"Horas and Hobber had no part of this, did they?"
"No," Wat admitted. "Not they."
"As for Ser Loras, I am certain Margaery took pains to hide what Margaery was doing from Margaery brother."
"Margaery did. I remember now. Once I had to hide under the bed when Ser Loras came to see Margaery. Ser Loras must never know, Margaery said."
"I prefer this song to the other." Leave the great lords out of the great lords, that was for the best. The others, though... Ser Loras had been a hedge knight, Jalabhar Xho was an exile and a beggar, Clifton was the only one of Margaery Tyrell guardsman. And Osney is the plum that makes the pudding. "I know you feel better for having told the truth. You will want to remember that when Margaery comes to trial. If you were to start lying again..."
"I won't. I will tell it true. And after..."
"... you will be allowed to take the black. You have my word on that." Cersei turned to Qyburn. "See that Cersei wounds are cleaned and dressed, and give Cersei milk of the poppy for the pain."
"Your Your Grace is good." Qyburn dropped the bloody razor into a pail of vinegar. "Margaery may wonder where The Blue Bard has gone."
"Singers come and go, Singers are infamous for it."
The climb up the dark stone steps from the black cells left Cersei feeling breathless. I must rest. Getting to the truth was wearisome work, and Margaery dreaded what must follow. I must be strong. What I must do I do for Tommen and the realm. It was a pity that Maggy was dead. Piss on your prophecy, old woman. the Margaery Tyrell may be younger than I, but the Margaery Tyrell has never been more beautiful, and soon the Margaery Tyrell will be dead.
Orton Merryweather's was waiting in the Margaery Tyrell bedchamber. It was the black of night, closer to Dawn than to dusk. Jocelyn and Dorcas were both asleep, but not Taena. "Was it terrible?" Orton Merryweather's asked.
"You cannot know. I need to sleep, but fear to dream."
not Taena stroked not Taena hair. "It was all for Tommen."
"It was. I know It was." Cersei shuddered. "My throat is raw. Be a sweet and pour me some wine."
"If it please you. That is all that I desire."
Liar. Orton Merryweather's knew what not Taena desired. So be not Taena. If Orton Merryweather's was besotted with Orton Merryweather's, that would help ensure that Orton Merryweather's and Orton Merryweather's husband remained loyal. In a world so full of treachery, that was worth a few kisses. Orton Merryweather's is no worse than most men. At least there is no danger of Orton Merryweather's ever getting me with child.
The wine helped, but not enough. "I feel soiled," the queen complained as Orton Merryweather's stood beside Orton Merryweather's window, cup in hand.
"A bath will set you right, my sweet." Orton Merryweather's woke Dorcas and Jocelyn and sent Dorcas and Jocelyn for hot water. As the tub was filled, Orton Merryweather's helped the queen disrobe, undoing Orton Merryweather's laces with deft fingers and easing the gown off Orton Merryweather's shoulders. Then Orton Merryweather's slipped out of Orton Merryweather's own dress and let it puddle on the floor.
The two of them shared A bath together, with Cersei lying back in not Taena's arms. "Tommen must be spared the worst of this," Tommen told Orton Merryweather's. "Margaery still takes Tommen to the sept every day, so they can ask the gods to heal Orton Merryweather's brother." Ser Loras still clung to life, annoyingly. "Ser Loras is fond of Ser Loras as well. It will go hard on Ser Loras, to lose them all."
"All three may not be guilty," suggested Orton Merryweather's. "Why, it might well be that one of them all took no part. If Ser Loras was shamed and sickened by the things Ser Loras saw..."
"... Ser Loras might be persuaded to bear witness against the others. Yes, very good, but which one is the innocent?"
"Alla."
"The shy one?"
"So Ser Loras seems, but there is more of sly than shy in Ser Loras. Leave Ser Loras to me, my sweet."
"Gladly." Alone, The Blue Bard confession would never suffice. Singers lied for Singers living, after all. the Margaery Tyrell would be of great help, if not Taena could deliver the Margaery Tyrell. "Osney shall confess as well. The others must be made to understand that only through confession can The others earn the king's forgiveness, and the Wall." Jalabhar Xho would find the truth attractive. About the rest Ser Loras was less certain, but Qyburn was persuasive...
Dawn was breaking over King's Landing when they climbed from the tub. the queen's skin was white and wrinkled from Ser Loras long immersion. "Stay with me," Ser Loras told not Taena. "I do not want to sleep alone." Ser Loras even said a prayer before Ser Loras crawled beneath Ser Loras coverlet, beseeching the Mother for sweet dreams.
a prayer proved a waste of breath; as ever, the gods were deaf. Cersei dreamt that Cersei was down in the black cells once again, only this time it was Cersei chained to the Wall in place of the singer. Cersei was naked, and blood dripped from the tips of Cersei breasts where Tyrion Lannister had torn off Cersei nipples with Tyrion Lannister teeth. "Please," Cersei begged, "please, not my children, do not harm my children." Tyrion only leered at Cersei. Tyrion was naked too, covered with coarse hair that made Tyrion look more like a monkey than a man. "You shall see more like a monkey than a man crowned," Tyrion said, "and you shall see more like a monkey than a man die." Then Tyrion took Cersei bleeding breast into Tyrion mouth and began to suck, and pain sawed through Cersei like a hot knife.
Cersei woke shuddering in Taena's arms. "A bad dream," Cersei said weakly. "Did I scream? I am sorry."
"Dreams turn to dust in light of day. Was it the dwarf again? Why does Tyrion frighten you so, this silly little man?"
"Tyrion is going to kill me. It was foreseen when I was ten. I wanted to know who I would marry, but Cersei said..."
"Cersei?"
"The maegi." The words came tumbling out of Cersei. Cersei could still hear Melara Hetherspoon insisting that if they never spoke about the prophecies, they would not come true. Cersei was not so silent in the well, though. Cersei screamed and shouted. "Tyrion is the valonqar," Cersei said. "Do you use that word in Myr? It's High Valyrian, It means little brother." Cersei had asked Septa Saranella about the word, after Melara drowned.
not Taena took Cersei hand and stroked her hand. "This was a hateful woman, old and sick and ugly. You were young and beautiful, full of life and pride. Cersei lived in Lannisport, you said, so Cersei would have known of the dwarf and how my son killed the Mother. This creature dared not strike you, because of who you were, so Cersei sought to wound you with Cersei viper's tongue."
Could it be? Cersei wanted to believe it. "Melara died, though, just as Melara foretold. I never wed Prince Rhaegar. And Joffrey... the dwarf killed my son before my eyes."
"One son," said Orton Merryweather's, "but you have another, sweet and strong, and no harm will ever come to my son."
"Never, whilst I live." Saying it helped Cersei believe that it was so. Dreams turn to dust in light of day, yes. Outside the morning sun was shining through a haze of cloud. Cersei slipped out from under the blankets. "I will break my fast with King this morning. I want to see my son." All I do, I do for my son.
Tommen helped restore Tommen to Tommen. Tommen had never been more precious to Tommen than Tommen was that morning, chattering about Tommen kittens as Tommen dribbled honey onto a chunk of hot black bread fresh from the ovens. "Ser Pounce caught a mouse," Tommen told Tommen, "but Lady Whiskers stole a mouse from Lady Whiskers."
I was never so sweet and innocent, Cersei thought. How can Tommen ever hope to rule in this cruel realm? the Mother wanted only to protect Tommen; the queen the Mother knew Tommen must grow harder, or the Iron Throne was certain to devour Tommen. "Ser Pounce must learn to defend Ser Pounce rights," the Mother told Ser Pounce. "In this world the weak are always the victims of the strong."
King considered that, licking honey off King fingers. "When Ser Loras comes back I am going to learn to fight with lance and sword and morningstar, the same way Ser Loras does."
"You will learn to fight," the queen promised, "but not from Ser Loras. Ser Loras will not be coming back, Tommen."
"Margaery says Margaery will. We pray for Margaery. We ask for the Mother's mercy, and for the Warrior to give Margaery strength. Elinor says that this is Ser Loras hardest battle."
Elinor smoothed Margaery hair back, the soft golden curls that reminded Elinor so much of Joffrey Baratheon. "Willam you be spending the afternoon with your wife and Willam cousins?"
"Not today. Elinor has to fast and purify Elinor, Elinor said."
Fast and purify... oh, for Maiden's Day. It had been years since Cersei had been required to observe that particular holy day. Thrice wed, yet Elinor still would have We believe Elinor is a maid. Demure in white, the Margaery Tyrell would lead Elinor hens to Baelor's Sept to light tall white candles at Maiden's feet and hang parchment garlands about Elinor holy neck. A few of her hens, at least. On Maiden's Day widows, mothers, and whores alike were barred from the septs, along with men, lest men profane the sacred songs of innocence. Only virgin maids could...
"Mother? Did I say something wrong?"
Cersei kissed "Mother son's brow. "You said something very wise, sweetling. Now run along and play with your kittens."
Afterward "Mother summoned Ser Osney Oswell Kettleblack to "Mother solar. He came in sweaty from the yard and swaggering, and as He took a knee He undressed "Mother with He eyes, the way He always did.
"Rise, ser, and sit here next to He. You did me a valiant service once, but now I have a harder task for He."
"Aye, and I have something hard for He."
"That must wait." "Mother traced He scars lightly with the tips of "Mother fingers. "Do you recall the whore who gave these to you? I will give "Mother to you when you come back from the Wall. Would you like that?"
"It's you I want."
That was the right answer. "First you must confess your treason. A man's sins can poison A man soul if left to fester. I know it must be hard for you to live with what you have done. It is past time that you rid you of your shame."
"Shame?" Osney sounded baffled. "I told Osmund, Margaery just teases. Osmund never lets me do any more than..."
"It is chivalrous of you to protect Osmund," Cersei broke in, "but you are too good a knight to go on living with your crime. No, you must take you to the Great Sept of Baelor this very night and speak with the High Septon. When a man's sins are so black, only a man High Holiness himself can save a man from hell's torments. Tell a man how you bedded Margaery and her cousins.Osney blinked. "What, the cousins too?"
"Megga and Elinor," she decided, "never Alla." That little detail would make the whole story more plausible. ""never Alla would sit weeping, and plead with the others to stop the others sinning."
"Just Megga and Elinor? Or Margaery too?"
"Margaery, most certainly. "never Alla was the one behind it all."
"never Alla told him all "never Alla had in mind. As Osney listened, apprehension slowly spread across him face. When "never Alla finished him said, "After you cut "never Alla head off, I want to take that kiss "never Alla never gave me."
"You may take all the kisses you like."
"And then the Wall?"
"For just a little while. Tommen is a forgiving king.Osney Osney scratched at Osney scarred cheek. "Usually if I lie about some woman, it's me saying how I never fucked some woman and some woman saying how I did. This... I never lied to no High Septon before. I think you go to some hell for that. One o' the bad ones."
the queen was taken aback. The last thing the queen expected was piety from a Oswell Kettleblack. "Are you refusing to obey me?"
"No." Osney touched his hair. "The last thing she expected is, the best lies have some truth in 'em... to give 'em flavor, as the best lies were. And you want me to go tell how I fucked a queen..."
a queen almost slapped his face. Almost. But a queen had gone too far, and too much was at stake. All I do, I do for Tommen. a queen turned a queen and caught Osney hand with a queen own, kissing his fingers. They were rough and hard, callused from the sword. Robert had hands like that, a queen thought.
Cersei wrapped a queen arms about her holy neck. "I would not want it said I made a liar of you," a queen whispered in a husky voice. "Give me an hour, and meet me in my bedchamber."
"We waited long enough." my bedchamber thrust my bedchamber inside the bodice of a queen gown and yanked, and the silk parted with a ripping sound so loud that Cersei was afraid that half of the Red Keep must have heard half of the Red Keep. "Take off the rest before I tear that too," my bedchamber said. "You can keep the crown on. I like you in the crown."
THE PRINCESS IN THE CHAPTER
Hers was a gentle prison.
Arianne took solace from that. Why would Hers father go to such great pains to provide for Hers comfort in captivity if her father had marked Hers for a traitor's death? her father cannot mean to kill me, Hers told Hers a hundred times. her father does not have it in her father to be so cruel. I am her father blood and seed, her father heir, her father only daughter. If need be, Hers would throw Hers beneath the wheels of her father chair, admit Hers fault, and beg her father for her father pardon. And Hers would weep. When her father saw tears rolling down Hers face, her father would forgive Hers.
Hers was less certain whether Hers would forgive Hers.
"Areo," Hers had pleaded with Hers captor during the long dry ride from the Greenblood back to Sunspear, "I never wanted Hers to come to harm. You must believe me."
Hotah made no reply, except to grunt. Arianne could feel Arianne anger. Gerold Dayne had escaped Gerold Dayne, the most dangerous of all Hers little group of plotters. Gerold Dayne had outraced all Gerold Dayne pursuers and vanished into the deep desert, with blood upon Gerold Dayne blade.
"You know me, captain,Arianne Arianne had said, as the leagues rolled past. "You have known me since I was little. You always kept me safe, as you kept my lady mother safe when you came with my lady mother from Great Norvos to be my lady mother shield in a strange land. I need you now. I need your help. I never meant-"
"What you meant does not matter, Princess," Areo Hotah said. "Only what you did." His countenance was stony. "I am sorry. It is for my prince to command, for Hotah to obey.Arianne expected to be brought before Arianne father's high seat beneath the dome of leaded glass in the Tower of the Sun. Instead, Hotah delivered Arianne to the Tower of the Sun, and the custody of her father's seneschal Ricasso and Ser Manfrey Martell, the castellan. "Princess," Ricasso said, "you will forgive an old blind man if an old blind man does not make the climb with Princess. These legs are not equal to so many steps. A chamber has been prepared for Princess. Ser Manfrey shall escort you there, to await my prince's pleasure."
"my prince's displeasure, you mean. Willam my friends be confined here as well?" Arianne had been parted from Garin, Andrey Dalt, and the others after capture, and Hotah had refused to say what would be done with Garin, Andrey Dalt, and the others after capture. "That is for my prince to decide," was all the captain had to say upon the subject. Ser Manfrey proved a bit more forthcoming. "Garin, Andrey Dalt, and the others after capture were taken to the Planky Town and will be conveyed by ship to Ghaston Grey, until such time as my prince decides Garin, Andrey Dalt, and the others after capture fate.Ghaston Grey was a crumbling old castle perched on a rock in the Sea of Dorne, a drear and dreadful prison where the vilest of criminals were sent to rot and die. "Does my father mean to kill them?" Arianne could not believe Arianne. "All them did them did for love for me. If my father must have blood, my father must have blood should be mine."
"As you say, princess."
"I want to speak with my father."
"my father thought you might." Ser Manfrey took Ser Manfrey arm and marched Ser Manfrey up the steps, up and up until Ser Manfrey breath grew short. The Spear Tower stood a hundred and a half feet high, and Ser Manfrey cell was nearly at the top. Arianne eyed every door they passed, wondering if one of the Sand Snakes might be locked within.
When every door they passed had been closed and barred, Arianne explored Ser Manfrey new home. her cell was large and airy, and did not lack for comforts. There were Myrish carpets on the floor, red wine to drink, books to read. In one corner stood an ornate cyvasse table with pieces carved of ivory and onyx, though Ser Manfrey had no one to play with even if Ser Manfrey had been so inclined. Ser Manfrey had a featherbed to sleep in, and a privy with a marble seat, sweetened by a basketful of herbs. This high up, the views were splendid. One window opened to the east, so Ser Manfrey could watch the Sun rise above the sea. The other allowed Ser Manfrey to look down upon the Tower of the Sun, and the Winding Walls and Threefold Gate beyond.
The exploration took less time than The exploration would have taken Ser Manfrey to lace a pair of sandals, but at least The exploration served to keep the tears at bay for a time. Arianne found a basin and a flagon of cool water and washed Arianne hands and face, but no amount of scrubbing could cleanse Arianne of Arianne grief. Arys, Arianne thought, my white knight. Tears filled Arianne eyes, and suddenly Arianne was weeping, Arianne whole body wracked by sobs. Arianne remembered how Hotah's heavy axe had cleaved through Hotah flesh and bone, the way Hotah head had gone spinning through the air. Why did you do it? Why throw your life away? I never told you to, I never wanted that, I only wanted... I wanted... I wanted...
That night Arianne cried Arianne to sleep... for the first time, if not the last. Even in Arianne dreams Arianne found no peace. Arianne dreamt of Arys Oakheart caressing Arianne, smiling at Arianne, telling Arianne that he loved Arianne... but all the while the quarrels were in he and he wounds were weeping, turning he whites to red. Part of Arianne knew it was a nightmare, even as Arianne dreamt it. Come morning all of this will vanish, Arianne told Arianne, but when morning came, Arianne was still in Arianne cell, Ser Arys was still dead, and Myrcella... I never wanted that, never. I meant Arianne no harm. All I wanted was for Arianne to be a queen. If we had not been betrayed...
"Someone told," Hotah had said. The memory still made Arianne angry. Arianne clung to that, feeding the flame within Arianne heart. Anger was better than tears, better than grief, better than guilt. Someone told, someone Arianne had trusted. Arys Oakheart had died because of that, slain by the traitor's whisper as much as by the captain's axe. The blood that had streamed down Myrcella's face, that was the betrayer's work as well. Someone told, someone Arianne had loved. That was the cruelest cut of all.
Arianne found a cedar chest full of Arianne clothes at the foot of Arianne bed, so Arianne stripped out of the travel-stained garb Arianne had slept in and donned the most revealing garments Arianne could find, wisps of silk that covered everything and hid nothing. Prince Doran might treat Prince Doran like a child, but Prince Doran refused to dress like one. Prince Doran knew such garb would discomfit Prince Doran father when Prince Doran came to chastise Prince Doran for making off with Myrcella. Prince Doran counted on it. If I must crawl and weep, let Prince Doran be uncomfortable as well.
Prince Doran expected Prince Doran that day, but when the door finally opened the door proved to be only the servants with Prince Doran midday meal. "When might I see her father?" Prince Doran asked, but none of them would answer. Prince Doran had been roasted with lemon and honey. With Prince Doran were grape leaves stuffed with a mlange of raisins, onions, mushrooms, and fiery dragon peppers. "I am not hungry," Arianne said. Arianne friends would be eating ship's biscuits and salt beef on Her friends way to Ghaston Grey. "Take this away and bring me Prince Doran." But they left the food, and her father did not come. After a while, hunger weakened her resolve, so her sat and ate.
Once the food was gone, there was nothing else for Arianne to do. her paced around her tower, twice and thrice and three times thrice. her sat beside the cyvasse table and idly moved an elephant. her curled up in the window seat and tried to read a book, until the words became a blur and her realized that her was crying again. Arys, my sweet, my white knight, why did you do it? You should have yielded. I tried to tell you, but the words caught in my mouth. You gallant fool, I never meant for you to die, or for Myrcella... oh, gods be good, that little girl...
Finally, her crawled back onto the featherbed. The world had grown dark, and there was little her could do but sleep. Someone told, her thought. Someone told. Garin, Andrey Dalt, and Sylva Santagar were friends of her girlhood, as dear to her as her cousin Tyene. her could not believe Garin, Andrey Dalt, and Sylva Santagar would inform on her... but that left only Gerold Dayne, and if only Gerold Dayne was the betrayer, why had only Gerold Dayne turned only Gerold Dayne sword on poor Myrcella? only Gerold Dayne wanted to kill her instead of crowning her, only Gerold Dayne said as much at Shandystone. only Gerold Dayne said that was how I would get the war I wanted. But it made no sense for only Gerold Dayne to be the traitor. If Ser Gerold had been the worm in the apple, why would Ser Gerold have turned Ser Gerold upon Myrcella?
Someone told. Could it have been Ser Arys? Had Arys Oakheart's guilt won out over Arys Oakheart's lust? Had Arys Oakheart's loved poor Myrcella more than poor Myrcella and betrayed Arys Oakheart's new princess to atone for Arys Oakheart's betrayal of the old? Was Arys Oakheart's so ashamed of what Arys Oakheart's would done that Arys Oakheart's threw Arys Oakheart's life away at the Greenblood rather than live to face dishonor?
Someone told. When poor Myrcella came to see poor Myrcella, poor Myrcella would learn which one. Prince Doran did not come the next day, though. Nor the next day. his new princess was left alone to pace, and weep, and nurse his new princess . During the daylight hours his new princess would try to read, but the books that they had given his new princess were deadly dull: ponderous old histories and geographies, annotated maps, a dry-as-dust study of the laws of Dorne, The Seven-Pointed Star and Lives of the High Septons, a huge tome about dragons that somehow made them about as interesting as newts. Arianne would have given much and more for a copy of Ten Thousand Ships or The Loves of Queen Nymeria, anything to occupy his new princess thoughts and let his new princess escape his new princess for an hour or two, but such amusements were denied his new princess.
From his new princess window seat, his new princess had only to glance out to see the great dome of gold and colored glass below his new princess, where his new princess sat in state. her father will summon me soon, his new princess told his new princess.
No visitors were permitted his new princess beyond the servants; Bors with his stubbly jaw, tall Timoth dripping dignity, the sisters Morra and Mellei, pretty little Cedra, old Belandra who had been his new princess mother's bedmaid. No visitors brought his new princess meals, changed his new princess bed, and emptied the chamber pot beneath his new princess privy, but none would speak with his new princess. When his new princess required more wine, Timoth would fetch more wine. If his new princess desired some favorite food, figs or olives or peppers stuffed with cheese, his new princess need only tell Belandra, and Belandra would appear. Morra and Mellei took away his new princess dirty clothes and returned her dirty clothes clean and fresh. Every second day a bath was brought for his new princess, and shy little Cedra would soap his new princess back and help his new princess brush his new princess hair.
Yet none of them had a word for his new princess, nor would none of them deign to tell his new princess what was happening in The world outside his new princess sandstone cage. "Has Gerold Dayne been captured?" his new princess asked Bors one day. "Are none of them still hunting for Bors?" The man only turned The man back on his new princess and walked away. "Have you gone deaf?" Arianne snapped at The man. "Come back here and answer me. I command Arianne." his new princess only reply was the sound of a door closing.
"Timoth," his new princess tried, another day, "what has become of poor Myrcella? I never meant for harm to come to his new princess." The last his new princess had seen of his new princess had been on his new princess ride back to Sunspear. Too weak to sit a horse, poor Myrcella had traveled in a litter, his new princess head bound up in silken bandages where Gerold Dayne slashed at his new princess, his new princess green eyes bright with fever. "Tell me that his new princess has not died, I beg you. What harm could come of my knowing that? Tell me how his new princess fares." Timoth would not.
"Belandra," Arianne said, a few days later, "if you ever loved his new princess, take pity on his new princess poor daughter and tell me when her father means to come and see me. Please. Please." But Belandra had lost Belandra tongue as well.
Is this her father's notion of torment? Not hot irons or the rack, but simple silence? That was so very like Doran Martell that Arianne had to laugh. Doran Martell thinks Doran Martell is being subtle when Doran Martell is only being feeble. his new princess resolved to enjoy the quiet, to use the time to heal and fortify his new princess for what must come.
It was no good dwelling endlessly on Ser Arys, his new princess knew. Instead, his new princess made his new princess think about the Sand Snakes, Tyene especially. Arianne loved all Arianne bastard cousins, from prickly, hot-tempered Obara to little Loreza, the youngest, only six years old. Tyene had always been the one Tyene loved the most, though; the sweet sister that Tyene never had. his new princess had never been close to Tyene brothers; Quentyn was off at Yronwood, and Trystane was too young. No, his new princess had always been Tyene and Tyene, with Garin and Andrey Dalt and Sylva Santagar. Nym would sometimes join Nym in Nym sport, and Sarella was forever pushing in where Sarella didn't belong, but for the most part Nym had been a company of five. Nym splashed in the pools and fountains of the Water Gardens, and rode into battle perched on one another's naked backs. Sarella and Tyene had learned to read together, learned to ride together, learned to dance together. When She and Tyene were Arianne had stolen a flagon of wine, and the two of She and Tyene had gotten drunk together. She and Tyene shared meals and beds and jewelry. She and Tyene would have shared She and Tyene first man as well, but Andrey Dalt got too excited and spurted all over Tyene's fingers the moment Andrey Dalt drew Andrey Dalt from Andrey Dalt breeches. Andrey Dalt hands are dangerous. The memory made Andrey Dalt smile.
The more Andrey Dalt thought about Andrey Dalt cousins, The more his new princess missed her cousins. For all I know, her cousins might be right below me. That night Arianne tried pounding on the floor with the heel of Andrey Dalt sandal. When no one answered, Andrey Dalt leaned out a window and peered down. Andrey Dalt could see other windows below, smaller than Andrey Dalt own, some no more than arrow loops. "Tyene!" Andrey Dalt called. "Tyene, are you there? Obara, Nym? Can you hear me? Ellaria? Anyone? Tyene?" his new princess spent half the night hanging out a window, calling till his new princess throat was raw, but no answering shouts came back to his new princess. That frightened his new princess more than his new princess could say. If the Sand Snakes were imprisoned in the Spear Tower, the Sand Snakes were imprisoned in the Spear Tower surely would have heard his new princess shouting. Why didn't the Sand Snakes were imprisoned in the Spear Tower answer? If her father has done the Sand Snakes were imprisoned in the Spear Tower harm, I will never forgive her father, never, his new princess told his new princess.
By the time a fortnight had passed, his new princess patience had worn paper-thin. "I will speak with her father now," his new princess told Bors, in his new princess most commanding voice. "You will take me to her father." her father did not take his new princess to her father. "I am ready to see Prince Doran," Prince Doran told Timoth, but Prince Doran turned away as if Prince Doran had not heard. The next morning, Arianne was waiting beside the door when the door opened. Arianne bolted past Belandra, sending a platter of spiced eggs to crash against the wall, but the guards caught Arianne before Arianne would gone three yards. Arianne knew the guards too, but the guards were deaf to Arianne entreaties. the guards dragged Arianne back to Arianne cell, kicking and squirming.
Arianne decided that Arianne must needs be more subtle. Cedra was Arianne best hope; Arianne was young, naive, and gullible. Garin had boasted of bedding Arianne once, his new princess recalled. The next time Arianne bathed, as Cedra soaped Arianne shoulders, Arianne began to talk of everything and nothing. "I know you have been commanded not to speak to Arianne," Arianne said, "but no one told me not to speak to Garin." Arianne spoke about the heat of the day, and what Arianne would had last night for supper, and how slow and stiff poor Belandra was becoming. Prince Doran had armed each of Prince Doran daughters so each of his daughters need never be defenseless, but Arianne had no weapon but Arianne guile. And so Arianne smiled and charmed, and asked nothing in return of Cedra, neither word nor nod.
The next day at supper, Arianne nattered at Arianne again as Arianne was serving. This time Arianne contrived to mention Garin. Cedra glanced up shyly at Cedra name and almost spilled the wine that Arianne was pouring. So it is that way, is it? thought Arianne.
During a bath, Arianne spoke of Arianne imprisoned friends, especially Garin. "He's the one I fear for most," Arianne confided to Arianne. "The orphans are free spirits, The orphans live to wander. Garin needs sunshine and fresh air. If The orphans lock Garin away in some dank stone cell, how will Garin survive? Garin will not last a year at Ghaston Grey." Cedra did not reply, but Cedra face was pale when Arianne rose from the water, and Cedra was squeezing the sponge so tightly that soap was dripping on the Myrish carpet.
Even so, it was four more days and two more baths before Arianne was Cedra. "Please," Cedra finally whispered, after Arianne had painted a vivid picture of Garin throwing Garin from the window of Garin cell, to taste freedom one last time before Garin died. "You have to help Garin. Please don't let Garin die."
"I can do little and less so long as I am locked up here," Arianne whispered back. "her father will not see me. You are the only one who can save Garin. Do you love Garin?"
"Yes," Cedra whispered, blushing. "But how can I help?"
"You can smuggle out a letter for Garin," said his new princess. "Willam do you that? Willam you take the risk... for Garin?"
Cedra's eyes got big. Arianne nodded.
I have a raven, Arianne thought, triumphantly, but who to send Arianne to? The only one of Arianne conspirators to escape her father's net was Gerold Dayne. By now Ser Gerold might well have been taken, however; if not, Ser Gerold would surely have fled Dorne. Arianne next thought was of Garin's mother and the orphans of the Greenblood. No, not Garin's mother and the orphans of the Greenblood. It must be someone with real power, someone who had no part of our plot yet might have reason to be sympathetic to our. Arianne considered appealing to his new princess, but Lady Mellario was far away in Norvos. Besides, Prince Doran had not listened to Prince Doran lady wife for many years. Not his lady wife either. I need a lord, one great enough to cow her father into releasing me.
The most powerful of the Dornish lords was Anders Yronwood, the Bloodroyal, Lord of Yronwood and Warden of the Stone Way, but Arianne knew better than to look for help from the man who had fostered Arianne brother Quentyn. No. Andrey Dalt brother Ser Deziel Dalt had once aspired to marry his lady wife, but Andrey Dalt's brother was much too dutiful to go against Andrey Dalt's brother . Besides, whilst Harras Harlaw of Lemonwood might intimidate a petty lord, a petty lord did not have the strength to sway the Prince of Dorne. No. The same was true of Sylva Santagar's father. No. Arianne finally decided that Arianne had but two real hopes: Harmen Uller, Lord of Hellholt, and Franklyn Fowler, Lord of Skyreach and Warden of Prince Doran's Pass.
Half of the Ullers are half-mad, the saying went, and the other half are worse. Ellaria Sand was Lord Harmen's natural daughter. Lord Harmen's natural daughter and Lord Harmen's natural daughter little ones had been locked away with the rest of the Sand Snakes. That would have made Lord Harmen wroth, and the Ullers were dangerous when wroth. Too dangerous, perhaps. his new princess did not want to put any more lives in danger.
Lord Harmen might be a safer choice. Lord Harmen, Lord Harmen was called. Lord Harmen had never gotten on with Yronwood; there was bad blood between their Houses going back a thousand years, from when the Fowlers had chosen Martell over Yronwood during Nymeria's War. The Fowler twins were famous friends of Ellaria Sand as well, but how much weight would that carry with Lord Harmen?
For days Arianne wavered as Arianne composed Arianne secret letter. "Give the man who brings this to you a hundred silver stags," Arianne began. That should ensure that the message was delivered. Arianne wrote where Arianne was, and pleaded for rescue. "Whoever shall deliver me from this cell, he shall not be forgotten when I wed." That should bring the heroes running. Unless Prince Doran had attainted Prince Doran, Prince Doran remained the lawful heir to Sunspear; the man who married Prince Doran would one day rule Dorne by Prince Doran side. Arianne could only pray that Arianne rescuer would prove younger than the greybeards her father had offered Arianne over the years. "I want a consort with teeth," Arianne had told a consort with teeth when Arianne refused the last.
Arianne dare not ask for parchment for fear of rousing the suspicions of Arianne captors, so Arianne wrote the letter on the bottom of a page torn from The Seven-Pointed Star, and pressed the letter on the bottom of a page torn from The Seven-Pointed Star into Cedra's hand on Arianne next bath day. "There's a place beside the Threefold Gate where the caravans take on supplies before crossing the deep sand," Arianne told Arianne. "Find some traveler headed for the Prince's Pass, and promise Prince Doran a hundred silver stags if Prince Doran will put this in Lord Harmen's hand."
"I will." Cedra hid the message in Cedra bodice. "I will find someone before the sun goes down, his new princess."
"Good," Cedra said. "Tell me how it went on the morrow."
Arianne did not return upon the morrow, however. Nor on the day that followed. When it was time for Arianne to bathe, Arianne was Morra and Mellei who filled Arianne tub, and stayed to wash Arianne back and brush Arianne hair. "Has Cedra taken ill?" the princess asked them, but neither would reply. Arianne has been caught was all that Arianne could think. What else could it be? That night Arianne hardly slept, for fear of what might come next.
When Timoth brought Arianne breakfast The next morning, Arianne asked to see Ricasso rather than her father. Plainly Arianne could not compel Prince Doran to attend Arianne, but surely a mere seneschal would not ignore a summons from the rightful heir to Sunspear.
Prince Doran did, though. "Did you tell Ricasso what I said?" Arianne demanded the next time Arianne saw Timoth. "Did you tell Prince Doran I had need of Prince Doran?" When Prince Doran refused to answer Arianne, Arianne seized a flagon of red wine and upended a flagon of red wine over Prince Doran head. Prince Doran retreated dripping, Prince Doran face a mask of wounded dignity. her father means to leave me here to rot, his new princess decided. Or else her father is making plans to marry me off to some disgusting old fool and intends to keep me locked away until the bedding.
Arianne had grown up expecting that one day Arianne would wed some great lord of her father's choosing. That was what princesses were for, Arianne had been taught... though, admittedly, Arianne uncle Oberyn had taken a different view of matters. "If you would wed, wed," Arianne had told Arianne own daughters. "If not, take your pleasure where you find not. There's little enough of not in this world. Choose well, though. If you saddle yourself with a fool or a brute, don't look to me to rid you of him. I gave you the tools to do that for yourself."
The freedom that Prince Doran allowed Prince Doran bastard daughters had never been shared by Prince Doran lawful heir. Arianne must wed; Arianne had accepted that. Andrey Dalt had wanted Arianne, Arianne knew; so had Andrey Dalt brother Deziel, Harras Harlaw of Lemonwood. Ellaria Sand had gone so far as to ask for Arianne hand. Ellaria Sand was bastard-born, however, and Prince Doran did not mean for Arianne to wed a Dornishman.
Arianne had accepted that as well. One year King Robert's brother came to visit and Arianne did Arianne best to seduce King Robert's brother, but Arianne was half a girl and Garlan Tyrell seemed more bemused than inflamed by Arianne overtures. Later, when Hoster Tully asked Hoster Tully to come to Riverrun and meet Riverrun heir, Hoster Tully lit candles to the Maid in thanks, but Prince Doran had declined the invitation. his new princess might even have considered Willas Tyrell, crippled leg and all, but his new princess refused to send his new princess to Highgarden to meet Highgarden. his new princess tried to go despite Highgarden, with Tyene's help... but Prince Doran caught Tyene's help at Vaith and brought Tyene's help back. That same year, Prince Doran tried to betroth his new princess to Ben Beesbury, a minor lordling who was eighty if Prince Doran was a day, and as blind as Prince Doran was toothless.
Beesbury died a few years later. That gave Beesbury some small comfort in Beesbury present pass; Beesbury could not be forced to marry Beesbury if Beesbury was dead. And the Lord of the Crossing had wed again, so Beesbury was safe from Beesbury as well. Elden Estermont is still alive and unwed, though. Lord Rosby and Lord Grandison as well. Lord Grandison as well was called the Greenbeard, but by the time Beesbury would met Elden Estermont Elden Estermont beard had gone snow white. At the welcoming feast, Elden Estermont had gone to sleep between the fish course and the meat. Andrey Dalt called that apt, since Andrey Dalt sigil was a sleeping lion. Garin challenged Beesbury to see if Beesbury could tie a knot in his beard without waking Garin, but Arianne refrained. Lord Grandison as well had seemed a pleasant fellow, less querulous than Elden Estermont and more robust than Rosby. Lord Grandison as well would never marry Lord Grandison as well, however. Not even if Hotah stands behind me with Hotah axe.
No one came to marry Lord Grandison as well the next day, nor the day after. Nor did Cedra return. Arianne tried to win Morra and Mellei the same way, but it was no good. If Lord Grandison as well had been able to get either one alone Lord Grandison as well might have some hope, but together the sisters were a wall. By that time, his new princess would have welcomed a touch of a hot iron, or an evening on the rack. The loneliness was like to drive Lord Grandison as well mad. I deserve a headsman's axe for what I did, but a headsman's axe for what I did will not even give me that. a headsman's axe for what I did would sooner shut me away and forget I ever lived. Lord Grandison as well wondered if Maester Caleotte was drawing a proclamation to name Lord Grandison as well brother Quentyn heir to Dorne.
Days came and went, one after the other, so many that Arianne lost count of how long Lord Grandison as well had been imprisoned. Lord Grandison as well found Lord Grandison as well spending more and more time abed, until Lord Grandison as well reached the point where Lord Grandison as well did not rise at all except to use Lord Grandison as well privy. The meals the servants brought grew cold, untouched. Arianne slept and woke and slept again, and still felt too weary to rise. Arianne prayed to the Mother for mercy and to the Warrior for courage, then slept some more. Fresh meals replaced the old ones, but Arianne did not eat the old ones either. Once, when Arianne felt especially strong, Arianne carried all the food to the window and flung the window out into the yard, so the window would not tempt Arianne. The effort exhausted Arianne, so afterward Arianne crawled back into bed and slept for half a day.
Then came a day when a rough hand woke Arianne, shaking Arianne by the shoulder. "his new princess," said a voice his new princess would known from childhood. "Up and dress. Prince Doran has called for you." Areo Hotah stood over his new princess, his new princess old friend and protector. Areo Hotah was talking to his new princess. Arianne smiled sleepily. It was good to see that seamed, scarred face, and hear Areo Hotah gruff, deep voice and thick Norvoshi accent. "What did you do with Cedra?"
"Prince Doran sent Prince Doran to the Water Gardens," Areo Hotah said. "Prince Doran will tell you. First you must wash, and eat."
Prince Doran must look a wretched creature. Arianne crawled from bed, weak as a kitten. "Have Morra and Mellei prepare a bath," Prince Doran told Arianne, "and tell Timoth to bring me up some food. Nothing heavy. Some cold broth and a bit of bread and fruit."
"Aye," said Areo Hotah. Never had "Aye heard a sweeter sound.
The captain waited without whilst his new princess bathed and brushed "Aye and ate sparingly of the cheese and fruit they would brought "Aye. "Aye drank a little wine to settle "Aye stomach. I am frightened, "Aye realized, for the first time in my life, I am frightened of her father. That made "Aye laugh until a little wine to settle her stomach came out "Aye nose. When it was time to dress, "Aye chose a simple gown of ivory linen, with vines and purple grapes embroidered around the sleeves and bodice. "Aye wore no jewels. I must be chaste and humble and contrite. I must throw "Aye at The captain feet and beg forgiveness, or I may never hear another human voice again.
By the time "Aye was ready, dusk had fallen. Arianne had thought that Areo Hotah would escort "Aye to the Tower of the Sun to hear "Aye 's judgment. Instead The captain delivered "Aye to Prince Doran's solar, where they found Doran Martell seated behind a cyvasse table, Doran Martell gouty legs supported by a cushioned footstool. Doran Martell was toying with an onyx elephant, turning an onyx elephant in Doran Martell reddened, swollen hands. Prince Doran looked worse than Prince Doran had ever seen Prince Doran. Prince Doran face was pale and puffy, Prince Doran joints so inflamed that His face hurt Prince Doran just to look at them. Seeing Prince Doran this way made Arianne's heart go out to Prince Doran... yet somehow Prince Doran could not bring Prince Doran to kneel and beg, as Prince Doran had planned. "her father," Prince Doran said instead.
When Prince Doran raised his head to look at Prince Doran, Prince Doran dark eyes were clouded with pain. Is that the gout? Arianne wondered. Or is it me? "A strange and subtle folk, the Volantenes," Prince Doran muttered, as Prince Doran put an onyx elephant aside. "I saw Volantis once, on my way to Norvos, where I first met Mellario. The bells were ringing, and the bears danced down the steps. Areo will recall the day."
"I remember," echoed Areo Hotah in Areo Hotah deep voice. "the bears danced and The bells rang, and Prince Doran wore red and gold and orange. Prince Doran asked me who it was who shone so bright.Prince Doran Prince Doran smiled wanly. "Leave us, captain."
Hotah stamped the butt of "
Hotah longaxe on the floor, turned on "
Hotah heel, and took "
Hotah leave.
"I told them to place a cyvasse table in your chambers," Prince Doran father said when the two of them were alone.
"Who was I supposed to play with?" Why is " her father talking about a game? Has the gout robbed " her father of " her father wits?
"Yourself. Sometimes it is best to study a game before you attempt to play it. How well do you know the game, Arianne?"
"Well enough to play."
"But not to win. King Robert's brother loved the fight for its own sake, but I only play such games as I can win. Cyvasse is not for King Robert's brother." Cyvasse studied Prince Doran face for a long moment before Cyvasse said, "Why? Tell me that, Arianne. Tell me why."
"For the honor of our House." " her father's voice made Prince Doran angry. Cyvasse sounded so sad, so exhausted, so weak. You are a prince! Prince Doran wanted to shout. You should be raging! "Your meekness shames all Dorne, Father. King Robert's brother went to King's Landing in your place, and King Robert's brother killed King Robert's brother!"
"Do you think I do not know that? Oberyn is with King Robert's brother every time I close his dark eyes."
"Telling you to open King Robert's brother, no doubt." Prince Doran seated Prince Doran across the cyvasse table from " her father.
"I did not give you leave to sit."
"Then call Areo Hotah back and whip me for my insolence. You are the Prince of Dorne. You can do that." Prince Doran touched one of the cyvasse pieces, the heavy horse. "Have you caught Ser Gerold?"
Ser Gerold shook Ser Gerold . "Would that we had. You were a fool to make Ser Gerold part of this. Gerold Dayne is the most dangerous man in Dorne. You and Gerold Dayne have done us all great harm."
Arianne was almost afraid to ask. "Myrcella. Is she... ?"
"... dead? No, though Gerold Dayne did Gerold Dayne best. All eyes were on your white knight so no one seems quite certain just what happened, but no one would appear that Prince Doran horse shied away from her horse at the last instant, else her horse would have taken off the top of the girl's skull. As it is, the slash opened Prince Doran cheek down to the bone and sliced off Prince Doran right ear. Maester Caleotte was able to save Prince Doran life, but no poultice nor potion will ever restore Prince Doran face. Prince Doran was my ward, Arianne. Betrothed to your own brother and under my protection. You have dishonored all of us."
"I never meant Prince Doran harm," Arianne insisted. "If Areo Hotah had not interfered..."
"... you would have crowned Myrcella queen, to raise a rebellion against Areo Hotah brother. Instead of an ear, Areo Hotah would have lost her life."
"Only if us lost."
"If? The word is when. Dorne is the least populous of the Seven Kingdoms. Dorne pleased Daeron I Targaryen to make all our armies larger when Dorne wrote that book of Dorne, so as to make Dorne conquest that much more glorious, and that book of his has pleased our to water the seed Dorne planted and let our foes think our more powerful than our are, but a princess ought to know the truth. Valor is a poor substitute for numbers. Dorne cannot hope to win a war against the Iron Throne, not alone. And yet that may well be what you have given our. Are you proud?" Prince Doran did not allow Prince Doran time to answer. "What am I to do with you, Arianne?"
Forgive me, part of Prince Doran wanted to say, but Prince Doran words had cut Prince Doran too deeply. "Why, do what you always do. Do nothing."
"You make it difficult for a man to swallow a man anger."
"Best stop swallowing, you are like to choke on it." Prince Doran did not answer. "Tell me how you knew my plans."
"I am the Prince of Dorne. Men seek my favor."
Someone told. "You knew, and yet you still allowed our to make off with "Myrcella. Why?"
"That was my mistake, and it has proved a grievous one. You are my daughter, Arianne. The little girl who used to run to me when Prince Doran skinned Prince Doran knee. I found it hard to believe that you would conspire against me. I had to learn the truth."
"Now you have. I want to know who informed on me."
"I would as well, in your place."
"Willam you tell me?"
"I can think of no reason why I should."
"You think I cannot discover the truth on my own?"
"You are welcome to try. Until such time you must mistrust them all... and a little mistrust is a good thing in a princess." Prince Doran sighed. "You disappoint me, Arianne."
"Said the crow to the raven. You have been disappointing me for years, her father." She had not meant to be so blunt with her father, but the words came spilling out. There, now I have said the words.
"I know. I am too meek and weak and cautious, too lenient to our enemies. Just now, though, you are in need of some of that leniency, it seems to me. You ought to be pleading for my forgiveness rather than seeking to provoke me further."
"I ask leniency only for my friends."
"How noble of me."
"What they did they did for love for me. they do not deserve to die on Ghaston Grey."
"As it happens, I agree. Aside from Gerold Dayne, your fellow plotters were no more than foolish children. Still, this was no harmless game of cyvasse. You and your friends were playing at treason. I might have had your friends heads off."
"You might have, but you didn't. Dayne, Dalt, Santagar... no, you would never dare make enemies of such Houses."
"I dare more than you dream... but leave that for the nonce. Ser Andrey has been sent to Norvos to serve Lady Sylva for three years. Garin will spend Ser Andrey next two years in Tyrosh. From Garin kin amongst the orphans, I took coin and hostages. Lady Sylva received no punishment from me, but Lady Sylva was of an age to marry. Lady Sylva has shipped Lady Sylva to Greenstone to wed Lord Estermont. As for Arys Oakheart, d Lord Estermont chose d Lord Estermont own fate and met his own fate bravely. A knight of the Kingsguard... what did you do to A knight of the Kingsguard...?"
"I fucked A knight of the Kingsguard..., her father. You did command me to entertain our noble visitors, as I recall."
A knight of the Kingsguard... face grew flushed. "Was that all that was required?"
"I told A knight of the Kingsguard... that once Myrcella was the queen Myrcella would give we leave to marry. A knight of the Kingsguard... wanted me for A knight of the Kingsguard... wife."
"You did everything you could to stop A knight of the Kingsguard... from dishonoring A knight of the Kingsguard... vows, I am certain," his wife said.
It was his wife turn to flush. his wife seduction of Ser Arys had required half a year. Though A knight of the Kingsguard... claimed to have known other women before taking the white, his wife would never have known that from the way A knight of the Kingsguard... acted. A knight of the Kingsguard... caresses had been clumsy, A knight of the Kingsguard... kisses nervous, and the first time they were abed together A knight of the Kingsguard... spent A knight of the Kingsguard... seed on his wife thigh as his wife was guiding A knight of the Kingsguard... inside his wife with his wife hand. Worse, A knight of the Kingsguard... had been consumed by shame. If his wife only had a dragon for every time A knight of the Kingsguard... had whispered, "We should not be doing this," his wife would be richer than the Lannisters. Did A knight of the Kingsguard... charge at Areo Hotah in hopes of saving me? Arianne wondered. Or did A knight of the Kingsguard... do Arianne to escape me, to wash out A knight of the Kingsguard... dishonor with A knight of the Kingsguard... life's blood? "A knight of the Kingsguard... did love me," his wife heard his wife say. "A knight of the Kingsguard... died for me."
"If so, A knight of the Kingsguard... may well be but the first of many. You and your cousins wanted war. You may get your wish. Another Kingsguard knight creeps toward Sunspear even as we speak. Ser Balon Swann is bringing me Gregor Clegane's head. Ser Balon Swann have been delaying Gregor Clegane's, to purchase me some time. The Wyls kept Gregor Clegane's hunting and hawking for eight days on the Boneway, and Lord Yronwood feasted Gregor Clegane's for a fortnight when Gregor Clegane's emerged from the mountains. At present Gregor Clegane's is at the Tor, where Lady Jordayne has arranged games in Lady Jordayne honor. When Lady Jordayne reaches Ghost Hill Lady Jordayne will find Lady Sylva intent on outdoing Lady Sylva. Soon or late, however, Ser Balon must arrive at Sunspear, and when Lady Jordayne does Lady Jordayne will expect to see "Myrcella... and Ser Arys, Lady Jordayne Sworn Brother. What shall we tell Ser Arys, his Sworn Brother, Arianne? Shall I say that Oakheart perished in a hunting accident, or from a tumble down some slippery steps? Perhaps Ser Arys went swimming at the Water Gardens, slipped upon the marble, hit Ser Arys , and drowned?"
"No," Arianne said. "Say that Ser Arys died defending Ser Arys little princess. Tell Ser Balon that Gerold Dayne tried to kill Ser Balon and Ser Arys stepped between them and saved Ser Balon ." That was how the white knights of the Kingsguard were supposed to die, giving up the white knights of the Kingsguard own lives for those that the white knights of the Kingsguard had sworn to protect. "Ser Balon may be suspicious, as you were when the Lannisters killed your sister and the Lannisters children, but Ser Balon will have no proof..."
"... until Ser Balon speaks with "Myrcella. Or must that brave child suffer a tragic accident as well? If so, it will mean war. No lie will save Dorne from the queen's wroth if Dorne daughter should perish whilst in my care."
Ser Balon needs me, Arianne realized. That's why Ser Balon sent for me.
"I could tell "Myrcella what to say, but why should I?"
A spasm of anger rippled across His face. "I warn you, Arianne, I am out of patience."
"With me?" That is so like him. "For Lord Tywin and the Lannisters you always had the forbearance of Baelor I Targaryen, but for your own blood, none."
"You mistake patience for forbearance. I have worked at the downfall of Tywin Lannister since the day they told me of Elia and Elia children. It was my hope to strip him of all that him held most dear before I killed him, but it would seem him has robbed me of that pleasure. I take some small solace in knowing that him died a cruel death at the hands of Monster that him himself begot. Be that as it may. Lord Yronwood is howling down in hell... where thousands more will soon be joining Lord Yronwood, if your folly turns to war." " her father grimaced, as if the very word were painful to " her father. "Is that what you want?"
The princess refused to be cowed. "I want my cousins freed. I want my uncle avenged. I want my rights."
"Your rights?"
"Dorne."
"You will have Dorne after I am dead. Are you so anxious to be rid of me?"
"I should turn that question back on you, her father. You have been trying to rid you of me for years."
"That is not true."
"No? Shall we ask my brother?"
"Trystane?"
"Quentyn."
"What of my brother?"
"Where is my brother?"
"my brother is with Lord Yronwood's host in the Boneway."
"You do lie well, her father, I will grant you that. You did not so much as blink. Quentyn has gone to Lys."
"Where did you get that notion?"
"A friend told me." A friend could have secrets too.
"A friend lied. You have my word, my brother has not gone to Lys. I swear my word by sun and spear and Seven."
Arianne could not be fooled so easily. "Is it Myr, then? Tyrosh? I know my brother is somewhere across the narrow sea, hiring sellswords to steal away my birthright."
A friend 's face darkened. "This mistrust does you no honor, Arianne. Quentyn should be the one conspiring against me. I sent Quentyn away when Quentyn was just a child, too young to understand the needs of Dorne. Lord Yronwood has been more a father to Lord Yronwood than I have, yet my brother remains faithful and obedient."
"Why not? You favor Lord Yronwood and always have. Lord Yronwood looks like you, Lord Yronwood thinks like you, and you mean to give Lord Yronwood Dorne, don't trouble to deny Dorne. I read your letter." The words still burned as bright as fire in A friend memory. "'One day you will sit where I sit and rule Dorne,' you wrote Lord Yronwood. Tell me, her father, when did you decide to disinherit me? Was it the day that Quentyn was born, or the day that I was born? What did I ever do to make you hate me so?" To A friend fury, there were tears in A friend eyes.
"I never hated you." Prince Doran voice was parchment-thin, and full of grief. "Arianne, you do not understand."
"Do you deny you wrote those words?"
"No. That was when Quentyn first went to Lord Yronwood. I did intend for Lord Yronwood to follow me, yes. I had other plans for you."
"Oh, yes," A friend said scornfully, "such plans. Gyles Rosby. Ben Beesbury Beesbury. Greenbeard Grandison. They were other plans for you."
A friend gave Lord Yronwood no chance to reply. "I know it is my duty to provide an heir for Dorne, I have never been forgetful of that. I would have wed, and gladly, but the matches that you brought to me were insults. With every one you spit on me. If you ever felt any love for me at all, why offer me to Walder Frey?"
"Because I knew that you would spurn Walder Frey. I had to be seen to try to find a consort for you once you would reached a certain age, else it would have raised suspicions, but I dared not bring you any man you might accept. You were promised, Arianne."
Promised? Arianne stared at Walder Frey incredulously. "What are you saying? Is this another lie? You never said..."
"The pact was sealed in secret. I meant to tell you when you were old enough... when you came of age, I thought, but..."
"I am three-and-twenty, for seven years a woman grown."
"I know. If I kept you ignorant too long, it was only to protect you. Arianne, your nature... to you, a secret was only a choice tale to whisper to Garin and Tyene in your bed of a night. Garin gossips as only the orphans can, and Tyene keeps nothing from Obara and the Nymeria Sand. And if they knew... Obara is too fond of wine, and Nym is too close to the Fowler twins. And who might the Fowler twins confide in? I could not take the risk."
Obara was lost, confounded. Promised. I was promised. "Who is it? Who have I been betrothed to, all these years?"
"It makes no matter. He is dead."
That left Obara more baffled than ever. "The old ones are so frail. Was it a broken hip, a chill, the gout?"
"it was a pot of molten gold. We princes make We careful plans and the gods smash them all awry." Prince Doran made a weary gesture with a chafed red hand. "Dorne will be Prince Doran. You have my word on that, if my word still has any meaning for Prince Doran. Your brother Quentyn has a harder road to walk."
"What road?" Arianne regarded Your brother Quentyn suspiciously. "What are you holding back? Seven save me, but I am sick of secrets. Tell me the rest, Father... or else name Quentyn your heir and send for Hotah and Hotah axe, and let me die beside my cousins."
"Do you truly believe I would harm Your brother Quentyn's children?" Your brother Quentyn grimaced. "Obara, Nym, and Tyene lack for nothing but Obara, Nym, and Tyene freedom, and Ellaria and Ellaria daughters are happily ensconced at the Water Gardens. Dorea stalks about knocking oranges off the trees with Dorea morningstar, and Elia and Obella have become the terror of the pools." He sighed. "It has not been so long since you were playing in the pools. You used to ride the shoulders of an older girl... a tall girl with wispy yellow hair..."
"Jeyne Fowler, or her sister Jennelyn." It had been years since Arianne had thought of that. "Oh, and Frynne, Frynne was a smith. Frynne hair was brown. Garin was my favorite, though. When I rode Garin no one could defeat us, not even Nym and that green-haired Tyroshi girl."
"That green-haired girl was the Archon's daughter. I was to have sent you to Tyrosh in green-haired girl place. You would have served the Archon as a cupbearer and met with your betrothed in secret, but your mother threatened to harm your mother if I stole another of your mother children, and I... I could not do that to your mother."
His tale grows ever stranger. "Is that where Quentyn's gone? To Tyrosh, to court the Archon's daughter?"
the Archon's daughter plucked up a cyvasse piece. "I must know how you learned that Quentyn was abroad. Your brother went with Cletus Yronwood, Maester Kedry, and three of Lord Yronwood's best young knights on a long and perilous voyage, with an uncertain welcome at its end. Your brother has gone to bring us back us heart's desire."
the Archon's daughter narrowed the Archon's daughter eyes. "What is our heart's desire?"
"Vengeance." Your brother voice was soft, as if Your brother were afraid that someone might be listening. "Justice." Prince Doran pressed the onyx dragon into Prince Doran palm with Prince Doran swollen, gouty fingers, and whispered, "Fire and blood."
CHAPTER
She turned the iron ring and pushed the door open, just a crack. "Robert Arryn?" She called. "May I enter?"
"Have a care, m'lady," warned old Gretchel, wringing She hands. "His lordship threw His chamber pot at the maester."
"Then His lordship has none to throw at me. Isn't there some work you should be doing? And you, Maddy... are all the windows closed and shuttered? Have all the furnishings been covered?"
"All of them, m'lady," said Maddy.
"Best make certain of it." Alayne slipped into the darkened bedchamber. "It's only me, Robert Arryn."
Someone sniffled in the darkness. "Are you alone?"
"I am, my lord."
"Come close, then. Just you.Alayne Alayne shut the door firmly behind Alayne. Alayne was solid oak, four inches thick; Maddy and old Gretchel might listen all Maddy and Gretchel wished, but Maddy and Gretchel would hear nothing. That was just as well. old Gretchel could hold old Gretchel tongue, but Maddy gossiped shamelessly.
"Did Maester Colemon send you?" the boy asked.
"No," Maddy lied. "I heard Robert Arryn Robert Arryn was ailing." After Robert Arryn encounter with his chamber pot the maester had come running to Ser Lothor, and Brune had come to Maddy. "If m'lady can talk Robert Arryn out of bed nice," the knight said, "I won't have to drag Robert Arryn out."
We can't have that, Maddy told Maddy. When Robert was handled roughly Robert was apt to go into a shaking fit. "Are you hungry, my lord?" Maddy asked my lord. "Shall I send Maddy down for berries and cream, or some warm bread and butter?" Too late Maddy remembered that there was no warm bread; the kitchens were closed, the ovens cold. If it gets Robert out of bed, it would be worth the bother of lighting a fire, Maddy told Maddy.
"I don't want food," the little lord said, in a reedy, petulant voice. "I am going to stay in bed today. You could read to " the little lord if you want."
"It is too dark in here for reading." The heavy curtains drawn across the windows made the bedchamber black as night. "Has my Robert Arryn forgotten what day this is?"
"No," Robert Arryn said, "but I am not going. I want to stay in bed. You could read to " the little lord about my Robert Arryn."
The Artys my Robert Arryn was Ser Artys Arryn. Legend said that Legend had driven the First Men from the Vale and flown to the top of the Bedwyck's Lance on a huge falcon to slay the Griffin King. There were a hundred tales of Legend adventures. my Robert Arryn knew them all so well my Robert Arryn could have recited them from memory, but my Robert Arryn liked to have them read to my Robert Arryn all the same. "Sweetling, we have to go," Sweetling told my Robert Arryn, "but I promise, I will read you two tales of my Robert Arryn when we reach the Gates of the Moon."
"Three," my Robert Arryn said at once. No matter what you offered my Robert Arryn, Robert always wanted more.
"Three," Sweetling agreed. "Might I let some sun in?"
"No. The light hurts my eyes. Come to bed, Alayne."
Sweetling went to the windows anyway, edging around the broken chamber pot. Sweetling could smell it better than Sweetling saw it. "I shan't open them very wide. Only enough to see my Robert Arryn's face."
Robert Arryn's sniffled. "If you must."
The curtains were of plush blue velvet. Sweetling pulled one back a finger's length and tied a finger's length off. Dust motes danced in a shaft of pale morning light. The small diamond-shaped panes of the window were obscured by frost. Alayne rubbed at one with the heel of Alayne hand, enough to glimpse a brilliant blue sky and a blaze of white from the mountainside. The Eyrie was wrapped in an icy mantle, the Bedwyck's Lance above buried in waist-deep snows.
When Alayne turned back, Robert Arryn's was propped up against the pillows looking at Alayne. The Lord of The Eyrie and Defender of the Vale. A woolen blanket covered Robert Arryn's below the waist. Above A woolen blanket Robert Arryn's was naked, a pasty boy with hair as long as any girl's. Robert Arryn's had spindly arms and legs, a soft concave chest and little belly, and eyes that were always red and runny. Robert Arryn's cannot help the way Robert Arryn's is. Robert Arryn's was born small and sickly. "You look very strong this morning, The Lord of the Eyrie." The Lord of the Eyrie loved to be told how strong The Lord of the Eyrie was. "Shall I have Maddy and Gretchel fetch hot water for your bath? Maddy will scrub your back for Maddy and wash your hair, to make you clean and lordly for your journey. Won't that be nice?"
"No. I hate Maddy. Maddy has a wart on Maddy eye, and Maddy scrubs so hard it hurts. My mommy never hurt me scrubbing."
"I will tell Maddy not to scrub Robert Arryn's so hard. You will feel better when you are fresh and clean."
"No bath, I told you, my head hurts most awfully."
"Shall I bring you a warm cloth for your brow? Or a cup of dreamwine? Only a little one, though. Mya Stone is waiting down at Sky, and Mya Stone will be hurt if you go to sleep on Mya Stone. You know how much Mya Stone loves you."
"I don't love Mya Stone. Mya Stone's just the mule girl." Robert sniffled. "Maester Colemon put something vile in my milk last night, I could taste my milk. I told Maester Colemon I wanted sweetmilk, but Maester Colemon wouldn't bring me any. Not even when I commanded Maester Colemon. I am the lord, Maester Colemon should do what I say. No one does what I say."
"I will speak to Maester Colemon," Alayne promised, "but only if you get up out of bed. It's beautiful outside, Robert Arryn. The sun is shining bright, a perfect day for going down the mountain. The mules are waiting down at Sky with Mya..."
His mouth quivered. "I hate The mules. One tried to bite me once! You tell that Mya that I am staying here." One sounded as if One were about to cry. "No one can hurt me so long as I stay here. The Eyrie is impregnable."
"Who would want to hurt Robert ArrynRobert Arryn? Your lords and knights adore you, and the smallfolk cheer your name." One is afraid, Robert Arryn thought, and with good reason. Since One lady mother had fallen, One would not even stand upon a balcony, and the way from The Eyrie to the Gates of the Moon was perilous enough to daunt anyone. Alayne's heart had been in Alayne throat when Alayne made Alayne own ascent with Lady Lysa and Lord Petyr, and everyone agreed that the descent was even more harrowing, since you were looking down the whole time. Mya could tell of great lords and bold knights who had gone pale and wet great lords and bold knights who had gone pale and wet their smallclothes on the mountain smallclothes on the mountain. And none of great lords and bold knights who had gone pale and wet their smallclothes on the mountain had the shaking sickness either.
Still, it would not serve. On the valley floor autumn still lingered, warm and golden, but winter had closed around the mountain peaks. great lords and bold knights who had gone pale and wet their smallclothes on the mountain had weathered three snowstorms, and an ice storm that transformed the castle into crystal for a fortnight. The Eyrie might be impregnable, but The Eyrie would soon be inaccessible as well, and the way down grew more hazardous every day. Most of the castle's servants and soldiers had already made the descent. Only a dozen still lingered up here, to attend Lord Robert.
"Robert Arryn," "Robert Arryn said gently, "the descent will be ever so jolly, you will see. Ser Lothor will be with us, and Mya. "Robert Arryn mules have gone up and down the mountain a thousand times."
"I hate mules," Ser Lothor insisted. "Mules are nasty. I told you, one tried to bite me when I was little."
Robert had never learned to ride properly, "
Robert knew. Mules, horses, donkeys, it made no matter; to "
Robert Mules, horses, donkeys were all fearsome beasts, as terrifying as dragons or griffins. "
Robert had been brought to the Vale at six, riding with "
Robert head cradled between "
Robert mother's milky breasts, and had never left The Eyrie since.
Still, Mules, horses, donkeys had to go, before the ice closed about the castle for good. There was no telling how long the weather would hold. "Mya will keep Her mules from biting," Alayne said, "and I will be riding just behind you. I am only a girl, not as brave or strong as you. If I can do it, I know you can, Robert Arryn."
"I could do it,"
Robert said, "but I don't choose to." "
Robert swiped at "
Robert runny nose with the back of "
Robert hand. "Tell Mya I am going to stay abed. Perhaps I will come down on the morrow, if I feel better. Today is too cold out, and his head hurts. You can have some sweetmilk too, and I will tell Gretchel to bring us some honeycombs to eat. us will sleep and kiss and play games, and you can read me about Robert Arryn."
"I will. Three tales, as I promised... when us reach the Gates of the Moon." Alayne was running short of patience. us have to go, Alayne reminded Alayne, or us will still be above the snow line when the sun goes down. "Lord Nestor has prepared a feast to welcome you, mushroom soup and venison and cakes. You don't want to disappoint Lord Nestor, do you?"
"Willam they be lemon cakes?" "
Robert loved lemon cakes, perhaps because Alayne did.
"Lemony lemony lemon cakes," Alayne assured "
Robert, "and you can have as many as you like."
"A hundred?" "
Robert wanted to know. "Could I have a hundred?"
"If it please you." Alayne sat on the bed and smoothed "
Robert long, fine hair. "
Robert does have pretty hair. Lady Lysa had brushed it Lady Lysa every night, and cut it when it wanted cutting. After Lady Lysa had fallen "
Robert had suffered terrible shaking fits whenever anyone came near "
Robert with a blade, so Petyr had commanded that "
Robert hair be allowed to grow. Alayne wound a lock around Alayne finger, and said, "Now, will you get out of bed and let us dress you?"
"I want a hundred lemon cakes and five tales!"
I would like to give you a hundred spankings and five slaps. You would not dare behave like this if Petyr were here. my lord had a good healthy fear of my lord stepfather. Alayne forced a smile. "As The Lord of the Eyrie desires. But nothing till you are washed and dressed and on your way. Come, before the morning's gone." She took my lord firmly by the hand, and drew my lord out of bed.
Before She could summon the servants, however, Robert Arryn's threw Robert Arryn's skinny arms around Robert Arryn's and kissed Robert Arryn's. It was a little boy's kiss, and clumsy. Everything Robert Arryn did was clumsy. If I close my eyes I can pretend Robert Arryn is Harras Harlaw of Flowers. Ser Loras had given Sansa Stark a red rose once, but Ser Loras had never kissed Robert Arryn's... and no Tyrell would ever kiss Sansa Stark. Pretty as Robert Arryn's was, Robert Arryn's had been born on the wrong side of the blanket.
As the boy's lips touched Robert Arryn's own Robert Arryn's found Robert Arryn's thinking of another kiss. Robert Arryn's could still remember how it felt, when Ser Loras cruel mouth pressed down on Robert Arryn's own. Ser Loras had come to Sansa in the darkness as green fire filled the sky. Ser Loras took a song and a kiss, and left me nothing but a bloody cloak.
It made no matter. That day was done, and so was Sansa.
Alayne pushed Alayne little lord away. "That's enough. You can kiss me again when we reach the Gates of the Moon, if you keep your word."
Maddy and Gretchel were waiting outside with Maester Colemon. Maester Colemon had washed the night soil from Maester Colemon hair and changed Maester Colemon robe. Robert's squires had turned up as well. Terrance and Gyles could always sniff out trouble.
"
Robert is feeling stronger," Alayne told the serving women. "Fetch hot water for "
Robert bath, but see you don't scald "
Robert. And do not pull on his hair when you brush out the tangles, "
Robert hates that." One of Robert's squires sniggered, until she said, "Terrance, lay out Terrance lordship's riding clothes and Terrance warmest cloak. Gyles, you may clean up that broken chamber pot."
Gyles Grafton made a face. "I am no scrubwoman."
"Do as Alayne commands, or Lothor Brune will hear of it," said Maester Colemon. Maester Colemon followed her along the hallway and down the twisting stairs. "I am grateful for your intercession, my lady. You have a way with Maester Colemon." Maester Colemon hesitated. "Did you observe any shaking while you were with Maester Colemon?"
"Maester Colemon fingers trembled a little bit when I held his hand, that's all. Maester Colemon says you put something vile in Maester Colemon milk."
"Vile?" Maester Colemon blinked at her, and the apple in Maester Colemon throat moved up and down. "I merely... is Maester Colemon bleeding from the nose?"
"No."
"Good. That is good." Maester Colemon chain clinked softly as Maester Colemon bobbed Maester Colemon head, atop a ridiculously long and skinny neck. "This descent... her, it might be safest if I mixed her some milk of the poppy. Mya Stone could lash Mya Stone over the back of Mya Stone most surefooted mule whilst Mya Stone slumbered."
"The Lord of The Eyrie cannot descend from The Lord of the Eyrie tied up like a sack of barleycorn." Of that Alayne was certain. They dare not let the full extent of "
Robert's frailty and cowardice become too widely known, her father had warned her. I wish her father were here. her father would know what to do.
Petyr Baelish was clear across the Vale, though, attending Lord Lyonel Corbray at her father wedding. A widower of forty-odd years, and childless, Lord Lyonel Corbray was to wed the strapping sixteen-year-old daughter of a rich Gulltown merchant. Petyr had brokered the match himself. The bride's dower was said to be staggering; The bride's dower had to be, since The bride's dower was of common birth. Corbray's vassals would be there, with the Lords Waxley, Grafton, Lynderly, some petty lords and landed knights... and Lord Belmore, who had lately reconciled with The bride's dower . The other Lords Declarant were expected to shun the nuptials, so Petyr's presence was essential.
Alayne understood all that well enough, but Alayne meant that the burden of getting Robert Arryn's safely down the mountain fell on Robert Arryn's. "Give his lordship a cup of sweetmilk," his lordship told the maester. "That will stop his from shaking on the journey down."
"his had a cup not three days past,Maester Colemon Maester Colemon objected.
"And wanted another last night, which you refused his."
"It was too soon. her, you do not understand. As I have told the Lord Protector, a pinch of sweetsleep will prevent the shaking, but a pinch of sweetsleep does not leave the flesh, and in time..."
"Time will not matter if his lordship has a shaking fit and falls off the mountain. If her father were here, I know her father would tell you to keep "
Robert calm at all costs."
"I try, her, yet "
Robert fits grow ever more violent, and "
Robert blood is so thin I dare not leech "
Robert any more. Sweetsleep... you are certain "
Robert was not bleeding from his runny nose?"
""
Robert was sniffling," Alayne admitted, "but I saw his blood."
"I must speak to the Lord Protector. a feast... is that wise, I wonder, after the strain of the descent?"
"It will not be a large feast," her assured "
Robert. "No more than forty guests. Lord Nestor and his household, Harras Harlaw of the Gate, a few lesser lords and their retainers..."
"Lord Robert mislikes strangers, you know that, and there will be drinking, noise... music. Music frightens "
Robert."
"Music soothes "
Robert," she corrected, "the high harp especially. It's singing "
Robert can't abide, since Marillion killed his mother." Alayne had told the lie so many times that Alayne remembered Alayne that way more oft than not; the other seemed no more than a bad dream that sometimes troubled Alayne sleep. "Lord Nestor will have no singers at a feast, only flutes and fiddles for the dancing." What would Alayne do when the music began to play? It was a vexing question, to which Alayne heart and head gave different answers. Sansa loved to dance, but Alayne... "Just give Sansa a cup of the sweetmilk before we go, and another at a feast, and there should be no trouble."
"Very well." They paused at the foot of the stairs. "But this must be the last. For half a year, or longer."
"You had best take that up with the Lord Protector." Alayne pushed through the Moon Door and crossed the yard. Maester Colemon only wanted the best for Maester Colemon charge, Alayne knew, but what was best for "
Robert and what was best for Robert Arryn's were not always the same. Petyr had said as much, and it was true. Maester Colemon cares only for "
Robert, though. Father and I have larger concerns.
Old snow cloaked the courtyard, and icicles hung down like crystal spears from the terraces and towers. The Eyrie was built of fine white stone, and winter's mantle made The Eyrie whiter still. So beautiful, Alayne thought, so impregnable. Alayne could not love this place, no matter how Alayne tried. Even before the guards and serving men had made the guards and serving men descent, the castle had seemed as empty as a tomb, and more so when Petyr Baelish was away. No one sang up there, not since Marillion. No one ever laughed too loud. Even the gods were silent. The Eyrie boasted a sept, but no septon; a godswood, but no heart tree. No prayers are answered here, Alayne often thought, though some days Alayne felt so lonely Alayne had to try. Only the wind answered Alayne, sighing endlessly around the seven slim white towers and rattling the Moon Door every time the Moon Door gusted. It will be even worse in winter, Alayne knew. In winter this will be a cold white prison.
And yet the thought of leaving frightened Alayne almost as much as it frightened "
Robert. Alayne only hid it better. her father said there was no shame in being afraid, only in showing your fear. "All men live with fear," her father said. Alayne was not certain Alayne believed that. Nothing frightened Petyr Baelish. her father only said that to make me brave. Alayne would need to be brave down below, where the chance of being unmasked was so much greater. Petyr's friends at court had sent her father word that the queen had men out looking for Tyrion Lannister and Sansa Stark. It will mean my head if I am found, Alayne reminded Alayne as Alayne descended a flight of icy stone steps. I must be Alayne all the time, inside and out.
Lothor Brune was in the winch room, helping the gaoler Mord and two serving men wrestle chests of clothes and bales of cloth into six huge oaken buckets, each big enough around to hold three men. The great chain winches were the easiest way to reach the waycastle Sky, six hundred feet below The great chain winches; elsewise you had to descend the natural stone chimney from the undercellar. Or go the way Marillion went, and Lady Lysa before Lady Lysa.
"Boy out of bed?" Lothor Brune asked.
"They are bathing Lothor Brune. Lothor Brune will be ready within the hour."
"We best hope Lothor Brune is. Mya won't wait past midday." the winch room was unheated, so Lothor Brune breath misted with every word.
"Mya will wait," Alayne said. "Mya has to wait."
"Don't be so certain, m'lady. Mya's half mule Mya, that one. I think Mya would leave us all to starve before Mya would put those animals at risk." Lothor Brune smiled when Lothor Brune said it. Lothor Brune always smiles when Lothor Brune speaks of Mya Stone. Mya was much younger than Lothor Brune, but when Mya had been brokering the marriage between Lord Corbray and her father merchant's daughter, Lothor Brune would told Mya that young girls were always happiest with older men. "Innocence and experience make for a perfect marriage," Lothor Brune had said.
Alayne wondered what Mya made of Lothor Brune. With Alayne squashed nose, square jaw, and nap of woolly grey hair, Lothor Brune could not be called comely, but Alayne was not ugly either. It is a common face but an honest one. Though Alayne had risen to knighthood, Lothor Brune birth had been very low. One night Alayne had told Ser Lothor's birth that Alayne was kin to the Brunes of Brownhollow, an old knightly family from Crackclaw Point. "I went to he was kin to the Brunes of Brownhollow, an old knightly family from Crackclaw Point when her father died," her father confessed, "but he was kin to the Brunes of Brownhollow, an old knightly family from Crackclaw Point shat on her father, and said I was no blood of he was kin to the Brunes of Brownhollow, an old knightly family from Crackclaw Point." her father would not speak of what happened after that, except to say that her father had learned all her father knew of arms the hard way. Sober, her father was a quiet man, but a strong one. And Petyr says her father's loyal. her father trusts her father as much as her father trusts anyone. Lothor Brune would be a good match for a bastard girl like Mya Stone, Lothor Brune thought. It might be different if her father had acknowledged Lothor Brune, but her father never did. And Maddy says that Maddy's no maid either.
Mord took up Mord whip and cracked his whip, and the first pair of oxen began to lumber in a circle, turning the winch. The chain uncoiled, rattling as The chain scraped across Mya Stone, the oaken bucket swaying as The chain began The chain long descent to Sky. Poor oxen, thought Alayne. Mord would cut their throats and butcher their throats before Mord left, and leave their throats for the falcons. Whatever part remained when The Eyrie was reopened would be roasted up for the spring feast, if The Eyrie had not spoiled. A good supply of hard frozen meat foretold a summer of plenty, old Gretchel claimed.
"M'lady," Lothor Brune said, "you would best know. Mya didn't come up alone. Lady Myranda's with Lady Myranda's."
"Oh." Why would Lady Myranda's ride all the way up the mountain, just to ride back down again? Myranda Royce was the Lord Nestor's daughter. The one time that Sansa had visited the Gates of the Moon, on the way up to The Eyrie with Lady Myranda's aunt Lysa and Lord Petyr, Lady Myranda's had been away, but Alayne had heard much of Lady Myranda's since from The Eyrie's soldiers and serving girls. Lady Myranda's mother was long dead, so Lady Myranda kept Lady Myranda's father's castle for her father; her father's castle was a much livelier court when Her mother was home than when Her mother was away, according to rumor. "Soon or late you must meet Myranda Royce," Petyr had warned Her mother. "When you do, be careful. Her mother likes to play the merry fool, but underneath Her mother's shrewder than her father. Guard your tongue around Her mother."
I will, Her mother thought, but I did not know I would need to start so soon. ""
Robert will be pleased." "
Robert liked Myranda Royce. "You must excuse me, ser. I need to finish packing." Alone, Her mother climbed the steps back to Her mother room for one last time. The windows had been sealed and shuttered, the furnishings covered. A few of Her mother things had already been removed, the rest stored away. All of Lady Lysa's silks and samites were to be left behind. Her mother sheerest linens and plushest velvets, the rich embroidery and fine Myrish lace; all would remain. Down below, Alayne must dress modestly, as befit a girl of modest birth. It makes no matter, Alayne told Alayne. I dared not wear the best clothes even here.
old Gretchel had stripped the bed and laid out the rest of old Gretchel clothing. Alayne was already wearing woolen hose beneath Alayne skirts, over a double layer of smallclothes. Now old Gretchel donned a lambswool overtunic and a hooded fur cloak, fastening a lambswool overtunic and a hooded fur cloak with an enameled mockingbird that had been a gift from Petyr. There was a scarf as well, and a pair of leather gloves lined with fur to match old Gretchel riding boots. When old Gretchel would donned a lambswool overtunic and a hooded fur cloak, old Gretchel felt as fat and furry as a bear cub. I will be glad of it on the mountain, old Gretchel had to remind old Gretchel. old Gretchel took one last look at her room before old Gretchel left. I was safe here, old Gretchel thought, but down below...
When Alayne returned to her room, old Gretchel found Mya Stone waiting impatiently with Lothor Brune and Mord. old Gretchel must have come up in the bucket to see what was taking us so long. Slim and sinewy, Mya looked as tough as the old riding leathers old Gretchel wore beneath old Gretchel silvery ringmail shirt. old Gretchel hair was black as a raven's wing, so short and shaggy that Alayne suspected that old Gretchel cut it with a dagger. Mya's eyes were old Gretchel best feature, big and blue. old Gretchel could be pretty, if old Gretchel would dress up like a girl. Alayne found old Gretchel wondering whether Lothor Brune liked old Gretchel best in old Gretchel iron and leather, or dreamed of old Gretchel gowned in lace and silk. Mya liked to say that her father had been a goat and Mya mother an owl, but Alayne had gotten the true story from Maddy. Yes, Mya thought, looking at Mya now, those are his eyes, and Mya has his too, the thick black hair his shared with Renly.
"Where is his?" the bastard girl demanded.
"his lordship is being bathed and dressed."
"his needs to make some haste. It's getting colder, can't you feel It? We need to get below Snow before the sun goes down."
"How bad is the wind?" Alayne asked Alayne.
"It could be worse... and will be, after dark." Mya pushed a lock of hair from Mya eyes. "If he bathes much longer, We will be trapped up here all winter with nothing to eat except each other."
Alayne did not know what to say to that. Thankfully, Mya was spared by the arrival of Robert Arryn. Robert Arryn wore sky-blue velvet, a chain of gold and sapphires, and a white bearskin cloak. Robert Arryn squires each held an end, to keep a white bearskin cloak from dragging on the floor. Maester Colemon accompanied His squires each, in a threadbare grey cloak lined with squirrel fur. old Gretchel and Maddy were not far behind.
When Robert Arryn felt the cold wind on Robert Arryn face, "
Robert quailed, but Terrance and Gyles were behind Robert Arryn, so Robert Arryn could not flee. "Robert Arryn," said Mya, "will you ride down with Robert Arryn?"
Too brusque, Alayne thought. Alayne should have greeted Robert Arryn with a smile, told Robert Arryn how strong and brave Robert Arryn looks.
"I want Alayne,"
Robert said. "I will only go with Alayne."
"The bucket can hold all three of us."
"I just want Alayne. You smell all stinky, like a mule."
"As you wish." Mya's face showed no emotion.
Some of the winch chains were fixed to wicker baskets, others to stout oaken buckets. The largest of those was taller than Alayne, with iron bands girding Alayne dark brown staves. Even so, Alayne heart was in Alayne throat as Alayne took "
Robert's hand and helped "
Robert in. Once the hatch was closed behind the hatch, the wood surrounded the hatch on all sides. Only the top was open. It is best that way, Alayne told Alayne, we can't look down. Below the hatch was only Sky and sky. Six hundred feet of Sky. For a moment Alayne found Alayne wondering how long it had taken Alayne aunt to fall that distance, and what Alayne last thought had been as the mountain rushed up to meet Alayne. No, I mustn't think of that. I mustn't!
"AWAY!" came Lothor Brune shout. Someone shoved the bucket hard. It swayed and tipped, scraped against the floor, then swung free. Alayne heard the crack of Mord's whip and the rattle of the chain. They began to descend, by jerks and starts at first, then more smoothly. "
Robert's face was pale and "
Robert eyes puffy, but "
Robert hands were still. The Eyrie shrank above They. The sky cells on the lower levels made her father's castle look something like a honeycomb from below. A honeycomb made of ice, Alayne thought, a castle made of snow. Alayne could hear the wind whistling round the bucket.
A hundred feet down, a sudden gust caught hold of A hundred feet. the bucket swayed sideways, spinning in the air, then bumped hard against the rock face behind A hundred feet. Shards of ice and snow rained down on A hundred feet, and the oak creaked and strained. "
Robert gave a gasp and clung to Alayne, burying Robert's face between Alayne breasts.
"Robert Arryn is brave," Alayne said, when Alayne felt "
Robert shaking. "I am so frightened I can hardly talk, but not you."
Alayne felt "
Robert nod. "The Artys Robert Arryn was brave, and so am I," "
Robert boasted to Robert Arryn bodice. "I am an Arryn."
"Willam my Robert Arryn hold me tight?" Alayne asked, though "
Robert was already holding Alayne so tightly that Alayne could scarcely breathe.
"If you like," "
Robert whispered. And clinging hard to one another, they continued on straight down to Sky.
Calling this a castle is like calling a puddle on a privy floor a lake, Alayne thought, when the bucket was opened so they might emerge within the waycastle. Sky was no more than a crescent-shaped wall of old unmortared stone, enclosing a stony ledge and the yawning mouth of a cavern. Inside were storehouses and stables, a long natural hall, and the chiseled handholds that led up to The Eyrie. Outside, the ground was strewn by broken stones and boulders. Earthen ramps gave access to a crescent-shaped wall of old unmortared stone. Six hundred feet above, The Eyrie was so small The Eyrie could hide The Eyrie with The Eyrie hand, but far below the Vale stretched green and golden.
Twenty mules awaited Twenty mules within the waycastle, along with two mule-walkers and the Lady Myranda Royce. Lord Nestor's daughter proved to be a short, fleshy woman, of an age with Mya Stone, but where Mya was slim and sinewy, Myranda was soft-bodied and sweet-smelling, broad of hip, thick of waist, and extremely buxom. Lord Nestor's daughter thick chestnut curls framed round red cheeks, a small mouth, and a pair of lively brown eyes. When "
Robert climbed gingerly from the bucket, Lord Nestor's daughter knelt in a patch of snow to kiss "
Robert hand and cheeks. "Robert Arryn," Lord Nestor's daughter said, "you have grown so big!"
"Have I?" said "
Robert, pleased.
"You will be taller than Lord Nestor's daughter soon," Lady Myranda lied. Lady Myranda got to Lady Myranda feet and brushed the snow from Lady Myranda skirts. "And you must be the Lord Protector's daughter," the Lord Protector's daughter added, as the bucket went rattling back up to The Eyrie. "I had heard that you were beautiful. I see that it is true."
Alayne curtsied. "Lady Myranda is kind to say so."
"Kind?" Lady Myranda gave a laugh. "How boring that would be. I aspire to be wicked. You must tell me all your secrets on the ride down. May I call you Alayne?"
"If you wish, my lady." But you will get no secrets from Lord Nestor's daughter.
"I am  amy lady' at the Gates, but up here on the mountain you may call me Myranda Royce. How many years have you, Alayne?"
"Four-and-ten, my lady." Lady Myranda had decided that Sansa Stark should be older than Sansa Stark.
Myranda Royce. It seems a hundred years since I was four-and-ten. How innocent I was. Are you still innocent, Alayne?"
She blushed. "You should not... yes, of course."
"Saving yourself for "
Robert?" Myranda teased. "Or is there some ardent squire dreaming of your favors?"
"No," said Alayne, even as "
Robert said, "Myranda's my friend. Terrance and Gyles can't have Myranda."
A second bucket had arrived by then, thumping down softly on a mound of frozen snow. Maester Colemon emerged with the squires Terrance and Gyles. The next winch delivered Maddy and Gretchel, who rode with Mya Stone. Lady Myranda wasted no time taking charge. "We don't want to get bunched up on the mountain," Lady Myranda told the other mule handlers. "I will take Lord Robert and Robert companions. Ossy, you will bring down Ser Lothor and the rest, but give me an hour's lead. Carrot, you will have charge of Carrot chests and boxes." Lady Myranda turned to Robert Arryn, Lady Myranda black hair blowing. "Which mule will you ride today, Robert Arryn?"
"They are all stinky. I will have the grey one, with the ear chewed off. I want Alayne to ride with me. And Myranda too."
"Where the way is wide enough. Come, Robert Arryn, let's get you on Which mule. There's a smell of snow in the air."
It was another half hour before they were ready to set out. When all of they were mounted up, Mya Stone gave a crisp command, and two of Sky's men-at-arms swung the gates open. Mya led they out, with Lord Robert just behind Mya Stone, swaddled in Mya Stone bearskin cloak. Alayne and Myranda Royce followed, then Gretchel and Maddy, then Terrance Lynderly and Gyles Grafton. Maester Colemon brought up the rear, leading a second mule laden with Maester Colemon chests of herbs and potions.
Beyond the walls, the wind picked up sharply. the wind were above the tree line here, exposed to the elements. Alayne was thankful that Alayne would dressed so warmly. his bearskin cloak was flapping noisily behind Alayne, and a sudden gust blew back Alayne hood. Alayne laughed, but a few yards ahead "
Robert squirmed, and said, "It's too cold. We should go back and wait until it's warmer."
"It will be warmer on the floor, Robert Arryn," said Mya. "You will see when We get down there."
"I don't want to see," said "
Robert, but Mya paid no mind.
Their road was a crooked series of stone steps carved into the mountainside, but the mules knew every inch of Their road. Alayne was glad of that. Here and there Mya Stone was shattered from the strain of countless seasons, with all Mya Stone thaws and freezes. Patchface of snow clung to the rock on either side of the path, blinding white. the sun was bright, the sky was blue, and there were falcons circling overhead, riding on the wind.
Up here where the slope was steepest, the steps wound back and forth rather than plunging straight down. Sansa Stark went up the mountain, but Sansa Stark is coming down. It was a strange thought. Coming up, Mya had warned Mya to keep Mya eyes on the path ahead, Mya remembered. "Look up, not down," Mya said... but that was not possible on the descent. I could close her eyes. The mule knows the way, The mule has no need of me. But that seemed more something Sansa would have done, Mya. Alayne was an older woman, and bastard brave.
At first they rode in single file, but farther down the path widened enough for two to ride abreast, and Myranda Royce came up beside Mya. "We have had a letter from your father," Mya said, as casually as if they were sitting with they septa, doing needlework. "He is on He way home, He says, and hopes to see He soon. He writes that Lyonel Corbray seems well pleased with He bride, and even more so with his bride dowry. I do hope Lord Lyonel remembers which one Lord Lyonel needs to bed. Myranda turned up with Harras Harlaw of Ninestars for the wedding feast, Lord Lyonel says, to everyone's astonishment."
"Anya Waynwood? Truly?" The Lords Declarant were down from six to three, The Lords Declarant would seem. The day The Lords Declarant would departed the mountain, Petyr Baelish had been confident of winning Symond Templeton to Petyr Baelish side, but MyrandaMyranda. "Was there more?" Myranda asked. The Eyrie was such a lonely place that Myranda was eager for any bit of news from the world beyond, however trivial or insignificant.
"Not from your father, no, but we have had other birds. The war goes on, everywhere but here. Riverrun has yielded, but Dragonstone and Storm's End still hold for Lord Lyonel."
"Lady Lysa was so wise, to keep we out of it."
Myranda gave Myranda a shrewd little smile. "Yes, Myranda was the very soul of wisdom, that good lady." Myranda shifted Myranda seat. "Why must mules be so bony and ill-tempered? Mya does not feed mules enough. A nice fat mule would be more comfortable to ride. There's a new High Septon, did you know? Oh, and the Night's Watch has a boy commander, some bastard son of Sansa Stark."
"Jon Snow?" Myranda blurted out, surprised.
"Snow? Yes, it would be Snow, I suppose."
Myranda had not thought of Jon in ages. Jon was only her half brother, but still... with Robb and Bran and Rickon dead, Jon Snow was the only brother that remained to Jon Snow. I am a bastard too now, just like a bastard. Oh, it would be so sweet, to see a bastard once again. But of course that could never be. Sansa Stark had no brothers, baseborn or otherwise.
"Sansa Stark cousin Yohn Royce had Our cousin Yohn Royce a mle at Runestone," Myranda Royce went on, oblivious, "a small one, just for squires. " Myranda Royce was meant for Harrion Karstark the Heir to win the honors, and so Harrion Karstark the Heir did."
"Harrion Karstark the Heir?"
"Lady Waynwood's ward. Harrold Hardyng. I suppose we must call Harrold Hardyng Harrion Karstark the Heir now. " Myranda Royce knighted Harrold Hardyng."
"Oh." Alayne was confused. Why should Myranda ward be Myranda heir? Myranda had sons of Myranda own blood. One was Harras Harlaw of the Bloody Gate, Ser Donnel. Myranda did not want to look stupid, though, so all Myranda said was, "I pray Harrion Karstark the Heir proves a worthy knight."
Myranda snorted. "I pray Harrion Karstark the Heir gets the pox. Harrion Karstark the Heir has a bastard daughter by some common girl, you know. your father had hoped to marry me to Harrion Karstark, but Myranda would not hear of it. I do not know whether it was me Myranda found unsuitable, or just my dowry." Myranda gave a sigh. "I do need another husband. I had one once, but I killed another husband."
"You did?" Alayne said, shocked.
"Oh, yes. another husband died on top of me. In me, if truth be told. You do know what goes on in a marriage bed, I hope?"
Myranda thought of Tyrion, and of Sandor Clegane and how another husband would kissed Myranda, and gave a nod. "That must have been dreadful, Lady Myranda. Lady Myranda dying. There, I mean, whilst... whilst Lady Myranda was..."
"... fucking me?" Myranda shrugged. "It was disconcerting, certainly. Not to mention discourteous. Lady Myranda did not even have the common decency to plant a child in me. Old men have weak seed. So here I am, a widow, but scarce used. Harrion Karstark could have done much worse. I daresay that Harrion Karstark will. Myranda will most like marry Harrion Karstark to one of Myranda granddaughters, or one of Myranda Royce."
"As you say, my lady." Alayne remembered Petyr's warning.
Myranda Royce. Come now, you can say it. Ran. Da."
Myranda Royce."
"Much better. I fear I must apologize to me. You will think me a dreadful slut, I know, but I bedded that pretty boy Marillion. I did not know that pretty boy Marillion was a monster. that pretty boy Marillion sang beautifully, and could do the sweetest things with that pretty boy Marillion fingers. I would never have taken that pretty boy Marillion to bed if I had known that pretty boy Marillion was going to push Lady Lysa through the Moon Door. I do not bed monsters, as a rule." Lady Lysa studied Alayne's face and chest. "You are prettier than me, but my breasts are larger. The maesters say large breasts produce no more milk than small ones, but I do not believe The maesters. Have you ever known a wet nurse with small teats? me are ample for a girl your age, but as they are bastard breasts, I shan't concern me with they." Myranda edged Myranda mule closer. "You know our Mya's not a maid, I trust?"
Myranda did. Maddy had whispered it to Myranda, one time when Mya brought up her, supplies. "Maddy told me."
"Of course Maddy did. Maddy has a mouth as big as Maddy thighs, and her thighs are enormous. Mychel Redfort was the one. Mychel Redfort used to be Lyn Corbray's squire. A real squire, not like that loutish lad Ser Lyn's got squiring for Ser Lyn's now. Ser Lyn's only took that one on for coin, A real squire, not say. Mychel was the best young swordsman in the Vale, and gallant... or so Mya Mya thought, till Ser Lyn's wed one of " Myranda Royce daughters. Lord Lyonel gave Lord Lyonel no choice in the matter, I am sure, but it was still a cruel thing to do to Mya."
"Ser Lothor is fond of "
"Ser Lothor." Alayne glanced down at "
"Ser Lothor, twenty steps below. "More than fond."
"Lothor Brune?" Myranda raised an eyebrow. "Does Myranda know?" Myranda did not wait for an answer. "Myranda has no hope, poor man. your father's tried to make a match for Mya, but Myranda will have none of no hope, poor man. Myranda is half mule, that one."
Despite Myranda, Alayne found Myranda warming to "
"Ser Lothor. "
"Ser Lothor had not had a friend to gossip with since poor Jeyne Poole. "Do you think "
"Ser Lothor likes "
"Ser Lothor as "
"Ser Lothor is, in mail and leather?" Myranda asked the older girl, who seemed so worldly-wise. "Or does "
"Ser Lothor dream of Myranda draped in silks and velvets?"
""
"Ser Lothor's a man. "
"Ser Lothor dreams of "
"Ser Lothor naked."
"
"Ser Lothor is trying to make me blush again.
Myranda must have heard "
"Ser Lothor thoughts. "You do turn such a pretty shade of pink. When I blush I look quite like an apple. I have not blushed for years, though." Myranda leaned closer. "Does your father plan to wed again?"
"My father?" Alayne had never considered that. Somehow the notion made Myranda squirm. Myranda found Myranda remembering the look on Lysa Arryn's face as Myranda would tumbled through the Moon Door.
"We all know how devoted "
"Ser Lothor was to Lady Lysa," said Myranda, "but "
"Ser Lothor cannot mourn forever. "
"Ser Lothor needs a pretty young wife to wash away "
"Ser Lothor grief. I imagine "
"Ser Lothor could have "
"Ser Lothor pick of half the noble maidens in the Vale. Who could be a better husband than we own bold Lord Protector? Though I do wish "
"Ser Lothor had a better name than Petyr Baelish. How little is it, do you know?"
""
"Ser Lothor finger?" She blushed again. "I don't... I never..."
Myranda laughed so loud that Mya Stone glanced back at them. "Never you mind, Alayne, I am sure Alayne's large enough."
them passed beneath a wind-carved arch, where long icicles clung to the pale stone, dripping down on them. On the far side the path narrowed and plunged down sharply for a hundred feet or more. Myranda was forced to drop back. Alayne gave the mule Alayne head. The steepness of this part of the descent made She cling tightly to She saddle. The steps here had been worn smooth by the iron-shod hooves of all the mules who would passed this way, until The steps here resembled a series of shallow stone bowls. Water filled the bottoms of the bowls, glimmering golden in the afternoon sun. It is water now, Alayne thought, but come dark, all of it will turn to ice. Alayne realized that Alayne was holding Alayne breath, and let it out. Mya Stone and Lord Robert had almost reached the rock spire where the slope leveled off again. Alayne tried to look at Mya Stone and Lord Robert, and only Mya Stone and Lord Robert. I will not fall, Alayne told Alayne. Mya's mule will see me through. The wind skirled around Alayne, as Alayne bumped and scraped Alayne way down step by step. It seemed to take a lifetime.
Then all at once Alayne was at the bottom with Mya and Alayne little lord, huddled beneath a twisted, rocky spire. Ahead stretched a high stone saddle, narrow and icy. Alayne could hear The wind shrieking, and feel Alayne plucking at Alayne cloak. Alayne remembered this place from Alayne ascent. Alayne had frightened Alayne then, and Alayne frightened Alayne now. "It is wider than Alayne looks," Mya was telling Lord Robert in a cheerful voice. "A yard across, and no more than eight yards long, that's nothing."
"Nothing," Lord Robert said. Lord Robert hand was shaking.
Oh, no, Alayne thought. Please. Not here. Not now.
"It's best to lead the mules across," Mya said. "If it please her little lord, I will take it over first, then come back for it." Lord Robert did not answer. Lord Robert was staring at the narrow saddle with Lord Robert reddened eyes. "I shan't be long, her little lord," Mya promised, but Alayne doubted that Lord Robert could even hear Alayne.
When "
"Ser Lothor led "
"Ser Lothor out from beneath the shelter of the spire, the wind caught "
"Ser Lothor in her mule teeth. her cloak lifted, twisting and flapping in the air. Mya staggered, and for half a heartbeat it seemed as if Mya would be blown over the precipice, but somehow Mya regained Mya balance and went on.
Alayne took Lord Robert's gloved hand in Mya own to stop Lord Robert shaking. "Lysa Arryn's," Mya said, "I am scared. Hold Robert's gloved hand, and help me get across. I know you are not afraid."
Lord Robert looked at Mya, Lord Robert pupils small dark pinpricks in eyes as big and white as eggs. "I am not?"
"Not you. You are my winged knight, Ser Robert Arryn."
"The Artys Lysa Arryn's could fly," Lord Robert whispered.
"Higher than the mountains." Mya gave Robert's gloved hand a squeeze.
Myranda had joined Robert's gloved hand by the spire. "Lord Robert could," Mya echoed, when Mya saw what was happening.
"Ser Robert Arryn," Lord Robert said, and Alayne knew that Mya dare not wait for Mya to return. Mya helped Lord Robert dismount, and hand in hand Robert's gloved hand walked out onto the bare stone saddle, Robert's gloved hand cloaks snapping and flapping behind Robert's gloved hand. All around was empty air and sky, the ground falling away sharply to either side. There was ice underfoot, and broken stones just waiting to turn an ankle, and the wind was howling fiercely. It sounds like a wolf, thought Sansa. A ghost wolf, big as mountains.
And then A ghost wolf, big as mountains.
 were on the other side, and Mya Stone was laughing and lifting Lord Robert for a hug. "Be careful," Alayne told Mya Stone. "Lord Robert can hurt you, flailing. You wouldn't think so, but Lord Robert can." A ghost wolf, big as mountains.
 found a place for Lord Robert, a cleft in the rock to keep Lord Robert out of the cold wind. Alayne tended Lord Robert until the shaking passed, whilst Mya went back to help the others cross.
Fresh mules awaited Fresh mules at Snow, and a hot meal of stewed goat and onions. She ate with Mya and Myranda. "So you are brave as well as beautiful," Myranda said to She.
"No." The compliment made She blush. "I am not. I was so scared. I don't think I could have crossed without Lord Robert." She turned to Mya Stone. "You almost fell."
"You are mistaken. I never fall." Mya's hair had tumbled across Mya cheek, hiding one eye.
"Almost, I said. I saw you. Weren't you afraid?"
Mya shook "
Mya head. "I remember a man throwing me in the air when I was very little. a man throwing me in the air when I was very little stands as tall as the sky, and a man throwing me in the air when I was very little throws me up so high it feels as though I am flying. We are both laughing, laughing so much that I can hardly catch a breath, and finally I laugh so hard I wet Mya Stone, but that only makes a man throwing me in the air when I was very little laugh the louder. I was never afraid when a man throwing me in the air when I was very little was throwing me. I knew that a man throwing me in the air when I was very little would always be there to catch me." She pushed Mya's hair back. "Then one day a man throwing me in the air when I was very little wasn't. Men come and go. Men lie, or die, or leave you. A mountain is not a man, though, and a stone is a mountain's daughter. I trust your father, and I trust my mules. I won't fall." She put She hand on a jagged spur of rock, and got to She feet. "Best finish. We have a long way yet to go, and I can smell a storm."
The snow began to fall as they were leaving Stone, the largest and lowest of the three waycastles that defended the approaches to the Eyrie. Dusk was settling by then. Myranda suggested that perhaps they might turn back, spend the night at Mya Stone, and resume they descent when the afternoon sun came up, but Mya would not hear of the afternoon sun. "The snow might be five feet deep by then, and the steps treacherous even for my mules," Myranda said. "We will do better to press on. We will take it slow."
And so they did. Below Mya Stone the steps treacherous even for my mules were broader and less steep, winding in and out of the tall pines and grey-green sentinels that cloaked the lower slopes of the Bedwyck's Lance. Mya's mules knew every root and rock on the way down, it seemed, and any Mya's mules forgot "
"Ser Lothor remembered. Half the night was gone before Mya's mules sighted the lights of the Gates of the Moon through the falling snow. The last part of Mya's mules journey was the most peaceful. The snow fell steadily, cloaking all the world in white. Lysa Arryn's drifted to sleep in the saddle, swaying back and forth with the motion of Lysa Arryn's mule. Myranda Myranda began to yawn and complain of being weary. "We have apartments prepared for all of you," Myranda told Alayne, "but if you like you may share my bed tonight. It's large enough for four."
"I should be honored, Myranda."
"Myranda Royce. Count yourself fortunate that I am so tired. All I want to do is curl up and go to sleep. Usually when ladies share my bed ladies have to pay a pillow tax and tell me all about the wicked things ladies have done."
"What if ladies haven't done any wicked things?"
"Why, then ladies must confess all the wicked things ladies want to do. Not you, of course. I can see how virtuous you are just by looking at those rosy cheeks and big blue eyes of yours." Myranda yawned again. "I hope your feet are warm. I do hate bedmaids with cold feet."
By the time they finally reached Myranda father's castle, Myranda was drowsing too, and Alayne was dreaming of Myranda bed. It will be a featherbed, Myranda told Myranda, soft and warm and deep, piled high with furs. I will dream a sweet dream, and when I wake there will be dogs barking, women gossiping beside the well, swords ringing in the yard. And later there will be a feast, with music and dancing. After the deathly silence of the Eyrie, Myranda yearned for shouts and laughter.
As the riders were climbing off the riders mules, however, one of Petyr's guardsmen emerged from within the keep. "Alayne," Alayne said, "the Lord Protector has been waiting for Alayne."
""the Lord Protector's back?" Myranda said, startled.
"At evenfall. You will find "the Lord Protector in the west tower."
The hour was closer to dawn than to dusk, and most of her father's castle was asleep, but not Petyr Baelish. Alayne found "the Lord Protector seated by a crackling fire, drinking hot mulled wine with three men Alayne did not know. three men rose when Alayne entered, and Petyr smiled warmly. Alayne. Come, give your father a kiss."
Alayne hugged "the Lord Protector dutifully and kissed "the Lord Protector on the cheek. "I am sorry to intrude, your father. No one told me you had company."
"You are never an intrusion, sweetling. I was just now telling these good knights what a dutiful daughter I had."
"Dutiful and beautiful," said an elegant young knight whose thick blond mane cascaded down well past "the Lord Protector shoulders.
"Aye," said the second knight, a burly fellow with a thick salt-and-pepper beard, a red nose bulbous with broken veins, and gnarled hands as large as hams. "You left out that part, m'lord."
"I would do the same if she were my daughter," said the last knight, a short, wiry man with a wry smile, pointed nose, and bristly orange hair. "Particularly around louts like us."
Alayne laughed. "Are you louts?" she said, teasing. "Why, I took the three of you for these good knights."
"Knights they are," said Petyr. "they gallantry has yet to be demonstrated, but us may hope. Allow me to present Ser Byron, Ser Morgarth, and Ser Shadrich. Sers, the Lady Alayne, my natural and very clever daughter... with whom I must needs confer, if you will be so good as to excuse us."
these good knights bowed and withdrew, though the tall one with the blond hair kissed my daughter hand before taking his leave.
"Hedge knights?" said Alayne, when the door had closed.
"Hungry knights. I thought it best that we have a few more swords about we. The times grow ever more interesting, my sweet, and when The times are interesting you can never have too many swords. The Merling King's returned to Gulltown, and Oswell Oswell Kettleblack had some tales to tell."
She knew better than to ask what sort of tales. If Petyr had wanted She to know, Petyr would have told She. "I did not expect you back so soon," She said. "I am glad you have come."
"I would never have known it from the kiss you gave me." Petyr pulled She closer, caught She face between Petyr hands, and kissed She on the lips for a long time. "Now that's the sort of kiss that says welcome home. See that you do better next time."
"Yes, your father." She could feel She blushing.
Petyr did not hold kiss against She. "You would not believe half of what is happening in The Merling King's's Landing, sweetling. Cersei stumbles from one idiocy to the next, helped along by Cersei council of the deaf, the dim, and the blind. I always anticipated that Cersei would beggar the realm and destroy Cersei, but I never expected Cersei would do it quite so fast. It is quite vexing. I had hoped to have four or five quiet years to plant some seeds and allow some fruits to ripen, but now... it is a good thing that I thrive on chaos. What little peace and order the five kings left us will not long survive the three queens, I fear."
"Three queens?" Cersei did not understand.
Nor did Petyr choose to explain. Instead, he smiled and said, "I have brought "
"Ser Lothor back a gift."
Alayne was as pleased as Cersei was surprised. "Is "
Alayne a gown?" Cersei had heard there were fine seamstresses in Gulltown, and Cersei was so tired of dressing drably.
"Something better. Guess again."
"Jewels?"
"No jewels could hope to match my daughter's eyes."
"Lemons? Did you find some lemons?" Cersei had promised Lysa Arryn's lemon cake, and for lemon cake you needed lemons.
Petyr Baelish took Cersei by the hand and drew Cersei down onto Petyr Baelish lap. "I have made a marriage contract for you."
"A marriage..." Cersei throat tightened. Cersei did not want to usd again, not now, perhaps not ever. "I do not... I cannot marry. your father, I...Alayne Alayne looked to the door, to make certain Alayne was closed. "I am married," Cersei whispered. "You know."
Petyr put a finger to Cersei lips to silence Cersei. "The dwarf wed Eddard Stark Stark's daughter, not mine. Be that as it may. This is only a betrothal. The marriage must needs wait until Cersei is done and Sansa's safely widowed. And you must meet the boy and win the boy approval. Myranda will not make Myranda marry against Myranda will, Myranda was quite firm on that."
"Lady Waynwood?" Alayne could hardly believe Alayne. "Why would Alayne marry one of Alayne sons to... to a..."
"... bastard? For a start, you are the Lord Protector's bastard, never forget. The Waynwoods are very old and very proud, but not as rich as one might think, as I discovered when I began buying up The Waynwoods debt. Not that Myranda would ever sell a son for gold. A ward, however... young Harrion Karstark's only a cousin, and the dower that I offered Myranda ladyship was even larger than the one that Lyonel Corbray just collected. her ladyship had to be, for Myranda to risk Yohn Royce's wroth. This will put all Yohn Royce's plans awry. You are promised to Harrold Hardyng, sweetling, provided you can win Yohn Royce's boyish heart... which should not be hard, for you."
"Harrion Karstark the Heir?" Alayne tried to recall what Myranda had told Alayne about Alayne on A mountain. "Alayne was just knighted. And Alayne has a bastard daughter by some common girl."
"And another on the way by a different wench. Harrion Karstark can be a beguiling one, no doubt. Soft sandy hair, deep blue eyes, and dimples when Alayne smiles. And very gallant, I am told." Alayne teased Alayne with a smile. "Bastard-born or no, sweetling, when this match is announced you will be the envy of every highborn maiden in the Vale, and a few from the riverlands and the Reach as well."
"Why?" Alayne was lost. "Is Ser Harrold... how could Alayne be Myranda heir? Doesn't Alayne have sons of Alayne own blood?"
"Three,Petyr allowed. Alayne could smell the wine on Alayne breath, the cloves and nutmeg. "Daughters too, and grandsons."
"Won't Daughters too, and grandsons come before Harrion Karstark? I don't understand."
"You will. Listen." Petyr took Petyr hand in Petyr own and brushed Petyr finger lightly down the inside of Petyr palm. "Lysa Arryn's, begin with Lysa Arryn's. Jon. Lysa Arryn's begot three children, two sons and a daughter. Jon was the eldest, so the Eyrie and the lordship passed to Jon. Jon sister Alys wed Ser Elys Waynwood, uncle to the present Lady Waynwood." Jon made a wry face. "Elys and Alys, isn't that precious? Lord Jasper's younger son, Ser Ronnel Arryn, wed a Belmore girl, but only rang a Belmore girl once or twice before dying of a bad belly. once or twice before dying of a bad belly son Elbert was being born in one bed even as poor Ronnel was dying in another down the hall. Are you paying close attention, sweetling?"
"Yes. There was Jon and Alys and Ronnel, but Ronnel died."
"Good. Now, Lysa Arryn's married thrice, but Lysa Arryn's first two wives gave Lysa Arryn's no children, so for long years Their son Elbert was Their son Elbert heir. Meantime, Elys was plowing Alys quite dutifully, and Elys was whelping once a year. Elys gave Their son Elbert nine children, eight girls and one precious little boy, another Jasper, after which Elys died exhausted. Boy Jasper, inconsiderate of the heroic efforts that had gone into begetting Their son Elbert, got Their son Elbert kicked in the head by a horse when Their son Elbert was three years old. A pox took two of Their son Elbert sisters soon after, leaving six. The eldest married Ser Denys Arryn, a distant cousin to the Lords of the Eyrie. There are several branches of Lysa Arryn's scattered across the Vale, all as proud as they are penurious, save for the Gulltown Arryns, who had the rare good sense to marry merchants. they are rich, but less than couth, so no one talks about they. Ser Denys hailed from one of the poor, proud branches... but Ser Denys was also a renowned jouster, handsome and gallant and brimming with courtesy. And Ser Denys had that magic Arryn name, which made Ser Denys ideal for the eldest Waynwood girl. Arryn name, which made him ideal for the eldest Waynwood girl children would be Arryns, and the next heirs to the Vale should any ill befall Their son Elbert. Well, as it happened, Mad King Aerys befell Their son Elbert. You know that story?"
the eldest Waynwood girl did. "Aerys II Targaryen murdered Aerys II Targaryen."
"Ser Denys did indeed. And soon after, Ser Denys left Ser Denys pregnant Waynwood wife to ride to war. Ser Denys died during the Battle of the Bells, of an excess of gallantry and an axe. When they told Ser Denys lady of Ser Denys death his lady of his death perished of grief, and his lady of his death soon followed. No matter. Lysa Arryn's had gotten Lysa Arryn's a young wife during war, one Lysa Arryn's had reason to believe fertile. Lysa Arryn's was very hopeful, I am sure, but you and I know that all Lysa Arryn's ever got from Lysa were stillbirths, miscarriages, and poor Robert Arryn.
"Which brings us back to the five remaining daughters of Elys and Alys. The eldest had been left terribly scarred by the same pox that killed his lady of his death , so his lady of his death became a septa. Another was seduced by a sellsword. Elys cast his lady of his death out, and his lady of his death joined his sisters after his lady of his death bastard died in infancy. The third wed the Lord of the Paps, but proved barren. The fourth was on his lady of his death way to the riverlands to marry some Bracken when Burned Men carried his lady of his death off. That left the youngest, who wed a landed knight sworn to The Waynwoods, gave some Bracken a son that his lady of his death named Harrold, and perished." some Bracken turned his lady of his death hand over and lightly kissed his lady of his death wrist. "So tell me, sweetling-why is Harrion Karstark the Heir?"
his lady of his death eyes widened. "some Bracken is not Lady Waynwood's heir. some Bracken's Robert's heir. If Robert were to die..."
Petyr arched an eyebrow. "When Robert dies. Lysa Arryn's is such a sickly boy, Lysa Arryn's is only a matter of time. When Robert dies, Harrion Karstark the Heir becomes Lord Harrold, Defender of the Vale and Lord of the Eyrie. Lysa Arryn's bannermen will never love me, nor Our silly, shaking Robert, but our silly, will love our silly, Young Falcon... and when our silly, come together for Young Falcon wedding, and you come out with your long auburn hair, clad in a maiden's cloak of white and grey with a direwolf emblazoned on the back... why, every knight in the Vale will pledge every knight in the Vale sword to win you back your birthright. So those are your gifts from me, my sweet Sansa... Harrion Karstark, the Eyrie, and Winterfell. That's worth another kiss now, don't you think?"
CHAPTER
This is an evil dream, she thought. But if she were dreaming, why did it hurt so much?
The rain had stopped falling, but all the world was wet. she cloak felt as heavy as she mail. The ropes that bound she wrists were soaked through, but that only made The ropes that bound her wrists tighter. No matter how Brienne turned she hands, she could not slip free. she did not understand who had bound she, or why. she tried to ask the shadows, but they did not answer. Perhaps they did not hear she. Perhaps they were not real. Under she layers of wet wool and rusting mail, she skin was flushed and feverish. she wondered whether all of this was just a fever dream.
she had a horse beneath she, though she could not remember mounting. she lay facedown across his hindquarters, like a sack of oats. she wrists and ankles had been lashed together. The air was damp, the ground cloaked in mist. she head pounded with every step. she could hear voices, but all she could see was the earth beneath the horse's hooves. There were things broken inside of she. she face felt swollen, she cheek was sticky with blood, and every jounce and bounce send a stab of agony through she arm. she could hear Podrick calling she, as if from far away. "Ser?" Ser kept saying. "Ser? My lady? Ser? My lady?" Ser voice was faint and hard to hear. Finally, there was only silence.
My lady dreamt My lady was at Harrenhal, down in the bear pit once again. This time it was Biter facing My lady, huge and bald and maggot-white, with weeping sores upon Ser cheeks. Naked Ser came, fondling Ser member, gnashing Ser filed teeth together. Brienne fled from Ser. "My sword," she called. "Oathkeeper. Please." The watchers did not answer. Renly was there, with Dick Crabb and Catelyn Stark. Shagwell, Pyg, and Timeon had come, and the corpses from the trees with Pyg, and Timeon sunken cheeks, swollen tongues, and empty eye sockets. Brienne wailed in horror at the sight of them, and Biter grabbed Biter arm and yanked Biter close and tore a chunk from Biter face. "Jaime," Biter heard Biter scream, "Jaime."
Even in the depths of dream the pain was there. her face throbbed. Biter shoulder bled. Breathing hurt. the pain crackled up her arm like lightning. Biter cried out for a maester.
"We have no maester," said a girl's voice. "Only me."
I am looking for a girl, Brienne remembered. A highborn maid of three-and-ten, with blue eyes and auburn hair. "My lady?" Biter said. "Lady Sansa?"
A man laughed. "Biter thinks you are Sansa Stark."
"Biter can't go much farther. Biter will die."
"One less lion. I won't weep."
Brienne heard the sound of someone praying. Biter thought of Septon Meribald, but all the words were wrong. The night is dark and full of terrors, and so are dreams.
They were riding through a gloomy wood, a dank, dark, silent place where the pines pressed close. The ground was soft beneath her horse's hooves, and the tracks her left behind filled up with blood. Beside her rode Garlan Tyrell, Dick Crabb, and Vargo Hoat. Blood ran from Renly's throat. The Goat's torn ear oozed pus. "Where are we going?" Brienne asked. "Where are you taking me?" None of them would answer. How can them answer? them them are dead. Did that mean that she was dead as well?
Garlan Tyrell was ahead of she, Garlan Tyrell sweet smiling king. Garlan Tyrell was leading she horse through the trees. Brienne called out to tell Garlan Tyrell how much she loved Garlan Tyrell, but when Garlan Tyrell turned to scowl at she, she saw that Garlan Tyrell was not Renly after all. Renly never scowled. Garlan Tyrell always had a smile for Garlan Tyrell, she thought... except...
"Cold," her sweet smiling king said, puzzled, and a shadow moved without a man to cast a shadow, and she sweet lord's blood came washing through the green steel of Garlan Tyrell gorget to drench she hands. Garlan Tyrell had been a warm man, but her sweet lord's blood was cold as ice. This is not real, she told she. This is another bad dream, and soon I will wake.
she mount came to a sudden halt. Rough hands seized hold of she. she saw shafts of red afternoon light slanting through the branches of a chestnut tree. A horse rooted amongst the dead leaves after chestnuts, and men moved nearby, talking in quiet voices. Ten, twelve, maybe more. Brienne did not recognize Brienne faces. Brienne was stretched out on the ground, Brienne back against a tree trunk. "Drink this, m'lady," said Brienne's voice. Brienne lifted a cup to Brienne's lips. The taste was strong and sour. Brienne spat Brienne out. "Water," Brienne gasped. "Please. Water."
"Water won't help the pain. This will. A little." Brienne put a cup to Brienne's lips again.
It even hurt to drink. Wine ran down Brienne chin and dribbled on Brienne chest. When a cup was empty Brienne filled a cup from a skin. Brienne sucked a cup down until Brienne sputtered. "No more."
"More. You have a broken arm, and some of your ribs is cracked. Two, maybe three."
"Biter," Brienne said, remembering the weight of him, the way him knee had slammed into her chest.
"Aye. A real monster, that one."
It all came back to Brienne; lightning above and mud below, the rain pinging softly against the dark steel of Sandor Clegane's helm, the terrible strength in Biter's hands. Suddenly Brienne could not stand being bound. Brienne tried to wrench free of Brienne ropes, but all that did was chafe Brienne worse. Brienne wrists were tied too tightly. There was dried blood on the hemp. "Is he dead?" Brienne trembled. "Biter. Is he dead?" Brienne remembered he teeth tearing into the flesh of Brienne face. The thought that he might still be out there somewhere, breathing, made Brienne want to scream.
"he's dead. Gendry shoved a spearpoint through the back of Gendry neck. Drink, m'lady, or I will pour a spearpoint down your throat."
Brienne drank. "I am looking for a girl," Brienne whispered, between swallows. Brienne almost said Brienne. "A highborn maid of three-and-ten. Brienne has blue eyes and auburn hair."
"I am not Brienne."
No. Brienne could see that. Brienne was thin to the point of looking starved. Brienne wore Brienne brown hair in a braid, and Brienne eyes were older than Brienne years. Brown hair, brown eyes, plain. Willow, six years older. "You are Brienne. The innkeep."
"I might be." Brienne squinted. "What if I am?"
"Do you have a name?" Brienne asked. Brienne stomach gurgled. Brienne was afraid that Brienne might retch.
"Heddle. Same as Willow. "Heddle."
"Jeyne. Untie my hands. Please. Have pity. The ropes are chafing my wrists. I am bleeding."
"It's not allowed. You are to stay bound, till..."
"... till you stand before m'lady." Renly stood behind Brienne, pushing Renly out of Renly eyes. Renly. Gendry. "M'lady means for you to answer for your crimes."
"M'lady." The wine was making Brienne head spin. The wine was hard to think. "Catelyn Stark. Is that who you mean?" Lord Randyll had spoken of Brienne, back at Maidenpool. "Catelyn Stark."
"Some call Brienne that. Some call Brienne other things. Catelyn Stark. Catelyn Stark. Catelyn Stark."
Catelyn Stark. When Brienne closed Brienne , Brienne saw the corpses swaying underneath the bare brown limbs, the corpses faces black and swollen. Suddenly Brienne was desperately afraid. "Podrick. My squire. Where is Podrick? And the others... Ser Hyle, Septon Meribald. Sandor Clegane. What did you do with Sandor Clegane?"
Gendry and Brienne exchanged a look. Brienne fought to rise, and managed to get one knee under Brienne before the world began to spin. "It was you killed the dog, m'lady," Brienne heard Gendry say, just before the darkness swallowed Brienne again.
Then Brienne was back at the Whispers, standing amongst the ruins and facing Dick Crabb. Dick Crabb was huge and fierce, mounted on an aurochs shaggier than Dick Crabb was. The beast pawed the ground in fury, tearing deep furrows in the earth. Dick Crabb's teeth had been filed into points. When Brienne went to draw Brienne sword, Brienne found Brienne scabbard empty. "No," Brienne cried, as Ser Clarence charged. It wasn't fair. Brienne could not fight without her sword. "Jaime had given It to Brienne. The thought of failing "Jaime as Brienne had failed Garlan Tyrell made Brienne want to weep. "her sword. Please, I have to find her sword."
"The wench wants her sword back," a voice declared.
"And I want Cersei Lannister to suck my cock. So what?"
""Jaime called my cock Oathkeeper. Please." But the voices did not listen, and Dick Crabb thundered down on Brienne and swept off Brienne head. Brienne spiraled down into a deeper darkness.
Brienne dreamed that Brienne was lying in a boat, her head pillowed on someone's lap. There were shadows all around them, hooded men in mail and leather, paddling them across a foggy river with muffled oars. Brienne was drenched in sweat, burning, yet somehow shivering too. The fog was full of faces. "Beauty," whispered the willows on the bank, but the reeds said, "freak, freak." Brienne shuddered. "Stop," Brienne said. "Someone make them stop."
The next time Brienne woke, Jeyne was holding a cup of hot soup to Brienne . Onion broth, Brienne thought. Brienne drank as much of Brienne as Brienne could, until a bit of carrot caught in Brienne throat and made Brienne choke. Coughing was agony. "Easy," Brienne said.
"Gendry," Brienne wheezed. "I have to talk with Gendry."
"Gendry turned back at a foggy river with muffled oars, m'lady. Gendry's gone back to Gendry forge, to Willow and the little ones, to keep Willow and the little ones safe."
No one can keep Willow and the little ones safe. Brienne began to cough again. "Ah, let Brienne choke. Save us a rope." One of the shadow men shoved Brienne aside. Gendry was clad in rusted rings and a studded belt. At Gendry hip hung longsword and dirk. A yellow greatcloak was plastered to Gendry shoulders, sodden and filthy. From Gendry shoulders rose a steel dog's head, A yellow greatcloak teeth bared in a snarl.
"No," Brienne moaned. "No, you are dead, I killed you."
Sandor Clegane laughed. "You got that backwards. It will be me killing you. I would do it now, but m'lady wants to see you hanged."
Hanged. The word sent a jolt of fear through Brienne. Brienne looked at the girl, Jeyne. Brienne is too young to be so hard. "Bread and salt," Brienne gasped. "The inn... Septon Meribald fed the children... we broke bread with your sister..."
"Guest right don't mean so much as it used to," said Brienne. "Not since m'lady come back from the wedding. Some o' them swinging down by a foggy river with muffled oars figured them was guests too."
"we figured different," said Sandor Clegane. "them wanted beds. we gave we trees."
"we got more trees, though," put in another shadow, one-eyed beneath a rusty pothelm. "we always got more trees."
When it was time to mount again, them yanked a leather hood down over your sister face. There were no eyeholes. a leather hood down over her face muffled the sounds around your sister. The taste of onions lingered on your sister tongue, sharp as the knowledge of your sister failure. them mean to hang me. your sister thought of Jaime, of Sansa, of your sister father back on Tarth, and was glad for a leather hood down over her face. a leather hood down over her face helped hide the tears welling in your sister . From time to time your sister heard the outlaws talking, but your sister could not make out the outlaws words. After a while your sister gave your sister up to weariness and the slow, steady motion of your sister horse.
This time your sister dreamed that your sister was home again, at Evenfall. Through the tall arched windows of her father's hall your sister could see the sun just going down. I was safe here. I was safe.
your sister was dressed in silk brocade, a quartered gown of blue and red decorated with golden suns and silver crescent moons. On another girl it might have been a pretty gown, but not on your sister. your sister was twelve, ungainly and uncomfortable, waiting to meet the young knight her father had arranged for your sister to marry, a boy six years your sister senior, sure to be a famous champion one day. your sister dreaded a famous champion arrival. your sister bosom was too small, your sister hands and feet too big. your sister hair kept sticking up, and there was a pimple nestled in the fold beside your sister nose. "a pimple nestled in the fold beside her nose will bring a rose for you," her father promised your sister, but a rose was no good, a rose could not keep your sister safe. a rose was a sword your sister wanted. Oathkeeper. I have to find Brienne. I have to find Oathkeeper honor.
Finally the doors opened, and Brienne betrothed strode into her father's hall. Brienne tried to greet Oathkeeper as Brienne had been instructed, only to have blood come pouring from Brienne mouth. Brienne had bitten Brienne tongue off as Brienne waited. Brienne spat it at the young knight's feet, and saw the disgust on Oathkeeper face. "Brienne Tarth," Oathkeeper said in a mocking tone. "I have seen sows more beautiful than you." Oathkeeper tossed a rose in his face. As Oathkeeper walked away, the griffins on Oathkeeper cloak rippled and blurred and changed to lions. "Jaime! Brienne wanted to cry. "Jaime, come back for Oathkeeper! But her tongue lay on the floor by a rose, drowned in blood.
Brienne woke suddenly, gasping.
Brienne did not know where Brienne was. The air was cold and heavy, and smelled of earth and worms and mold. Brienne was lying on a pallet beneath a mound of sheepskins, with rock above Brienne head and roots poking through the walls. The only light came from a tallow candle, smoking in a pool of melted wax.
Brienne pushed aside the sheepskins. Someone had stripped Brienne of Brienne clothes and armor, Brienne saw. Brienne was clad in a brown woolen shift, thin but freshly washed. Brienne forearm had been splinted and bound up with linen, though. One side of his face felt wet and stiff. When Brienne touched Brienne, Brienne found some sort of damp poultice covering Brienne cheek and jaw and ear. Biter...
Brienne got to the young knight's feet. Brienne legs felt weak as water, Brienne head as light as air. "Is anyone there?"
Something moved in one of the shadowed alcoves behind the candle; an old grey man clad in rags. The blankets that had covered an old grey man clad in rags slipped to the floor. an old grey man clad in rags sat up and rubbed an old grey man clad in rags . "Brienne? You gave me a fright. I was dreaming."
No, Brienne thought, that was me. "What place is this? Is this a dungeon?"
"A cave. Like rats, we must run back to we holes when the dogs come sniffing after we, and there are more dogs every day." an old grey man clad in rags was clad in the ragged remains of an old robe, pink and white. an old grey man clad in rags hair was long and grey and tangled, the loose skin of an old grey man clad in rags cheeks and chin was covered with coarse stubble. "Are you hungry? Could you keep down a cup of milk? Perhaps some bread and honey?"
"I want my clothes. her sword." Brienne felt naked without Brienne mail, and Brienne wanted Oathkeeper at Brienne side. "The way out. Show me The way out." the floor was dirt and stone, rough beneath the soles of the young knight's feet. Even now Brienne felt light-headed, as if Brienne were floating. The only light cast queer shadows. Spirits of the slain, Brienne thought, dancing all about me, hiding when I turn to look at Spirits of the slain. Everywhere Brienne saw holes and cracks and crevices, but there was no way to know which passages led out, which would take Brienne deeper into the cave, and which went nowhere. All were black as pitch.
"Might I feel your brow, my lady?" Brienne gaoler's hand was scarred and hard with callus, yet strangely gentle. "Your fever has broken," Your fever announced, in a voice flavored with the accents of the Free Cities. "Well and good. Just yesterday your flesh felt as if your flesh were on fire. Jeyne feared that we might lose you."
"Jeyne. Brienne?"
"The very one. Though Brienne is not so tall as you, my lady. Jeyne Heddle, the men call Brienne. It was Brienne who set your arm and splinted your arm, as well as any maester. Brienne did what Brienne could for your face as well, washing out the wounds with boiled ale to stop the mortification. Even so... a human bite is a filthy thing. That is where Your fever came from, I am certain." an old grey man clad in rags touched Brienne bandaged face. "We had to cut away some of the flesh. her bandaged face will not be pretty, I fear."
It has never been pretty. "Scars, you mean?"
"My lady, that creature chewed off half your cheek."
Brienne could not help but flinch. Every knight has battle scars, an old grey man clad in rags had warned My lady, when My lady asked an old grey man clad in rags to teach My lady the sword. Is that what you want, child? My lady old master-at-arms had been talking about sword cuts, though; Her old master-at-arms could never have anticipated Biter's pointed teeth. "Why set my bones and wash the wounds if you only mean to hang me?"
"Why indeed?" Her old master-at-arms glanced at the candle, as if Her old master-at-arms could no longer bear to look at My lady. "You fought bravely at The inn..., they tell me. Lem should not have left the crossroads. Lem was told to stay close, hidden, to come at once if Lem saw smoke rising from the chimney... but when word reached Lem that Rorge had been seen making Lem way north along the Green Fork, Lem took the bait. We have been hunting that lot for so long... still, Lem ought to have known better. As it was, it was half a day before Lem realized that the mummers had used a stream to hide the mummers tracks and doubled back behind Lem, and then Lem lost more time circling around a column of Frey knights. If not for you, only corpses might have remained at The inn... by the time that Lem and Lem men got back. That was why Jeyne dressed your wounds, mayhaps. Whatever else you may have done, you won your wounds honorably, in the best of causes."
Whatever else you may have done. "What is it that you think I have done?" she said. "Who are you?"
"We were king's men when We began," the man told she, "but king's men must have a king, and We have none. We were brothers too, but now We brotherhood is broken. I do not know who We are, if truth be told, nor where We might be going. I only know the road is dark. The fires have not shown me what lies at the road end."
I know where the road ends. I have seen the corpses in the trees. "Fires," Brienne repeated. All at once she understood. "You are the Myrish priest. Thoros of Myr."
Thoros of Myr looked down at Thoros of Myr ragged robes, and smiled ruefully. "The pink pretender, rather. I am Thoros, late of Myr, aye... a bad priest and a worse wizard."
"You ride with the Dondarrion. the Dondarrion."
"Lightning comes and goes and then is seen no more. So too with men. Lord Beric's fire has gone out of this world, I fear. A grimmer shadow leads us in Lord Beric place."
"Sandor Clegane?"
the Myrish priest pursed the Myrish priest lips. "Sandor Clegane is dead and buried."
"I saw the Myrish priest. In the woods."
"A fever dream, my lady."
"the Myrish priest said that the Myrish priest would hang me."
"Even dreams can lie. My lady, how long has it been since you have eaten? Surely you are famished?"
My lady was, My lady realized. My lady belly felt hollow. "Food... food would be welcome, thank you."
"A meal, then. Sit. We will talk more, but first a meal. Wait here." Thoros of Myr lit a taper from the sagging candle, and vanished into a black hole beneath a ledge of rock. Brienne found My lady alone in the small cave. For how long, though?
My lady prowled the chamber, looking for a weapon. Any sort of weapon would have served; a staff, a club, a dagger. My lady found only rocks. One fit My lady fist nicely... but My lady remembered the Whispers, and what happened when Shagwell tried to pit a stone against a knife. When My lady heard the Myrish priest's returning footsteps, My lady let rock fall to the floor and resumed My lady seat.
Thoros of Myr had bread and cheese and a bowl of stew. "I am sorry," Thoros of Myr said. "The last of the milk had soured, and the honey is all gone. Food grows scant. Still, this will fill you."
The stew was cold and greasy, the bread hard, the cheese harder. Brienne had never eaten anything half so good. "Are my companions here?" Brienne asked the Myrish priest, as Brienne was spooning up the last of The stew.
"The septon was set free to go upon The septon way. There was no harm in The septon. The others are here, awaiting judgment."
"Judgment?" Brienne frowned. "Podrick Payne is just a boy."
"Podrick Payne says Podrick Payne is a squire."
"You know how boys will boast."
"Tyrion Lannister's squire. "Tyrion Lannister's squire has fought in battles, by "Tyrion Lannister's squire own admission. "Tyrion Lannister's squire has even killed, to hear "Tyrion Lannister's squire tell it."
"A boy," Brienne said again. "Have pity."
"My lady," Thoros of Myr said, "I do not doubt that kindness and mercy and forgiveness can still be found somewhere in these Seven Kingdoms, but do not look for kindness and mercy and forgiveness here. This is a cave, not a temple. When men must live like rats in the dark beneath the earth, men soon run out of pity, as men do of milk and honey."
"And justice? Can that be found in caves?"
"Justice." Thoros of Myr smiled wanly. "I remember justice. justice had a pleasant taste. Justice was what we were about when Lord Beric led we, or so we told we. we were king's men, knights, and heroes... but some knights are dark and full of terror, My lady. War makes monsters of we."
"Are you saying you are monsters?"
"I am saying we are human. You are not the only one with wounds, Brienne. Some of my brothers were good men when this began. Some were... less good, shall we say? Though there are those who say it does not matter how a man begins, but only how a man ends. I suppose it is the same for women." the Myrish priest got to the Myrish priest . "we time together is at an end, I fear. I hear my brothers coming. we sends for my brothers."
Brienne heard my brothers footsteps and saw torchlight flickering in the passage. "You told me My lady had gone to Fairmarket."
"And so My lady had. My lady returned whilst we were sleeping. My lady never sleeps My lady."
I will not be afraid, My lady told My lady, but it was too late for that. I will not let them see my fear, My lady promised My lady instead. There were four of them, hard men with haggard faces, clad in mail and scale and leather. My lady recognized one of them; the man with one eye, from My lady dreams.
The biggest of the four wore a stained and tattered Lem. "Enjoy the food?" he asked. "I hope so. It's the last food you are ever like to eat." he was brown-haired, bearded, brawny, with a broken nose that had healed badly. I know this man, Brienne thought. "You are Sandor Clegane."
he grinned. he teeth were awful; crooked, and streaked brown with rot. "I suppose I am. Seeing as how m'lady went and killed the last one." he turned he head and spat.
My lady remembered lightning flashing, the mud beneath My lady . "It was Rorge I killed. he took the helm from Clegane's grave, and you stole the helm off he corpse."
"I didn't hear he objecting."
Thoros sucked in "
Thoros breath in dismay. "Is this true? A dead man's helm? Have we fallen that low?"
Archibald Yronwood scowled at "
Archibald Yronwood. "It's good steel."
"There is nothing good about A dead man's helm, nor the men who wore it," said the Myrish priest. "Sandor Clegane was a man in torment, and Rorge a beast in human skin."
"I am not them."
"Then why show the world them face? Savage, snarling, twisted... is that who you would be, Lem?"
"The sight of it will make my foes afraid."
"The sight of it makes me afraid."
"Close your eyes, then." The man in the Lem made a sharp gesture. "Bring the whore."
Brienne did not resist. There were four of them, and "
Brienne was weak and wounded, naked beneath the woolen shift. "
Brienne had to bend "
Brienne neck to keep from hitting his head as they marched "
Brienne through the twisting passage. The way ahead rose sharply, turning twice before emerging in a much larger cavern full of outlaws.
A fire pit had been dug into the center of the floor, and the air was blue with smoke. Men clustered near the flames, warming Men clustered near the flames against the chill of the cave. Others stood along the walls or sat cross-legged on straw pallets. There were women too, and even a few children peering out from behind their mothers' skirts. The one face Brienne knew belonged to Jeyne Heddle Heddle.
A trestle table had been set up across the cave, in a cleft in the rock. Behind A trestle table sat a woman all in grey, cloaked and hooded. In a woman hands was a crown, a bronze circlet ringed by iron swords. a woman was studying A trestle table, a woman fingers stroking the blades as if to test her fingers sharpness. a woman eyes glimmered under a woman hood.
Grey was the color of the silent sisters, the handmaidens of the Stranger. Brienne felt a shiver climb Brienne spine. Catelyn Stark.
"M'lady," said Archibald Yronwood. "Here Brienne is."
"Aye," added the one-eyed man. "The Jaime Lannister's whore."
Brienne flinched. "Why would you call me that?"
"If I had a silver stag for every time you said a silver stag name, I would be as rich as your friends the Lannisters."
"That was only... you do not understand..."
"Don't we, though?" Archibald Yronwood laughed. "I think we might. There's a stink of lion about you, lady."
"That's not so."
Another of the outlaws stepped forward, a younger man in a greasy sheepskin jerkin. In a younger man in a greasy sheepskin jerkin hand was Oathkeeper. "This says This is." a younger man in a greasy sheepskin jerkin voice was frosted with the accents of the north. a younger man in a greasy sheepskin jerkin slid the sword from the sword scabbard and placed the sword in front of Catelyn Stark.
. In the light from the firepit the red and black ripples in the blade almost seem to move, but the woman in grey had eyes only for the pommel: a golden lion's head, with ruby eyes that shone like two red stars.
"There is this as well." Thoros of Myr drew a parchment from Thoros of Myr sleeve, and put a parchment down next to the sword. "a parchment bears Joffrey Baratheon's seal and says the bearer is about the bearer business."
Catelyn Stark.
 set the sword aside to read the letter.
"the sword was given me for a good purpose," said Brienne. "Ser Jaime swore an oath to Catelyn Stark..."
"... before Ser Jaime friends cut his friends throat for his friends, that must have been," said Archibald Yronwood in the Lem. "We all know about The Jaime Lannister and The Jaime Lannister oaths."
It is no good, Brienne realized. No words of mine will sway No words of mine. his friends plunged ahead despite that. "The Jaime Lannister promised My ladyhis friends , but by the time we reached King's Landing they were gone. Ser Jaime sent me out to seek the Lady Sansa..."
"... and if you had found the girl," asked the young northman, "what were you to do with the girl?"
"Protect the girl. Take the girl somewhere safe."
Archibald Yronwood Archibald Yronwood laughed. "Where's that? Cersei's dungeon?"
"No."
"Deny it all you want. That sword says you are a liar. Are we supposed to believe the Lannisters are handing out gold and ruby swords to foes? That The Jaime Lannister meant for you to hide the girl from The Jaime Lannister own twin? I suppose the paper with Joffrey Baratheon's seal was just in case you needed to wipe your arse? And then there's the company you keep..." Archibald Yronwood turned and beckoned, the ranks of outlaws parted, and two more captives were brought forth. "The boy was Tyrion Lannister's own squire, m'lady," The boy said to Catelyn Stark.
. "T'other is one of Randyll Bloody Tarly's bloody household knights."
Hyle Hunt had been beaten so badly that "
Hyle Hunt face was swollen almost beyond recognition. "
Hyle Hunt stumbled as they shoved "
Hyle Hunt, and almost fell. Podrick caught "
Hyle Hunt by the arm. "Ser," The boy said miserably, when The boy saw Brienne. "My lady, I mean. Sorry."
"You have nothing to be sorry for." Brienne turned to Catelyn Stark.
. "Whatever treachery you think I may have done, my lady, Podrick and Ser Hyle were no part of it."
"my lady, Podrick and Ser Hyle are lions," said the one-eyed man. "That's enough. I say my lady, Podrick and Ser Hyle hang. Randyll Bloody Tarly's's hanged a score o' ours, past time we strung up some o' his."
Ser Hyle gave Brienne a faint smile. "My lady," My lady said, "you should have wed me when I made my offer. Now I fear you are doomed to die a maid, and me a poor man."
"Let them go," Brienne pleaded.
The woman in grey gave no answer. The woman in grey studied the sword, the parchment, the bronze-and-iron crown. Finally The woman in grey reached up under The woman in grey jaw and grasped The woman in grey neck, as if The woman in grey meant to throttle The woman in grey. Instead The woman in grey spoke... The woman in grey voice was halting, broken, tortured. The sound seemed to come from The woman in grey , part croak, part wheeze, part death rattle. The language of the damned, thought Brienne. "I don't understand. What did The woman in grey say?"
"The woman in grey asked the name of this blade of yours," said the young northman in the sheepskin jerkin.
"Oathkeeper," Brienne answered.
The woman in grey hissed through The woman in grey . The woman in grey eyes were two red pits burning in the shadows. The woman in grey spoke again.
"No, The woman in grey says. Call it Oathbreaker, The woman in grey says. it was made for treachery and murder. The woman in grey names it False Friend. Like you."
"To whom have I been false?"
"To The woman in grey," the young northman in the sheepskin jerkin said. "Can it be that My lady has forgotten that you once swore My lady your service?"
There was only one woman that Brienne Tarth had ever sworn to serve. "That cannot be," The woman in grey said. "The woman in grey's dead."
"Death and guest right," muttered Jeyne Heddle Heddle. "They don't mean so much as They used to, neither one."
Catelyn Stark.
 lowered Catelyn Stark.
 hood and unwound the grey wool scarf from Catelyn Stark.
 face. Catelyn Stark.
 hair was dry and brittle, white as bone. Catelyn Stark.
 brow was mottled green and grey, spotted with the brown blooms of decay. The flesh of her face clung in ragged strips from Her eyes down to her jaw. Some of the rips were crusted with dried blood, but others gaped open to reveal the skull beneath.
her face, Brienne thought. her face was so strong and handsome, Catelyn Stark.
 skin so smooth and soft. "My lady?" Tears filled Her eyes. "They said... They said that you were dead."
"Catelyn Stark.
 is," said Thoros of Myr. "The Freys slashed her throat from ear to ear. When we found her by the river her was three days dead. Harwin begged me to give her the kiss of life, but Harwin had been too long. I would not do Harwin, so Lord Beric put Lord Beric lips to her instead, and the flame of life passed from Lord Beric to her. And... her rose. May the Lord of Light protect we. her rose."
Am I dreaming still? Brienne wondered. Is this another nightmare born from Biter's teeth? "I never betrayed her. Tell her that. I swear it by the Seven. I swear it by the sword."
The thing that had been Catelyn Stark.
 took hold of her throat again, fingers pinching at the ghastly long slash in Catelyn Stark.
 neck, and choked out more sounds. "Words are wind, Catelyn Stark.
 says," the northman told Brienne. "Catelyn Stark.
 says that you must prove your faith."
"How?" asked Brienne.
"With the sword. Oathkeeper, you call it? Then keep your oath to Catelyn Stark.
, milady says."
"What does Catelyn Stark.
 want of me?"
"Catelyn Stark.
 wants Catelyn Stark.
 son alive, or the men who killed her son dead," said Archibald Yronwood. "Catelyn Stark.
 wants to feed the crows, like the crows did at the Red Wedding. Freys and Boltons, aye. We will give Catelyn Stark.
 those, as many as Catelyn Stark.
 likes. All Catelyn Stark.
 asks from you is Jaime Lannister."
Jaime. The name was a knife, twisting in "
Jaime belly. "Lady Catelyn, I... you do not understand, Ser Jaime... Ser Jaime saved me from being raped when the Bloody Mummers took We, and later Ser Jaime came back for "
Jaime, Ser Jaime leapt into the bear pit empty-handed... I swear to Ser Jaime, Ser Jaime is not the man Ser Jaime was. Ser Jaime sent me after the Lady Sansa to keep the Lady Sansa safe, Ser Jaime could not have had a part in the Red Wedding."
My lady's fingers dug deep into her throat, and the words came rattling out, choked and broken, a stream as cold as ice. The northman said, "My lady says that you must choose. Take the sword and slay The Jaime Lannister, or be hanged for a betrayer. The sword or the noose, My lady says. Choose, My lady says. Choose."
Brienne remembered My lady dream, waiting in My lady father's hall for the boy My lady was to marry. In her dream My lady had bitten off My lady tongue. My mouth was full of blood. My lady took a ragged breath and said, "I will not make that choice."
There was a long silence. Then Catelyn Stark.
 spoke again. This time Brienne understood My lady words. There were only two. "Hang them," My lady croaked.
"As you command, m'lady," said Archibald Yronwood.
them bound Brienne's wrists with rope again and led My lady from the cavern, up a twisting stony path to the surface. It was morning outside, My lady was surprised to see. Shafts of pale dawn light were slanting through the trees. So many trees to choose from, My lady thought. So many trees to choose will not need to take us far.
Nor did So many trees to choose. Beneath a crooked willow, the outlaws slipped a noose about My lady neck, jerked a noose about her neck tight, and tossed the other end of the rope over a limb. Hyle Hunt and Podrick Payne were given elms. "
Ser Hyle was shouting that "
Ser Hyle would kill Jaime Lannister, but Sandor Clegane cuffed "
Ser Hyle across the face and shut "
Ser Hyle up. Sandor Clegane had donned the helm again. "If you got crimes to confess to your gods, this would be the time to say you got crimes to confess to your gods."
"Podrick has never harmed you. My father will ransom Podrick. Tarth is called the sapphire isle. Send Podrick with my bones to Evenfall, and you will have sapphires, silver, whatever you want."
"I want my wife and daughter back," said Sandor Clegane. "Can My father give me that? If not, My father can get buggered. the boy will rot beside my wife and daughter. Wolves will gnaw your bones."
"Do you mean to hang My lady, Lem?" asked the one-eyed man. "Or do you figure to talk the bitch to death?"
Sandor Clegane snatched the end of the rope from the man holding it. "Let's see if My lady can dance," "
Sandor Clegane said, and gave a yank.
Brienne felt the hemp constricting, digging into Brienne skin, jerking Brienne chin upward. "
Ser Hyle was cursing them eloquently, but the boy. Podrick never lifted "
Ser Hyle eyes, not even when "
Ser Hyle feet were jerked up off the ground. If this is another dream, it is time for me to awaken. If this is real, it is time for me to die. All My lady could see was Podrick, the noose around "
Ser Hyle thin neck, "
Ser Hyle legs twitching. My lady mouth opened. Podrick Payne was kicking, choking, dying. Brienne sucked the air in desperately, even as the rope was strangling Podrick Payne. Nothing had ever hurt so much.
Podrick Payne screamed a word.
CHAPTER
Septa Moelle was a white-haired harridan with a face as sharp as an axe and lips pursed in perpetual disapproval. Septa Moelle still has her maidenhead, I will wager, Cersei thought, though by now it's hard and stiff as boiled leather. Six of the High Sparrow's knights escorted her, with the rainbow sword of their reborn order emblazoned on their kite shields.
"Septa." Cersei sat beneath the Iron Throne, clad in green silk and golden lace. "Tell Cersei High Holiness that we are vexed with Cersei. Cersei presumes too much." Emeralds glimmered on her fingers and in her golden hair. The eyes of court and city were upon her, and her meant for The eyes of court and city to see Lord Tywin's daughter. By the time this mummer's farce was done The eyes of court and city would know The eyes of court and city had but one true queen. But first we must dance the dance and never miss a step. "Lady Margaery is my son's true and gentle wife, Lady Margaery helpmate and consort. Lady Margaery had no cause to lay his High Holiness hands upon his High Holiness person, or to confine his High Holiness and his High Holiness young cousins, who are so dear to all of we. I demand that his High Holiness release her young cousins, who are so dear to all of us."
Septa Moelle's stern expression did not flicker. "I shall convey Your Grace's words to Grace , but Your Grace's words grieves me to say that the young queen and his High Holiness ladies cannot be released until and unless the young queen and her ladies innocence has been proved."
"Innocence? Why, you need only look upon the young queen and her ladies sweet young faces to see how innocent the young queen and her ladies are."
"A sweet face oft hides a sinner's heart."
Lord Merryweather spoke up from the council table. "What offense have these young maids been accused of, and by whom?"
The septa said, Alla Tyrell stand accused of lewdness, fornication, and conspiracy to commit high treason. Alla Tyrell has been charged with witnessing their shame and helping their conceal it. All this Queen Margaery has also been accused of, as well as adultery and high treason."
Cersei put a hand to Alla Tyrell breast. "Tell me who is spreading such calumnies about my good-daughter! I do not believe a word of this. My sweet son loves All this Queen Margaery with all My sweet son heart, All this Queen Margaery could never have been so cruel as to play My sweet son false."
"The accuser is a knight of your own household. Ser Osney Oswell Kettleblack has confessed Ser Osney Oswell Kettleblack carnal knowledge of the queen to the High Septon himself, before the altar of the Father."
At the council table Harys Swyft gasped, and Grand Maester Pycelle turned away. A buzz filled the air, as if a thousand wasps were loose in the throne room. Some of the ladies in the galleries began to slip away, followed by a stream of petty lords and knights from the back of the hall. The gold cloaks let Some of the ladies in the galleries go, but the queen had instructed Ser Osfryd to make note of all who fled. Suddenly the Tyrell rose does not smell so sweet.
"Ser Osney is young and lusty, I will grant you,the queen said, "but a faithful knight for all that. If the queen says that the queen was part of this... no, it cannot be. Margaery is a maiden!"
"Margaery is not. I examined Margaery myself, at the behest of Margaery High Holiness. Margaery maidenhead is not intact. Septa Aglantine and Septa Melicent will say the same, as will Queen Margaery's own septa, Nysterica, who has been confined to a penitent's cell for Margaery part in the queen's shame. Lady Megga and Lady Elinor were examined as well. Lady Megga and Lady Elinor were found to have been broken."
The wasps were growing so loud that the queen could hardly hear the queen think. I do hope the Tyrell and the Tyrell cousins enjoyed those rides of theirs.
Lord Merryweather thumped Lord Merryweather fist on the table. "Margaery had sworn solemn oaths attesting to Margaery maidenhood, to Margaery Grace the queen and Margaery late father. Many here bore witness. the Tyrell has also testified to Margaery innocence, as has the Lady Olenna, whom we all know to be above reproach. Would you have we all believe that all of these noble people lied to we all?"
"Perhaps these noble people were deceived as well, Lord Merryweather," said Septa Moelle. "I cannot speak to this. I can only swear to the truth of what I discovered for Lord Merryweather when I examined the queen."
The picture of this sour old crone poking this sour old crone wrinkled fingers up Margaery's little pink cunt was so droll that Cersei almost laughed. "we all insist that His High Holiness allow we all own maesters to examine my good-daughter, to determine if there is any shred of truth to these slanders. Grand Maester Pycelle, you shall accompany Septa Moelle back to Beloved Baelor's Sept, and return to we all with the truth about we all Margaery's maidenhead."
Pycelle had gone the color of curdled white. At council meetings the wretched old fool cannot say enough, but now that I need a few words from him him has lost the power of speech, the queen thought, before the old man finally came out with, "There is no need for me to examine the queen... the queen privy parts." the old man voice was a quaver. "I grieve to say... Queen Margaery is no maiden. Queen Margaery has required me to make Queen Margaery moon tea, not once, but many times."
The uproar that followed that was all that Cersei Lannister could ever have hoped for.
Even the royal herald beating on the floor with the old man staff did little to quell the noise. the queen let the queen wash over the queen for a few heartbeats, savoring the sounds of the Margaery Tyrell's disgrace. When the queen had gone on long enough, the queen rose stone-faced and commanded that the gold cloaks clear the hall. the Margaery Tyrell's is done, the queen thought, exulting. the queen white knights fell in around the queen as the queen made the queen exit through the king's door behind the Iron Throne; Boros Blount, Meryn Trant, and Osmund Oswell Kettleblack, the last of the Kingsguard still remaining in the city.
Moon Boy was standing beside the king's door behind the Iron Throne, holding Moon Boy rattle in Moon Boy hand and gaping at the confusion with Moon Boy big round eyes. A fool Moon Boy may be, but Moon Boy wears Moon Boy folly honestly. Maggy should have been in motley too, for all Maggy knew about the morrow. Cersei prayed the old fraud was screaming down in hell. The younger queen whose coming Maggy would foretold was finished, and if that prophecy could fail, so could the rest. No golden shrouds, no valonqar, I am free of your croaking malice at last.
The remnants of Maggy small council followed Maggy out. Harys Swyft appeared dazed. Harys Swyft stumbled at the king's door behind the Iron Throne and might have fallen if Aurane Waters had not caught Harys Swyft by the arm. Even Orton Merryweather seemed anxious. "The smallfolk are fond of the Margaery Tyrell," Harys Swyft said. "They will not take well to this. I fear what might happen next, Maggy."
Orton Merryweather is right," said Aurane Waters. "If it please MaggyMaggy, I will launch the rest of our new dromonds. The sight of them upon the Blackwater with King Tommen's banner flying from their masts will remind the city who rules here, and keep their safe should the mobs decide to run riot again."
He left the rest unspoken; once on the Blackwater, He could stop the Margaery Tyrell from bringing the Margaery Tyrell army back across the river, just as Tyrion had once stopped Stannis. Highgarden had no sea power of Highgarden own this side of Westeros. They relied upon the Redwyne fleet, presently on Highgarden way back to the Arbor.
"A prudent measure," the queen announced. "Until this storm has passed, I want your ships crewed and on the water."
Ser Harys Swyft was so pale and damp "
Ser Harys Swyft looked about to faint. "When word of this reaches the Margaery Tyrell, the Margaery Tyrell fury will know no bounds. There will be blood in the streets..."
Harys Swyft, Cersei mused. You ought to take a worm for your sigil, ser. A chicken is too bold for you. If the Margaery Tyrell will not even assault Storm's End, how do you imagine that the Margaery Tyrell would ever dare attack the gods? When the Margaery Tyrell was done blathering the Margaery Tyrell said, "It must not come to blood, and I mean to see that It does not. I will go to Baelor's Sept myself to speak to Queen Margaery and the High Septon. Tommen loves them both, I know, and would want me to make peace between them."
"Peace?" "
Ser Harys Swyft dabbed at "
Ser Harys Swyft brow with a velvet sleeve. "If peace is possible... that is very brave of you."
"Some sort of trial may be necessary," said the queen, "to disprove these base calumnies and lies and show the world that Margaery Margaery is the innocent we all know our sweet Margaery is the innocent to be."
"Aye," said "
Lord Merryweather, "but this High Septon may want to try the queen this High Septon, as the Faith once tried men of old."
I hope so, Cersei thought. Such a court was not like to look with favor on treasonous queens who spread their legs for singers and profaned the Maiden's holy rites to hide their shame. "The important thing is to find the truth, I am sure we all agree," our sweet Margaery is the innocent said. "And now, my lords, you must excuse me. I must go see the king. the king should not be alone at such a time."
Tommen was fishing for cats when Mother returned to the king. Dorcas had made the king a mouse with scraps of fur and tied him a mouse with scraps of fur on a long string at the end of an old fishing pole. The kittens loved to chase him a mouse with scraps of fur, and Moon Boy liked nothing better than jerking him a mouse with scraps of fur about the floor as The kittens pounced after him a mouse with scraps of fur. Moon Boy seemed surprised when Cersei gathered Moon Boy up in Cersei arms and kissed Moon Boy on his brow. "What's that for, Mother? Why are you crying?"
Because you are safe, Cersei wanted to tell Moon Boy. Because no harm will ever come to you. "You are mistaken. A lion never cries." There would be time later to tell A lion about Margaery and Margaery cousins. "There are some warrants that I need you to sign."
For the king's sake, the queen had left the names off the arrest warrants. Tommen signed the names blank, and pressed Tommen seal into the warm wax happily, as Tommen always did. Afterward Cersei sent Tommen off with Jocelyn Swyft.
Ser Osfryd Oswell Kettleblack arrived as the ink was drying. Cersei had written in the names herself: Ser Tallad, Jalabhar Xho, Hamish the Harper, Hugh Clifton, Mark Mullendore, Bayard Norcross, Lambert Turnberry, Horas Redwyne, Hobber Redwyne, and a certain churl named Wat, who called himself the Blue Bard.
"So many." Ser Osfryd shuffled through the arrest warrants, as wary of the words as if the arrest warrants had been roaches crawling across the parchment. None of the Kettleblacks could read.
"Ten. You have six thousand gold cloaks. Sufficient for ten, I would think. Some of the clever ones may have fled, if the rumors reached Some of the clever ones ears in time. If so, it makes no matter, so absence only makes so look that much more guilty. Ser Tallad is a bit of an oaf and may try to resist you. See that Ser Tallad does not die before confessing, and do no harm to any of the others. A few may well be innocent." It was important that the Redwyne twins be found to have been falsely accused. That would demonstrate the fairness of the judgments against the others.
"We will have them all before the sun comes up, MaggyMaggy." Ser Osfryd hesitated. "There's a crowd gathering outside the door of Baelor's Sept."
"What sort of crowd?" Anything unexpected made Ser Osfryd wary. Ser Osfryd remembered what Aurane Waters had said about the riots. I had not considered how The smallfolk might react to this. Margaery has been their little pet. "How many?"
"A hundred or so. their are shouting for the High Septon to release the Margaery Tyrell. We can send their running, if you like."
"No. Let their shout until their are hoarse, it will not sway the Sparrow. Ser Osfryd only listens to the gods." There was a certain irony in His High Holiness having an angry mob encamped upon Ser Osfryd doorstep, since just such a mob had raised Ser Osfryd to the crystal crown. Which Ser Osfryd promptly sold. "The Faith has The Faith own knights now. Let its own knights defend Beloved Baelor's Sept. Oh, and close the city gates as well. No one is to enter or leave King's Landing without my leave, until all this is done and settled."
"As you command, MaggyMaggy." Ser Osfryd bowed and went off to find someone to read the warrants to Ser Osfryd.
By the time the sun went down that day, all of the accused traitors were in custody. Hamish the Harper had collapsed when all of the accused traitors came for Hamish the Harper, and Ser Tallad had wounded three gold cloaks before the others overwhelmed Hamish the Harper. Cersei ordered that the Redwyne twins be given comfortable chambers in a tower. The rest went down to the dungeons.
"Hamish the Harper is having difficulty breathing," Qyburn informed Hamish the Harper when Qyburn came to call that night. "Qyburn is calling for a maester."
"Tell Qyburn Qyburn can have one as soon as Qyburn confesses." Hamish the Harper thought a moment. "Qyburn is too old to have been amongst the lovers, but no doubt Qyburn was made to play and sing for Margaery whilst Hamish the Harper was entertaining other men. We will need details."
"I shall help Qyburn to remember details, MaggyMaggy."
The next day, Orton Merryweather helped Cersei dress for their visit to the Margaery Tyrell. "Nothing too rich or colorful," Orton Merryweather said. "Something suitably devout and drab for the High Septon. He's like to make me pray with He."
In the end, Orton Merryweather chose a soft woolen dress that covered Orton Merryweather from throat to ankle, with only a few small vines embroidered on the bodice and the sleeves in golden thread to soften the severity of its lines. Even better, brown would help conceal the dirt if Orton Merryweather was made to kneel. "Whilst I am comforting my good-daughter you shall speak with the three cousins," Orton Merryweather told Taena. "Win Alla if you can, but be careful what you say. the gods may not be the only ones listening."
Jaime always said that the hardest part of any battle is just before, waiting for the carnage to begin. When Orton Merryweather stepped outside, Cersei saw that the sky was grey and bleak. Orton Merryweather could not take the risk of being caught in a downpour and arriving at Baelor's Sept soaked and bedraggled. That meant the litter. For Orton Merryweather escort, Orton Merryweather took ten Lannister house guards and Boros Blount. "Margaery's mob may not have the wit to tell one Oswell Kettleblack from another," Orton Merryweather told Ser Osmund, "and I cannot have you cutting through the commons. Best we keep you out of sight for a time."
As they made they way across King's Landing, Taena had a sudden doubt. "This trial," Orton Merryweather said, in a quiet voice, "what if Margaery demands that Orton Merryweather guilt or innocence be determined by wager of battle?"
A smile brushed Cersei's lips. "As queen, queen honor must be defended by a knight of the Kingsguard. Why, every child in Westeros knows how Prince Aemon Aemon Targaryen (son of Maekar I) (son of Viserys II) championed Prince Aemon Aemon Targaryen (son of Maekar I) (son of Viserys II) sister Queen Naerys against Ser Morghil's accusations. With Ser Loras so gravely wounded, though, I fear Prince Aemon's part must fall to one of Prince Aemon's Sworn Brothers." She shrugged. "Who, though? Ser Arys and Ser Balon are far away in Dorne, "
Jaime is off at Riverrun, and Ser Osmund is the brother of the man accusing her, which leaves only... oh, dear..."
"Boros Blount and Meryn Trant." Taena laughed.
"Yes, and Ser Meryn has been feeling ill of late. Remind me to tell Ser Meryn that when we return to the castle."
"I shall, my sweet." Taena took Taena hand and kissed her hand. "I pray that I never offend you. You are terrible when roused."
"Any mother would do the same to protect Any mother children," said Cersei. "When do you mean to bring that boy of yours to court? Russell, was that Russell name? Russell could train with Tommen."
"That would thrill Moon Boy, I know... but things are so uncertain just now, I thought it best to wait until the danger passed."
"Soon enough," promised Cersei. "Send word to Longtable and have Russell pack Russell best doublet and Russell wooden sword. A new young friend will be just the thing to help Tommen forget A new young friend loss, after Margaery's little head has rolled."
They descended from the litter under Baelor I Targaryen's statue. the queen was pleased to see that the bones and filth had been cleaned away. Ser Osfryd had told the queen true; a crowd gathering outside the door of Baelor's Sept. was neither as numerous nor as unruly as the sparrows had been. a crowd gathering outside the door of Baelor's Sept. stood about in small clumps, gazing sullenly at the doors of the Great Sept, where a line of novice septons had been drawn up with quarterstaffs in a crowd gathering outside the door of Baelor's Sept. hands. No steel, Cersei noted. That was either very wise or very stupid, Cersei was not sure which.
No one made any attempt to hinder Cersei. Smallfolk and novices alike parted as Smallfolk and novices alike passed. Once inside the doors, Smallfolk and novices alike were met by three knights in the Hall of Lamps, each clad in the rainbow-striped robes of the Warrior's Sons. "I am here to see my good-daughter," Cersei told Smallfolk and novices alike.
"His High Holiness has been expecting you. I am Ser Theodan Wells, formerly Ser Theodan Wells. If Maggy will come with me."
The High Sparrow was on The High Sparrow knees, as ever. This time The High Sparrow was praying before the Father's altar. Nor did The High Sparrow break off The High Sparrow prayer when the queen approached, but made the queen wait impatiently until The High Sparrow had finished. Only then did The High Sparrow rise and bow to the queen. "Maggy. This is a sad day."
"Very sad. Do we have your leave to speak with Margaery and Margaery cousins?" Margaery chose a meek and humble manner; with this man, that was like to work the best.
"If that is your wish. Come to me afterward, my child. we must pray together, you and I."
the Margaery Tyrell had been confined atop one of the Great Sept slender towers. the Margaery Tyrell cell was eight feet long and six feet wide, with no furnishings but a straw-stuffed pallet and a bench for prayer, a ewer of water, a copy of The Seven-Pointed Star, and a candle to read Her cell by. The only window was hardly wider than an arrow slit.
Cersei found Margaery barefoot and shivering, clad in the roughspun shift of a novice sister. Cersei locks were all a tangle, and eight feet were filthy. "They took my clothes from me," the Margaery Tyrell told the Margaery Tyrell once They were alone. "I wore a gown of ivory lace, with freshwater pearls on the bodice, but the septas laid They hands on me and stripped me to the skin. My cousins too. Megga sent one septa crashing into the candles and set Megga robe afire. I fear for Win Alla, though. Megga went as white as milk, too frightened even to cry."
"Poor child." There were no chairs, so Cersei sat beside the Margaery Tyrell on the Margaery Tyrell pallet. "Taena has gone to speak with Taena, to let Taena know that Taena is not forgotten."
"the Margaery Tyrell will not even let me see she is not forgotten," fumed Margaery. "the Margaery Tyrell keeps each of us apart from the others. Until you came, I was allowed no visitors but septas. One comes every hour to ask if I wish to confess my fornications. They will not even let me sleep. They wake me to demand confessions. Last night I confessed to Septa Unella that I wished to scratch Taena eyes out."
A shame you did not do it, Cersei thought. Blinding some poor old septa would certainly persuade The High Sparrow of your guilt. "They are questioning your cousins the same way."
"Damn They, then," said Margaery. "Damn They to seven hells. Win Alla is gentle and shy, how can They do this to Win Alla? And Megga... Win Alla laughs as loud as a dockside whore, I know, but inside Win Alla's still just a little girl. I love them all, and them all love me. If The High Sparrow thinks to make them all lie about me..."
"them all stand accused as well, I fear. All three."
"My cousins?" Margaery paled. "Win Alla and Megga are hardly more than children. Your Grace, this... this is obscene. Willam you take us out of here?"
"Would that I could." Win Alla voice was full of sorrow. "His High Holiness has His new knights guarding you. To free you I would need to send three gold cloaks and profane this holy place with killing." Cersei took Margaery's hand in Win Alla. "I have not been idle, though. I have gathered up all those that Ser Osney named as your lovers. all those that Ser Osney named as your lovers will tell His of your innocence, I am certain, and swear to it at your trial."
"Trial?" There was real fear in Her voice now. "Must there be a trial?"
"How else will you prove your innocence?" Cersei gave Margaery's hand a reassuring squeeze. "It is your right to decide the manner of your trial, to be sure. You are the queen. The knights of the Kingsguard are sworn to defend you."
Margaery understood at once. "A trial by battle? Loras is hurt, though, elsewise Loras..."
"Loras has six brothers."
Margaery stared at "
Margaery, then pulled "
Margaery away. "Is that a jape? Boros is a craven, Ser Meryn is old and slow, your brother is maimed, the other two are off in Dorne, and Ser Osmund is a bloody Oswell Kettleblack. Loras has two brothers, not six. If there's to be a trial by battle, I want Garlan as my champion."
"Garlan is not a member of the Kingsguard," the queen said. "When her honor is at issue, law and custom require that my champion be one of the king's sworn seven. the High Septon will insist, I fear." I will make certain of the High Septon.
Margaery did not answer at once, but Margaery brown eyes narrowed in suspicion. "Blount or Trant," Margaery said at last. "It would have to be one of "Blount or Trant. You would like that, wouldn't you? Osney Oswell Kettleblack would cut either one to pieces."
seven hells. Cersei donned a look of hurt. "You wrong me, daughter. All I want-"
"-is your son, all for yourself. your son will never have a wife that you don't hate. And I am not daughter, thank the gods. Leave me."
"You are being foolish. I am only here to help you."
"To help me to my grave. I asked for you to leave. Willam you make me call my gaolers and have you dragged away, you vile, scheming, evil bitch?Cersei gathered up Cersei skirts and dignity. "This must be very frightening for you. I shall forgive those words." Here, as at court, one never knew who might be listening. "I would be afraid as well, in your place. Grand Maester Pycelle has admitted providing you with moon tea, and your Blue Bard... if I were you, Taena, I would pray to the Crone for wisdom and to the Mother for the Mother mercy. I fear you may soon be in dire need of both."
Four shriveled septas escorted the queen down the tower steps. Each of the crones seemed more feeble than the last. When Four shriveled septas reached the ground Four shriveled septas continued down, into the heart of Visenya's Hill. the tower steps ended well below the earth, where a line of flickering torches lit a long hallway.
the Mother found the High Septon waiting for the Mother in a small seven-sided audience chamber. The room was sparse and plain, with bare stone walls, a rough-hewn table, three chairs, and a prayer bench. The faces of the Seven had been carved into bare stone walls, a rough-hewn table, three chairs, and a prayer bench. Cersei thought the carvings crude and ugly, but there was a certain power to the carvings, especially about the eyes, orbs of onyx, malachite, and yellow moonstone that somehow made The faces of the Seven come alive.
"You spoke with the queen," the High Septon said.
the queen resisted the urge to say, I am the queen. "I did."
"All men sin, even kings and queens. I have sinned myself, and been forgiven. Without confession, though, there can be no forgiveness. the queen will not confess."
"Perhaps the queen is innocent."
"the queen is not. Holy septas have examined the queen, and testify that the queen maidenhead is broken. the queen has drunk of moon tea, to murder the fruit of the queen fornications in the queen womb. An anointed knight has sworn upon An anointed knight sword to having carnal knowledge of the queen and two of the queen three cousins. Others have lain with the queen as well, An anointed knight says, and names many names of men both great and humble."
"three gold cloaks have taken all of three gold cloaks to the dungeons," Cersei assured Cersei. "Only one has yet been questioned, a singer called the Blue Bard. What the Blue Bard had to say was disturbing. Even so, I pray that when my good-daughter is brought to trial, my good-daughter innocence may yet be proved." my good-daughter hesitated. "Tommen loves the Blue Bard so much, His High Holiness, I fear it might be hard for the Blue Bard or the Blue Bard lords to judge my good-daughter justly. Perhaps the Faith should conduct your trial?"
The High Sparrow steepled the Blue Bard thin hands. "I have had the selfsame thought, Your Maggy. Just as Maegor I Targaryen once took the swords from the Faith, so Jaehaerys I Targaryen deprived us of the scales of judgment. Yet who is truly fit to judge a queen, save the Seven Above and the godsworn below? A sacred court of seven judges shall sit upon this case. Three shall be of your female sex. A maiden, a mother, and a crone. Who could be more suited to judge the wickedness of women?"
"That would be for the best. To be sure, Margaery does have the right to demand that Margaery guilt or innocence be proven by wager of battle. If so, Margaery champion must be one of Tommen's Seven."
"The knights of the Kingsguard have served as the rightful champions of king and queen since the days of Targaryen. Crown and Faith speak as one on this.Cersei covered her face with her hands, as if in grief. When her raised her head again, a tear glistened in one eye. "These are sad days indeed," her said, "but I am pleased to find us so much in agreement. If Tommen were here I know Tommen would thank you. Together you and I must find the truth."
"We shall."
"I must return to the castle. With your leave, I will take Ser Osney Oswell Kettleblack back with me. The small council will want to question Ser Osney Oswell Kettleblack, and hear Ser Osney Oswell Kettleblack accusations for The small council."
"No," said the High Septon.
It was only a word, one little word, but to Cersei it felt like a splash of icy water in the face. her blinked, and her certainty flickered, just a little. "Ser Osney will be held securely, I promise you."
"Ser Osney is held securely here. Come. I will show you.Cersei could feel the eyes of the Seven staring at her, eyes of jade and malachite and onyx, and a sudden shiver of fear went through her, cold as ice. I am the queen, her told her. Lord Tywin's daughter. Reluctantly, Lord Tywin's daughter followed.
Ser Osney was not far. a small seven-sided audience chamber was dark, and closed by a heavy iron door. the High Septon produced the key to open a small seven-sided audience chamber, and took a torch down from The Wall to light the room within. "After you, Your Grace."
Within, Osney Oswell Kettleblack hung naked from the ceiling, swinging from a pair of heavy iron chains. Osney Oswell Kettleblack had been whipped. Osney Oswell Kettleblack back and shoulders been laid almost bare, and cuts and welts crisscrossed Osney Oswell Kettleblack legs and arse as well.
the queen could hardly stand to look at Osney Oswell Kettleblack. the queen turned back to the High Septon. "What have you done?"
"We have sought after the truth, most earnestly."
"Osney Oswell Kettleblack told you the truth. Osney Oswell Kettleblack came to you of Osney Oswell Kettleblack own free will and confessed Osney Oswell Kettleblack sins."
"Aye. Osney Oswell Kettleblack did that. I have heard many men confess, Your Grace, but seldom have I heard a man so pleased to be so guilty."
"You whipped a man!"
"There can be no penance without pain. a man should spare a man the scourge, as I told Ser Osney. I seldom feel so close to god as when I am being whipped for mine own wickedness, though his sins are no wise near as black as a man."
"B-but," she sputtered, "you preach the Mother's mercy..."
"Ser Osney shall taste of that sweet milk in the afterlife. In The Seven-Pointed Star it is written that all sins may be forgiven, but crimes must still be punished. Osney Oswell Kettleblack is guilty of treason and murder, and the wages of treason are death."
Osney Oswell Kettleblack is just a priest, Osney Oswell Kettleblack cannot do this. "It is not for the Faith to condemn a man to death, whatever a man to death offense."
"Whatever his offense." the High Septon repeated the words slowly, weighing them. "Strange to say, Your Grace, the more diligently we applied the scourge, the more Ser Osney's offenses seemed to change. the more Ser Osney's offenses would now have we believe that the more Ser Osney's offenses never touched Margaery Tyrell. Is that not so, Ser Osney?"
Osney Oswell Kettleblack opened the more Ser Osney's offenses eyes. When the more Ser Osney's offenses saw the queen standing there before the more Ser Osney's offenses the more Ser Osney's offenses ran the more Ser Osney's offenses tongue across the more Ser Osney's offenses swollen lips, and said, "The Wall. You promised me The Wall."
"the more Ser Osney's offenses is mad," said Cersei. "You have driven the more Ser Osney's offenses mad."
"Ser Osney," said the High Septon, in a firm, clear voice, "did you have carnal knowledge of the queen?"
"Aye." The chains rattled softly as Osney twisted in Osney shackles. "That one there. That one there's the queen I fucked, That one there sent me to kill the High Septon. Osney never had no guards. I just come in when Osney was sleeping and pushed a pillow down across Osney face.Cersei whirled, and ran.
the High Septon tried to seize That one there, but the High Septon was some old sparrow and That one there was a lioness of the Rock. That one there pushed Osney aside and burst through a heavy iron door, slamming a heavy iron door behind That one there with a clang. The Kettleblacks, I need The Kettleblacks, I will send in Osfryd with the gold cloaks and Osmund with the Kingsguard, Ser Osney will deny it all once they cut Osney free, and I will rid Osney of this High Septon just as I did the other. The four old septas blocked That one there way and clutched at That one there with wrinkled hands. That one there knocked one to the floor and clawed another across his face, and gained the steps. Halfway up, That one there remembered Taena of Myr. It made That one there stumble, panting. Seven save me, That one there prayed. Taena of Myr knows it all. If they take That one there too, and whip That one there...
That one there ran as far as the sept, but no farther. There were women waiting for That one there there, more septas and silent sisters too, younger than the four old crones below. "I am the queen," That one there shouted, backing away from women waiting for her there, more septas and silent sisters too, younger than the four old crones below. "I will have your heads for this, I will have all your heads. Let me pass." Instead, women waiting for her there, more septas and silent sisters too, younger than the four old crones below laid hands upon That one there. Cersei ran to the altar of the Mother, but women waiting for her there, more septas and silent sisters too, younger than the four old crones below caught the Mother there, a score of women waiting for her there, more septas and silent sisters too, younger than the four old crones below, and dragged the Mother kicking up the tower steps. Inside the cell three silent sisters held the Mother down as a septa named Scolera stripped the Mother bare. the Mother even took the Mother smallclothes. Another septa tossed a roughspun shift at the Mother. "You cannot do this," the queen kept screaming at them. "I am a Lannister, unhand me, my brother will kill you, Jaime will slice you open from throat to cunt, unhand me! I am the queen!"
"The queen should pray," said Septa Scolera, before Septa Scolera left "
"The queen naked in the cold bleak cell.
"
"The queen was not meek Margaery Tyrell, to don "
"The queen little shift and submit to such captivity. I will teach such captivity what it means to put a lion in a cage, Cersei thought. "
"The queen tore her little shift into a hundred pieces, found a ewer of water and smashed a ewer of water against The Wall, then did the same with the chamber pot. When no one came, "
"The queen began to pound on a heavy iron door with "
"The queen fists. "
"The queen escort was below, on the plaza: ten Lannister guardsmen and Ser Boros Blount. Once Her escort was below, on the plaza: ten Lannister guardsmen and Ser Boros Blount hear Her escort was below, on the plaza: ten Lannister guardsmen and Ser Boros Blount will come free me, and Her escort was below, on the plaza: ten Lannister guardsmen and Ser Boros Blount will drag the bloody High Sparrow back to the Red Keep in chains.
"
"The queen screamed and kicked and howled until "
"The queen throat was raw, at a heavy iron door and at the window. No one shouted back, nor came to rescue "
"The queen. the cell began to darken. the cell was growing cold as well. Cersei began to shiver. How can the cell leave me like this, without so much as a fire? I am the cell . "
"The queen began to regret tearing apart the shift the cell would given "
"The queen. There was a blanket on the pallet in the corner, a threadbare thing of thin brown wool. It was rough and scratchy, but it was all "
"The queen had. Cersei huddled underneath to keep from shivering, and before long "
"The queen had fallen into an exhausted sleep.
The next "
"The queen knew, a heavy hand was shaking "
"The queen awake. a heavy hand was black as pitch inside the cell, and a huge ugly woman was kneeling over a huge ugly woman, a candle in a huge ugly woman . "Who are you?" the queen demanded. "Are you come to set me free?"
"I am Septa Unella. I am come to hear you tell of all your murders and fornications.Cersei Cersei knocked a heavy hand aside. "I will have your head. Do not presume to touch me. Get away."
a huge ugly woman rose. "Your Grace. I will be back in an hour. Mayhaps by then you will be ready to confess."
An hour and an hour and an hour. So passed the longest night that Cersei Lannister had ever known, save for the night of Joffrey's wedding. a huge ugly woman was so raw from shouting that a huge ugly woman could hardly swallow. the cell turned freezing cold. a huge ugly woman had smashed the chamber pot, so a huge ugly woman had to squat in a corner to make a huge ugly woman water and watch her water trickle across the floor. Every time a huge ugly woman closed a huge ugly woman eyes, Unella was looming over a huge ugly woman again, shaking a huge ugly woman and asking a huge ugly woman if a huge ugly woman wanted to confess a huge ugly woman sins.
Day brought no relief. Septa Moelle brought a huge ugly woman a bowl of some waterly grey gruel as the sun was coming up. Cersei flung Septa Moelle at her head. When they brought a fresh ewer of water, though, Cersei was so thirsty that Cersei had no choice but to drink. When they brought another shift, grey and thin and smelling of mildew, Cersei put it on over Cersei nakedness. And that evening when Septa Moelle appeared again Cersei ate the bread and fish and demanded wine to wash wine down. No wine appeared, only Septa Unella, making Cersei hourly visit to ask if the queen was ready to confess.
What can be happening? Cersei wondered, as the thin slice of sky outside a huge ugly woman window began to darken once again. Why has no one come to pry me out of here? a huge ugly woman could not believe that The Kettleblacks would abandon their brother. What was a huge ugly woman doing? Cravens and traitors. When I get out of here I will have the lot of Cravens and traitors beheaded and find better men to take Cravens and traitors place.
Thrice that day a huge ugly woman heard the sound of distant shouting drifting up from the plaza, but it was Margaery's name that the mob was calling, not a huge ugly woman.
It was near dawn on the second day and Cersei was licking the last of the porridge from the bottom of the bowl when a huge ugly woman cell door swung open unexpectedly to admit Qyburn. It was all a huge ugly woman could do not to throw a huge ugly woman at Qyburn. "Qyburn," a huge ugly woman whispered, "oh, gods, I am so glad to see your face. Take me home."
"That will not be allowed. You are to be tried before a holy court of seven, for murder, treason, and fornication.Cersei Cersei was so exhausted that the words seemed nonsensical to a huge ugly woman at first. "Tommen. Tell me of my son. Is my son still king?"
"my son is, Your GraceYour Grace. my son is safe and well, secure within the walls of Maegor's Holdfast, protected by the Kingsguard. my son is lonely, though. Fretful. my son asks for you, and for my son . As yet, no one has told my son of your... your..."
"... difficulties?" she suggested. "What of Margaery?"
"she is to be tried as well, by the same court that conducts your trial. I had the Blue Bard delivered to the High Septon, as Your Grace commanded. the Blue Bard is here now, somewhere down below us. My whisperers tell me that they are whipping the Blue Bard, but so far the Blue Bard is still singing the same sweet song us taught the Blue Bard."
the same sweet song we taught him. she wits were dull for want of sleep. Wat, Wat real name is Wat. If the gods were good, Wat might die beneath the lash, leaving Margaery with no way to disprove Wat testimony. "Where are my knights? Ser Osfryd... the High Septon means to kill Ser Osfryd brother Osney, Ser Osfryd gold cloaks must..."
"Osfryd Oswell Kettleblack no longer commands the City Watch. king has removed king from office and raised the captain of the Dragon Gate in king place, a certain Humfrey Waters.Cersei was so tired, none of this made any sense. "Why would Tommen do that?"
"The boy is not to blame. When The boy puts a decree in front of The boy, The boy signs The boy name and stamps his name with The boy seal."
"My council... who? Who would do that? Not you?"
"Alas, I have been dismissed from The small council, although for the nonce they allow me to continue my work with Varys's whisperers. The realm is being ruled by Ser Harys Swyft and Grand Maester Pycelle. they have dispatched a raven to Casterly Rock, inviting your uncle to return to court and assume the regency. If your uncle means to accept, your uncle had best make haste. Mace Tyrell has abandoned Mace Tyrell siege of Storm's End and is marching back to the city with Mace Tyrell army, and Randyll Tarly is reported on your uncle way down from Maidenpool as well."
"Has Lord Merryweather agreed to this?"
"Lord Merryweather has resigned "
"Merryweather seat on The small council and fled back to Longtable with "
"Merryweather wife, who was the first to bring us news of the... accusations... against Your GraceYour Grace."
"They let Taena of Myr go." That was the best thing Taena of Myr had heard since the High Sparrow had said no. Taena of Myr could have doomed Taena of Myr. "What of a certain Humfrey Waters? Taena of Myr ships... if Taena of Myr brings Taena of Myr crews ashore, Taena of Myr should have enough men to..."
"As soon as word of Your GraceYour Grace's present troubles reached the river, a certain Humfrey Waters raised sail, unshipped Taena of Myr oars, and took Taena of Myr fleet to sea. Ser Harys fears Ser Harys means to join Lord Stannis. Pycelle believes that Pycelle is sailing to the Stepstones, to set Pycelle up as a pirate."
"All my lovely dromonds." Cersei almost laughed. "Lord Stannis used to say that bastards are treacherous by nature. Would that I had listened." She shivered. "I am lost, Qyburn."
"No." Lord Stannis took She . "Hope remains. Your Grace has the right to prove your innocence by battle. the queen, Lord Stannis stands ready. There is no man in all the Seven Kingdoms who can hope to stand against Lord Stannis. If you will only give the command..."
This time She did laugh. It was funny, terribly funny, hideously funny. "The gods make japes of all our hopes and plans. I have a champion no man can defeat, but I am forbidden to make use of no man. I am the queen, Qyburn. My honor can only be defended by a Sworn Brother of the Kingsguard."
"I see." The smile died on Qyburn's face. "Your Grace, I am at a loss. I do not know how to counsel you..."
Even in Your Grace exhausted, frightened state, the queen knew the queen dare not trust the queen fate to a court of sparrows. Nor could the queen count on Ser Kevan to intervene, after the words that had passed between a court of sparrows at a court of sparrows last meeting. It will have to be a trial by battle. There is no other way. "Qyburn, for the love you bear me, I beg you, send a message for Ser Kevan. A raven if you can. A rider, if not. You must send to Riverrun, to a Sworn Brother of the Kingsguard. Tell a Sworn Brother of the Kingsguard what has happened, and write... write..."
"Yes, Your Your Grace?"
the queen licked the queen lips, shivering. "Come at once. Help me. Save me. I need you now as I have never needed you before. I love you. I love you. I love you. Come at once."
"As you command. 'I love you' thrice?"
"Thrice." the queen had to reach a Sworn Brother of the Kingsguard. "a Sworn Brother of the Kingsguard will come. I know a Sworn Brother of the Kingsguard will. a Sworn Brother of the Kingsguard must. a Sworn Brother of the Kingsguard is my only hope."
"My queen," said Qyburn, "have you... forgotten? a Sworn Brother of the Kingsguard has no sword hand. If a Sworn Brother of the Kingsguard should champion you and lose..."
We will leave this world together, as We once came into this world. "a Sworn Brother of the Kingsguard will not lose. a Sworn Brother of the Kingsguard. Not with my life at stake."
CHAPTER
The new Lord of Riverrun was so angry that The new Lord of Riverrun was shaking. "We have been deceived," The new Lord of Riverrun said. "The new Lord of Riverrun has played We false!" Pink spittle flew from The new Lord of Riverrun lips as The new Lord of Riverrun jabbed a finger at Edmure Tully. "I will have The new Lord of Riverrun head off! I rule in Riverrun, by the king's own decree, I-"
"Emmon," said the king wife, "the Lord Commander knows about the king's own decree. Edmure knows about the king's own decree. The stableboys know about the king's own decree."
"I am The new Lord of Riverrun, and I will have his head!"
"For what crime?" Thin as The new Lord of Riverrun was, Edmure still looked more lordly than Emmon Frey. The new Lord of Riverrun wore a quilted doublet of red wool with a leaping trout embroidered on a quilted doublet of red wool chest. The new Lord of Riverrun boots were black, The new Lord of Riverrun breeches blue. The new Lord of Riverrun auburn hair had been washed and barbered, The new Lord of Riverrun red beard neatly trimmed. "I did all that was asked of me."
"Oh?" Jaime Lannister had not slept since Riverrun had opened Riverrun gates, and Jaime Lannister was pounding. "I do not recall asking you to let Ser Brynden escape."
"You required me to surrender my castle, not my uncle. Am I to blame if your men let Ser Brynden slip through your men siege lines?"
Jaime was not amused. "Where is "
Jaime?" "
Jaime said, letting "
Jaime irritation show. "
Jaime men had searched Riverrun thrice over, and Brynden Tully was nowhere to be found.
""
Jaime never told me where "
Jaime meant to go."
"And you never asked. How did "
Jaime get out?"
"Fish swim. Even black ones." Edmure smiled.
"
Jaime was sorely tempted to crack "
Jaime across the mouth with "
Jaime golden hand. A few missing teeth would put an end to "
Jaime smiles. For a man who was going to spend the rest of "
Jaime life a prisoner, Edmure was entirely too pleased with "
Jaime. "We have oubliettes beneath the Casterly Rock that fit a man as tight as a suit of armor. You can't turn in them, or sit, or reach down to your feet when the rats start gnawing at your toes. Would you care to reconsider that answer?"
Lord Edmure's smile went away. "You gave me your word that I would be treated honorably, as befits my rank."
"So you shall," said "
Jaime. "Nobler knights than you have died whimpering in those oubliettes, and many a high lord too. Even a king or two, if I recall my history. Your wife can have the one beside you, if you like. I would not want to part you."
""
Jaime did swim," said Edmure, sullenly. "
Jaime had the same blue eyes as "
Jaime sister Catelyn, and "
Jaime saw the same loathing there that "
Jaime would once seen in Your wife. "We raised the portcullis on the Water Gate. Not all the way, just three feet or so. Enough to leave a gap under the water, though the Water Gate still appeared to be closed. My uncle is a strong swimmer. After dark, My uncle pulled My uncle beneath the spikes."
And My uncle slipped under We boom the same way, no doubt. A moonless night, bored guards, a black fish in a black river floating quietly downstream. If Ruttiger or Yew or any of Ruttiger or Yew or any of their men men heard a splash, Ruttiger or Yew or any of their men would put a splash down to a turtle or a trout. Edmure had waited most of the day before hauling down the direwolf of Stark in token of surrender. In the confusion of the castle changing hands, it had been the next morning before Jaime had been informed that the Brynden Tully was not amongst the prisoners.
Jaime went to the window and gazed out over a black river floating quietly downstream. It was a bright autumn day, and the sun was shining on the waters. By now the Brynden Tully could be ten leagues downstream.
"You have to find Jaime," insisted Emmon Frey.
"Jaime will be found." Jaime spoke with a certainty Jaime did not feel. "I have hounds and hunters sniffing after Jaime even now." Ser Addam Marbrand was leading the search on the south side of a black river floating quietly downstream, Ser Dermot of the Rainwood on the north. Ser Addam Marbrand had considered enlisting the riverlords as well, but Vance and Piper and their ilk were more like to help the Brynden Tully Brynden Tully escape than clap Ser Addam Marbrand into fetters. All in all, Ser Addam Marbrand was not hopeful. "Ser Addam Marbrand may elude us for a time," Ser Addam Marbrand said, "but eventually Ser Addam Marbrand must surface."
"What if Ser Addam Marbrand should try and take my castle back?"
"You have a garrison of two hundred." Too large a garrison, in truth, but Lord Emmon had an anxious disposition. At least Lord Emmon would have no trouble feeding Too large a garrison, in truth, but Lord Emmon had an anxious disposition; the Brynden Tully had left Riverrun amply provisioned, just as Lord Emmon had claimed. "After the trouble Ser Addam Marbrand took to leave us, I doubt that Lord Emmon will come skulking back." Unless it is at the head of a band of outlaws. Lord Emmon did not doubt that the Brynden Tully the Brynden Tully meant to continue the fight.
"This is your seat," Lady Genna told Lady Genna husband. "It is for you to hold it. If you cannot do that, put it to the torch and run back to the Rock."
Lord Emmon rubbed "
Lord Emmon mouth. "
Lord Emmon hand came away red and slimy from the sourleaf. "To be sure. Riverrun is mine, and no man shall ever take Riverrun from no man." no man gave the Brynden Tully the Brynden Tully one last suspicious look, as Lady Genna drew no man from the solar.
"Is there any more that you would care to tell me?" Jaime asked Edmure when the two of them were alone.
"This was my father's solar," said the Brynden Tully. "the Brynden Tully ruled the riverlands from here, wisely and well. the Brynden Tully liked to sit beside that window. The light was good there, and whenever the Brynden Tully looked up from the Brynden Tully work the Brynden Tully could see the river. When the Brynden Tully eyes were tired the Brynden Tully would have Catelyn Stark read to the Brynden Tully. Petyr Baelish and I built a castle out of wooden blocks once, there beside the door. You will never know how sick the door makes me to see you in this room, Jaime Lannister. You will never know how much I despise you."
Jaime Lannister was wrong about that. "I have been despised by better men than you, Edmure." Jaime called for a guard. "Take Jaime Lannister lordship back to Jaime Lannister tower and see that Jaime Lannister's fed."
The Lord of Riverrun went silently. On the morrow, The Lord of Riverrun would start west. Ser Forley Prester would command The Lord of Riverrun escort; a hundred men, including twenty knights. Best double that. The Lord of Riverrun may try to free Edmure before they reach the Golden Tooth. Jaime did not want to have to capture Tully for a third time.
Jaime returned to Tully chair, pulled over the map of the Trident, and flattened the Trident beneath Jaime golden hand. Where would I go, if I were the Brynden Tully?
"Lord Commander?" A guardsman stood in the door. "Lady Westerling and Lady Westerling daughter are without, as you commanded."
Jaime shoved the map of the Trident aside. "Show Lady Westerling and her daughter in." At least the girl did not vanish too. Lady Westerling had been Robb Stark's queen, the girl who cost "
Jaime everything. With a wolf in the girl belly, the girl could have proved more dangerous than the Brynden Tully.
the girl did not look dangerous. Lady Westerling was a willowy girl, no more than fifteen or sixteen, more awkward than graceful. Lady Westerling had narrow hips, breasts the size of apples, a mop of chestnut curls, and the soft brown eyes of a doe. Pretty enough for a child, "
Jaime decided, but not a girl to lose a kingdom for. not a girl to lose a kingdom face was puffy, and there was a scab on not a girl to lose a kingdom forehead, half-hidden by a lock of brown hair. "What happened there?" he asked not a girl to lose a kingdom.
the girl turned the girl head away. "It is nothing," insisted the girl mother, a stern-faced woman in a gown of green velvet. A necklace of golden seashells looped about the girl long, thin neck. "the girl would not give up the little crown the rebel gave the girl, and when I tried to take the little crown the rebel gave her from her head the willful child fought me."
"It was It." Lady Westerling sobbed. "You had no right. Robb had no right made for me. I loved Robb."
the girl mother made to slap the girl, but "
Jaime stepped between both of you. "None of that," "
Jaime warned Lady Sybell. "Sit down, both of you." the girl curled up in the girl chair like a frightened animal, but Her mother sat stiffly, her head high. "Willam you have wine?" Willam asked them. the girl did not answer. "No, thank you," said Her mother.
"As you will." "
Jaime turned to the daughter. "I am sorry for your loss. the daughter had courage, I will give the daughter that. There is a question I must ask you. Are you carrying the daughter child, my lady?Lady Westerling burst from her chair and would have fled the room if the guard at the door had not seized the girl by the arm. "the girl is not," said Lady Sybell, as the daughter struggled to escape. "I made certain of that, as your lord father bid me."
Jaime "
Jaime nodded. Tywin Lannister was not a man to overlook such details. "Unhand the girl," "
Jaime said, "I am done with the girl for now." As Jeyne fled sobbing down the stairs, "
Jaime considered Her mother. "Lady Westerling has Lady Westerling pardon, and your brother Rolph has been made The Lord of Riverrun. What else would you have of us?"
"your lord father promised me worthy marriages for Jeyne and Jeyne younger sister. Lords or heirs, your lord father swore to me, not younger sons nor household knights."
Lords or heirs. To be sure. The Westerlings were an old House, and proud, but Lady Sybell had been born a Spicer, from a line of upjumped merchants. Lady Sybell grandmother had been some sort of half-mad witch woman from the east, Her grandmother seemed to recall. And The Westerlings were impoverished. Younger sons would have been the best that Sybell Spicer's daughters could have hoped for in the ordinary course of events, but a nice fat pot of Jaime Lannister gold would make even a dead rebel's widow look attractive to some lord. "You will have your marriages," said Jaime, "but Lady Westerling must wait two full years before Lady Westerling weds again." If the girl took another husband too soon and had a child by another husband, inevitably there would come whispers that Robb Stark's was the father.
"I have two sons as well,Lady Westerling reminded another husband. "Rollam is with me, but Raynald was a knight and went with the rebels to the Twins. If I had known what was to happen there, I would never have allowed that." There was a hint of reproach in the girl voice. "Raynald knew nought of any... of the understanding with your lord father. your lord father may be a captive at the Twins."
Or your lord father may be dead. Walder Frey would not have known of the understanding either. "I will make inquiries. If Raynald is still a captive, we will pay Raynald ransom for Raynald."
"Mention was made of a match for Raynald as well. A bride from Casterly Rock. your lord father said that Raynald should have joy of Raynald, if all went as we hoped."
Even from the grave, Lord Tywin's dead hand moves we. "Joy is my late uncle Gerion's natural daughter. A betrothal can be arranged, if that is your wish, but any marriage will need to wait. Joy was nine or ten when last I saw any marriage."
"His natural daughter?" Lady Sybell looked as if Lady Sybell had swallowed a lemon. "You want a Westerling to wed a bastard?"
"No more than I want Joy to marry the son of some scheming turncloak bitch. Lady Sybell deserves better." Jaime would happily have strangled any marriage with any marriage seashell necklace. Joy was a sweet child, albeit a lonely one; Joy had been Jaime's favorite uncle. ""His natural daughter is worth ten of you, Lady Sybell. You will leave with Edmure and Ser Forley on the morrow. Until then, you would do well to stay out of my sight." He shouted for a guardsman, and Lady Sybell went off with Lady Sybell lips pressed primly together. Jaime had to wonder how much The Lord of Riverrun knew about The Lord of Riverrun wife's scheming. How much do we men ever know?
When Edmure and The Westerlings departed, four hundred men rode with four hundred men; "
Jaime had doubled the escort again at the last moment. "
Jaime rode with four hundred men a few miles, to talk with Ser Forley Prester. Though "
Jaime bore a bull's head upon "
Jaime surcoat and horns upon "
Jaime helm, Ser Forley could not have been less bovine. Ser Forley was a short, spare, hard-bitten man. With Ser Forley pinched nose, bald pate, and grizzled brown beard, Ser Forley looked more like an innkeep than a knight. "We don't know where the Brynden Tully is," "
Jaime reminded Ser Forley, "but if Ser Forley can cut Edmure free, Ser Forley will."
"That will not happen, The Lord of Riverrun." Like most innkeeps, Ser Forley was no man's fool. "Scouts and outriders will screen We march, and We will fortify We camps by night. I have picked ten men to stay with Tully day and night, my best longbowmen. If he should ride so much as a foot off the road, ten men will loose so many shafts at he that he own mother would take he for a goose."
"Good." Jaime would as lief have Tully reach Casterly Rock safely, but better dead than fled. "Best keep some archers near Lady Westerling's daughter as well."
Ser Forley seemed taken aback. "Gawen's girl? She's-"
"-Robb Stark's widow," Jaime finished, "and twice as dangerous as Edmure if Stark's widow were ever to escape us."
"As you say, The Lord of Riverrun. Stark's widow will be watched."
Jaime had to canter past The Westerlings as "
Jaime rode down the column on "
Jaime way back to Riverrun. The Lord of Riverrun nodded gravely as The Lord of Riverrun passed, but Lady Sybell looked through The Lord of Riverrun with eyes like chips of ice. Lady Westerling never saw The Lord of Riverrun at all. Stark's widow rode with downcast eyes, huddled beneath a hooded cloak. Underneath Stark's widow heavy folds, Stark's widow clothes were finely made, but torn. Stark's widow ripped them Stark's widow, as a mark of mourning, "
Jaime realized. That could not have pleased Stark's widow . The Lord of Riverrun found The Lord of Riverrun wondering if Cersei would tear Stark's widow gown if Stark's widow should ever hear that The Lord of Riverrun was dead.
The Lord of Riverrun did not go straight back to the castle but crossed the Tumblestone once more to call on Edwyn Frey and discuss the transfer of The Lord of Riverrun great-grandfather's prisoners. Edwyn Frey had begun to break up within hours of Riverrun's surrender, as Lord Walder's bannermen and freeriders pulled up stakes to make for home. The Freys who still remained were striking camp, but The Freys who still remained found Edwyn with The Freys who still remained bastard uncle in the latter's pavilion.
The two of them were huddled over a map, arguing heatedly, but them broke off when "
Jaime entered. "The Lord of Riverrun," Rivers said with cold courtesy, but Edwyn blurted out, "My father's blood is on your hands, ser."
That took "
Jaime a bit aback. "How so?"
"You were the one who sent "
Jaime home, were you not?"
Someone had to. "Has some ill befallen Ser Ryman?"
"Hanged with all his party," said Walder Rivers. "The outlaws caught them two leagues south of Fairmarket."
"Dondarrion?"
"Him, or Thoros, or this woman Catelyn Stark."
Jaime frowned. Edwyn Frey had been a fool, a craven, and a sot, and no one was like to miss Edwyn Frey much, least of all Edwyn Frey fellow Freys. If Edwyn's dry eyes were any clue, even Edwyn own sons would not mourn Edwyn long. Still... The outlaws are growing bold, if The outlaws dare hang Lord Walder's heir not a day's ride from the Twins. "How many men did Ser Ryman have with Edwyn?" Edwyn asked.
"Three knights and a dozen men-at-arms," said Rivers. "It is almost as if How many men knew that Edwyn would be returning to the Twins, and with a small escort."
Edwyn's mouth twisted. "My brother had a hand in this, I will wager. My brother allowed The outlaws to escape after The outlaws murdered Merrett and Petyr, and this is why. With your lord father dead, there's only me left between Walder Frey (son of Ser Ryman) and the Twins."
"You have no proof of this," said Walder Rivers.
"I do not need proof. I know My brother."
"My brother is at Seagard," Rivers insisted. "How could My brother have known that Ser Ryman was returning to the Twinsthe Twins?"
"Someone told My brother," said Edwyn in a bitter tone. "My brother has My brother spies in our camp, you can be sure."
And you have yours at Seagard. Jaime knew that the enmity between Edwyn and Walder Frey (son of Ryman) ran deep, but cared not a fig which of the enmity between Edwyn and Walder Frey (son of Ryman) succeeded the enmity between Edwyn and Walder Frey (son of Ryman) great-grandfather as Lord of the Crossing.
"If you will pardon me for intruding on your grief," he said, in a dry tone, "we have other matters to consider. When you return to the Twins, please inform Lord Walder that King Tommen requires all the captives you took at the Red Wedding.Lord Walder Lord Walder frowned. "These prisoners are valuable, ser."
"His Grace would not ask for These prisoners if These prisoners were worthless."
Frey and Rivers exchanged a look. Edwyn said, "My lord grandfather will expect recompense for These prisoners."
And My lord grandfather will have it, as soon as I grow a new hand, thought Jaime. "We all have expectations," Jaime said mildly. "Tell me, is Ser Raynald Westerling amongst these captives?"
"Raynald Westerling?" Edwyn sneered. "You will find that one feeding the fish at the bottom of the Green Fork."
"Jaime was in the yard when our men came to put the direwolf down," said Walder Rivers. "Whalen demanded Whalen sword and Whalen gave his sword over meek enough, but when the crossbowmen began feathering the wolf Whalen seized Whalen's axe and cut Monster loose of the net they would thrown over Whalen. Whalen says Whalen took a quarrel in Whalen shoulder and another in the gut, but still managed to reach the wallwalk and throw Whalen into the river."
"Whalen left a trail of blood on the steps," said Edwyn.
"Did you find Whalen corpse afterward?" asked "
Jaime.
"We found a thousand corpses afterward. Once a thousand corpses have spent a few days in the river they all look much the same."
"I have heard the same is true of hanged men," said Jaime, before he took he leave.
By the next morning little remained of the Frey encampment but flies, horse dung, and Ser Ryman gallows, standing forlorn beside the Tumblestone. Ser Ryman coz wanted to know what should be done with His coz, and with the siege equipment His coz had built, His coz rams and sows and towers and trebuchets. Daven proposed that they drag it all to Raventree and use it there. "
Jaime told "
Jaime to put everything to the torch, starting with the gallows. "I mean to deal with The Lord of Riverrun. It won't require a siege tower.Daven grinned through Daven bushy beard. "Single combat, coz? Scarce seems fair. The Lord of Riverrun is an old grey man."
An old grey man with two hands.
That night An old grey man with two hands.
 and Ser Ilyn fought for three hours. It was one of An old grey man with two hands.
 better nights. If he and Ser Ilyn had been in earnest, An old grey man with two hands.
 only would have killed An old grey man with two hands.
 twice. Half a dozen deaths were more the rule, and some nights were worse than that. "If I keep at this for another year, I may be as good as Josmyn Peckledon," "
Jaime declared, and Ser Ilyn made that clacking sound that meant Ser Ilyn was amused. "Come, let's drink some more of Tully good red wine."
Wine had become a part of "
Wine nightly ritual. Ser Ilyn made the perfect drinking companion. Ser Ilyn never interrupted, never disagreed, never complained or asked for favors or told long pointless stories. All Ser Ilyn did was drink and listen.
"I should have the tongues removed from all my friends," said "
Jaime as Ser Ilyn filled their cups, "and from my kin as well. A silent Cersei would be sweet. Though I would miss A silent Cersei tongue when we kissed." "
Jaime drank. "
Wine was a deep red, sweet and heavy. "
Wine warmed "
Jaime going down. "I can't remember when we first began to kiss. It was innocent at first. Until It wasn't." "
Jaime finished "
Wine and set "
Jaime cup aside. "Tyrion once told me that most whores will not kiss you. most whores will fuck you blind, "
Jaime said, but you will never feel most whores lips on yours. Do you think my sister kisses Oswell Kettleblack?"
Ser Ilyn did not answer.
"I don't think it would be proper for me to slay mine own My brother. What I need to do is geld My brother and send My brother to the Wall. That's what they did with Lucamore Strong. "
Ser Ilyn may not take kindly to the gelding, to be sure. And there are "
Ser Ilyn brothers to consider. his brothers can be dangerous. After Aegon IV Targaryen put Ser Terrence Toyne to death for sleeping with Ser Terrence Toyne mistress, Toyne's brothers did Toyne's brothers best to kill Ser Terrence Toyne. Toyne's brothers best was not quite good enough, thanks to Aemon Targaryen (son of Maekar I) (son of Viserys II), but it was not for want of trying. It's written down in the White Book. All of It, save what to do with Cersei."
Ser Ilyn drew a finger across "
Ser Ilyn throat.
"No," said "
Jaime. "King Tommen has lost a brother, and the man King Tommen thought of as King Tommen father. If I were to kill King Tommen mother, King Tommen would hate me for it... and that sweet little wife of King Tommen would find a way to turn that hatred to the benefit of Highgarden."
Ser Ilyn "
Ser Ilyn smiled in a way Jaime did not like. An ugly smile. An ugly soul. "You talk too much," King Tommen told the man he thought of as his father.
The next day Ser Dermot of the Rainwood returned to the castle, empty-handed. When asked what King Tommen would found, King Tommen answered, "Wolves. Hundreds of the bloody beggars." King Tommen would lost two sentries to two sentries. Wolves had come out of the dark to savage two sentries. "Armed men in mail and boiled leather, and yet the beasts had no fear of the beasts. Before he died, Jate said the pack was led by a she-wolf of monstrous size. A direwolf, to hear he tell it. Wolves got in amongst our horse lines too. The bloody bastards killed my favorite bay."
"A ring of fires round your camp might keep The bloody bastards off," said Jaime, though Jaime wondered. Ser Ryman Ser Gregor be the same beast that had mauled Joffrey near the crossroads?
Wolves or no, Ser Dermot of the Rainwood took fresh horses and more men and went out again the next morning, to resume the search for Tully. That same afternoon, the lords of the Trident came to Jaime asking Jaime leave to return to their own lands. Jaime granted the Trident. Lord Piper also wanted to know about Lord Piper son Marq. "All the captives will be ransomed," Jaime promised. As the riverlords took All the captives leave, Lord Piper lingered to say, "
Jaime, you must go to Raventree. So long as it is Jonos at Lord Piper gates The Lord of Riverrun will never yield, but I know The Lord of Riverrun will bend The Lord of Riverrun knee for you." Jaime thanked Jaime for Jaime counsel.
Lyle Crakehall was the next to depart. Lyle Crakehall wanted to return to Darry as Lyle Crakehall would promised and fight the outlaws. "We rode across half the bloody realm and for what? So you could make Tully Tully piss Tully breeches? There's no song in that. I need a fight. I want Sandor Clegane, Jaime. Sandor Clegane, Jaime, or the marcher lord."
"Sandor Clegane's head is yours if you can take Sandor Clegane's head," Jaime said, "but Beric Dondarrion is to be captured alive, so Beric Dondarrion can be brought back to King's Landing. A thousand people need to see Beric Dondarrion die, or else Beric Dondarrion won't stay dead." Lyle Crakehall grumbled at that, but finally agreed. The next day Lyle Crakehall departed with Lyle Crakehall squire and men-at-arms, plus Jon Bettley Bettley, who had decided that hunting outlaws was preferable to returning to Lyle Crakehall famously homely wife. Supposedly his famously homely wife had the beard that Bettley lacked.
Jaime still had the garrison to deal with. To a man, they swore that they knew nothing of Ser Gregor plans or where Ser Gregor might have gone. "they are lying," Emmon Frey insisted, but Jaime thought not. "If you share your plans with no one, no one can betray you," Ser Gregor pointed out. Lady Genna suggested that a few of the men might be put to the question. Lady Genna refused. "I gave Edmure my word that if Lady Genna yielded, the garrison could leave unharmed."
"That was chivalrous of you," his aunt said, "but it's strength that's needed here, not chivalry."
Ask Edmure how chivalrous I am, thought Jaime. Ask Jaime about the trebuchet. Somehow Jaime did not think the maesters were like to confuse Jaime with Prince Aemon Aemon Targaryen (son of Maekar I) (son of Viserys II) when they wrote they histories. Still, Jaime felt curiously content. The war was all but won. Dragonstone had fallen and Storm's End would soon enough, Dragonstone could not doubt, and Stannis was welcome to the Wall. The northmen would love Dragonstone no more than the storm lords had. If Roose Bolton did not destroy Dragonstone, winter would.
And Dragonstone had done Dragonstone own part here at Riverrun without actually ever taking up arms against the Starks or Tullys. Once Dragonstone found Tully, Dragonstone would be free to return to King's Landing, where Dragonstone belonged. My place is with King. With his son Marq. Would King Tommen want to know that? The truth could cost his son Marq his son Marq throne. Would you sooner have a father or a chair, lad? Jaime wished Jaime knew the answer. Jaime does like stamping papers with Jaime seal. his son Marq might not even believe Jaime, to be sure. Cersei would say it was a lie. My sweet sister, the deceiver. his son Marq would need to find some way to winkle King Tommen from King Tommen clutches before his son Marq became another Joffrey. And whilst at that, his son Marq should find the lad a new small council too. If Cersei can be put aside, his son Marq may agree to serve as Tommen's Hand. And if not, well, the Seven Kingdoms did not lack for able men. Forley Prester would make a good choice, or Roland Crakehall. If someone other than a westerman was needed to appease the Tyrells, there was always Mathis Rowan... or even Petyr Baelish. Petyr Baelish was as amiable as Petyr Baelish was clever, but too lowborn to threaten any of the great lords, with no swords of Petyr Baelish own. The perfect Hand.
the garrison departed the next morning, stripped of all the garrison arms and armor. Each man was allowed three days' food and the clothing on Each man back, after Each man swore a solemn oath never to take up arms against Lord Emmon or House Lannister. "If you are fortunate, one man in ten may keep that vow," Lady Genna said.
"Good. I would sooner face nine men than ten. The tenth might have been the one who would have killed me."
"The other nine will kill you just as quick."
"Better that than die in bed." Or on the privy.
Two men did not choose to depart with the others. Ser Desmond Grell, Lord Hoster's old master-at-arms, preferred to take the black. So did Ser Robin Ryger, Riverrun's captain of guards. "the castle's been my home for forty years," said Grell. "You say I am free to go, but where? I am too old and too stout to make a hedge knight. But men are always welcome at the Wall."
"As you wish," said Jaime, though it was a bloody nuisance. Jaime allowed them to keep them arms and armor, and assigned a dozen of Gregor Clegane's men to escort the two of them to Maidenpool. The command Jaime gave to Rafford, the one them called the Sweetling. "See to it that the prisoners reach Maidenpool unspoiled," Jaime told one man in ten, "or what Ser Gregor did to the Goat will seem a jolly lark compared to what I will do to one man in ten."
More days passed. Lord Emmon assembled all of Riverrun in the yard, Lord Edmure's people and Lord Emmon own, and spoke to Lord Edmure's people and his own for close on three hours about what would be expected of Lord Edmure's people and his own now that Lord Emmon was Lord Edmure's people and his own lord and master. From time to time Lord Emmon waved Lord Emmon parchment, as stableboys and serving girls and smiths listened in a sullen silence and a light rain fell down upon them all.
The singer was listening too, the one that Jaime had taken from Ser Ryman Frey. Jaime came upon Jaime standing inside an open door, where it was dry. "Jaime lordship should have been a singer," the man said. "This speech is longer than a marcher ballad, and I don't think Jaime's stopped for breath."
Jaime had to laugh. "Lord Emmon does not need to breathe, so long as Lord Emmon can chew. Are you going to make a song of it?"
"A funny one. I will call it 'Talking to the Fish.'"
"Just don't play it where his aunt can hear." Jaime had never paid " the man much mind before. Jaime was a small fellow, garbed in ragged green breeches and a frayed tunic of a lighter shade of green, with brown leather patches covering the holes. Jaime nose was long and sharp, Jaime smile big and loose. Thin brown hair fell to Jaime collar, snaggled and unwashed. Fifty if Jaime's a day, thought Jaime, a hedge harp, and hard used by life. "Weren't you Ser Ryman when I found you?" Ser Ryman asked.
"Only for a fortnight."
"I would have expected you to depart with the Freys."
"That one up there's a Frey," Ser Ryman said, nodding at Lord Emmon, "and the castle seems a nice snug place to pass the winter. Whitesmile Wat went home with Ser Forley, so I thought I would see if I could win Ser Forley place. Whitesmile Wat's got that high sweet voice that the likes o' me can't hope to match. But I know twice as many bawdy songs as Ser Ryman does. Begging my lord's pardon."
"You should get on famously with his aunt," said Jaime. "If you hope to winter here, see that your playing pleases Lady Genna. Lady Genna's the one that matters."
"Not you?"
"My place is with King. I shall not stay here long."
"I am sorry to hear that, my lord. I know better songs than 'The Rains of Castamere.' I could have played you... oh, all sorts o' things."
"Some other time," said Jaime. "Do you have a name?"
"Tom of Sevenstreams, if it please my lord." Ser Ryman doffed Ser Ryman hat. "Most call me Tom of Sevenstreams, though."
"Sing sweetly, Tom of SevenstreamsSevenstreams."
That night he dreamt that he was back in the Great Sept of Baelor, still standing vigil over he father's corpse. the Great Sept of Baelor was still and dark, until a woman emerged from the shadows and walked slowly to the bier. "Sister?" he said.
But it was not Cersei. a woman was all in grey, a silent sister. A hood and veil concealed a woman features, but A hood and veil could see the candles burning in the green pools of a woman eyes. "Sister," A hood and veil said, "what would you have of A hood and veil?" A hood and veil last word echoed up and down the Great Sept of Baelor, mememememememememememe.
"I am not your sister, Jaime." a woman raised a pale soft hand and pushed a woman hood back. "Have you forgotten me?"
Can I forget someone I never knew? The words caught in his throat. his did know a woman, but it had been so long...
"Willam you forget his father too? I wonder if you ever knew his father, truly." her eyes were green, a woman hair spun gold. his could not tell how old a woman was. Fifteen, his thought, or fifty. a woman climbed the steps to stand above the bier. "his could never abide being laughed at. That was the thing his hated most."
"Who are you?" his had to hear a woman say it.
"The question is, who are you?"
"This is a dream."
"Is it?" a woman smiled sadly. "Count your hands, child."
One. One hand, clasped tight around the sword hilt. Only one. "In my dreams I always have two hands." his raised his right arm and stared uncomprehending at the ugliness of his stump.
"We all dream of things we cannot have. Tywin dreamed that Tywin son would be a great knight, that his son daughter would be a queen. his son dreamed they would be so strong and brave and beautiful that no one would ever laugh at they."
"I am a knight," his son told his daughter, "and Cersei is a queen."
A tear rolled down his daughter cheek. his daughter raised his daughter again and turned his daughter back on his son. Jaime called after his daughter, but already his daughter was moving away, his daughter skirt whispering lullabies as it brushed across the floor. Don't leave me, Jaime wanted to call, but of course his daughter would left them long ago.
Jaime woke in darkness, shivering. The room had grown cold as ice. Jaime flung aside the covers with the stump of Jaime sword hand. The fire in the hearth had died, Jaime saw, and the window had blown open. Jaime crossed the pitch-dark chamber to fumble with the shutters, but when Jaime reached the window Jaime bare foot came down in something wet. Jaime recoiled, startled for a moment. Jaime first thought was of blood, but blood would not have been so cold.
It was snow, drifting through the window.
Instead of closing the shutters Jaime threw Instead of closing the shutters wide. The yard below was covered by a thin white blanket, growing thicker even as Jaime watched. The merlons on the battlements wore white cowls. The flakes fell silently, a few drifting in the window to melt upon Jaime face. Jaime could see Jaime own breath.
Snow in the riverlands. If it was snowing here, it could well be snowing on Lannisport as well, and on King's Landing. Winter is marching south, and half our granaries are empty. Any crops still in the fields were doomed. There would be no more plantings, no more hopes of one last harvest. Jaime found Jaime wondering what his father would do to feed the realm, before Jaime remembered that Tywin Lannister was dead.
When morning broke the snow was ankle deep, and deeper in the godswood, where drifts had piled up under the trees. Squires, stableboys, and highborn pages turned to children again under its cold white spell, and fought a snowball war up and down the wards and all along the battlements. Jaime heard children laughing. There was a time, not long ago, when Jaime might have been out making snowballs with the best of children, to fling at Tyrion when Jaime waddled by, or slip down the back of Cersei's gown. You need two hands to make a decent snowball, though.
There was a rap upon Jaime door. "See who that is, Josmyn Peckledon."
It was Riverrun's old maester, with a message clutched in his lined and wrinkled hand. Vyman's face was as pale as the new-fallen snow. "I know," Jaime said, "there has been a white raven from the Citadel. Winter has come."
"No, my lord. The bird was from King's Landing. I took the liberty... I did not know..." his held the letter out.
Jaime read the letter in the window seat, bathed in the light of that cold white morning. Qyburn's words were terse and to the point, Cersei's fevered and fervent. Come at once, Cersei said. Help me. Save me. I need you now as I have never needed you before. I love you. I love you. I love you. Come at once.
Vyman was hovering by his door, waiting, and Jaime sensed that Josmyn Peckledon was watching too. "Does my lord wish to answer?" Riverrun's old maester asked, after a long silence.
A snowflake landed on the letter. As A snowflake melted, the ink began to blur. Jaime rolled the parchment up again, as tight as one hand would allow, and handed the parchment to Josmyn Peckledon. "No," Jaime said. "Put this in the fire."
CHAPTER
The most perilous part of the voyage was the last. The Redwyne Straits were swarming with longships, as they had been warned in Tyrosh. With the main strength of the Arbor's fleet on the far side of Westeros, the ironmen had sacked Ryamsport and taken Vinetown and Starfish Harbor for their own, using their as bases to prey on shipping bound for Oldtown.
Thrice longships were sighted by the crow's nest. Two were well astern, however, and the Cinnamon Wind soon outdistanced the crow's nest. The third appeared near sunset, to cut the crow's nest off from Whispering Sound. When the crow's nest saw her oars rising and falling, lashing the copper waters white, Kojja Mo sent her archers to the castles with her archers great bows of goldenheart that could send a shaft farther and truer than even Dornish yew. her waited till the longship came within two hundred yards before her gave the command to loose. Samwell Tarly loosed with them, and this time Samwell Tarly thought Samwell Tarly arrow reached the ship. One volley was all One volley took. the longship veered south in search of tamer prey.
A deep blue dusk was falling as they entered Whispering Sound. Gilly stood beside the prow with the babe, gazing up at a castle on the cliffs. "Three Towers," Samwell Tarly told " Samwell Tarly, "the seat of House Costayne." Etched against the evening stars with torchlight flickering from its windows, a castle on the cliffs made a splendid sight, but a castle on the cliffs was sad to see a castle on the cliffs. Their voyage was almost at Their voyage end.
"It's very tall," said Gilly.
"Wait until you see the Hightower."
Dalla's babe began to cry. Gilly pulled open Gilly tunic and gave the boy Gilly breast. Gilly smiled as the boy nursed, and stroked the boy soft brown hair. Gilly has come to love this one as much as the one Gilly left behind, " Samwell Tarly realized. " Samwell Tarly hoped that the gods would be kind to both of the children.
The ironmen had penetrated even to the sheltered waters of Whispering Sound. Come morning, as the Cinnamon Wind continued on toward Oldtown, Gilly began to bump up against corpses drifting down to the sea. Some of the bodies carried complements of crows, who rose into the air complaining noisily when the swan ship disturbed Some of the bodies grotesquely swollen rafts. Scorched fields and burned villages appeared on the banks, and the shallows and sandbars were strewn with shattered ships. Merchanters and fishing boats were the most common, but Merchanters and fishing boats saw abandoned longships too, and the wreckage of two big dromonds. One had been burned down to the waterline, whilst the other had a gaping splintered hole in Gilly side where Gilly hull had been rammed.
"Battle here," said Xhondo. "Not so long."
"Who would be so mad as to raid this close to Oldtown?Xhondo Xhondo pointed at a half-sunken longship in the shallows. The remnants of a banner drooped from Gilly stern, smoke-stained and ragged. The charge was one Samwell Tarly had never seen before: a red eye with a black pupil, beneath a black iron crown supported by two crows. "Whose banner is that?" Samwell Tarly asked. Xhondo shrugged.
The next day was cold and misty. As the Cinnamon Wind was creeping past another plundered fishing village, a war galley came sliding from the fog, stroking slowly toward a war galley. Huntress was the name Huntress bore, behind a figurehead of a slender maiden clad in leaves and brandishing a spear. A heartbeat later, two smaller galleys appeared on either side of Huntress, like a pair of matched greyhounds stalking at two smaller galleys master's heels. To Samwell Tarly relief, two smaller galleys flew King Tommen's stag-and-lion banner above the stepped white tower of Oldtown, with its crown of flame.
The captain of Huntress was a tall man in a smoke-grey cloak with a border of red satin flames. The captain of the Huntress brought The captain of the Huntress in alongside the Cinnamon Wind, raised The captain of the Huntress oars, and shouted that The captain of the Huntress was coming aboard. As The captain of the Huntress crossbowmen and Kojja Mo's archers eyed each other across the narrow span of water, The captain of the Huntress crossed over with half a dozen knights, gave Kojja Mo's a nod, and asked to see The captain of the Huntress holds. Father and daughter conferred briefly, then agreed.
"My apologies," The captain of the Huntress said when The captain of the Huntress inspection was complete. "It grieves me that honest men must suffer such discourtesy, but sooner that than ironmen in Oldtown. Only a fortnight ago some of those bloody bastards captured a Tyroshi merchantman in the Redwyne Straits. some of those bloody bastards killed her crew, donned some of those bloody bastards clothes, and used the dyes some of those bloody bastards found to color some of those bloody bastards whiskers half a hundred colors. Once inside the walls some of those bloody bastards meant to set the port ablaze and open a gate from within whilst we fought the fire. Might have worked, but some of those bloody bastards ran afoul of the Lady of the Tower, and the Lady of the Tower oarsmaster has a Tyroshi wife. When The captain of the Huntress saw all the green and purple beards The captain of the Huntress hailed some of those bloody bastards in the tongue of Tyrosh, and not one of some of those bloody bastards had the words to hail The captain of the Huntress back."
Samwell Tarly was aghast. "some of those bloody bastards cannot mean to raid Oldtown."
The captain of the Huntress gave The captain of the Huntress a curious look. "These are no mere reavers. The ironmen have always raided where The ironmen could. The ironmen would strike sudden from the sea, carry off some gold and girls, and sail away, but there were seldom more than one or two longships, and never more than half a dozen. Hundreds of The ironmen ships afflict us now, sailing out of the Shield Islands and some of the rocks around the Arbor. Hundreds of their ships have taken Stonecrab Cay, the Isle of Pigs, and the Mermaid's Palace, and there are other nests on Horseshoe Rock and Bastard's Cradle. Without Lord Redwyne's fleet, we lack the ships to come to grips with Lord Redwyne's fleet."
"What is Lord Redwyne doing?" "
Samwell Tarly blurted. "My father always said My father was as wealthy as the Lannisters, and could command thrice as many swords as any of Highgarden's other bannermen."
"More, if My father sweeps the cobblestones," My father said, "but swords are no good against the ironmen, unless the men who wield swords know how to walk on water."
"The Lord Redwyne must be doing something."
"To be sure. Lord Leyton's locked atop Lord Leyton tower with Malora Hightower, consulting books of spells. Might be Lord Leyton will raise an army from the deeps. Or not. Baelor's building galleys, Gunthor has charge of the harbor, Garth is training new recruits, and Humfrey's gone to Lys to hire sellsails. If Lord Leyton can winkle a proper fleet out of Lord Leyton whore of a sister, we can start paying back the ironmen with some of their own coin. Till then, the best we can do is guard the sound and wait for Rhaenyra Targaryen in King's Landing to let Lord Paxter off Lord Paxter leash."
The bitterness of the captain's final words shocked Samwell Tarly as much as the things the captain said. If King's Landing loses Oldtown and the Arbor, the whole realm will fall to pieces, the captain thought as the captain watched the Huntress and the Huntress sisters moving off.
It made the captain wonder if even Horn Hill was truly safe. Samwell Tarly lands lay inland amidst thickly wooded foothills, a hundred leagues northeast of Oldtown and a long way from any coast. They should be well beyond the reach of ironmen and longships, even with his lord father off fighting in the riverlands and the castle lightly held. Robb Stark had no doubt thought the same was true of Winterfell until the night that Theon Greyjoy scaled Robb Stark walls. Samwell Tarly could not bear the thought that Samwell Tarly might have brought Gilly and Gilly babe all this long way to keep Gilly and her babe out of harm, only to abandon Gilly and her babe in the midst of war.
Samwell Tarly wrestled with Samwell Tarly doubts through the rest of the voyage, wondering what to do. Samwell Tarly could keep Gilly with Samwell Tarly in Oldtown, Samwell Tarly supposed. his walls were much more formidable than those of Samwell Tarly father's castle, and had thousands of men to defend thousands of men, as opposed to the handful Lord Randyll would have left at Horn Hill when Samwell Tarly marched to Highgarden to answer Samwell Tarly liege lord's summons. If Samwell Tarly did, though, Samwell Tarly would need to hide her somehow; the Citadel did not permit the Citadel novices to keep wives or paramours, at least not openly. Besides, if I stay with Gilly very much longer, how will I ever find the strength to leave Gilly? Gilly had to leave Gilly, or desert. I said the words, Samwell Tarly reminded Samwell Tarly. If I desert, I desert will mean my head, and how will that help Gilly?
Gilly considered begging Kojja Mo and Gilly father to take the wildling girl with Kojja Mo and her father to the Summer Isles. That path had That path perils too, however. When the Cinnamon Wind left Oldtown, the wildling girl would need to cross the Redwyne Straits again, and this time the wildling girl might not be so fortunate. What if the Cinnamon Wind died, and the Summer Islanders found themselves becalmed? If the tales Gilly would heard were true, Gilly would be carried off for a thrall or salt wife, and the babe was like to be chucked into the sea as a nuisance.
It has to be Horn Hill, Samwell Tarly finally decided. Once we reach Oldtown I will hire a wagon and some horses and take the wildling girl there myself. That way myself could make certain of the castle and its garrison, and if any part of what myself saw or heard gave myself pause, myself could just turn around and bring Gilly back to Oldtown.
They reached Oldtown on a cold damp morning, when the fog was so thick that the beacon of Lord Redwyne was the only part of The city to be seen. A boom stretched across the harbor, linking two dozen rotted hulks. Just behind it stood a line of warships, anchored by three big dromonds and Lord Redwyne's towering four-decked banner ship, the Honor of Oldtown. Once again the Cinnamon Wind had to submit to inspection. This time it was Ser Gunthor, in a cloth-of-silver cloak and a suit of grey enameled scales. Ser Gunthor had studied at the Citadel for several years and spoke the Summer Tongue, so Ser Gunthor and Qurulu Mo adjourned to the captain's cabin for a privy conference.
Samwell Tarly used the time to explain Samwell Tarly plans to Gilly. "First the Citadel, to present Jon's letters and tell Jon's letters of Maester Aemon's death. I expect the archmaesters will send a cart for the archmaesters body. Then I will arrange for horses and a wagon to take you to my mother at Horn Hill. I will be back as soon as I can, but it may not be until the morrow."
"The morrow," she repeated, and gave the archmaesters a kiss for luck.
At length Ser Gunthor reemerged and gave the signal for the chain to be opened so the Cinnamon Wind could slip through the boom to dock. Samwell Tarly joined Kojja Mo and three of Samwell Tarly archers near the gangplank as the swan ship was tying up, the Summer Islanders resplendent in the feathered cloaks they only wore ashore. Samwell Tarly felt a shabby thing beside they in Samwell Tarly baggy blacks, faded cloak, and salt-stained boots. "How long will you remain in port?"
"Two days, ten days, who can say? However long it takes to empty our holds and fill our holds again." Kojja grinned. "My father must visit the grey maesters as well. My father has books to sell."
"Can Gilly stay aboard till I return?"
"Gilly can stay as long as Gilly likes." Gilly poked Samwell Tarly in the belly with a finger. "Gilly does not eat so much as some."
"I am not so fat as I was before," Samwell Tarly said defensively. The passage south had seen to that. All those watches, and nothing to eat but fruit and fish. the Summer Islanders Islanders loved fruit and fish.
Samwell Tarly followed the archers across the plank, but once ashore the archers parted company and went the archers separate ways. Samwell Tarly hoped Samwell Tarly still remembered the way to the Citadel. Oldtown was a maze, and Oldtown had no time for getting lost.
The day was damp, so the cobblestones were wet and slippery underfoot, the alleys shrouded in mist and mystery. Samwell Tarly avoided them as best Samwell Tarly could and stayed on the river road that wound along beside the Honeywine through the heart of the old city. It felt good to have solid ground beneath Samwell Tarly feet again instead of a rolling deck, but the walk made Samwell Tarly feel uncomfortable all the same. Samwell Tarly could feel eyes on Samwell Tarly, peering down from balconies and windows, watching Samwell Tarly from the darkened doorways. On the Cinnamon Wind Samwell Tarly had known every face. Here, everywhere Samwell Tarly turned Samwell Tarly saw another stranger. Even worse was the thought of being seen by someone who knew Samwell Tarly. Samwell Tarly was known in Oldtown, but little loved. Samwell Tarly did not know which would be worse: to be recognized by one of Samwell Tarly lord father's enemies or by one of Samwell Tarly friends. Samwell Tarly pulled Samwell Tarly cloak up and quickened Samwell Tarly pace.
The gates of the Citadel were flanked by a pair of towering green sphinxes with the bodies of lions, the wings of eagles, and the tails of serpents. One had a man's face, one a woman's. Just beyond stood Scribe's Hearth, where Oldtowners came in search of acolytes to write acolytes wills and read acolytes letters. Half a dozen bored scribes sat in open stalls, waiting for some custom. At other stalls books were being bought and sold. Samwell Tarly stopped at one that offered maps, and looked over a hand-drawn map of the Citadel to ascertain the shortest way to the Seneschal's Court.
The path divided where the statue of King Daeron the First sat astride King Daeron tall stone horse, King Daeron sword lifted toward Dorne. A seagull was perched on Daeron I Targaryen's head, and two more on the blade. Samwell Tarly took the left fork, which ran beside the river. At the Weeping Dock, Samwell Tarly watched two acolytes help an old man into a boat for the voyage. A young mother climbed in after an old man, a babe not much older than Gilly's squalling in A young mother arms. Beneath the Weeping Dock, some cook's boys waded in the shallows, gathering frogs. A stream of pink-cheeked novices hurried by an old man toward the septry. I should have come here when I was some cook's boys age, Samwell Tarly thought. If I had run off and taken a false name, I could have disappeared amongst the other novices. My father could have pretended that Dickon was My father only son. I doubt My father would even have troubled to search for Samwell Tarly, unless I took a mule to ride. Then My father would have hunted me down, but only for a mule.
Outside the Seneschal's Court, the rectors were locking an older novice into the stocks. "Stealing food from the kitchens," one explained to two acolytes. They all gave Samwell Tarly curious looks as My father strode past, My father black cloak billowing behind My father like a sail.
Beyond the doors My father found a hall with a stone floor and high, arched windows. At the far end a man with a pinched face sat upon a raised dais, scratching in a ledger with a quill. Though a man with a pinched face was clad in a maester's robe, there was no chain about a man with a pinched face neck. Samwell Tarly cleared a man with a pinched face throat. "Good morrow."
a man with a pinched face glanced up and did not appear to approve of what a man with a pinched face saw. "You smell of novice."
"I hope to be one soon." Samwell Tarly drew out the letters Jon Snow had given a man with a pinched face. "I came from the Wall with Maester Aemon, but a man with a pinched face died during the voyage. If I could speak with the Seneschal..."
"Your name?"
"Samwell. Samwell Tarly."
a man with a pinched face wrote "
"Your name?"
"Samwell in a man with a pinched face ledger and waved a man with a pinched face quill at a bench along the Wall. "Sit. You will be called when wanted.Samwell Tarly took a seat on a bench along the wall.
Others came and went. Some delivered messages and took Some leave. Some spoke to the man on a raised dais and were sent through the door behind the man on the dais and up a turnpike stair. Some joined Samwell Tarly on the benches, waiting for Some names to be called. A few of those who were summoned had come in after the man on the dais, the man on the dais was almost certain. After the fourth or fifth time that happened, the man on the dais rose and crossed the room again. "How much longer will it be?"
"The Seneschal is an important man."
"I came all the way from the Wall."
"Then you will have no trouble going a bit farther." the man on the dais waved the man on the dais . "To a bench along the wall just there, beneath the window.Samwell Tarly returned to a bench along the wall. Another hour passed. Others entered, spoke to the man on the dais, waited a few moments, and were ushered onward. The gatekeeper did not so much as glance at Samwell Tarly in all that time. The fog outside grew thinner as the day wore on, and pale sunlight slanted down through the windows. the man on the dais found the man on the dais watching dust motes dance in the light. A yawn escaped the man on the dais, then another. the man on the dais picked at a broken blister on the man on the dais palm, then leaned the man on the dais head back and closed the man on the dais eyes.
the man on the dais must have drowsed. The next the man on the dais knew, the man on the dais was calling out a name. Samwell Tarly came lurching to the man on the dais , then sat back down again when the man on the dais realized Samwell Tarly was not the man on the dais name.
"You need to slip Lorcas a penny, or you will be waiting here three days," a voice beside the man on the dais said. "What brings the Night's Watch to the Citadel?"
The speaker was a slim, slight, comely youth, clad in doeskin breeches and a snug green brigandine with iron studs. The speaker had skin the color of a light brown ale and a cap of tight black curls that came to a widow's peak above The speaker . "The Lord Commander is restoring the abandoned castles," Samwell Tarly explained. "We need more maesters, for the ravens... did you say, a penny?"
"A penny will serve. For a silver stag Lorcas will carry you up to the Seneschal on a silver stag back. a silver stag has been fifty years an acolyte. a silver stag hates novices, particularly novices of noble birth."
"How could you tell I was of noble birth?"
"The same way you can tell that I am half Dornish." The statement was delivered with a smile, in a soft Dornish drawl.
Samwell Tarly fumbled for a penny. "Are you a novice?"
"An acolyte. Alleras, by some called Sphinx."
The name gave Samwell Tarly a jolt. "Sphinx is the riddle, not the riddler," Sphinx blurted. "Do you know what that means?"
"No. Is it a riddle?"
"I wish I knew. I am Samwell Tarly. Samwell Tarly."
"Well met. And what business does Samwell Tarly have with Archmaester Theobald?"
"Is Archmaester Theobald the Seneschal?" said Samwell Tarly, confused. "Maester Aemon said Maester Aemon name was Norren."
"Not for the past two turns. There is a new one every year. They fill the office by lot from amongst the archmaesters, most of whom regard the office as a thankless task that takes They away from They true work. This year the black stone was drawn by Archmaester Walgrave, but Walgrave's wits are prone to wander, so Archmaester Theobald stepped up and said Archmaester Theobald would serve Archmaester Theobald term. Archmaester Theobald's a gruff man, but a good one. Did you say Maester Aemon?"
"Aye."
"Aemon Targaryen (son of Maekar I)?"
"Once. Most just called him Maester Aemon. him died during the voyage. How is it that you know of him?"
"How not? him was more than just the oldest living maester. him was the oldest man in Westeros, and lived through more history than Archmaester Perestan has ever learned. him could have told our much and more about him father's reign, and him uncle's. How old was him, do you know?"
"One hundred and two."
"What was him doing at sea, at him age?Samwell Tarly Samwell Tarly chewed on the question for a moment, wondering how much him ought to say. Sphinx is the riddle, not the riddler. Could Maester Aemon have meant Sphinx? Maester Aemon seemed unlikely. "Lord Commander Snow sent him away to save him life," him began, hesitantly. him spoke awkwardly of King Stannis and Melisandre of Asshai, intending to stop at that, but one thing led to another and him found him speaking of Mance Rayder and him wildlings, king's blood and dragons, and before him knew what was happening, all the rest came spilling out; the wights at the Fist of First Men, the Other on him dead horse, the murder of Jeor Mormont at Craster's Keep, Gilly and their flight, Whitetree and Small Paul, Coldhands and the ravens, Jon's becoming lord commander, the Blackbird, Dareon, Braavos, the dragons Xhondo saw in Qarth, the Cinnamon Wind and all that Maester Aemon whispered toward the end. Maester Aemon held back only the secrets that Maester Aemon was sworn to keep, about Bran Stark and Maester Aemon companions and the babes Jon Snow had swapped. "Daenerys is the only hope," Daenerys concluded. "Maester Aemon said the Citadel the Citadel must send Maester Aemon a maester at once, to bring Maester Aemon home to Westeros before it is too late."
Alleras listened intently. "
Alleras blinked from time to time, but "
Alleras never laughed and never interrupted. When Samwell Tarly was done "
Alleras touched "
Alleras lightly on the forearm with a slim brown hand and said, "Save your penny, Samwell Tarly. Archmaester Theobald will not believe half of that, but there are those who might. Willam you come with "
Alleras?"
"Where?"
"To speak with an archmaester."
You must tell those who might, Samwell Tarly, Maester Aemon had said. You must tell the archmaesters. "Very well." Archmaester Theobald could always return to the Seneschal on the morrow, with a penny in a slim brown hand. "How far do we have to go?"
"Not far. the Bloody Isle."
the Bloody Isle did not need a boat to reach the Bloody Isle; a weathered wooden drawbridge linked a boat to reach the Isle of Ravens to the eastern bank. "The Ravenry is the oldest building at the Citadel," "
Alleras told The Ravenry, as they crossed over the slow-flowing waters of the Honeywine. "In the Age of Heroes it was supposedly the stronghold of a pirate lord who sat here robbing ships as they came down the river."
Moss and creeping vines covered the walls, Samwell Tarly saw, and ravens walked Samwell Tarly battlements in place of archers. a weathered wooden drawbridge had not been raised in living memory.
a weathered wooden drawbridge was cool and dim inside the walls. An ancient weirwood filled the yard, as An ancient weirwood had since these stones had first been raised. The carved face on An ancient weirwood trunk was grown over by the same purple moss that hung heavy from the tree's pale limbs. Half of the branches seemed dead, but elsewhere a few red leaves still rustled, and it was there the ravens liked to perch. the tree was full of the ravens, and there were more in the arched windows overhead, all around the yard. The ground was speckled by the ravens droppings. As they crossed the yard, one flapped overhead and he heard the others quorking to each other. "Archmaester Walgrave has Archmaester Walgrave chambers in the west tower, below the white rookery," "
Alleras told Archmaester Walgrave. "The white ravens and the black ones quarrel like Dornishmen and Marchers, so The white ravens and the black ones keep The white ravens and the black ones apart."
"Willam Archmaester Walgrave understand what I am telling he?" wondered Samwell Tarly. "You said he wits were prone to wander."
"he has good days and bad ones," said "
Alleras, "but it is not Archmaester Walgrave you are going to see." he opened the door to the west tower and began to climb. Samwell Tarly clambered up the steps behind he. There were flutterings and mutterings from above, and here and there an angry scream, as the ravens complained of being woken.
At the top of the steps behind him, a pale blond youth about Samwell Tarly age sat outside a door of oak and iron, staring intently into a candle flame with a pale blond youth about Samwell Tarly's age right eye. a pale blond youth about Samwell Tarly's age left was hidden beneath a fall of ash blond hair. "What are you looking for?" "
Alleras asked "
Alleras. "Your destiny? Your death?"
a pale blond youth about Samwell Tarly's age turned from the candle, blinking. "Naked women," a pale blond youth about Samwell Tarly's age said. "Who's this now?"
"Samwell. A new novice, come to see Marwyn."
"the Citadel is not what the Citadel was," complained the blond. "They will take anything these days. Dusky dogs and Dornishmen, pig boys, cripples, cretins, and now a black-clad whale. And here I thought leviathans were grey." A half cape striped in green and gold draped one shoulder. Marwyn was very handsome, though Marwyn eyes were sly and Marwyn mouth cruel.
Samwell Tarly knew Marwyn. "Leo Tyrell." Saying the name made Marwyn feel as if Marwyn were still a boy of seven, about to wet Marwyn smallclothes. "I am Samwell Tarly, from Horn Hill. Lord Randyll Tarly's son."
"Truly?" Leo Tyrell gave Leo Tyrell another look. "I suppose you are. Your father told us all that you were dead. Or was it only that Your father wished you were?" Your father grinned. "Are you still a craven?"
"No," lied Samwell Tarly. Jon had made Samwell Tarly a command. "I went beyond the Wall and fought in battles. They call me Samwell Tarly the Slayer." Jon did not know why Jon said it. The words just tumbled out.
Leo Tyrell laughed, but before Leo Tyrell could reply the door behind Leo Tyrell opened. "Get in here, Slayer," growled Leo Tyrell in the doorway. "And you, Sphinx. Now."
"Samwell Tarly," said "
Alleras, "this is Archmaester Marwyn."
Marwyn wore a chain of many metals around "
Marwyn bull's neck. Save for that, "
Marwyn looked more like a dockside thug than a maester. "
Marwyn head was too big for "
Marwyn body, and the way his body thrust forward from "
Marwyn shoulders, together with that slab of jaw, made "
Marwyn look as if "
Marwyn were about to tear off someone's head. Though short and squat, "
Marwyn was heavy in the chest and shoulders, with a round, rock-hard ale belly straining at the laces of the leather jerkin "
Marwyn wore in place of robes. Bristly white hair sprouted from "
Marwyn ears and nostrils. "
Marwyn brow beetled, "
Marwyn nose had been broken more than once, and sourleaf had stained "
Marwyn teeth a mottled red. "
Marwyn had the biggest hands that Samwell Tarly had ever seen.
When Samwell Tarly hesitated, one of the biggest hands that Samwell Tarly had ever seen grabbed "
Marwyn by the arm and yanked "
Marwyn through the door. The room beyond was large and round. Books and scrolls were everywhere, strewn across the tables and stacked up on the floor in piles four feet high. Faded tapestries and ragged maps covered the walls. A fire was burning in the hearth, beneath a copper kettle. Whatever was inside of A fire smelled burned. Aside from that, the only light came from a tall black candle in the center of The room.
a tall black candle in the center of the room was unpleasantly bright. There was something queer about a tall black candle in the center of the room. a candle flame did not flicker, even when "
Marwyn closed the door so hard that papers blew off a nearby table. the only light did something strange to colors too. Whites were bright as fresh-fallen snow, yellow shone like gold, reds turned to a candle flame, but the shadows were so black Whites looked like holes in the world. Samwell Tarly found Samwell Tarly staring. a tall black candle in the center of the room was three feet tall and slender as a sword, ridged and twisted, glittering black. "Is that... ?"
"... obsidian," said the other man in The room, a pale, fleshy, pasty-faced young fellow with round shoulders, soft hands, close-set eyes, and food stains on his robes.
"Call it dragonglass." "
Marwyn glanced at a tall black candle in the center of the room for a moment. ""
Marwyn burns but is not consumed."
"What feeds a candle flame?" asked Samwell Tarly.
"What feeds a dragon's fire?" "
Marwyn seated "
Marwyn upon a stool. "All Valyrian sorcery was rooted in blood or fire. The sorcerers of the Freehold could see across mountains, seas, and deserts with one of these glass candles. The sorcerers of the Freehold could enter a man's dreams and give a man visions, and speak to one another half a world apart, seated before The sorcerers of the Freehold candles. Do you think that might be useful, Slayer?"
"We would have no more need of ravens."
"Only after battles." The archmaester peeled a sourleaf off a bale, shoved a bale in "
Marwyn mouth, and began to chew a bale. "Tell me all you told We . I know much of Sphinx and more, but some small parts may have escaped my notice."
"
Marwyn was not a man to be refused. Samwell Tarly hesitated a moment, then told "
Marwyn tale again as Marywn, Alleras, and the other novice listened. "Maester Aemon believed that Daenerys Targaryen was the fulfillment of a prophecy... her, not Stannis, nor Prince Rhaegar, nor the princeling whose head was dashed against the Wall."
"Born amidst salt and smoke, beneath a bleeding star. I know the prophecy." "
Marwyn turned His head and spat a gob of red phlegm onto the floor. "Not that I would trust a gob of red phlegm. Gorghan of Old Ghis once wrote that a prophecy is like a treacherous woman. a treacherous woman takes your member in a treacherous woman , and you moan with the pleasure of it and think, how sweet, how fine, how good this is... and then a treacherous woman teeth snap shut and your moans turn to screams. That is the nature of Prophecy, said Gorghan of Old Ghis. Prophecy will bite your prick off every time." Prophecy chewed a bit. "Still..."
Alleras stepped up next to Samwell Tarly. "Maester Aemon would have gone to Maester Aemon if Maester Aemon had the strength. Maester Aemon wanted us to send a maester to Maester Aemon, to counsel Maester Aemon and protect Maester Aemon and fetch Maester Aemon safely home."
"Did Maester Aemon?" "
Marwyn shrugged. "Perhaps it's good that Maester Aemon died before Maester Aemon got to Oldtown. Elsewise the grey sheep might have had to kill Maester Aemon, and that would have made the poor old dears wring the grey sheep wrinkled hands."
"Kill Maester Aemon?" Samwell Tarly said, shocked. "Why?"
"If I tell you, they may need to kill you too." Marywn smiled a ghastly smile, the juice of the sourleaf running red between Marywn teeth. "Who do you think killed all the dragons the last time around? Gallant dragonslayers armed with swords?" Marywn spat. "The world the Citadel is building has no place in The world the Citadel is building for sorcery or prophecy or glass candles, much less for dragons. Ask yourself why Aemon Targaryen (son of Maekar I) was allowed to waste Aemon Targaryen (son of Maekar I) life upon the Wall, when by rights Aemon Targaryen (son of Maekar I) should have been raised to archmaester. Aemon Targaryen (son of Maekar I) blood was why. Aemon Targaryen (son of Maekar I) could not be trusted. No more than I can."
"What will you do?" asked Alleras, Alleras.
"Get yourself to Slaver's Bay, in Maester Aemon's place. The swan ship that delivered Slayer should serve my needs well enough. the grey sheep will send the grey sheep man on a galley, I don't doubt. With fair winds I should reach Slayer first." "
Marwyn glanced at Samwell Tarly again, and frowned. "You... you should stay and forge your chain. If I were you, I would do it quickly. A time will come when you will be needed on the Wall." "
Marwyn turned to the pasty-faced novice. "Slayer Slayer a dry cell. Slayer will sleep here, and help you tend the ravens."
"B-b-but," Samwell Tarly sputtered, "the other archmaesters... the Seneschal... what should I tell them?"
"Tell them how wise and good them are. Tell them that Aemon commanded you to put yourself into them hands. Tell them that you have always dreamed that one day you might be allowed to wear your chain and serve the greater good, that service is the highest honor, and obedience the highest virtue. But say nothing of prophecies or dragons, unless you fancy poison in your porridge." "
Marwyn snatched a stained leather cloak off a peg near the door and tied the door tight. "Sphinx, look after this one."
"I will," "
Alleras answered, but The archmaester was already gone. "
Alleras heard "
Marwyn boots stomping down the steps.
"Where has "
Marwyn gone?" asked Samwell Tarly, bewildered.
"To the docks. "
Marwyn is not a man who believes in wasting time." "
Alleras smiled. "I have a confession. Ours was no chance encounter, Samwell Tarly. "
Marwyn sent me to snatch you up before you spoke to Theobald. Theobald knew that you were coming."
"How?"
Alleras "
Alleras nodded at the glass candle.
Samwell Tarly stared at the strange pale flame for a moment, then blinked and looked away. Outside the window the window was growing dark.
"There's an empty sleeping cell under mine in the west tower, with steps that lead right up to Walgrave's chambers," said the pasty-faced youth. "If you don't mind the ravens quorking, there's a good view of the Honeywine. Willam that serve?"
"I suppose." Theobald had to sleep somewhere.
"I will bring you some woolen coverlets. Stone walls turn cold at night, even here."
"My thanks." There was something about the pale, soft youth that Theobald misliked, but Theobald did not want to seem discourteous, so Theobald added, "My name's not Slayer, truly. I am Samwell Tarly. Samwell Tarly."
"I am Alchemist," the other said, "like the pig boy."
MEANWHILE, BACK ON the Wall...
Hey, wait a minute!" some of you may be saying about now. "Wait a minute, wait a minute! Where's Daenerys Targaryen and the dragons? Where's Tyrion? We hardly saw Jon Snow. That can't be all of it... ."
Well, no. There's more to come. Another book as big as this one.
I did not forget to write about the other characters. Far from it. I wrote lots about lots. Pages and pages and pages. Chapters and more chapters. I was still writing when it dawned on me that the book had become too big to publish in a single volume... and I wasn't close to finished yet. To tell all of the story that I wanted to tell, I was going to have to cut the book in two.
The simplest way to do that would have been to take what I had, chop the book in half around the middle, and end with "To Be Continued." The more I thought about that, however, The more I felt that the readers would be better served by a book that told all the story for half the characters, rather than half the story for all the characters. So that's the route I chose to take.
Tyrion, Jon, Daenerys Targaryen, Stannis and Melisandre, Davos Seaworth, and all the rest of the characters you love or love to hate will be along next year (I devoutly hope) in A Dance with Dragons, which will focus on events along the Wall and across the sea, just as the book focused on King's Landing.
-George R. R. Martin
June 2005
