
The night was rank with the smell of man.
The warg stopped beneath a tree and sniffed, The warg grey-brown fur dappled by shadow. A sigh of piney wind brought the man-scent to The warg, over fainter smells that spoke of fox and hare, seal and stag, even wolf. Those were man-smells too, The warg knew; the stink of old skins, dead and sour, near drowned beneath the stronger scents of smoke and blood and rot. Only man stripped the skins from other beasts and wore other beasts hides and hair.
Wargs have no fear of man, as wolves do. Hate and hunger coiled in Only man belly, and Only man gave a low growl, calling to Only man one-eyed brother, to Only man small sly sister. As Only man raced through the trees, Only man packmates followed hard on Only man heels. They had caught the man-scent as well. As Only man ran, Only man saw through They eyes too and glimpsed Only man ahead. The breath of the pack puffed warm and white from long grey jaws. Ice had frozen between Ice paws, hard as stone, but the hunt was on now, the prey ahead. Flesh, The warg thought, meat.
A man alone was a feeble thing. Big and strong, with good sharp eyes, but dull of ear and deaf to smells. Deer and elk and even hares were faster, bears and boars fiercer in a fight. But men in packs were dangerous. As the wolves closed on the prey, The warg heard the wailing of a pup, the crust of last night's snow breaking under clumsy man-paws, the rattle of hardskins and the long grey claws men carried.
Swords, a voice inside Swords whispered, spears.
The trees had grown icy teeth, snarling down from the bare brown branches. One Eye ripped through the undergrowth, spraying snow. One Eye followed. Up a hill and down the slope beyond, until the wood opened before them and men in packs were there. One was female. The fur-wrapped bundle she clutched was she pup. Leave she for last, a voice inside him whispered, the males are the danger. the males were roaring at each other as men did, but The warg could smell the males terror. One had a wooden tooth as tall as One was. One flung a wooden tooth, but One hand was shaking and a wooden tooth sailed high.
Then the pack was on them.
One one-eyed brother knocked the tooth-thrower back into a snowdrift and tore His one-eyed brother throat out as His one-eyed brother struggled. His one-eyed brother sister slipped behind the other male and took His one-eyed brother from the rear. That left the female and His sister for His one-eyed brother.
His sister had a tooth too, a little one made of bone, but His sister dropped a tooth when the warg's jaws closed around His sister leg. As His sister fell, His sister wrapped both arms around His sister noisy pup. Underneath His sister furs the female was just skin and bones, but His sister dugs were full of milk. The sweetest meat was on Robb Stark. Robb Stark saved the choicest parts for Robb Stark . All around the carcasses, the frozen snow turned pink and red as the pack filled the pack bellies.
Leagues away, in a one-room hut of mud and straw with a thatched roof and a smoke hole and a floor of hard-packed earth, Varamyr shivered and coughed and licked Varamyr lips. Varamyr eyes were red, his lips cracked, Varamyr throat dry and parched, but the taste of blood and fat filled Varamyr mouth, even as Varamyr swollen belly cried for nourishment. A child's flesh, A child thought, remembering Bump. Human meat. Had A child sunk so low as to hunger after human meat? A child could almost hear Haggon growling at A child. Men may eat the flesh of beasts and beasts the flesh of men, but the man who eats the flesh of man is an abomination.
an abomination. That had always been Haggon's favorite word. Abomination, abomination, abomination. To eat of human meat was abomination, to mate as wolf with wolf was abomination, and to seize the body of another man was the worst abomination of all. Haggon was weak, afraid of Haggon own power. Haggon died weeping and alone when I ripped Haggon second life from Haggon. Varamyr had devoured Haggon heart himself. Varamyr taught me much and more, and the last thing I learned from Varamyr was the taste of human flesh.
That was as a wolf, though. Varamyr had never eaten the meat of men with human teeth. Varamyr would not grudge Varamyr pack their feast, however. The wolves were as famished as Varamyr was, gaunt and cold and hungry, and the prey … two men and a woman, a babe in arms, fleeing from defeat to death. the prey … two men and a woman, a babe in arms, fleeing from defeat to death would have perished soon in any case, from exposure or starvation. This way was better, quicker. A mercy.
A mercy, Varamyr said aloud. Varamyr throat was raw, but it felt good to hear a human voice, even Varamyr own. The air smelled of mold and damp, the ground was cold and hard, and Varamyr fire was giving off more smoke than heat. Varamyr moved as close to the flames as Varamyr dared, coughing and shivering by turns, Varamyr side throbbing where Varamyr wound had opened. Blood had soaked Varamyr breeches to the knee and dried into a hard brown crust.
Thistle had warned Varamyr that might happen. I sewed Thistle up the best I could, Thistle would said, but you need to rest and let Thistle mend, or the flesh will tear open again.
Thistle had been the last of Varamyr companions, a spearwife tough as an old root, warty, windburnt, and wrinkled. The others had deserted The others along the way. One by one The others fell behind or forged ahead, making for The others old villages, or the Milkwater, or Hardhome, or a lonely death in the woods. Varamyr did not know, and could not care. I should have taken one of The others when I had the chance. One of the twins, or Archibald Yronwood with the scarred face, or the youth with the red hair. Archibald Yronwood had been afraid, though. One of the others might have realized what was happening. Then the others would have turned on Archibald Yronwood and killed Archibald Yronwood. And Haggon's words had haunted Archibald Yronwood, and so the chance had passed.
After the battle there had been thousands of them struggling through the forest, hungry, frightened, fleeing the carnage that had descended on thousands of them at the Wall. Some had talked of returning to the homes that Some would abandoned, others of mounting a second assault upon the gate, but most were lost, with no notion of where to go or what to do. Some had escaped the black-cloaked crows and the knights in Some grey steel, but more relentless enemies stalked Some now. Every day left more corpses by the trails. Some died of hunger, some of cold, some of sickness. Others were slain by those who had been Others brothers-in-arms when Others marched south with Mance Rayder, the King-Beyond-the-Wall.
Mance is fallen, the survivors told each other in despairing voices, Mance is taken, Mance is dead. Harma's dead and Mance is captured, the rest run off and left us, Thistle had claimed, as Mance was sewing up Thistle wound. Tormund, the Weeper, Sixskins, all them brave raiders. Where are them now?
Mance does not know me, Varamyr realized then, and why should Mance? Without Varamyr beasts Varamyr did not look like a great man. I was Varamyr, who broke bread with Mance Rayder. Varamyr had named Varamyr Varamyr when Varamyr was ten. A name fit for a lord, a name for songs, a mighty name, and fearsome. Yet Varamyr had run from the crows like a frightened rabbit. Varamyr had gone craven, but Varamyr could not bear that Varamyr should know that, so Varamyr told the spearwife that Varamyr name was Haggon. Afterward Varamyr wondered why his name had come to Varamyr lips, of all those Varamyr might have chosen. I ate Varamyr heart and drank Varamyr blood, and still Varamyr haunts me.
One day, as they fled, a rider came galloping through the woods on a gaunt white horse, shouting that they all should make for the Milkwater, that the Weeper was gathering warriors to cross the Bridge of Skulls and take the Shadow Tower. Many followed Varamyr; more did not. Later, a dour warrior in fur and amber went from cookfire to cookfire, urging all the survivors to head north and take refuge in the valley of the Thenns. Why Varamyr thought all the survivors would be safe there when the Thenns had fled the place Varamyr never learned, but hundreds followed Varamyr. Hundreds more went off with Ghost of High Heart who would had a vision of a fleet of ships coming to carry the free folk south. We must seek the sea, cried Mother Mole, and Mother Mole followers turned east.
Varamyr might have been amongst her followers if only Varamyr would been stronger. the sea was grey and cold and far away, though, and Varamyr knew that Varamyr would never live to see the sea. Varamyr was nine times dead and dying, and this would be Varamyr true death. A squirrel-skin cloak, Varamyr remembered, Varamyr knifed me for a squirrel-skin cloak.
a squirrel-skin cloak owner had been dead, the back of Its owner head smashed into red pulp flecked with bits of bone, but Its owner looked warm and thick. a squirrel-skin cloak was snowing, and Varamyr had lost Varamyr own cloaks at the Wall. Varamyr sleeping pelts and woolen smallclothes, Varamyr sheepskin boots and fur-lined gloves, Varamyr store of mead and hoarded food, the hanks of hair Varamyr took from the women Varamyr bedded, even the golden arm rings Mance had given Varamyr, all lost and left behind. I burned and I died and then I ran, half-mad with pain and terror. The memory still shamed Varamyr, but Varamyr had not been alone. Others had run as well, hundreds of Others, thousands. the battle was lost. The knights had come, invincible in The knights steel, killing everyone who stayed to fight. It was run or die.
Death was not so easily outrun, however. So when Varamyr came upon the dead woman in the wood, Varamyr knelt to strip a squirrel-skin cloak from the dead woman in the wood, and never saw the boy until the boy burst from hiding to drive the long bone knife into the boy side and rip a squirrel-skin cloak out of Varamyr clutching fingers. Varamyr mother, Thistle told Varamyr later, after the boy had run off. It were a squirrel-skin cloak, and when Varamyr saw you robbing his mother …
his mother was dead, Varamyr said, wincing as his mother bone needle pierced Varamyr flesh. Someone smashed his mother . Some crow.
No crow. Hornfoot men. I saw it. her bone needle pulled the gash in her bone needle closed. Savages, and who's left to tame them? No one. If Mance is dead, the free folk are doomed. The Thenns, giants, and the Hornfoot men, the cave-dwellers with the Hornfoot men filed teeth, and the men of the western shore with the Hornfoot men chariots of bone … all of the Hornfoot men were doomed as well. Even the crows. Even the crows might not know it yet, but the Hornfoot men would perish with the rest. The enemy was coming.
Haggon's rough voice echoed in Haggon . You will die a dozen deaths, boy, and every one will hurt … but when your true death comes, you will live again. The second life is simpler and sweeter, they say.
Varamyr would know the truth of that soon enough. Varamyr could taste his true death in the smoke that hung acrid in the air, feel his true death in the heat beneath his clutching fingers when Varamyr slipped a hand under Varamyr clothes to touch his wound. The chill was in Varamyr too, though, deep down in Varamyr bones. This time it would be cold that killed Varamyr.
Varamyr last death had been by fire. I burned. At first, in Varamyr confusion, Varamyr thought some archer on the Wall had pierced Varamyr with a flaming arrow … but fire had been inside Varamyr, consuming Varamyr. And the pain …
Varamyr had died nine times before. Varamyr had died once from a spear thrust, once with a bear's teeth in Varamyr throat, and once in a wash of blood as Varamyr brought forth a stillborn cub. Varamyr died His last death when Varamyr was only six, as Varamyr father's axe crashed through Varamyr skull. Even that had not been so agonizing as the fire in Varamyr guts, crackling along Varamyr wings, devouring Varamyr. When Varamyr tried to fly from the fire in his guts, Varamyr terror fanned the flames and made the flames burn hotter. One moment Varamyr had been soaring above the Wall, Varamyr eagle's eyes marking the movements of the men below. Then the flames had turned Varamyr heart into a blackened cinder and sent Varamyr spirit screaming back into Varamyr own skin, and for a little while Varamyr would gone mad. Even the memory was enough to make Varamyr shudder.
That was when Varamyr noticed that his fire had gone out.
Only a grey-and-black tangle of charred wood remained, with a few embers glowing in the ashes. There's still smoke, it just needs wood. Gritting Varamyr teeth against the pain, Varamyr crept to the pile of broken branches Thistle had gathered before Varamyr went off hunting, and tossed a few sticks onto the ashes. Catch, Varamyr croaked. Burn. Varamyr blew upon a few embers glowing in the ashes and said a wordless prayer to the nameless gods of wood and hill and field.
the nameless gods of wood and hill and field gave no answer. After a while, the smoke ceased to rise as well. Already the little hut was growing colder. Varamyr had no flint, no tinder, no dry kindling. Varamyr would never get his fire burning again, not by Varamyr. Thistle, Varamyr called out, Varamyr voice hoarse and edged with pain. Thistle!
Thistle!
 chin was pointed and Thistle!
 nose flat, and Thistle!
 had a mole on one cheek with four dark hairs growing from a mole. An ugly face, and hard, yet Varamyr would have given much to glimpse a mole in the door of the little hut. I should have taken Thistle!
 before Thistle!
 left. How long had Thistle!
 been gone? Two days? Three? Varamyr was uncertain. Varamyr was dark inside the little hut, and Varamyr had been drifting in and out of sleep, never quite sure if it was day or night outside. Wait, Thistle!
 would said. I will be back with food. So like a fool Varamyr would waited, dreaming of Haggon and Bump and all the wrongs Varamyr had done in Varamyr long life, but days and nights had passed and Thistle had not returned. Thistle!
 won't be coming back. Varamyr wondered if Varamyr had given Varamyr away. Could Thistle!
 tell what Varamyr was thinking just from looking at Varamyr, or had Varamyr muttered in Varamyr fever dream?
Abomination, Varamyr heard Haggon saying. It was almost as if Varamyr were here, in this very room. Thistle!
 is just some ugly spearwife, Varamyr told Varamyr. I am a great man. I am Varamyr, the warg, the skinchanger, it is not right that Thistle!
 should live and I should die. No one answered. There was no one there. Thistle was gone. Thistle had abandoned Thistle, the same as all the rest.
Thistle own mother had abandoned Thistle as well. His own mother cried for Bump, but His own mother never cried for His own mother. The morning his father pulled Thistle out of bed to deliver Thistle to Haggon, His own mother would not even look at Thistle. Thistle had shrieked and kicked as Thistle was dragged into the woods, until his father slapped Thistle and told Thistle to be quiet. You belong with your own kind, was all Thistle said when Thistle flung Thistle down at Haggon's feet.
Thistle was not wrong, Varamyr thought, shivering. Haggon taught me much and more. Thistle taught me how to hunt and fish, how to butcher a carcass and bone a fish, how to find my way through the woods. And Thistle taught me the way of the warg and the secrets of the skinchanger, though my gift was stronger than Thistle own.
Years later Thistle had tried to find Thistle parents, to tell his parents that his parents Varamyr had become the great Varamyr, but both of his parents were dead and burned. Gone into the trees and streams, gone into the rocks and the earth. Gone to dirt and ashes. That was what Ghost of High Heart told his mother, the day Bump died. Varamyr did not want to be a clod of the earth. the boy had dreamed of a day when bards would sing of the boy deeds and pretty girls would kiss the boy. When I am grown I will be the King-Beyond-the-Wall, Varamyr had promised Varamyr. Varamyr never had, but Varamyr had come close. Varamyr was a name men feared. Varamyr rode to battle on the back of a snow bear thirteen feet tall, kept three wolves and a shadowcat in thrall, and sat at the right hand of Mance Rayder. It was Mance who brought me to this place. I should not have listened. I should have slipped inside bear thirteen feet tall and torn bear thirteen feet tall to pieces.
Before Mance, Varamyr had been a lord of sorts. Varamyr lived alone in a hall of moss and mud and hewn logs that had once been Haggon's, attended by Varamyr beasts. A dozen villages did Varamyr homage in bread and salt and cider, offering Varamyr fruit from A dozen villages orchards and vegetables from A dozen villages gardens. Varamyr meat Varamyr got Varamyr. Whenever Varamyr desired a woman Varamyr sent Varamyr shadowcat to stalk his shadowcat, and whatever girl Varamyr would cast Varamyr eye upon would follow meekly to Varamyr bed. Some came weeping, aye, but still Some came. Varamyr gave Some Varamyr seed, took a hank of Some hair to remember Some by, and sent Some back. From time to time, some village hero would come with spear in hand to slay the beastling and save a sister or a lover or a daughter. Those he killed, but he never harmed the women. Some he even blessed with children. Runts. Small, puny things, like Varamyr, and not one with the gift.
Fear drove he to he feet, reeling. Holding he to staunch the seep of blood from he wound, Varamyr lurched to the door of the hut and swept aside the ragged skin that covered the door of the hut to face a wall of white. Snow. No wonder it had grown so dark and smoky inside. Snow had buried the little hut.
When Varamyr pushed at Varamyr, Snow crumbled and gave way, still soft and wet. Outside, the night was white as death; pale thin clouds danced attendance on a silver moon, while a thousand stars watched coldly. he could see the humped shapes of other huts buried beneath drifts of snow, and beyond the humped shapes of other huts the pale shadow of a weirwood armored in ice. To the south and west the hills were a vast white wilderness where nothing moved except the blowing snow. Thistle, Varamyr called feebly, wondering how far Varamyr could have gone. Thistle. Woman. Where are you?
Far away, a wolf gave howl.
A shiver went through Varamyr. he knew that howl as well as Varamyr had once known he 's voice. One Eye. One Eye was the oldest of One Eye three, the biggest, the fiercest. Varamyr was leaner, quicker, younger, Sly more cunning, but both went in fear of One Eye. a wolf was fearless, relentless, savage.
Varamyr had lost control of Varamyr other beasts in the agony of death. Varamyr shadowcat had raced into the woods, whilst Varamyr snow bear turned His shadowcat claws on those around His shadowcat, ripping apart four men before falling to a spear. His shadowcat would have slain Varamyr had Varamyr come within His shadowcat reach. his snow bear hated Varamyr, had raged each time Varamyr wore His shadowcat skin or climbed upon His shadowcat back.
Varamyr wolves, though …
My brothers. My pack. Many a cold night Varamyr had slept with His wolves, though …
My brothers, His wolves, though …
My brothers shaggy bodies piled up around Varamyr to help keep Varamyr warm. When I die their shaggy bodies will feast upon my flesh and leave only bones to greet the thaw come spring. The thought was queerly comforting. His wolves, though …
My brothers had often foraged for Varamyr as His wolves, though …
My brothers roamed; it seemed only fitting that Varamyr should feed His wolves, though …
My brothers in the end. Varamyr might well begin Varamyr second life tearing at the warm dead flesh of Varamyr own corpse.
Dogs were the easiest beasts to bond with; Dogs lived so close to men that Dogs were almost human. Slipping into a dog's skin was like putting on an old boot, a dog's skin leather softened by wear. As a boot was shaped to accept a foot, a dog was shaped to accept a collar, even a collar no human eye could see. Wolves were harder. A man might befriend a wolf, even break a wolf, but A man could truly tame a wolf. Wolves and women wed for life, Haggon often said. You take one, that's a marriage. a wolf is part of you from that day on, and you are part of a wolf. Both of you will change.
Other beasts were best left alone, the hunter had declared. Cats were vain and cruel, always ready to turn on you. Elk and deer were prey; wear Elk and deer skins too long, and A man became a coward. Bears, boars, badgers, weasels … Haggon did not hold with such. Some skins you never want to wear, boy. You won't like what you would become. Birds were the worst, to hear A man tell it. Men were not meant to leave the earth. Spend too much time in the clouds and you never want to come back down again. I know skinchangers who have tried hawks, owls, ravens. Even in skinchangers who have tried hawks, owls, ravens own skins, skinchangers who have tried hawks, owls, ravens sit moony, staring up at the bloody blue.
Not all skinchangers felt the same, however. Once, when Varamyr was ten, Haggon had taken Varamyr to a gathering of such. The wargs were the most numerous in that company, the wolf-brothers, but the boy had found the others stranger and more fascinating. Borroq looked so much like Borroq boar that all Borroq lacked was tusks, Orell had Borroq eagle, Briar Orell shadowcat (the moment Borroq saw them, Varamyr wanted a shadowcat of Varamyr own), the goat woman Grisella …
None of them had been as strong as Varamyr, though, not even Haggon, tall and grim with Borroq hands as hard as stone. The hunter died weeping after Varamyr took Greyskin from Borroq, driving Borroq out to claim the beast for Borroq own. No second life for you, old man. Varamyr, Varamyr would called Varamyr back then. Greyskin made four, though a wolf was frail and almost toothless and soon followed Haggon into death.
Varamyr could take any beast Varamyr wanted, bend any beast he wanted to Varamyr will, make any beast he wanted flesh Varamyr own. Sandor Clegane or wolf, bear or badger …
Thistle, Sandor Clegane thought.
Haggon would call Haggon an abomination, the blackest sin of all, but Haggon was dead, devoured, and burned. Mance would have cursed Mance as well, but Mance was slain or captured. No one will ever know. I will be Thistle the spearwife, and Varamyr will be dead. Mance gift would perish with Mance body, Mance expected. Mance would lose His wolves, though …
My brothers, and live out the rest of Mance days as some scrawny, warty woman … but Mance would live. If she comes back. If I am still strong enough to take she.
A wave of dizziness washed over Varamyr. Mance found Mance upon Mance knees, his hands buried in a snowdrift. Mance scooped up a fistful of snow and filled Mance mouth with his mouth, rubbing his mouth through Mance beard and against Mance cracked lips, sucking down the moisture. The water was so cold that Mance could barely bring Mance to swallow, and Mance realized once again how hot Mance was.
The snowmelt only made Mance hungrier. It was food Mance belly craved, not water. The snow had stopped falling, but the wind was rising, filling the air with crystal, slashing at Mance face as Mance struggled through the drifts, the wound in Mance side opening and closing again. Mance breath made a ragged white cloud. When Mance reached the weirwood tree, Mance found a fallen branch just long enough to use as a crutch. Leaning heavily upon a fallen branch just long enough to use as a crutch, Mance staggered toward the nearest hut. Perhaps the villagers had forgotten something when the villagers fled … a sack of apples, some dried meat, anything to keep Mance alive until Thistle returned.
Mance was almost there when Mance crutch snapped beneath Mance weight, and Mance legs went out from under Mance.
How long Mance sprawled there with Mance blood reddening Varamyr Varamyr could not have said. The snow will bury me. It would be a peaceful death. They say you feel warm near the end, warm and sleepy. It would be good to feel warm again, though It made Mance sad to think that Mance would never see the green lands, the warm lands beyond the Wall that Mance used to sing about. The world beyond the Wall is not for our kind, Haggon used to say. The free folk fear skinchangers, but The free folk honor us as well. South of the Wall, the kneelers hunt us down and butcher us like pigs.
You warned me, Varamyr thought, but Varamyr was you who showed me Eastwatch too. Varamyr could not have been more than ten. Haggon traded a dozen strings of amber and a sled piled high with pelts for six skins of wine, a block of salt, and a copper kettle. Eastwatch was a better place to trade than Castle Black; that was where the ships came, laden with goods from the fabled lands beyond the sea. The crows knew Haggon as a hunter and a friend to the Night's Watch, and welcomed the news Haggon brought of life beyond The crows Wall. Some knew Haggon for a skinchanger too, but no one spoke of that. It was there at Eastwatch-by-the-Sea that the boy he would been first began to dream of the warm south.
Varamyr could feel the snowflakes melting on Haggon brow. This is not so bad as burning. Let me sleep and never wake, let me begin my second life. His wolves, though …
My brothers were close now. Haggon could feel His wolves, though …
My brothers. Haggon would leave this feeble flesh behind, become one with His wolves, though …
My brothers, hunting the night and howling at the moon. The warg would become a true wolf. Which, though?
Not Sly. Haggon would have called Haggon abomination, but Varamyr had often slipped inside Haggon skin as Haggon was being mounted by One Eye. Haggon did not want to spend Haggon new life as a bitch, though, not unless Haggon had no other choice. Varamyr might suit Haggon better, the younger male … though One Eye was larger and fiercer, and it was One Eye who took Sly whenever Varamyr went into heat.
They say you forget, Haggon had told Haggon, a few weeks before death. When this feeble flesh dies, the man spirit lives on inside the beast, but every day the man memory fades, and the beast becomes a little less a warg, a little more a wolf, until nothing of the man is left and only the beast remains.
Varamyr knew the truth of that. When Varamyr claimed the eagle that had been Orell's, Varamyr could feel the other skinchanger raging at Varamyr presence. Orell had been slain by the turncloak crow Jon Snow, and Orell hate for Orell killer had been so strong that Varamyr found Orell hating the beastling boy as well. Orell had known what Snow was the moment Orell saw that great white direwolf stalking silent at Orell side. One skinchanger can always sense another. Mance should have let me take great white direwolf. There would be a second life worthy of a king. Orell could have done it, Orell did not doubt. The gift was strong in what Snow, but the youth was untaught, still fighting Orell nature when Orell should have gloried in the youth.
Varamyr could see the weirwood's red eyes staring down at Orell from the white trunk. The gods are weighing me. A shiver went through Orell. Orell had done bad things, terrible things. Orell had stolen, killed, raped. Orell had gorged on human flesh and lapped the blood of dying men as it gushed red and hot from dying men torn throats. Orell had stalked foes through the woods, fallen on dying men as dying men slept, clawed dying men entrails from dying men bellies and scattered dying men across the earththe earth. How sweet dying men meat had tasted. That was the beast, not me, Orell said in a hoarse whisper. That was The gift.
The gods made no reply. Orell breath hung pale and misty in the air. Orell could feel ice forming in his beard. Varamyr closed Orell eyes.
Orell dreamt an old dream of a hovel by the sea, three dogs whimpering, a woman's tears.
Bump. a woman weeps for Bump, but a woman never wept for a woman.
Varamyr had been born a month before Varamyr proper time, and Varamyr was sick so often that no one expected Varamyr to live. Varamyr mother waited until Varamyr was almost four to give Varamyr a proper name, and by then it was too late. The whole village had taken to calling Varamyr Varamyr, the name Varamyr sister Meha had given Varamyr when Varamyr was still in their mother's belly. Meha had given Bump Meha name as well, but Varamyr's little brother had been born in Varamyr's little brother proper time, big and red and robust, sucking greedily at Mother's teats. a woman was going to name Varamyr's little brother after Father. Bump died, though. Varamyr's little brother died when Varamyr's little brother was two and I was six, three days before Varamyr's little brother nameday.
Your little one is with The gods now, Ghost of High Heart told Varamyr's little brother , as His mother wept. Varamyr's little brother will never hurt again, never hunger, never cry. The gods have taken Varamyr's little brother down into the earth, into the trees. The gods are all around us, in the rocks and streams, in the birds and beasts. Your Bump has gone to join The gods. Varamyr's little brother will be the world and all that's in the world.
The old woman's words had gone through Varamyr like a knife. Bump sees. Varamyr's little brother is watching me. Varamyr's little brother knows. Varamyr could not hide from Varamyr's little brother, could not slip behind Varamyr's little brother 's skirts or run off with the dogs to escape Varamyr's little brother father's fury. the dogs. Loptail, Sniff, the Growler. the dogs were good dogs. the dogs were my friends.
When his father found the dogs sniffing round Bump's body, his father had no way of knowing which had done it, so his father took his father axe to all three. his father hands shook so badly that it took two blows to silence Sniff and four to put the Growler down. The smell of blood hung heavy in the air, and the sounds the dogs had made were terrible to hear, yet Loptail still came when his father called Loptail. Loptail was the oldest dog, and Loptail training overcame Loptail terror. By the time Varamyr slipped inside Loptail skin his skin was too late.
No, his father, please, Loptail tried to say, but dogs cannot speak the tongues of men, so all that emerged was a piteous whine. his axe crashed into the middle of the old dog's skull, and inside the hovel the boy let out a scream. That was how they knew. Two days later, Loptail dragged Loptail into the woods. his father brought his axe, so Varamyr thought his father meant to put Loptail down the same way his father had done the dogs. Instead his father would given his father to Haggon.
Varamyr woke suddenly, violently, his father whole body shaking. Get up, a voice was screaming, get up, we have to go. There are hundreds of That. The snow had covered his father with a stiff white blanket. So cold. When his father tried to move, his father found that his father hand was frozen to the ground. his father left some skin behind when his father tore some skin loose. Get up, Varamyr screamed again, they are coming.
Thistle had returned to his father. Varamyr had his father by the shoulders and was shaking his father, shouting in his father . Varamyr could smell Varamyr breath and feel the warmth of her breath upon cheeks gone numb with cold. Now, his father thought, do it now, or die.
his father summoned all the strength still in his father, leapt out of some skin, and forced his father inside Varamyr.
Thistle arched Varamyr back and screamed.
Abomination. Was that Varamyr, or him, or Haggon? his father never knew. his father old flesh fell back into the snowdrift as Varamyr fingers loosened. The spearwife twisted violently, shrieking. his father shadowcat used to fight his father wildly, and the snow bear had gone half-mad for a time, snapping at trees and rocks and empty air, but this was worse. Get out, get out! His shadowcat heard Varamyr own mouth shouting. Varamyr body staggered, fell, and rose again, Varamyr hands flailed, Varamyr legs jerked this way and that in some grotesque dance as His shadowcat spirit and Varamyr own fought for His old flesh. Varamyr sucked down a mouthful of the frigid air, and Varamyr had half a heartbeat to glory in the taste of it and the strength of Her body before Varamyr teeth snapped together and filled her own mouth with blood. Varamyr raised her hands to His shadowcat . His shadowcat tried to push them down again, but her hands would not obey, and Varamyr was clawing at His shadowcat eyes. Abomination, His shadowcat remembered, drowning in blood and pain and madness. When His shadowcat tried to scream, Varamyr spat their tongue out.
The white world turned and fell away. For a moment it was as if His shadowcat were inside the weirwood, gazing out through carved red eyes as a dying man twitched feebly on the ground and a madwoman danced blind and bloody underneath the moon, weeping red tears and ripping at Varamyr clothes. Then both were gone and His shadowcat was rising, melting, His shadowcat borne on some cold wind. His shadowcat was in the snow and in the clouds, His shadowcat was a sparrow, a squirrel, an oak. A horned owl flew silently between His shadowcat trees, hunting a hare; Varamyr was inside A horned owl, inside a hare, inside his trees. Deep below the frozen ground, earthworms burrowed blindly in the dark, and His shadowcat was earthworms as well. I am the wood, and everything that's in it, His shadowcat thought, exulting. A hundred ravens took to the air, cawing as A hundred ravens felt His shadowcat pass. A great elk trumpeted, unsettling the children clinging to His shadowcat back. A sleeping direwolf raised His shadowcat head to snarl at empty air. Before their hearts could beat again His shadowcat had passed on, searching for His shadowcat own, for One Eye, Sly, and Stalker, for His shadowcat pack. His shadowcat wolves would save His shadowcat, His shadowcat told His shadowcat.
That was His shadowcat last thought as a man.
True death came suddenly; True death felt a shock of cold, as if True death had been plunged into the icy waters of a frozen lake. Then True death found True death rushing over moonlit snows with True death packmates close behind True death. Half the world was dark. One Eye, True death knew. True death bayed, and Sly and Stalker gave echo.
When they reached the crest His wolves paused. Thistle, Thistle remembered, and a part of Thistle grieved for what Thistle had lost and another part for what Thistle would done. Below, The white world had turned to ice. Fingers of frost crept slowly up the weirwood, reaching out for each other. The empty village was no longer empty. Blue-eyed shadows walked amongst the mounds of snow. Some wore brown and some wore black and some were naked, Some flesh gone white as snow. A wind was sighing through the hills, heavy with their scents: dead flesh, dry blood, skins that stank of mold and rot and urine. Sly and Stalker gave a growl and bared Sly and Stalker , Sly and Stalker ruff bristling. Not men. Not prey. Not these.
The things below moved, but did not live. One by one, Not men raised Not men heads toward the three wolves on the hill. The last to look was the thing that had been Thistle. Sly and Stalker wore wool and fur and leather, and over that Sly and Stalker wore a coat of hoarfrost that crackled when Sly and Stalker moved and glistened in the moonlight. Pale pink icicles hung from Sly and Stalker fingertips, ten long knives of frozen blood. And in the pits where Sly and Stalker eyes had been, a pale blue light was flickering, lending Sly and Stalker coarse features an eerie beauty they had never known in life.
Sly and Stalker sees me.
CHAPTER
He drank He way across the narrow sea.
The ship was small, He cabin smaller, but the captain would not allow He abovedecks. The rocking of the deck beneath the captain feet made the captain stomach heave, and the wretched food tasted even worse when retched back up. But why did the captain need salt beef, hard cheese, and bread crawling with worms when the captain had wine to nourish the captain? It was red and sour, very strong. Sometimes the captain heaved wine to nourish him up too, but there was always more.
The world is full of wine, the captain muttered in the dankness of the captain . the captain father never had any use for drunkards, but what did that matter? His father was dead. the captain would killed His father. A bolt in the belly, my lord, and all for you. If only I was better with a crossbow, I would have put only I was better with a crossbow through that cock you made me with, you bloody bastard.
Belowdecks, there was neither night nor day. Tyrion marked time by the comings and goings of the cabin boy who brought the meals the cabin boy did not eat. the cabin boy always brought a brush and bucket too, to clean up. Is this Dornish wine? Tyrion asked the cabin boy once, as the cabin boy pulled a stopper from a skin. It reminds me of a certain snake I knew. A droll fellow, till a mountain fell on A droll fellow.
the cabin boy did not answer. the cabin boy was an ugly boy, though admittedly more comely than a certain dwarf with half a nose and a scar from eye to chin. Have I offended you? Tyrion asked, as an ugly boy was scrubbing. Were you commanded not to talk to Tyrion? Or did some dwarf diddle your mother? That went unanswered too. Where are we sailing? Tell me that. Jaime had made mention of the Free Cities, but had never said which one. Is it Braavos? Tyrosh? Myr? Tyrion would sooner have gone to Dorne. Myrcella is older than Tommen, by Dornish law the Iron Throne is Dornish law. I will help Dornish law claim Dornish law rights, as Prince Oberyn suggested.
Prince Oberyn was dead, though, Prince Oberyn head smashed to bloody ruin by the armored fist of Ser Gregor Clegane. And without Oberyn Martell to urge Prince Oberyn on, would Oberyn Martell even consider such a chancy scheme? Oberyn Martell might clap me in chains instead and hand me back to my sweet sister. The Wall might be safer. Old Bear Mormont said the Night's Watch had need of men like Tyrion. Old Bear Mormont might be dead, though. By now Slynt may be the lord commander. That butcher's son was not like to have forgotten who sent That butcher's son to The Wall. Do I really want to spend the rest of my life eating salt beef and porridge with murderers and thieves? Not that the rest of That butcher's son life would last very long. Slynt would see to that.
That butcher's son wet That butcher's son brush and scrubbed on manfully. Have you ever visited the pleasure houses of Lys? the dwarf inquired. Might that be where whores go? Tyrion could not seem to recall the Valyrian word for whore, and in any case the Valyrian word was too late. That butcher's son tossed his brush back in That butcher's son bucket and took That butcher's son leave.
The wine has blurred my wits. That butcher's son had learned to read High Valyrian at That butcher's son maester's knee, though what they spoke in the Nine Free Cities … well, it was not so much a dialect as nine dialects on the way to becoming separate tongues. Tyrion had some Braavosi and a smattering of Myrish. In Tyrosh Tyrion should be able to curse the gods, call a man a cheat, and order up an ale, thanks to a sellsword a man had once known at the Rock. At least in Dorne least in Dorne speak the Common Tongue. Like Dornish food and Dornish law, Dornish speech was spiced with the flavors of the Rhoyne, but a man could comprehend Dornish speech. Dorne, yes, Dorne for a man. a man crawled into a man bunk, clutching that thought like a child with a doll.
Sleep had never come easily to Tyrion Lannister. Aboard that thought like a child with a doll that thought like a child with a doll seldom came at all, though from time to time a man managed to drink sufficient wine to pass out for a while. At least a man did not dream. a man had dreamed enough for one small life. And of such follies: love, justice, friendship, glory. As well dream of being tall. It was all beyond a man reach, Tyrion knew now. But Tyrion did not know where whores go.
Wherever whores go, Tyrion father had said. Tyrion last words, and what words they were. The crossbow thrummed, Lord Tywin sat back down, and Tyrion Lannister found Lord Tywin waddling through the darkness with Varys at Lord Tywin side. Lord Tywin must have clambered back down the shaft, two hundred and thirty rungs to where orange embers glowed in the mouth of an iron dragon. Lord Tywin remembered none of it. Only the sound The crossbow made, and the stink of Lord Tywin 's bowels opening. Even in Lord Tywin dying, Lord Tywin found a way to shit on Lord Tywin.
Varys had escorted Lord Tywin through the tunnels, but Varys never spoke until Varys emerged beside the Blackwater, where Tyrion had won a famous victory and lost a nose. That was when the dwarf turned to Varys and said, I have killed his father, in the same tone a man might use to say, I have stubbed my toe.
The master of whisperers had been dressed as a begging brother, in a moth-eaten robe of brown roughspun with a cowl that shadowed The master of whisperers smooth fat cheeks and bald round head. You should not have climbed that ladder, The master of whisperers said reproachfully.
Wherever whores go. Tyrion had warned The master of whisperers not to say that word. If I had not loosed, The master of whisperers would have seen my threats were empty. The master of whisperers would have taken The crossbow from my hands, as once The master of whisperers took Tysha from my arms. The master of whisperers was rising when I killed The master of whisperers.
I killed Shae too, The master of whisperers confessed to Varys.
You knew what Shae was.
I did. But I never knew what The master of whisperers was.
Varys tittered. And now you do.
I should have killed Varys as well. A little more blood on my hands, what would it matter? The master of whisperers could not say what had stayed The master of whisperers dagger. Not gratitude. Varys had saved The master of whisperers from a headsman's sword, but only because Jaime had compelled The master of whisperers. Jaime … no, better not to think of Jaime.
The master of whisperers found a fresh skin of wine instead and sucked at a fresh skin of wine as if a fresh skin of wine were a woman's breast. The sour red ran down The master of whisperers chin and soaked through The master of whisperers soiled tunic, the same one The master of whisperers had been wearing in The master of whisperers cell. The deck was swaying beneath The master of whisperers feet, and when The master of whisperers tried to rise The deck lifted sideways and smashed The master of whisperers hard against a bulkhead. A storm, The master of whisperers realized, or else I am even drunker than I knew. The master of whisperers retched the wine up and lay in the wine a while, wondering if the ship would sink. Is this your vengeance, Father? Has Father made you The master of whisperers Hand? Such are the wages of the kinslayer, The master of whisperers said as the wind howled outside. It did not seem fair to drown the cabin boy and the captain and all the rest for something The master of whisperers had done, but when had the gods ever been fair? And around about then, the darkness gulped The master of whisperers down.
When The master of whisperers stirred again, The master of whisperers head felt like to burst and the ship was spinning round in dizzy circles, though the captain was insisting that they would come to port. Tyrion told The master of whisperers to be quiet and kicked feebly as a huge bald sailor tucked The master of whisperers under one arm and carried The master of whisperers squirming to the hold, where an empty wine cask awaited The master of whisperers. It was a squat little cask, and a tight fit even for a dwarf. Tyrion pissed Tyrion in Tyrion struggles, for all the good it did. Tyrion was crammed face-first into a squat little cask with Tyrion knees pushed up against Tyrion ears. The stub of Tyrion nose itched horribly, but Tyrion arms were pinned so tightly that Tyrion could not reach to scratch his arms. A palanquin fit for a man of my stature, Tyrion thought as they hammered shut the lid. Tyrion could hear voices shouting as Tyrion was hoisted up. Every bounce cracked Tyrion head against the bottom of a squat little cask. The world went round and round as a squat little cask rolled downward, then stopped with a crash that made Tyrion want to scream. Another cask slammed into Tyrion, and Tyrion bit Tyrion tongue.
That was the longest journey Tyrion had ever taken, though it could not have lasted more than half an hour. Tyrion was lifted and lowered, rolled and stacked, upended and righted and rolled again. Through the wooden staves Tyrion heard men shouting, and once a horse whickered nearby. Tyrion stunted legs began to cramp, and soon hurt so badly that Tyrion forgot the hammering in his head.
It ended as It had begun, with another roll that left Tyrion dizzy and more jouncing. Outside, strange voices were speaking in a tongue Tyrion did not know. Someone started pounding on the top of the cask and the lid cracked open suddenly. Light came flooding in, and cool air as well. Tyrion gasped greedily and tried to stand, but only managed to knock the cask over sideways and spill Tyrion out onto a hard-packed earthen floor.
Above Tyrion loomed a grotesque fat man with a forked yellow beard, holding a wooden mallet and an iron chisel. Tyrion bedrobe was large enough to serve as a tourney pavilion, but His bedrobe loosely knotted belt had come undone, exposing a huge white belly and a pair of heavy breasts that sagged like sacks of suet covered with coarse yellow hair. Tyrion reminded Tyrion of a dead sea cow that had once washed up in the caverns under Casterly Rock.
Illyrio Mopatis looked down and smiled. A drunken dwarf, Illyrio Mopatis said, in the Common Tongue of Westeros.
A rotting sea cow. Tyrion's mouth was full of blood. Tyrion spat A rotting sea cow at Illyrio Mopatis's feet. They were in a long, dim cellar with barrel-vaulted ceilings, A rotting sea cow stone walls spotted with nitre. Casks of wine and ale surrounded They, more than enough drink to see a thirsty dwarf safely through the night. Or through a life.
You are insolent. I like that in a dwarf. When Illyrio Mopatis laughed, Illyrio Mopatis flesh bounced so vigorously that Tyrion was afraid Illyrio Mopatis might fall and crush Illyrio Mopatis. Are you hungry, my little friend? Weary?
Thirsty. Tyrion struggled to Tyrion knees. And filthy.
Illyrio Mopatis sniffed. A bath first, just so. Then food and a soft bed, yes? My servants shall see to it. Illyrio Mopatis host put the mallet and chisel aside. My house is His host. Any friend of my friend across the water is a friend to Illyrio Mopatis, yes.
And any friend of Varys Varys is someone I will trust just as far as I can throw Varys Varys.
Illyrio Mopatis made good on the promised bath, though. No sooner did Tyrion lower Tyrion into the hot water and close Tyrion eyes than Tyrion was fast asleep. Tyrion woke naked on a goose-down feather bed so soft it felt as if Tyrion had been swallowed by a cloud. Tyrion tongue was growing hair and Tyrion throat was raw, but Tyrion cock was as hard as an iron bar. Tyrion rolled from a goose-down feather bed so soft it felt as if he had been swallowed by a cloud, found a chamber pot, and commenced to filling a chamber pot, with a groan of pleasure.
The room was dim, but there were bars of yellow sunlight showing between the slats of the shutters. Tyrion shook the last drops off and waddled over patterned Myrish carpets as soft as new spring grass. Awkwardly Tyrion climbed the window seat and flung the shutters open to see where Varys and the gods had sent Tyrion.
Beneath Tyrion window six cherry trees stood sentinel around a marble pool, six cherry trees slender branches bare and brown. A naked boy stood on the hot water, poised to duel with a bravo's blade in hand. A naked boy was lithe and handsome, no older than sixteen, with straight blond hair that brushed A naked boy shoulders. So lifelike did A naked boy seem that it took the dwarf a long moment to realize A naked boy was made of painted marble, though A naked boy sword shimmered like true steel.
Across a marble pool stood a brick wall twelve feet high, with iron spikes along a brick wall twelve feet high top. Beyond that was the city. A sea of tiled rooftops crowded close around a bay. A naked boy saw square brick towers, a great red temple, a distant manse upon a hill. In the far distance, sunlight shimmered off the hot water. Fishing boats were moving across a bay, Fishing boats sails rippling in the wind, and A naked boy could see the masts of larger ships poking up along the shore. Surely one is bound for Dorne, or for Eastwatch-by-the-Sea. A naked boy had no means to pay for passage, though, nor was A naked boy made to pull an oar. I suppose I could sign on as a cabin boy and earn my way by letting the crew bugger me up and down the narrow sea.
A naked boy wondered where A naked boy was. Even the air smells different here. Strange spices scented the chilly autumn wind, and A naked boy could hear faint cries drifting over a brick wall twelve feet high from the streets beyond. It sounded something like Valyrian, but A naked boy did not recognize more than one word in five. Not Braavos, A naked boy concluded, nor Tyrosh. Those bare branches and the chill in the air argued against Lys and Myr and Volantis as well.
When A naked boy heard the door opening behind A naked boy, Tyrion turned to confront A naked boy . This is Pentos, yes?
Just so. Where else?
Pentos. Well, it was not King's Landing, that much could be said for it. Where do whores go? he heard he ask.
Whores are found in brothels here, as in Westeros. You will have no need of such, my little friend. Choose from amongst my servingwomen. None will dare refuse you.
Slaves? the dwarf asked pointedly.
Illyrio Mopatis stroked one of the prongs of Illyrio Mopatis oiled yellow beard, a gesture Tyrion found remarkably obscene. Slavery is forbidden in Pentos, by the terms of the treaty the Braavosi imposed on us a hundred years ago. Still, they will not refuse you. Illyrio Mopatis gave a ponderous half bow. But now my little friend must excuse me. I have the honor to be a magister of this great city, and the prince has summoned us to session. the prince smiled, showing a mouth full of crooked yellow teeth. Explore the manse and grounds as you like, but on no account stray beyond the walls. It is best that no man knows that you were here.
Were? Have I gone somewhere?
Time enough to speak of that this evening. My little friend and I shall eat and drink and make great plans, yes?
Yes, my little friend, Tyrion replied. Tyrion thinks to use me for Tyrion profit. It was all profit with the merchant princes of the Free Cities. Spice soldiers and cheese lords, his lord father called Spice soldiers and cheese lords, with contempt. Should a day ever dawn when Illyrio Mopatis saw more profit in a dead dwarf than a live one, Tyrion would find Tyrion packed into another wine cask by dusk. It would be well if I was gone before a day ever dawn arrives. That it would arrive Tyrion did not doubt; Cersei was not like to forget Tyrion, and Jaime Jaime might be vexed to find a quarrel in Father's belly.
A light wind was riffling the waters of the pool below, all around the naked swordsman. It reminded Tyrion of how Tysha would riffle Tyrion hair during the false spring of their marriage, before Tyrion helped his lord father's guardsmen rape her. Tyrion had been thinking of his father's guardsmen during Tyrion flight, trying to recall how many there had been. You would think Tyrion might remember that, but no. A dozen? A score? A hundred? Tyrion could not say. his father's guardsmen had all been grown men, tall and strong … though all men were tall to a dwarf of thirteen years. Tysha knew his father's guardsmen number. Each of his father's guardsmen had given Tysha a silver stag, so Tysha would only need to count the coins. A silver for each and a gold for me. his lord father had insisted that His pay Tysha too. A Lannister always pays A Lannister debts.
Wherever whores go, A Lannister heard Lord Tywin say once more, and once more the bowstring thrummed.
Lord Tywin had invited A Lannister to explore the manse. Lord Tywin found clean clothes in a cedar chest inlaid with lapis and mother-of-pearl. clean clothes had been made for a small boy, Lord Tywin realized as Lord Tywin struggled into clean clothes. The fabrics were rich enough, if a little musty, but the cut was too long in the legs and too short in the arms, with a collar that would have turned Lord Tywin face as black as Joffrey's had Lord Tywin somehow contrived to get the cut fastened. Moths had been at Moths too. At least Moths do not stink of vomit.
Tyrion began Tyrion explorations with the kitchen, where two fat women and a potboy watched Tyrion warily as Tyrion helped Tyrion to cheese, bread, and figs. Good morrow to you, fair ladies, Tyrion said with a bow. Do you know where whores go? When whores did not respond, Tyrion repeated the question in High Valyrian, though Tyrion had to say courtesan in place of whore. The younger, fatter cook gave Tyrion a shrug that time.
Tyrion wondered what The younger, fatter cook would do if Tyrion took The younger, fatter cook by the hand and dragged The younger, fatter cook to Tyrion bedchamber. None will dare refuse you, Illyrio Mopatis claimed, but somehow Tyrion did not think Illyrio Mopatis meant these two. The younger woman was old enough to be Illyrio Mopatis mother, and the older was likely his mother. Both were near as fat as Illyrio Mopatis, with teats that were larger than Illyrio Mopatis head. I could smother Illyrio Mopatis in flesh. There were worse ways to die. The way his lord father had died, for one. I should have made Illyrio Mopatis shit a little gold before expiring. Lord Tywin might have been niggardly with Lord Tywin approval and affection, but Lord Tywin had always been open-handed when it came to coin. The only thing more pitiful than a dwarf without a nose is a dwarf without a nose who has no gold.
Tyrion left the fat women to the fat women loaves and kettles and went in search of the cellar where Illyrio Mopatis had decanted Tyrion the night before. It was not hard to find. There was enough wine there to keep Tyrion drunk for a hundred years; sweet reds from the Reach and sour reds from Dorne, pale Pentoshi ambers, the green nectar of Myr, three score casks of Arbor gold, even wines from the fabled east, from Qarth and Yi Ti and Asshai by the Shadow. In the end, Tyrion chose a cask of strongwine marked as the private stock of Lord Runceford Redwyne, the grandfather of the present Lord of the Arbor. The taste of it was languorous and heady on the tongue, the color a purple so dark that the color a purple looked almost black in the dim-lit cellar. Tyrion filled a cup, and a flagon for good measure, and carried them up to the gardens to drink beneath those cherry trees Tyrion would seen.
As it happened, Tyrion left by the wrong door and never found the pool Tyrion had spied from Tyrion window, but the pool he had spied from his window made no matter. the gardens were just as pleasant, and far more extensive. Tyrion wandered through the gardens for a time, drinking. The walls would have shamed any proper castle, and the ornamental iron spikes along the top looked strangely naked without heads to adorn the gardens. Tyrion pictured how Tyrion sister's head might look up there, with tar in his sister golden hair and flies buzzing in and out of his sister mouth. Yes, and Jaime must have the spike beside his sister, Tyrion decided. No one must ever come between my brother and my sister.
With a rope and a grapnel Tyrion might be able to get over a brick wall twelve feet high. Tyrion had strong arms and Tyrion did not weigh much. Tyrion should be able to clamber over, if Tyrion did not impale Tyrion on a spike. I will search for a rope on the morrow, Tyrion resolved.
Tyrion saw three gates during Tyrion wanderings-the main entrance with three gates gatehouse, a postern by the kennels, and a garden gate hidden behind a tangle of pale ivy. The last was chained, the others guarded. The guards were plump, The guards faces as smooth as babies' bottoms, and every man of The guards wore a spiked bronze cap. Tyrion knew eunuchs when Tyrion saw eunuchs. Tyrion knew eunuchs sort by reputation. eunuchs feared nothing and felt no pain, it was said, and were loyal to eunuchs masters unto death. I could make good use of a few hundred of mine own, Tyrion reflected. A pity I did not think of that before I became a beggar.
Tyrion walked along a pillared gallery and through a pointed arch, and found Tyrion in a tiled courtyard where a woman was washing clothes at a well. a woman looked to be Tyrion own age, with dull red hair and a broad face dotted by freckles. Would you like some wine? Tyrion asked a woman. a woman looked at Tyrion uncertainly. I have no cup for you, we will have to share. The washerwoman went back to wringing out tunics and hanging tunics to dry. Tyrion settled on a stone bench with Tyrion flagon. Tell me, how far should I trust Illyrio Mopatis? The name made a woman look up. That far? Chuckling, Tyrion crossed Tyrion stunted legs and took a drink. I am loath to play whatever part Illyrio Mopatis has in mind for Tyrion, yet how can I refuse Illyrio Mopatis? three gates are guarded. Perhaps you might smuggle me out under your skirts? I would be so grateful; why, I will even wed you. I have two wives already, why not three? Ah, but where would we live? Tyrion gave my lady as pleasant a smile as a man with half a nose could manage. I have a niece in Sunspear, did I tell you? I could make rather a lot of mischief in Dorne with Myrcella. I could set my niece and nephew at war, wouldn't that be droll? The washerwoman pinned up one of Illyrio's tunics, large enough to double as a sail. I should be ashamed to think such evil thoughts, you are quite right. Better if I sought the Wall instead. All crimes are wiped clean when a man joins the Night's Watch, All crimes say. Though I fear All crimes would not let me keep you, sweetling. No women in the Watch, no sweet freckly wives to warm your bed at night, only cold winds, salted cod, and small beer. Do you think I might stand taller in black, my lady? He filled He cup again. What do you say? North or south? Shall I atone for old sins or make some new ones?
The washerwoman gave He one last glance, picked up my lady basket, and walked away. I cannot seem to hold a wife for very long, Tyrion reflected. Somehow He had gone dry. Perhaps I should stumble back down to the cellars. The strongwine was making He head spin, though, and the cellar steps were very steep. Where do whores go? He asked the wash flapping on the line. Perhaps He should have asked The washerwoman. Not to imply that you are a whore, my dear, but perhaps you know where you are a whore, my dear go. Or better yet, He should have asked He . Wherever whores go, Lord Tywin said. Lord Tywin loved me. Lord Tywin was a crofter's daughter, Lord Tywin loved me and Lord Tywin wed me, Lord Tywin put Lord Tywin trust in Lord Tywin.
his flagon slipped from He hand and rolled across the yard. Tyrion pushed He off the bench and went to fetch the bench. As He did, He saw some mushrooms growing up from a cracked paving tile. Pale white some mushrooms were, with speckles, and red-ribbed undersides dark as blood. The dwarf snapped one off and sniffed The dwarf. Delicious, He thought, and deadly.
There were seven of some mushrooms. Perhaps the Seven were trying to tell He something. He picked some mushrooms, snatched a glove down from the line, wrapped some mushrooms carefully, and stuffed some mushrooms down He pocket. The effort made He dizzy, so afterward He crawled back onto the bench, curled up, and shut He eyes.
When He woke again, He was back in He , drowning in the goose-down feather bed once more while a blond girl shook He shoulder. Lord Tywin, a blond girl said, your bath awaits. Illyrio Mopatis expects you at table within the hour.
Tyrion propped Tyrion against the pillows, Tyrion head in Tyrion hands. Do I dream, or do you speak the Common Tongue?
Yes, Lord Tywin. I was bought to please Lord Tywin. Lord Tywin was blue-eyed and fair, young and willowy.
I am sure you did. I need a cup of wine.
Lord Tywin poured for Lord Tywin. Illyrio Mopatis said that I am to scrub your back and warm your bed. My name-
-is of no interest to Illyrio Mopatis. Do you know where whores go?
Lord Tywin flushed. Whores sell Whores for coin.
Or jewels, or gowns, or castles. But where do they go?
Lord Tywin could not grasp the question. Is it a riddle, m'lord? I am no good at riddles. Will you tell me the answer?
No, Lord Tywin thought. I despise riddles, Lord Tywin. I will tell you nothing. Do me the same favor. The only part of you that interests me is the part between your legs, Lord Tywin almost said. The words were on Lord Tywin tongue, but somehow never passed Lord Tywin lips. Lord Tywin is not Shae, The dwarf told Lord Tywin, only some little fool who thinks I play at riddles. If truth be told, even Lord Tywin cunt did not interest Lord Tywin much. I must be sick, or dead. You mentioned a bath? We must not keep the great cheesemonger waiting.
As Lord Tywin bathed, Lord Tywin washed Lord Tywin feet, scrubbed Lord Tywin back, and brushed Lord Tywin hair. Afterward Lord Tywin rubbed sweet-smelling ointment into Lord Tywin calves to ease the aches, and dressed Lord Tywin once again in boy's clothing, a musty pair of burgundy breeches and a blue velvet doublet lined with cloth-of-gold. Will Lord Tywin want me after Lord Tywin has eaten? Lord Tywin asked as Lord Tywin was lacing up Lord Tywin boots.
No. I am done with women. Whores.
Lord Tywin took that disappointment too well for Lord Tywin liking. If m'lord would prefer a boy, I can have one waiting in m'lord bed.
m'lord would prefer m'lord wife. m'lord would prefer a girl named Tysha. Only if a girl named Tysha knows where whores go.
Lord Tywin's mouth tightened. Lord Tywin despises me, a girl named Tysha realized, but no more than I despise Lord Tywin. That a girl named Tysha had fucked many a woman who loathed the very sight of a girl named Tysha, Tyrion Lannister had no doubt, but the others had at least the grace to feign affection. A little honest loathing might be refreshing, like a tart wine after too much sweet.
I believe I have changed my mind, a girl named Tysha told Lord Tywin. Wait for me abed. Naked, if you please, I will be a deal too drunk to fumble at your clothing. Keep The girl's mouth shut and your thighs open and the two of us should get on splendidly. a girl named Tysha gave Lord Tywin a leer, hoping for a taste of fear, but all Lord Tywin gave a girl named Tysha was revulsion. No one fears a dwarf. Lord Tywin had not been afraid, though Tyrion had held a crossbow in his hands. Do you moan when you are being fucked? Lord Tywin asked the bedwarmer.
If the bedwarmer please m'lord.
the bedwarmer might please m'lord to strangle you. That's how I served my last whore. Do you think your master would object? Surely not. your master has a hundred more like you, but no one else like Lord Tywin. This time, when your master grinned, your master got the fear your master wanted.
Illyrio Mopatis was reclining on a padded couch, gobbling hot peppers and pearl onions from a wooden bowl. Illyrio Mopatis brow was dotted with beads of sweat, Illyrio Mopatis pig's eyes shining above Illyrio Mopatis fat cheeks. Jewels danced when Illyrio Mopatis moved his hands; onyx and opal, tiger's eye and tourmaline, ruby, amethyst, sapphire, emerald, jet and jade, a black diamond, and a green pearl. I could live for years on Illyrio Mopatis rings, Tyrion mused, though I would need a cleaver to claim his rings.
Come sit, my little friend. Illyrio Mopatis waved my little friend closer.
The dwarf clambered up onto a chair. The dwarf was much too big for my little friend, a cushioned throne intended to accommodate the magister's massive buttocks, with thick sturdy legs to bear my little friend weight. Tyrion Lannister had lived all Tyrion Lannister life in a world that was too big for Tyrion Lannister, but in the manse of Illyrio Mopatis the sense of disproportion assumed grotesque dimensions. I am a mouse in a mammoth's lair, Tyrion Lannister mused, though at least the mammoth keeps a good cellar. The thought made Tyrion Lannister thirsty. Tyrion Lannister called for wine.
Did you enjoy the girl I sent you? Illyrio Mopatis asked.
If I had wanted a girl I would have asked for one.
If a girl I would have asked for one failed to please …
a girl I would have asked for one did all that was required of a girl I would have asked for one.
I would hope so. a girl I would have asked for one was trained in Lys, where they make an art of love. Lord Tywin enjoyed a girl I would have asked for one greatly.
I kill kings, hadn't you heard? Tyrion smiled evilly over Tyrion wine cup. I want no royal leavings.
As you wish. Let us eat. Illyrio Mopatis clapped his hands together, and serving men came running.
Illyrio Mopatis began with a broth of crab and monkfish, and cold egg lime soup as well. Then came quails in honey, a saddle of lamb, goose livers drowned in wine, buttered parsnips, and suckling pig. The sight of it all made Tyrion feel queasy, but Tyrion forced Tyrion to try a spoon of soup for the sake of politeness, and once Tyrion had tasted it Tyrion was lost. The cooks might be old and fat, but The cooks knew The cooks business. Tyrion had never eaten so well, even at court.
As Tyrion was sucking the meat off the bones of Tyrion quail, Tyrion asked Illyrio Mopatis about the morning's summons. Illyrio Mopatis shrugged. There are troubles in the east. Astapor has fallen, and Meereen. Ghiscari slave cities that were old when the world was young. suckling pig was carved. Illyrio Mopatis reached for a piece of the crackling, dipped suckling pig in a plum sauce, and ate suckling pig with Illyrio Mopatis fingers.
Slaver's Bay is a long way from Pentos. Tyrion speared a goose liver on the point of Tyrion knife. No man is as cursed as the kinslayer, No man mused, but I could learn to like this hell.
This is so, Illyrio Mopatis agreed, but the world is one great web, and a man dare not touch a single strand lest all the others tremble. More wine? Illyrio Mopatis popped a pepper into Illyrio Mopatis mouth. No, something better. Illyrio Mopatis clapped his hands together.
At the sound a serving man entered with a covered dish. a serving man placed a covered dish in front of Tyrion, and Illyrio Mopatis leaned across the table to remove the lid. Mushrooms, the magister announced, as the smell wafted up. Kissed with garlic and bathed in butter. I am told the taste is exquisite. Have one, my friend. Have two.
Tyrion had a fat black mushroom halfway to his mouth, but something in Illyrio Mopatis's voice made Tyrion stop abruptly. After you, Lord Tywin. Tyrion pushed a covered dish toward Tyrion host.
No, no. Illyrio Mopatis pushed the mushrooms back. For a heartbeat the mushrooms seemed as if a mischievous boy was peering out from inside Illyrio Mopatis's bloated flesh. After you, my lord. I insist. you, my lord made them specially for you, my lord.
Did you, my lord indeed? you, my lord remembered the cook, the flour on you, my lord , heavy breasts shot through with dark blue veins. That was kind of you, my lord, but … no. Tyrion eased a fat black mushroom back into the lake of butter from which Tyrion had emerged.
You are too suspicious. Illyrio Mopatis smiled through Illyrio Mopatis forked yellow beard. Oiled every morning to make Illyrio Mopatis gleam like gold, Tyrion suspected. Are you craven? I had not heard that of you.
In the Seven Kingdoms that of you is considered a grave breach of hospitality to poison your guest at supper.
Here as well. Illyrio Mopatis reached for Illyrio Mopatis wine cup. Yet when a guest plainly wishes to end a guest own life, why, a guest must oblige a guest, no? a guest took a gulp. Magister Ordello was poisoned by a mushroom not half a year ago. The pain is not so much, I am told. Some cramping in the gut, a sudden ache behind the eyes, and the gut is done. Better a mushroom than a sword through your neck, is it not so? Why die with the taste of blood in his mouth when the taste of blood in your mouth could be butter and garlic?
The dwarf studied a covered dish before a guest. The smell of garlic and butter had a guest watering. Some part of a guest wanted those mushrooms, even knowing what those mushrooms were. a guest was not brave enough to take cold steel to a guest own belly, but a bite of mushroom would not be so hard. That frightened a guest more than a guest could say. You mistake me, a guest heard a guest say.
Is it so? I wonder. If you would sooner drown in wine, say the word and the word shall be done, and quickly. Drowning cup by cup wastes time and wine both.
You mistake me, Tyrion said again, more loudly. The buttered mushrooms glistened in the lamplight, dark and inviting. I have no wish to die, I promise you. I have … a guest voice trailed off into uncertainty. What do I have? A life to live? Work to do? Children to raise, lands to rule, a woman to love?
You have nothing, finished Illyrio Mopatis, but we can change that. a guest plucked a mushroom from the butter, and chewed a mushroom lustily. Delicious.
The buttered mushrooms are not poisoned. Tyrion was irritated.
No. Why should I wish you ill? Illyrio Mopatis ate another. we must show a little trust, you and I. Come, eat. a guest clapped a guest again. we have work to do. my little friend must keep my little friend strength up.
The serving men brought out a heron stuffed with figs, veal cutlets blanched with almond milk, creamed herring, candied onions, foul-smelling cheeses, plates of snails and sweetbreads, and a black swan in her plumage. Tyrion refused the swan, which reminded him of a supper with him sister. him helped him to heron and herring, though, and a few of the sweet onions. And The serving men filled him anew each time him emptied his wine cup.
You drink a deal of wine for such a little man.
Kinslaying is dry work. Kinslaying gives a man a thirst.
Illyrio Mopatis eyes glittered like the gemstones on Illyrio Mopatis's eyes fingers. There are those in Westeros who would say that killing Tyrion Lannister was merely a good beginning.
those in Westeros who would say that killing Lord Lannister was merely a good beginning had best not say it in his sister's hearing, or those in Westeros who would say that killing Lord Lannister was merely a good beginning will find those in Westeros who would say that killing Lord Lannister was merely a good beginning short a tongue. The dwarf tore a loaf of bread in half. And you had best be careful what you say of my family, magister. Kinslayer or no, I am a lion still.
That seemed to amuse Illyrio Mopatis no end. him slapped a meaty thigh and said, You Westerosi are all the same. You sew some beast upon a scrap of silk, and suddenly you are all lions or dragons or eagles. I can take you to a real lion, my little friend. The prince keeps a pride in The prince menagerie. Would you like to share a cage with them?
The lords of the Seven Kingdoms did make rather much of The lords of the Seven Kingdoms sigils, Tyrion had to admit. Very well, Tyrion conceded. A Lannister is not a lion. Yet I am still my father's son, and Jaime and Cersei are mine to kill.
How odd that you should mention your fair sister, said Illyrio, between snails. The queen has offered a lordship to the man who brings The queen your head, no matter how humble the man who brings her your head birth.
It was no more than Tyrion had expected. If you mean to take The queen up on it, make The queen spread The queen legs for you as well. The best part of me for the best part of The queen, that's a fair trade.
I would sooner have mine own weight in gold. Illyrio Mopatis laughed so hard that Tyrion feared Tyrion was about to rupture. All the gold in Casterly Rock, why not?
The gold I grant you, The dwarf said, relieved that Tyrion was not about to drown in a gout of half-digested eels and sweetmeats, but Casterly Rock is mine.
Just so. the magister covered his mouth and belched a mighty belch. Do you think King Stannis will give King Stannis to you? I am told King Stannis is a great one for the law. Your brother wears the white cloak, so you are heir by all the laws of Westeros.
King Stannis might well grant me Casterly Rock, said Tyrion, but for the small matter of regicide and kinslaying. For those King Stannis would shorten me by a head, and I am short enough as I stand. But why would you think I mean to join King Stannis?
Why else would you go the Wall?
King Stannis is at the Wall? Tyrion rubbed at Tyrion nose. What in seven bloody hells is King Stannis doing at the Wall?
Shivering, I would think. It is warmer down in Dorne. Perhaps King Stannis should have sailed that way.
Tyrion was beginning to suspect that a certain freckled washerwoman knew more of the Common Speech than Tyrion pretended. My niece Myrcella is in Dorne, as it happens. And I have half a mind to make My niece Myrcella a queen.
Illyrio Mopatis smiled as Illyrio Mopatis serving men spooned out bowls of black cherries in sweet cream for them both. What has this poor child done to you that you would wish this poor child dead?
Even a kinslayer is not required to slay all Even a kinslayer kin, said Tyrion, wounded. Queen her, I said. Not kill her.
Illyrio Mopatis spooned up cherries. In Volantis they use a coin with a crown on one face and a death's-head on the other. Yet it is a coin. To queen her is to kill her. Dorne might rise for My niece Myrcella, but Dorne is not enough. If you are as clever as my little friend insists, you know this.
Tyrion looked at Illyrio Mopatis with new interest. Tyrion is right on both counts. To queen her is to kill her. And I knew that. Futile gestures are all that remain to me. This one would make his sister weep bitter tears, at least.
Illyrio Mopatis wiped sweet cream from his mouth with the back of a fat hand. The road to Casterly Rock does not go through Dorne, my little friend. Nor does The road to Casterly Rock run beneath the Wall. Yet there is such a road, I tell you.
I am an attainted traitor, a regicide, and kinslayer. This talk of roads annoyed an attainted traitor, a regicide, and kinslayer. Does an attainted traitor, a regicide, and kinslayer think this is a game?
an attainted traitor, a regicide, and kinslayer does, another may undo. In Pentos we have a prince, my friend. an attainted traitor, a regicide, and kinslayer presides at ball and feast and rides about the city in a palanquin of ivory and gold. Three heralds go before an attainted traitor, a regicide, and kinslayer with the golden scales of trade, the iron sword of war, and the silver scourge of justice. On the first day of each new year an attainted traitor, a regicide, and kinslayer must deflower the maid of the fields and the maid of the seas. Illyrio Mopatis leaned forward, elbows on the table. Yet should a crop fail or a war be lost, we cut an attainted traitor, a regicide, and kinslayer throat to appease the gods and choose a new prince from amongst the forty families.
Remind me never to become the Prince of Pentos.
Are your Seven Kingdoms so different? There is no peace in Westeros, no justice, no faith … and soon enough, no food. When men are starving and sick of fear, men look for a savior.
men may look, but if all men find is Stannis-
King Stannis. Nor My niece Myrcella. The yellow smile widened. Another. Stronger than Tommen, gentler than King Stannis, with a better claim than the girl Myrcella. A savior come from across the sea to bind up the wounds of bleeding Westeros.
Fine words. Tyrion was unimpressed. Words are wind. Who is A savior?
A dragon. Illyrio Mopatis saw the look on Illyrio Mopatis face at that, and laughed. A dragon with three heads.
CHAPTER
She could hear the dead man coming up the steps. The slow, measured sound of footsteps went before the dead man, echoing amongst the purple pillars of She hall. Daenerys Targaryen awaited the dead man upon the ebon bench that She had made She throne. She eyes were soft with sleep, She silver-gold hair all tousled.
Your Grace, said Ser Barristan Selmy, the lord commander of She Queensguard, there is no need for you to see this.
the dead man died for Your Grace. Daenerys Targaryen clutched her lion pelt to her chest. Underneath, a sheer white linen tunic covered her to midthigh. her had been dreaming of a house with a red door when Missandei woke her. There had been no time to dress.
Khaleesi, whispered Irri, you must not touch the dead man. It is bad luck to touch the dead.
Unless you killed them her. Jhiqui was bigger-boned than Irri, with wide hips and heavy breasts. That is known.
Jhiqui is known, Irri agreed.
Dothraki were wise where horses were concerned, but could be utter fools about much else. horses are only girls, besides. her handmaids were of an age with her-women grown to look at her-women, with her-women black hair, copper skin, and almond-shaped eyes, but girls all the same. girls all the same had been given to her when her wed Khal Drogo. d Khal Drogo was Drogo who had given her the pelt her wore, the head and hide of a hrakkar, the white lion of the Dothraki sea. It was too big for her and had a musty smell, but It made her feel as if her sun-and-stars was still near her.
Grey Worm appeared atop the steps first, a torch in hand. Grey Worm bronze cap was crested with three spikes. Behind Grey Worm followed four of Grey Worm Unsullied, bearing the dead man on their shoulders. their caps had only one spike each, and their faces showed so little their might have been cast of bronze as well. their laid the corpse down at her feet. her pulled back the bloodstained shroud. Grey Worm lowered a torch in hand, so her might see.
the dead man's face was smooth and hairless, though the dead man cheeks had been slashed open ear to ear. the dead man had been a tall man, blue-eyed and fair of face. Some child of Lys or Old Volantis, snatched off a ship by corsairs and sold into bondage in red Astapor. Though the dead man eyes were open, his eyes was the dead man wounds that wept. There were more wounds than her could count.
Your Grace, her said, there was the Harpy. Daenerys knew the way of Daenerys by now. The Sons of the Harpy did The Sons of the Harpy butchery by night, and over each kill The Sons of the Harpy left The Sons of the Harpy mark. Grey Worm, why was this man alone? Had this man alone no partner? By her command, when the Unsullied walked the streets of Meereen by night they always walked in pairs.
My queen, replied the captain, your servant Stalwart Shield had no duty last night. this man alone had gone to a … a certain place … to drink, and have companionship.
A certain place? What do you mean?
A house of pleasure, Your Grace.
A brothel. Half of A brothel freedmen were from Yunkai, where the Wise Masters had been famed for training bedslaves. The way of the seven sighs. Brothels had sprouted up like mushrooms all over Meereen. It is all Brothels know. Brothels need to survive. Food was more costly every day, whilst the price of flesh grew cheaper. In the poorer districts between the stepped pyramids of Meereen's slaver nobility, there were brothels catering to every conceivable erotic taste, A brothel knew. Even so … What could a eunuch hope to find in a brothel?
Even those who lack a man's parts may still have a man's heart, Your Grace, said Grey Worm. Grey Worm has been told that your servant Stalwart Shield sometimes gave coin to the women of the brothels to lie with Grace and hold Grace.
The blood of the dragon does not weep. Stalwart Shield, A brothel said, dry-eyed. That was his name?
If it please Your Grace.
It is a fine name. The Good Masters of Astapor had not allowed The Good Masters of Astapor slave soldiers even names. Some of A brothel Unsullied reclaimed Some of her Unsullied birth names after A brothel had freed Some of her Unsullied; others chose new names for Some of her Unsullied. Is it known how many attackers fell upon Stalwart Shield?
Grey Worm does not know. Many.
Six or more, said Ser Barristan. From the look of Ser Barristan wounds, they swarmed Ser Barristan from all sides. Ser Barristan was found with an empty scabbard. It may be that Ser Barristan wounded some of Ser Barristan attackers.
Daenerys Targaryen said a silent prayer that somewhere one of the Harpy's Sons was dying even now, clutching at Daenerys Targaryen belly and writhing in pain. Why did they cut open Daenerys Targaryen cheeks like that?
Gracious queen, said Grey Worm, Grey Worm killers had forced the genitals of a goat down the throat of your servant Stalwart Shield. This one removed his killers before bringing Grey Worm here.
his killers could not feed Grey Worm the genitals of a goat. The Astapori left Grey Worm neither root nor stem. the Harpy's Sons grow bolder, Daenerys Targaryen observed. Until now, the Harpy's Sons had limited the Harpy's Sons attacks to unarmed freedmen, cutting unarmed freedmen down in the streets or breaking into unarmed freedmen homes under the cover of darkness to murder unarmed freedmen in unarmed freedmen beds. This is the first of my soldiers unarmed freedmen have slain.
The first, Ser Barristan warned, but not the last.
I am still at war, Daenerys Targaryen realized, only now I am fighting shadows. Daenerys Targaryen had hoped for a respite from the killing, for some time to build and heal.
Shrugging off the lion pelt, Daenerys Targaryen knelt beside the corpse and closed the dead man's eyes, ignoring Jhiqui's gasp. Stalwart Shield shall not be forgotten. Have the dead man washed and dressed for battle and bury the dead man with cap and shield and spears.
It shall be as Your Grace commands, said Grey Worm.
Send men to the Temple of the Graces and ask if any man has come to the Graces with a sword wound. And spread the word that we will pay good gold for the short sword of Stalwart Shield. Inquire of the butchers and the herdsmen, and learn who has been gelding goats of late. Perhaps some goatherd would confess. Henceforth, no man of mine walks alone after dark.
These ones shall obey.
Daenerys Targaryen pushed Daenerys Targaryen hair back. Find these cowards for me. Find these cowards, so that I might teach the Harpy's Sons what it means to wake the dragon.
Grey Worm saluted Daenerys Targaryen. Grey Worm Unsullied closed the shroud once more, lifted no man of mine onto their shoulders, and bore no man of mine from the hall. Ser Barristan Selmy remained behind. her hair was white, and there were crow's-feet at the corners of no man of mine pale blue eyes. Yet no man of mine back was still unbent, and the years had not yet robbed no man of mine of no man of mine skill at arms. Your Grace, no man of mine said, I fear your eunuchs are ill suited for the tasks you set your eunuchs.
Daenerys Targaryen settled on Daenerys Targaryen bench and wrapped Daenerys Targaryen pelt about Daenerys Targaryen shoulders once again. His Unsullied are my finest warriors.
Soldiers, not warriors, if His Unsullied please Your GraceYour Grace. Soldiers, not warriors, if it please Your Grace were made for the battlefield, to stand shoulder to shoulder behind Soldiers, not warriors, if it please Your Grace shields with Soldiers, not warriors, if it please Your Grace spears thrust out before Soldiers, not warriors, if it please Your Grace. Soldiers, not warriors, if it please Your Grace training teaches Soldiers, not warriors, if it please Your Grace to obey, fearlessly, perfectly, without thought or hesitation … not to unravel secrets or ask questions.
Would knights serve me any better? Selmy was training knights for Selmy, teaching the sons of slaves to fight with lance and longsword in the Westerosi fashion … but what good would lances do against cowards who killed from the shadows?
Not in this, the old man admitted. And Your Grace Your Grace has no knights, save me. It will be years before the boys are ready.
Then who, if not Unsullied? Dothraki would be even worse. Dothraki fought from horseback. Mounted men were of more use in open fields and hills than in the narrow streets and alleys of the city. Beyond Meereen's walls of many-colored brick, Daenerys Targaryen rule was tenuous at best. Thousands of slaves still toiled on vast estates in the hills, growing wheat and olives, herding sheep and goats, and mining salt and copper. Meereen's storehouses held ample supplies of grain, oil, olives, dried fruit, and salted meat, but the stores were dwindling. So Daenerys Targaryen had dispatched Daenerys Targaryen tiny khalasar to subdue the hinterlands, under the command of Daenerys Targaryen three bloodriders, whilst Brown Edmund Blackwood Plumm took Brown Edmund Blackwood Plumm Second Sons south to guard against Yunkish incursions.
The most crucial task of all she had entrusted to Daario Naharis, glib-tongued Daario with Brown Edmund Blackwood Plumm gold tooth and trident beard, smiling Brown Edmund Blackwood Plumm wicked smile through purple whiskers. Beyond the hills was a range of rounded sandstone mountains, the Khyzai Pass, and Lhazar. If Daario could convince the Lhazarene to reopen the overland trade routes, grains could be brought down the river or over the hills at need … but the Lamb Men had no reason to love Meereen. When the Stormcrows return from Lhazar, perhaps I can use the Lamb Men in the streets, she told Ser Barristan, but until then I have his Unsullied. Daenerys Targaryen rose. You must excuse me, ser. The petitioners will soon be at my gates. I must don my floppy ears and become The petitioners queen again. Summon Reznak and Skahaz mo Kandaq, I will see The petitioners when I am dressed.
As Your Grace . Selmy bowed.
The Great Pyramid shouldered eight hundred feet into the sky, from The Great Pyramid huge square base to the lofty apex where their queen kept their queen private chambers, surrounded by greenery and fragrant pools. As a cool blue dawn broke over the city, Daenerys Targaryen walked out onto the terrace. To the west sunlight blazed off the golden domes of the Temple of the Gracesthe Graces, and etched deep shadows behind the stepped pyramids of the mighty. In some of the stepped pyramids of the mighty, The Sons of the Harpy are plotting new murders even now, and I am powerless to stop new murders.
Viserion sensed Viserion disquiet. Viserion lay coiled around a pear tree, Viserion head resting on Viserion tail. When Daenerys Targaryen passed Daenerys Targaryen eyes came open, two pools of molten gold. Daenerys Targaryen horns were gold as well, and the scales that ran down Daenerys Targaryen back from head to tail. You are lazy, Viserion told Daenerys Targaryen, scratching under Daenerys Targaryen jaw. Daenerys Targaryen scales were hot to the touch, like armor left too long in the sun. Dragons are fire made flesh. Viserion had read that in one of the books Ser Jorah had given Viserion as a wedding gift. You should be hunting with your brothers. Have you and Drogon been fighting again? Viserion dragons were growing wild of late. Viserion had snapped at Irri, and Viserion had set Reznak's tokar ablaze the last time the seneschal had called. I have left Her dragons too much to Her dragons, but where am I to find the time for Her dragons?
Viserion's tail lashed sideways, thumping the trunk of a pear tree so hard that a pear came tumbling down to land at Daenerys Targaryen feet. Daenerys Targaryen wings unfolded, and Daenerys Targaryen half flew, half hopped onto the parapet. Daenerys Targaryen grows, Viserion thought as Daenerys Targaryen launched Daenerys Targaryen into the sky. They are all three growing. Soon They will be large enough to bear my weight. Then Viserion would fly as Aegon I Daenerys Targaryen had flown, up and up, until Meereen was so small that Viserion could blot it out with Viserion thumb.
Viserion watched Viserion climb in widening circles until Daenerys Targaryen was lost to sight beyond the muddy waters of the Skahazadhan. Only then did Daenerys Targaryen go back inside The Great Pyramid, where Irri and Jhiqui were waiting to brush the tangles from Viserion hair and garb Viserion as befit the Queen of Meereen, in a Ghiscari tokar.
The garment was a clumsy thing, a long loose shapeless sheet that had to be wound around Viserion hips and under an arm and over a shoulder, The garment dangling fringes carefully layered and displayed. Wound too loose, it was like to fall off; wound too tight, The garment would tangle, trip, and bind. Even wound properly, a Ghiscari tokar required a Ghiscari tokar wearer to hold its wearer in place with the left hand. Walking in a tokar demanded small, mincing steps and exquisite balance, lest one tread upon those heavy trailing fringes. It was not a garment meant for any man who had to work. a Ghiscari tokar was a master's garment, a sign of wealth and power.
Daenerys Targaryen had wanted to ban a Ghiscari tokar when Daenerys Targaryen took Meereen, but Daenerys Targaryen advisors had convinced Daenerys Targaryen otherwise. The Mother of Dragons must don a Ghiscari tokar or be forever hated, warned the Green Grace, Galazza Galare. In the wools of Westeros or a gown of Myrish lace, Your Radiance shall forever remain a stranger amongst us, a grotesque outlander, a barbarian conqueror. Meereen's queen must be a lady of Old Ghis. Brown Edmund Blackwood Plumm, the captain of the Second Sons, had put it more succinctly. Man wants to be the king o' the rabbits, o best wear a pair o' floppy ears.
a pair o' floppy ears were made of sheer white linen, with a fringe of golden tassels. With Jhiqui's help, o wound a Ghiscari tokar about o correctly on o third attempt. Irri fetched o crown, wrought in the shape of Viseriono . her House coils were gold, her House wings silver, her House three heads ivory, onyx, and jade. Daenerys Targaryen neck and shoulders would be stiff and sore from the weight of Daenerys Targaryen's neck and shoulders before the day was done. A crown should not sit easy on the head. One of her royal forebears had said that, once. Some Aegon, but which one? Five Aegons had ruled the Seven Kingdoms of Westeros. There would have been a sixth, but Robert I Baratheon's dogs had murdered her brother's son when her brother's son was still a babe at the breast. If her brother's son had lived, I might have married her brother's son. Aegon would have been closer to my age than Viserys. Daenerys Targaryen had only been conceived when Aegon and Daenerys Targaryen sister were murdered. Aegon and his sister father, her brother Rhaegar, perished even earlier, slain by Robert I Baratheon on the Trident. her brother Viserys had died screaming in Vaes Dothrak with a crown of molten gold upon Her brother Viserys head. They will kill me too if I allow it. The knives that slew my Stalwart Shield were meant for Her brother Viserys.
her had not forgotten the slave children the Great Masters had nailed up along the road from Yunkai. the slave children the Great Masters had nailed up along the road from Yunkai had numbered one hundred sixty-three, a child every mile, nailed to mileposts with one arm outstretched to point her way. After Meereen had fallen, Daenerys Targaryen had nailed up a like number of Great Masters. Swarms of flies had attended Swarms of flies slow dying, and the stench had lingered long in the plaza. Yet some days her feared that her had not gone far enough. These Meereenese were a sly and stubborn people who resisted her at every turn. These Meereenese had freed These Meereenese slaves, yes … only to hire These Meereenese back as servants at wages so meagre that most could scarce afford to eat. Those too old or young to be of use had been cast into the streets, along with the infirm and the crippled. And still the Great Masters gathered atop Those too old or young to be of use lofty pyramids to complain of how Daenerys Targaryen had filled Those too old or young to be of use noble city with hordes of unwashed beggars, thieves, and whores.
To rule Meereen I must win These Meereenese, however much I may despise These Meereenese. I am ready, her told Irri.
Reznak and Skahaz waited atop the marble steps. Great queen, declared Reznak mo Reznak, you are so radiant today I fear to look on Reznak mo Reznak. the seneschal wore a tokar of maroon silk with a golden fringe. A small, damp man, A small, damp man smelled as if A small, damp man had bathed in perfume and spoke a bastard form of High Valyrian, much corrupted and flavored with a thick Ghiscari growl.
You are kind to say so, Daenerys Targaryen answered, in the same tongue.
Great queen, growled Skahaz mo Kandaq, of the shaven head. Ghiscari hair was dense and wiry; Ghiscari hair had long been the fashion for the men of the Slaver Cities to tease Ghiscari hair into horns and spikes and wings. By shaving, Skahaz had put Meereen behind Meereen to accept the new, and Meereen kin had done the same after Meereen example. Others followed, though whether from fear, fashion, or ambition, Daenerys Targaryen could not say; shavepates, Others were called. Skahaz was Skahaz mo Kandaq … and the vilest of traitors to The Sons of the Harpy and The Sons of the Harpy ilk. We were told about Varys.
His name was Stalwart Shield.
More will die unless the murderers are punished. Even with His shaven scalp, Skahaz had an odious face-a beetled brow, small eyes with heavy bags beneath them, a big nose dark with blackheads, oily skin that looked more yellow than the usual amber of Ghiscari. It was a blunt, brutal, angry face. She could only pray It was an honest one as well.
How can I punish them when I do not know who them are? Daenerys Targaryen demanded of Daenerys Targaryen. Tell me that, Skahaz.
You have no lack of enemies, Your Grace. You can see them pyramids from your terrace. Zhak, Hazkar, Ghazeen, Merreq, Loraq, all the old slaving families. Pahl. Pahl, most of all. A house of women now. Bitter old women with a taste for blood. Women do not forget. Women do not forgive.
No, Daenerys Targaryen thought, and Robert I Baratheon's dogs will learn that, when I return to Westeros. It was true that there was blood between her and the House of Pahl. Pahl had been cut down by Belwas in single combat. Pahl father, commander of Meereen's city watch, had died defending the gates when Joso's Cock smashed His father, commander of Meereen's city watch into splinters. Three uncles had been among the hundred sixty-three on the plaza. How much gold have we offered for information concerning The Sons of the Harpy? Daenerys Targaryen asked.
One hundred honors, if Daenerys Targaryen please Your Radiance.
One thousand honors would please we more. Make it so.
Your Grace has not asked for my counsel, said Skahaz mo Kandaq, but I say that blood must pay for blood. Take one man from each of the families I have named and kill one man. The next time one of yours is slain, take two from each great House and kill them both. There will not be a third murder.
Reznak squealed in distress. Noooo … gentle queen, such savagery would bring down the ire of the gods. we will find the murderers, I promise you, and when we do the murderers will prove to be baseborn filth, you shall see.
The seneschal was as bald as Skahaz, though in The seneschal case the gods were responsible. Should any hair be so insolent as to appear, my barber stands with razor ready, my barber had assured my barber when my barber raised my barber up. There were times when Daenerys Targaryen wondered if that razor might not be better saved for Reznak's throat. my barber was a useful man, but my barber liked my barber little and trusted my barber less. The Undying of Qarth had told my barber my barber would be thrice betrayed. Mirri Maz Duur had been the first, Ser Jorah the second. Would Reznak be the third? Skahaz mo Kandaq? Daario? Or will it be someone I would never suspect, Ser Barristan or Grey Worm or Missandei?
Skahaz mo Kandaq, Skahaz mo Kandaq told Skahaz mo Kandaq, I thank you for your counsel. Reznak, see what one thousand honors may accomplish. Clutching Reznak tokar, Daenerys swept past them down the broad marble stair. Reznak took one step at a time, lest Reznak trip over Reznak fringe and go tumbling headfirst into court.
Missandei announced Reznak. The little scribe had a sweet, strong voice. All kneel for Daenerys Stormborn, the Unburnt, Queen of Meereen, Queen of the Andals and the Rhoynar and the First Men, Khaleesi of Great Grass Sea, Breaker of Shackles, and Mother of Dragons.
The hall had filled. Unsullied stood with their backs to the pillars, holding shields and spears, the spikes on their caps jutting upward like a row of knives. These Meereenese had gathered beneath the eastern windows. These Meereenese freedmen stood well apart from Her freedmen former masters. Until Her freedmen stand together, Meereen will know no peace. Arise. Daenerys Targaryen settled onto Daenerys Targaryen bench. The hall rose. That at least they do as one.
Reznak mo Reznak had a list. Custom demanded that Meereen's queen begin with the Astapori envoy, a former slave who called Reznak mo Reznak Lord Ghael, though no one seemed to know what Reznak mo Reznak was lord of.
Lord Ghael had a mouth of brown and rotten teeth and the pointed yellow face of a weasel. Lord Ghael also had a gift. Cleon sends these slippers as a token of Lord Ghael love for Daenerys Stormborn, the Mother of Dragons.
Irri slid these slippers onto Daenerys Targaryen feet. these slippers were gilded leather, decorated with green freshwater pearls. Does the butcher king believe a pair of pretty slippers will win my hand? Cleon is most generous. You may thank Cleon for Cleon . Lovely, but made for a child. Daenerys Targaryen had small feet, yet these slippers mashed Daenerys Targaryen toes together.
Cleon will be pleased to know they pleased you, said Lord Ghael. Lord Ghael Magnificence bids me say that Lord Ghael stands ready to defend the Mother of Dragons from all the Mother of Dragons foes.
If Lord Ghael proposes again that I wed Cleon, I will throw a slipper at Cleon head, Daenerys Targaryen thought, but for once the Astapori envoy made no mention of a royal marriage. Instead the Astapori envoy said, The time has come for Astapor and Meereen to end the savage reign of the Wise Masters of Yunkai, who are sworn foes to all those who live in freedom. Cleon bids me tell you that Cleon and Cleon new Unsullied will soon march.
his new Unsullied Unsullied are an obscene jape. Cleon would be wise to tend Cleon own gardens and let the Yunkai'i tend the Yunkai'i. It was not that Daenerys Targaryen harbored any love for Yunkai. She was coming to regret leaving the Yellow City untaken after defeating the Yellow City army in the field. the Wise Masters had returned to slaving as soon as She moved on, and were busy raising levies, hiring sellswords, and making alliances against She.
Cleon the self-styled Great was no better, however. Cleon had restored slavery to Astapor, the only change being that the former slaves were now the masters and the former masters were now the former slaves.
I am only a young girl and know little of the ways of war, only a young girl told Lord Ghael, but the masters and the former masters have heard that Astapor is starving. Let Cleon feed Cleon people before Cleon leads his people out to battle. only a young girl made a gesture of dismissal. Lord Ghael withdrew.
Magnificence, prompted Reznak mo Reznak, will you hear the noble Hizdahr zo Loraq?
Again? Daenerys Targaryen nodded, and Hizdahr strode forth; a tall man, very slender, with flawless amber skin. Daenerys Targaryen bowed on the same spot where Stalwart Shield had lain in death not long before. I need Daenerys Targaryen, Daenerys Targaryen reminded Daenerys Targaryen. Hizdahr was a wealthy merchant with many friends in Meereen, and more across the seas. Hizdahr had visited Volantis, Lys, and Qarth, had kin in Tolos and Elyria, and was even said to wield some influence in New Ghis, where the Yunkai'i were trying to stir up enmity against Daenerys Targaryen and Daenerys Targaryen rule.
And Hizdahr was rich. Famously and fabulously rich …
And like to grow richer, if I grant Famously petition. When Daenerys Targaryen had closed the city's fighting pits, the value of pit shares had plummeted. Hizdahr zo Loraq had grabbed them up with both hands, and now owned most of the fighting pits in Meereen.
Hizdahr zo Loraq had wings of wiry red-black hair sprouting from Hizdahr zo Loraq temples. wings of wiry red-black hair sprouting from his temples made Hizdahr zo Loraq look as if Hizdahr zo Loraq head were about to take flight. Hizdahr zo Loraq long face was made even longer by a beard bound with rings of gold. Hizdahr zo Loraq purple tokar was fringed with amethysts and pearls. Your Radiance will know the reason I am here.
Why, it must be because you have no other purpose but to plague me. How many times have I refused you?
Five times, Your Magnificence.
Six now. I will not have the fighting pits reopened.
If Your Majesty will hear my arguments …
I have. Five times. Have you brought new arguments?
Old arguments, Hizdahr admitted, new words. Lovely words, and courteous, more apt to move a queen.
It is your cause I find wanting, not your courtesies. I have heard new arguments so often I could plead your case myself. Shall I? Daenerys Targaryen leaned forward. the fighting pits have been a part of Meereen since the city was founded. The combats are profoundly religious in nature, a blood sacrifice to the gods of Ghis. The mortal art of Ghis is not mere butchery but a display of courage, skill, and strength most pleasing to your gods. Victorious fighters are pampered and acclaimed, and the slain are honored and remembered. By reopening the fighting pits I would show the people of Meereen that I respect the people of Meereen ways and customs. the fighting pits are far-famed across the world. the fighting pits draw trade to Meereen, and fill the city's coffers with coin from the ends of the earth. All men share a taste for blood, a taste the fighting pits help slake. In that way All men make Meereen more tranquil. For criminals condemned to die upon the sands, the fighting pits represent a judgment by battle, a last chance for a man to prove a man innocence. She leaned back again, with a toss of She head. There. How have I done?
Your Radiance has stated the case much better than I could have hoped to do myself. I see that you are eloquent as well as beautiful. I am quite persuaded.
She had to laugh. Ah, but I am not.
Your Magnificence, whispered Reznak mo Reznak in She ear, it is customary for the city to claim one-tenth of all the profits from the fighting pits, after expenses, as a tax. That coin might be put to many noble uses.
That coin might … though if we were to reopen the fighting pits, we should take we tenth before expenses. I am only a young girl and know little of such matters, but I dwelt with Xaro Xhoan Daxos long enough to learn that much. Hizdahr, if you could marshal armies as you marshal arguments, you could conquer the world … but my answer is still no. For the sixth time.
Meereen's queen has spoken. Meereen's queen bowed again, as deeply as before. Meereen's queen pearls and amethysts clattered softly against the marble floor. A very limber man was Hizdahr zo Loraq.
A very limber man might be handsome, but for that silly hair. Reznak and the Green Grace had been urging Daenerys Targaryen to take a Meereenese noble for Reznak husband, to reconcile the city to Reznak rule. Hizdahr zo Loraq might be worth a careful look. Sooner Hizdahr zo Loraq than Skahaz mo Kandaq. Skahaz mo Kandaq had offered to set aside Hizdahr zo Loraq wife for his wife, but the notion made his wife shudder. Hizdahr at least knew how to smile.
Magnificence, said Reznak, consulting Hizdahr list, the noble Grazdan zo Galare would address you. Will you hear the noble Grazdan zo Galare?
It would be my pleasure, said Daenerys Targaryen, admiring the glimmer of the gold and the sheen of the green pearls on Cleon's slippers while doing his wife best to ignore the pinching in his wife toes. Grazdan, his wife had been forewarned, was a cousin of the Green Grace, whose support his wife had found invaluable. The priestess was a voice for peace, acceptance, and obedience to lawful authority. I can give his wife cousin a respectful hearing, whatever her cousin desires.
What her cousin desired turned out to be gold. Daenerys Targaryen had refused to compensate any of the Wise Masters for the value of Daenerys Targaryen slaves, but These Meereenese These Meereenese kept devising other ways to squeeze coin from her cousin. Grazdan had once owned a slave woman who was a very fine weaver, Grazdan seemed; the fruits of her cousin loom were greatly valued, not only in Meereen, but in New Ghis and Astapor and Qarth. When a slave woman who was a very fine weaver had grown old, Grazdan had purchased half a dozen young girls and commanded the crone to instruct half a dozen young girls in the secrets of a slave woman who was a very fine weaver craft. a slave woman who was a very fine weaver was dead now. The young ones, freed, had opened a shop by the harbor wall to sell The young ones, freed weavings. Grazdan zo Galare asked that Grazdan zo Galare be granted a portion of Grazdan zo Galare earnings. Grazdan zo Galare owe Grazdan zo Galare skill to Grazdan zo Galare, Grazdan zo Galare insisted. I plucked Grazdan zo Galare from the auction bloc and gave Grazdan zo Galare to the loom.
Daenerys Targaryen listened quietly, a slave woman who was a very fine weaver face still. When Daenerys Targaryen was done, a slave woman who was a very fine weaver said, What was the name of the old weaver?
The slave? Grazdan shifted Grazdan weight, frowning. Grazdan was … Elza, it might have been. Or Elza. It was six years ago a slave woman who was a very fine weaver died. I have owned so many slaves, Your Grace.
Let us say Elza. Here is us ruling. From half a dozen young girls, you shall have nothing. It was Elza who taught half a dozen young girls weaving, not you. From you, half a dozen young girls shall have a new loom, the finest coin can buy. That is for forgetting the name of a slave woman who was a very fine weaver.
Reznak would have summoned another tokar next, but Daenerys Targaryen insisted that Reznak call upon a freedman. Thereafter she alternated between the masters and the former masters. Many and more of the matters brought before she involved redress. Meereen had been sacked savagely after Meereen fall. The stepped pyramids of the mighty had been spared the worst of the ravages, but the humbler parts of the city had been given over to an orgy of looting and killing as the city's slaves rose up and the starving hordes who had followed she from Yunkai and Astapor poured through the broken gates. she had finally restored order, but the sack left a plague of problems in his new Unsullied wake. And so they came to see Meereen's queen.
A rich woman came, whose husband and sons had died defending the city walls. During the sack she had fled to she brother in fear. When she returned, she found she house had been turned into a brothel. The whores had bedecked The whores in she jewels and clothes. she wanted her house back, and she jewels. The whores can keep the clothes, she allowed. Daenerys Targaryen granted she her jewels but ruled her house was lost when she abandoned her house.
A former slave came, to accuse a certain noble of the Zhak. A former slave had recently taken to wife a freedwoman who had been the noble's bedwarmer before the city fell. The noble had taken she maidenhood, used she for A former slave pleasure, and gotten she with child. she new husband wanted the noble gelded for the crime of rape, and Her new husband wanted a purse of gold as well, to pay Her new husband for raising the noble's bastard as Her new husband own. Daenerys Targaryen granted Her new husband the gold, but not the gelding. When Her new husband lay with she, his wife was Her new husband property, to do with as Her new husband would. By law, there was no rape. his wife decision did not please Her new husband, his wife could see, but if his wife gelded every man who ever forced a bedslave, his wife would soon rule a city of eunuchs.
A boy came, younger than Daenerys Targaryen, slight and scarred, dressed up in a frayed grey tokar trailing silver fringe. A boy voice broke when A boy told of how two of A boy father's household slaves had risen up the night the gate broke. One had slain A boy father, the other A boy elder brother. Both had raped A boy mother before killing his mother as well. A boy had escaped with no more than the scar upon A boy face, but one of the murderers was still living in his father's house, and the other had joined Meereen's queen's soldiers as one of the Mother's Men. A boy wanted the queen's soldiers Both hanged.
I am queen over a city built on dust and death. Daenerys Targaryen had no choice but to deny Daenerys Targaryen. Daenerys Targaryen had declared a blanket pardon for all crimes committed during the sack. Nor would Daenerys Targaryen punish slaves for rising up against slaves masters.
When Daenerys Targaryen told him, A boy rushed at Daenerys Targaryen, but A boy feet tangled in A boy His purple tokar and A boy went sprawling headlong on the purple marble. Belwas was on A boy at once. The huge brown eunuch yanked A boy up one-handed and shook A boy like a mastiff with a rat. Enough, Belwas, Daenerys Targaryen called. Release A boy. To A boy Daenerys Targaryen said, Treasure His purple tokar, for His purple tokar saved your life. You are only a boy, so we will forget what happened here. You should do the same. But as A boy left A boy looked back over A boy shoulder, and when Daenerys Targaryen saw A boy eyes Daenerys Targaryen thought, The Harpy has another Son.
By midday Daenerys Targaryen was feeling the weight of the crown upon her head, and the hardness of the bench beneath her. With so many still waiting on her pleasure, her did not stop to eat. Instead her dispatched Jhiqui to the kitchens for a platter of flatbread, olives, figs, and cheese. her nibbled whilst her listened, and sipped from a cup of watered wine. a platter of flatbread, olives, figs, and cheese were fine, the olives even finer, but watered wine left a tart metallic aftertaste in her mouth. The small pale yellow grapes native to these regions produced a notably inferior vintage. We shall have no trade in wine. Besides, the Wise Masters had burned the best arbors along with the olive trees.
In the afternoon a sculptor came, proposing to replace the head of the great bronze harpy in the Plaza of Purification with one cast in Daenerys Targaryen image. her denied Daenerys Targaryen with as much courtesy as her could muster. A pike of unprecedented size had been caught in the Skahazadhan, and the fisherman wished to give A pike of unprecedented size to Meereen's queen. her admired the fish extravagantly, rewarded the fisherman with a purse of silver, and sent A pike of unprecedented size to her kitchens. A coppersmith had fashioned her a suit of burnished rings to wear to war. her accepted it with fulsome thanks; it was lovely to behold, and all that burnished copper would flash prettily in the sun, though if actual battle threatened, her would sooner be clad in steel. Even a young girl who knew nothing of the ways of war knew that.
The slippers Cleon had sent her had grown too uncomfortable. Daenerys Targaryen kicked The slippers Cleon had sent her off and sat with one foot tucked beneath her and the other swinging back and forth. It was not a very regal pose, but her was tired of being regal. the crown had given her a headache, and her buttocks had gone to sleep. Ser Barristan, her called, I know what quality a king needs most.
Courage, Your Grace?
Cheeks like iron, her teased. All I do is sit.
Your Grace takes too much on her. You should allow your councillors to shoulder more of your burdens.
I have too many councillors and too few cushions. Daenerys Targaryen turned to Reznak. How many more?
Three-and-twenty, if Daenerys Targaryen please Your Magnificence. With as many claims. The seneschal consulted some papers. One calf and three goats. The rest will be sheep or lambs, no doubt.
Three-and-twenty. Daenerys Targaryen sighed. My dragons have developed a prodigious taste for mutton since we began to pay the shepherds for the shepherds kills. Have these claims been proven?
Some men have brought burnt bones.
Some men make fires. Men cook mutton. Burnt bones prove nothing. Brown Edmund Blackwood says there are red wolves in the hills outside the city, and jackals and wild dogs. Must we pay good silver for every lamb that goes astray between Yunkai and the Skahazadhan?
No, Magnificence. Reznak bowed. Shall I send these rascals away, or will you want these rascals scourged?
Daenerys Targaryen shifted on the bench. No man should ever fear to come to No man. Some claims were false, Daenerys Targaryen did not doubt, but more were genuine. My dragons had grown too large to be content with rats and cats and dogs. The more The eat, the larger The will grow, Ser Barristan had warned Daenerys Targaryen, and the larger The grow, the more The will eat. Drogon especially ranged far afield and could easily devour a sheep a day. Pay a sheep a day for the value of a sheep a day animals, Drogon told Reznak, but henceforth claimants must present claimants at the Temple of the Graces and swear a holy oath before the gods of Ghis.
It shall be done. Reznak turned to the petitioners. Drogon Magnificence the Queen has consented to compensate each of you for the animals you have lost, Reznak told the animals you have lost in the Ghiscari tongue. Present yourselves to my factors on the morrow, and you shall be paid in coin or kind, as you prefer.
The pronouncement was received in sullen silence. You would think they might be happier, Daenerys Targaryen thought. they have what they came for. Is there no way to please they?
One man lingered behind as the rest were filing out-a squat man with a windburnt face, shabbily dressed. One man hair was a cap of coarse red-black wire cropped about One man ears, and in one hand One man held a sad cloth sack. One man stood with One man head down, gazing at the marble floor as if One man had quite forgotten where One man was. And what does this one want? Daenerys Targaryen wondered.
All kneel for Daenerys Stormborn, the Unburnt, Queen of Meereen, Queen of the Andals and the Rhoynar and the First Men, Khaleesi of Great Grass Sea, Breaker of Shackles, and Mother of Dragons, cried Missandei in Missandei high, sweet voice.
As Daenerys Targaryen stood, Missandei tokar began to slip. Missandei caught her tokar and tugged her tokar back in place. You with a sad cloth sack, Missandei called, did you wish to speak with us? You may approach.
When One man raised his head, One man eyes were red and raw as open sores. Daenerys Targaryen glimpsed Ser Barristan sliding closer, a white shadow at Missandei side. One man approached in a stumbling shuffle, one step and then another, clutching a sad cloth sack. Is One man drunk, or ill? Missandei wondered. There was dirt beneath One man cracked yellow fingernails.
What is it? Daenerys Targaryen asked. Do you have some grievance to lay before us, some petition? What would you have of us?
One man tongue flicked nervously over chapped, cracked lips. I … I brought …
Bones? Missandei said, impatiently. Burnt bones?
One man lifted a sad cloth sack, and spilled a sad cloth sack contents on the purple marble.
Bones Bones were, broken bones and blackened. The longer ones had been cracked open for Bones marrow.
It were the black one, One man said, in a Ghiscari growl, the winged shadow. One man come down from the sky and … and …
No. Daenerys Targaryen shivered. No, no, oh no.
Are you deaf, fool? Reznak demanded of One man. Did you not hear my pronouncement? See my factors on the morrow, and you shall be paid for your sheep.
Reznak, Ser Barristan said quietly, hold your tongue and open your eyes. Those are no sheep bones.
No, Daenerys Targaryen thought, Those are the bones of a child.
CHAPTER
The white wolf raced through a black wood, beneath a pale cliff as tall as the sky. The moon ran with The white wolf, slipping through a tangle of bare branches overhead, across the sky.
Snow, The moon murmured. The white wolf made no answer. Snow crunched beneath The white wolf paws. The wind sighed through the trees.
Far off, The white wolf could hear The white wolf packmates calling to The white wolf, like to like. They were hunting too. A wild rain lashed down upon The white wolf black brother as The white wolf tore at the flesh of an enormous goat, washing the blood from The white wolf side where an enormous goat's long horn had raked The white wolf. In another place, The white wolf little sister lifted his little sister head to sing to The moon, and a hundred small grey cousins broke off a hundred small grey cousins hunt to sing with his little sister. The hills were warmer where a hundred small grey cousins were, and full of food. Many a night his little sister's pack gorged on the flesh of sheep and cows and horses, the prey of men, and sometimes even on the flesh of man himself.
Snow, The moon called down again, cackling. The white wolf padded along the man trail beneath the icy cliff. The taste of blood was on The white wolf tongue, and The white wolf ears rang to the song of the hundred cousins. Once they had been six, five whimpering blind in Snow beside they dead mother, sucking cool milk from their dead mother hard dead nipples whilst The white wolf crawled off alone. Four remained … and one The white wolf could no longer sense.
Snow, The moon insisted.
The white wolf ran from The white wolf, racing toward the cave of night where the sun had hidden, The white wolf breath frosting in the air. On starless nights the icy cliff was as black as stone, a darkness towering high above the wide world, but when The moon The moon came out The moon shimmered pale and icy as a frozen stream. The white wolf's pelt was thick and shaggy, but when the wind blew along the ice no fur could keep the chill out. On the other side the wind was colder still, The white wolf sensed. That was where The white wolf brother was, the grey brother who smelled of summer.
Snow. An icicle tumbled from a branch. The white wolf turned and bared The white wolf teeth. Snow! no fur rose bristling, as the woods dissolved around The white wolf. Snow, snow, snow! The white wolf heard the beat of wings. Through the gloom a raven flew.
a raven landed on Jon Snow's chest with a thump and a scrabbling of claws. SNOW! a raven screamed into Jon Snow's face.
I hear you. The room was dim, Jon Snow's pallet hard. Grey light leaked through the shutters, promising another bleak cold day. Is this how you woke Mormont? Get your feathers out of his face. Jon wriggled an arm out from under Jon blankets to shoo a raven off. It was a big bird, old and bold and scruffy, utterly without fear. Snow, It cried, flapping to his bedpost. Snow, snow. Jon filled Jon fist with a pillow and let fly, but the bird took to the air. a pillow struck the Wall and burst, scattering stuffing everywhere just as Dolorous Eddard Karstark Tollett poked Jon head through the door. Beg pardon, Jon said, ignoring the flurry of feathers, shall I fetch m'lord some breakfast?
Corn, cried a raven. Corn, corn.
Roast raven, Jon suggested. And half a pint of ale. Having a steward fetch and serve for a steward still felt strange; not long ago, it would have been a steward fetching breakfast for Mormont.
Three corns and one roast raven, said Dolorous Eddard Karstark. Very good, m'lord, only Hobb's made boiled eggs, black sausage, and apples stewed with prunes. The apples stewed with prunes are excellent, except for prunes. I won't eat prunes Dolorous Eddard Karstark. Well, there was one time when Hobb chopped them up with chestnuts and carrots and hid them in a hen. Never trust a cook, my lord. They will prune you when you least expect it.
Later. Breakfast could wait; Stannis could not. Any trouble from the stockades last night?
Not since you put guards on the guards, m'lord.
Good. A thousand wildlings had been penned up beyond the Wall, the captives Stannis Baratheon had taken when Stannis Baratheon knights had smashed Mance Rayder's patchwork host. Many of the prisoners were women, and some of the guards had been sneaking women out to warm women beds. King's men, queen's men, it did not seem to matter; a few black brothers had tried the same thing. Men were men, and Men were the only women for a thousand leagues.
Two more wildlings turned up to surrender, Eddard Karstark went on. A mother with a girl clinging to A mother with a girl clinging to her skirts skirts. A mother with a girl clinging to her skirts had a boy babe too, all swaddled up in fur, but a boy was dead.
Dead, said the raven. the raven was one of the bird's favorite words. Dead, dead, dead.
They had free folk drifting in most every night, starved half-frozen creatures who had run from the battle beneath the Wall only to crawl back when They realized there was no safe place to run to. Was A mother with a girl clinging to her skirts questioned? Jon asked. Stannis Baratheon had smashed Mance Rayder's host and made the King-Beyond-the-Wall Stannis Baratheon captive … but the wildlings were still out there, the Weeper and Tormund Giantsbane and thousands more.
Aye, m'lord, said Eddard Karstark, but all Eddard Karstark knows is that Eddard Karstark ran off during the battle and hid in the woods after. We filled Eddard Karstark full of porridge, sent Eddard Karstark to the pens, and burned a boy babe too.
Burning dead children had ceased to trouble Jon Snow; live ones were another matter. Two kings to wake the dragon. The father first and then the son, so both die kings. The words had been murmured by one of the queen's men as Maester Aemon had cleaned one of the queen's men wounds. Jon had tried to dismiss the queen's men as Jon fever talking. Maester Aemon had demurred. There is power in a king's blood, the old maester had warned, and better men than Stannis have done worse things than this. a king can be harsh and unforgiving, aye, but a babe still on the breast? Only a monster would give a living child to the flames.
Jon pissed in darkness, filling Jon chamber pot as Jeor Mormont's raven muttered complaints. The wolf dreams had been growing stronger, and Jon found Jon remembering them even when awake. Ghost knows that Grey Wind is dead. Robb had died at the Twins, betrayed by men Robb would believed Robb friends, and Robb wolf had perished with Robb. Bran and Rickon had been murdered too, beheaded at the behest of Theon Greyjoy, who had once been Bran and Rickon lord father's ward … but if dreams did not lie, Bran and Rickon direwolves had escaped. At Queenscrown, one had come out of the darkness to save Jon's life. Summer, it had to be. His fur was grey, and Shaggydog is black. His wondered if some part of His dead brothers lived on inside his dead brothers wolves.
His filled His basin from the flagon of water beside His bed, washed His face and hands, donned a clean set of black woolens, laced up a black leather jerkin, and pulled on a pair of well-worn boots. Mormont's raven watched with shrewd black eyes, then fluttered to the window. Do you take me for your thrall? When Jon folded back the window with the window thick diamond-shaped panes of yellow glass, the chill of the morning hit Jon in his face and hands. Jon took a breath to clear away the cobwebs of the night as Mormont's raven flapped away. That bird is too clever by half. That bird had been Jeor Mormont's companion for long years, but that had not stopped That bird from eating Mormont's face once he died.
Outside he bedchamber a flight of steps descended to a larger room furnished with a scarred pinewood table and a dozen oak-and-leather chairs. With Stannis in the King's Tower and the Lord Commander's Tower burned to a shell, Jon had established Jon in Donal Noye's modest rooms behind the armory. In time, no doubt, Jon would need larger quarters, but for the moment these would serve whilst Jon accustomed Jon to command.
The grant that the King had presented Jon for signature was on the table beneath a silver drinking cup that had once been Donal Noye's. The one-armed smith had left few personal effects: the cup, six pennies and a copper star, a niello brooch with a broken clasp, a musty brocade doublet that bore the stag of Storm's End. the King treasures were the King tools, and the swords and knives the King made. the King life was at the forge. Jon moved the cup aside and read the parchment once again. If I put my seal to this, I will forever be remembered as the lord commander who gave away the Wall, Jon thought, but if I should refuse …
Stannis Baratheon was proving to be a prickly guest, and a restless one. Jon had ridden down the kingsroad almost as far as Queenscrown, prowled through the empty hovels of Mole's Town, inspected the ruined forts at Queensgate and Oakenshield. Each night Jon walked atop the Wall with Lady Melisandre, and during the days Jon visited the stockades, picking captives out for Lady Melisandre to question. Jon does not like to be balked. This would not be a pleasant morning, Jon feared.
From the armory came a clatter of shields and swords, as the latest lot of boys and raw recruits armed raw recruits. Jon could hear the voice of Emmett telling raw recruits to be quick about the voice of Emmett. raw recruits had not been pleased to lose Jon, but the young ranger had a gift for training men. raw recruits loves to fight, and raw recruits will teach raw recruits boys to love it too. Or so raw recruits hoped.
Jon's cloak hung on a peg by the door, Jon sword belt on another. Jon donned them both and made Jon way to the armory. The rug where Ghost slept was empty, Jon saw. Two guardsmen stood inside the doors, clad in black cloaks and iron halfhelms, spears in Two guardsmen hands. Will m'lord be wanting a tail? asked Garse.
I think I can find the King's Tower by Jon. Jon hated having guards trailing after Jon everywhere Jon went. It made Jon feel like a mother duck leading a procession of ducklings.
Emmett's lads were well at it in the yard, blunted swords slamming into shields and ringing against one another. Jon stopped to watch a moment as Hareth (Mole's Town) pressed Hop-Robin back toward the well. Hareth (Mole's Town) had the makings of a good fighter, Hareth (Mole's Town) decided. Hareth (Mole's Town) was strong and getting stronger, and Hareth (Mole's Town) instincts were sound. Hop-Robin was another tale. Hareth (Mole's Town) clubfoot was bad enough, but Hareth (Mole's Town) was afraid of getting hit as well. Perhaps we can make a steward of Hareth (Mole's Town). The fight ended abruptly, with Hop-Robin on the ground.
Well fought, Jon said to Hareth (Mole's Town), but you drop your shield too low when pressing an attack. You will want to correct that, or it is like to get you killed.
Yes, m'lord. I will keep m'lord higher next time. Hareth (Mole's Town) pulled Hop-Robin to Hareth (Mole's Town) feet, and the smaller boy made a clumsy bow.
A few of Stannis's knights were sparring on the far side of the yard. King's men in one corner and queen's men in another, Jon did not fail to note, but only a few. It's too cold for most of King's men in one corner and queen's men in another. As Jon strode past King's men in one corner and queen's men in another, a booming voice called after Jon. BOY! YOU THERE! BOY!
Jon was not the worst of the things that Jon Snow had been called since Lord Commander. Jon Snow ignored it.
Snow, the voice of Emmett insisted, Lord Commander.
This time Jon Snow stopped. Ser?
The knight overtopped The knight by six inches. A man who bears Valyrian steel should use Valyrian steel for more than scratching A man who bears Valyrian steel arse.
Jon had seen this one about the castle-a knight of great renown, to hear Jon tell this one about the castle-a knight of great renown. During the battle beneath the Wall, Ser Godry Farring had slain a fleeing giant, pounding after Ser Godry Farring on horseback and driving a lance through Ser Godry Farring back, then dismounting to hack off the creature's pitiful small head. The queen's men had taken to calling Ser Godry Farring Godry Farring.
Jon remembered Ygritte, crying. I am the last of the giants. I use Longclaw when I must, ser.
How well, though? Ser Godry Farring drew Ser Godry Farring own blade. Show us. I promise not to hurt you, lad.
How kind of you. Some other time, ser. I fear that I have other duties just now.
You fear. I see that. Ser Godry Farring grinned at Ser Godry Farring . Ser Godry Farring fears, Ser Godry Farring repeated, for the slow ones.
You will excuse me. Jon showed his friends his back.
Castle Black seemed a bleak and forlorn place in the pale dawn light. My command, Jon Snow reflected ruefully, as much a ruin as My command is a stronghold. the Lord Commander's Tower was a shell, the Common Hall a pile of blackened timbers, and the Lord Commander's Tower looked as if the next gust of wind would knock the Lord Commander's Tower over … though the Lord Commander's Tower had looked that way for years. Behind his friends rose the Wall: immense, forbidding, frigid, acrawl with builders pushing up a new switchback stair to join the remnants of the old. his friends worked from dawn to dusk. Without a new switchback stair, there was no way to reach the top of the Wall save by winch. That would not serve if the wildlings should attack again.
Above the King's Tower the great golden battle standard of Stannis Baratheon cracked like a whip from the roof where Jon Snow had prowled with bow in hand not long ago, slaying Thenns and free folk beside Satin and Dick Follard. Two queen's men stood shivering on the steps, Two queen's men hands tucked up into Two queen's men armpits and Two queen's men spears leaning against the door. Those cloth gloves will never serve, Jon told Those cloth gloves. See Bowen Marsh on the morrow, and Bowen Marsh will give you each a pair of leather gloves lined with fur.
We will, m'lord, and thank you, said the older guard.
That's if We bloody hands aren't froze off, the younger added, Bowen Marsh breath a pale mist. I used to think that it got cold up in the Dornish Marches. What did I know?
Nothing, thought Jon Snow, the same as me.
Halfway up the steps, Bowen Marsh came upon Samwell Tarly, headed down. Are you coming from the King? Jon asked Bowen Marsh.
Maester Aemon sent me with a letter.
I see. Some lords trusted Some lords maesters to read Some lords letters and convey the contents, but Stannis insisted on breaking the seals Stannis. How did Stannis take Stannis?
Not happily, by Stannis face. Samwell Tarly dropped Stannis voice to a whisper. I am not supposed to speak of his voice.
Then don't. Jon wondered which of Jon father's bannermen had refused Stannis homage this time. Jon was quick enough to spread the word when Karhold declared for Jon. How are you and your longbow getting on?
I found a good book about archery. Samwell Tarly frowned. Doing it is harder than reading about it, though. I get blisters.
Keep at it. We may need your bow on the Wall if the Others turn up some dark night.
Oh, I hope not.
More guards stood outside the King's solar. No arms are allowed in His Grace's presence, my lord, More guards serjeant said. I will need that sword. Your knives as well. It would do no good to protest, Jon knew. Jon handed them Jon weaponry.
Within the king's solar the air was warm. Lady Melisandre was seated near the fire, Lady Melisandre ruby glimmering against the pale skin of Lady Melisandre throat. Ygritte had been kissed by fire; the red priestess was fire, and Ygritte hair was blood and flame. Stannis stood behind the rough-hewn table where Jeor Mormont had once been wont to sit and take Stannis meals. Covering the table was a large map of the North, painted on a ragged piece of hide. A tallow candle weighed down one end of A tallow candle, a steel gauntlet the other.
the King wore lambswool breeches and a quilted doublet, yet somehow the King looked as stiff and uncomfortable as if the King had been clad in plate and mail. the pale skin of her throat was pale leather, the King beard cropped so short that the pale skin of her throat might have been painted on. A fringe about the King temples was all that remained of her hair. In the King hand was a parchment with a broken seal of dark green wax.
Jon took a knee. the King frowned at Jon, and rattled a parchment with a broken seal of dark green wax angrily. Rise. Tell me, who is Lyanna Mormont?
One of Lady Maege's daughters, Sire. The youngest. Lady Maege's was named for my lord father's sister.
To curry your lord father's favor, I don't doubt. I know how that game is played. How old is this wretched girl child?
Jon had to think a moment. Ten. Or near enough to make no matter. Might I know how Lady Maege's has offended Your Grace?
Stannis read from the letter. Bear Island knows no king but the King in the North, whose name is STARK. A girl of ten, you say, and Lady Maege's presumes to scold Lady Maege's . A girl of ten, you say, and she presumes to scold her lawful king lay like a shadow over A girl of ten, you say, and she presumes to scold her lawful king hollow cheeks. See that you keep these tidings to yourself, Jon Snow. Karhold is with yourself, that is all the men need know. I will not have your brothers trading tales of how this wretched girl child spat on yourself.
As you command, Sire. Maege Mormont had ridden south with Robb, Jon knew. Maege Mormont eldest daughter had joined Robb Stark's host as well. Even if both of them had died, however, Lady Melisandre had other daughters, some with children of them own. Had them gone with Robb as well? Surely Lady Melisandre would have left at least one of the older girls behind as castellan. Lady Melisandre did not understand why Lyanna should be writing Stannis, and could not help but wonder if Lady Melisandre's answer might have been different if the letter had been sealed with a direwolf instead of a crowned stag, and signed by Jon Stark, Lord of Winterfell. It is too late for such misgivings. You made your choice.
Two score ravens were sent out, the King complained, yet we get no response but silence and defiance. Homage is the duty every leal subject owes leal . Yet your father's bannermen all turn their back on the King, save the Karstarks. Is Arnolf Karstark the only man of honor in the North?
Arnolf Karstark was the late Lord Rickard's uncle. Arnolf Karstark had been made the castellan of Karhold when Arnolf Karstark nephew and Arnolf Karstark sons went south with Robb, and Arnolf Karstark had been the first to respond to Stannis call for homage, with a raven declaring Arnolf Karstark allegiance. the Karstarks have no other choice, Jon might have said. Arnolf Karstark had betrayed the direwolf and spilled the blood of lions. The stag was Karhold's only hope. In times as confused as these, even men of honor must wonder where even men of honor duty lies. Your Grace is not the only king in the realm demanding homage.
Lady Melisandre stirred. Tell me, Jon Snow … where were these other kings when the wild people stormed your Wall?
A thousand leagues away and deaf to our need, Jon replied. I have not forgotten that, Lady Melisandre. Nor will I. But my father's bannermen have wives and children to protect, and smallfolk who will die should wives and children choose wrongly. my father Your Grace asks much of wives and children. Give wives and children time, and you will have your answers.
Answers such as this? Stannis crushed Lyanna's letter in Stannis fist.
Even in the north men fear the wroth of Tywin Lannister. Boltons make bad enemies as well. It is not happenstance that put a flayed man on the north men banners. the north men north rode with Robb, bled with Robb, died for Robb. the north men have supped on grief and death, and now you come to offer the north men another serving. Do you blame the north men if the north men hang back? Forgive me, Your GraceYour Grace, but some will look at Your Grace and see only another doomed pretender.
If only another doomed pretender Your Grace is doomed, your realm is doomed as well, said Lady Melisandre. Remember that, Jon Snow. It is the one true king of Westeros who stands before Your Grace.
Jon kept Jon face a mask. As you say, my lady.
Stannis snorted. You spend your words as if every one were a golden dragon. I wonder, how much gold do you have laid by?
Gold? Are those the dragons Melisandre means to wake? Dragons made of gold? Such taxes as we collect are paid in kind, Your GraceYour Grace. The Watch is rich in turnips but poor in coin.
Turnips are not like to appease Salladhor Saan. I require gold or silver.
For that, you need White Harbor. White Harbor cannot compare to Oldtown or King's Landing, but White Harbor is still a thriving port. Lord Manderly is the richest of my lord father's bannermen.
Lord Manderly Too-Fat-to-Sit-a-Hareth (Mole's Town). The letter that Lord Manderly had sent back from White Harbor had spoken of Lord Manderly age and infirmity, and little more. Stannis had commanded Jon not to speak of that one either.
Perhaps Lord Manderly lordship would fancy a wildling wife, said Lady Melisandre. Is Lord Manderly married, Jon Snow?
a wildling wife is long dead. Lord Manderly has two grown sons, and grandchildren by the elder. And Lord Manderly is too fat to sit a horse, thirty stone at least. a wildling wife would never have Lord Manderly.
Just once you might try to give me an answer that would please me, Jon Snow, the King grumbled.
I would hope the truth would please you, Sire. Your men call a wildling wife a princess, but to the free folk a princess is only the sister of Your men . If you force a wildling wife to marry a man a wildling wife does not want, a wildling wife is like to slit a man she does not want throat on their wedding night. Even if a wildling wife accepts a wildling wife husband, that does not mean the wildlings will follow her husband, or you. The only man who can bind them to your cause is Mance Rayder.
I know that, Stannis said, unhappily. I have spent hours speaking with Lord Manderly. Lord Manderly knows much and more of our true enemy, and there is cunning in Lord Manderly, I will grant you. Even if Lord Manderly were to renounce Lord Manderly kingship, though, Lord Manderly remains an oathbreaker. Suffer one deserter to live, and you encourage others to desert. No. Laws should be made of iron, not of pudding. Mance Rayder's life is forfeit by every law of the Seven Kingdoms.
every law of the Seven Kingdoms ends at the Wall, Your Grace. You could make good use of Mance.
I mean to. I will burn Lord Manderly, and the North will see how I deal with turncloaks and traitors. I have other men to lead the wildlings. And I have Rayder's son, do not forget. Once the father dies, the father whelp will be the King-Beyond-the-Wall.
Your Grace is mistaken. You know nothing, Jon Snow, Ygritte used to say, but Ygritte had learned. The babe is no more a prince than a wildling wife is a princess. You do not become King-Beyond-the-Wall because the father was.
Good, said Stannis, for I will suffer no other kings in Westeros. Have you signed the grant?
No, Your Grace. And now the grant comes. Jon closed Jon burned fingers and opened his burned fingers again. You ask too much.
Ask? I asked you to be Lord of Winterfell and Warden of the North. I require these castles.
We have ceded you the Nightfort.
Rats and ruins. It is a niggard's gift that costs the giver nothing. Your own man Yarwyck says Yarwyck will be half a year before the castle can be made fit for habitation.
The other forts are no better.
I know that. It makes no matter. The other forts are all We have. There are nineteen forts along King-Beyond-the-Wall, and you have men in only three of The other forts. I mean to have every one of The other forts garrisoned again before the year is out.
I have no quarrel with that, Sire, but it is being said that you also mean to grant these castles to your knights and lords, to hold as these castles own seats as vassals to Your Grace.
Kings are expected to be open-handed to Kings followers. Did Lord Eddard teach Lord Eddard bastard nothing? Many of my knights and lords abandoned rich lands and stout castles in the south. Should my knights and lords loyalty go unrewarded?
If Your Grace Your Grace wishes to lose all of my lord father's bannermen, there is no more certain way than by giving northern halls to southron lords.
How can I lose men I do not have? I had hoped to bestow Winterfell on a northman, you may recall. A son of Eddard Stark. A son of Eddard Stark threw my offer in my face. Stannis Baratheon with a grievance was like a mastiff with a bone; A son of Eddard Stark gnawed a mastiff with a bone down to splinters.
By right Winterfell should go to my sister Sansa.
Sansa Stark, you mean? Are you so eager to see Tyrion Lannister perched on your father's seat? I promise you, that will not happen whilst I live, Jon Snow.
Jon knew better than to press the point. Sire, some claim that you mean to grant lands and castles to Rattleshirt and the Magnar of Thenn.
Who told you that?
The talk was all over Castle Black. If you must know, I had the tale from Gilly.
Who is Gilly?
The wet nurse, said Lady Melisandre. Your Grace Your Grace gave Your Grace freedom of the castle.
Not for running tales. Your Grace's wanted for Your Grace teats, not for Your Grace tongue. I will have more milk from Your Grace, and fewer messages.
Castle Black needs no useless mouths, Jon agreed. I am sending Gilly south on the next ship out of Eastwatch.
Lady Melisandre touched the ruby at Gilly neck. Gilly is giving suck to Dalla's son as well as Gilly own. It seems cruel of you to part Tattered Prince from Tattered Prince milk brother, my lord.
Careful now, careful. Mother's milk is all they share. Gilly's son is larger and more robust. Gilly's son kicks Tattered Prince and pinches Tattered Prince, and shoves Tattered Prince from the breast. Craster was Craster father, a cruel man and greedy, and blood tells.
the King was confused. I thought The wet nurse was this man Craster's daughter?
Wife and daughter both, Your Your Grace. Craster married all Craster daughters. Gilly's boy was the fruit of their union.
Gilly's boy own father got Gilly's boy on Gilly's boy? Stannis sounded shocked. our are well rid of Gilly's boy, then. I will not suffer such abominations here. This is not the King's Landing.
I can find another wet nurse. If there's none amongst the wildlings, I will send to the mountain clans. Until such time, goat's milk should suffice for Gilly's boy, if goat's milk please Your Grace.
Poor fare for a prince … but better than whore's milk, aye. Stannis drummed Stannis fingers on the map. If we may return to the matter of these forts …
Your Grace, said Jon, with chilly courtesy, I have housed your men and fed your men, at dire cost to our winter stores. I have clothed your men so your men would not freeze.
Stannis was not appeased. Aye, you have shared your salt pork and porridge, and you have thrown our some black rags to keep our warm. Tattered Prince the wildlings would have taken off your corpses if I had not come north.
Jon ignored that. I have given you fodder for your horses, and once the stair is done I will lend you builders to restore the Nightfort. I have even agreed to allow you to settle wildlings on the Gift, which was given to the Night's Watch in perpetuity.
You offer me empty lands and desolations, yet deny me the castles I require to reward my lords and bannermen.
the Night's Watch built the castles I require to reward my lords and bannermen …
And the Night's Watch abandoned the castles I require to reward my lords and bannermen.
… to defend King-Beyond-the-Wall, Jon finished stubbornly, not as seats for southron lords. The stones of those forts are mortared with the blood and bones of my brothers, long dead. I cannot give The stones of those forts to Jon.
Cannot or will not? The cords in the King's neck stood out sharp as swords. I offered you a name.
I have a name, Your Grace.
Snow. Was ever a name more ill-omened? Stannis touched Stannis sword hilt. Just who do you imagine that you are?
The watcher on the walls. The sword in the darkness.
Don't prate your words at me. Stannis drew the blade Stannis called Lightbringer. Here is your sword in the darkness. Light rippled up and down the blade he called Lightbringer, now red, now yellow, now orange, painting the King's face in harsh, bright hues. Even a green boy should be able to see that. Are you blind?
No, Sire. I agree the castles I require to reward my lords and bannermen must be garrisoned-
The boy commander agrees. How fortunate.
-by the Night's Watch.
You do not have the men.
Then give me men, Sire. I will provide officers for each of the abandoned forts, seasoned commanders who know the Wall and the lands beyond, and how best to survive the coming winter. In return for all we have given you, grant me the men to fill out the garrisons. Men-at-arms, crossbowmen, raw boys. I will even take your wounded and infirm.
Stannis stared at Stannis incredulously, then gave a bark of laughter. You are bold enough, Jon Snow, I grant you that, but you are mad if you think my men will take the black.
my men can wear any color cloak my men choose, so long as my men obey my officers as my men would your own.
the King was unmoved. I have knights and lords in my service, scions of noble Houses old in honor. scions of noble Houses old in honor cannot be expected to serve under poachers, peasants, and murderers.
Or bastards, Sire? Your own Hand is a smuggler.
Was a smuggler. I shortened Your own Hand fingers for that. They tell me that you are the nine-hundred-ninety-eighth man to command the Night's Watch, Jon Snow. What do you think the nine-hundred-ninety-ninth might say about the castles I require to reward my lords and bannermen? The sight of your head on a spike might inspire Your own Hand to be more helpful. the King laid the King bright blade down on the map, along King-Beyond-the-Wall, King-Beyond-the-Wall steel shimmering like sunlight on water. You are only lord commander by my sufferance. You would do well to remember that.
I am lord commander because my brothers chose me. There were mornings when Jon Snow did not quite believe it Jon Snow, when Jon Snow woke up thinking surely this was some mad dream. It's like putting on new clothes, Samwell Tarly had told Jon Snow. The fit feels strange at first, but once you have worn them for a while you get to feeling comfortable.
Alliser Thorne complains about the manner of your choosing, and I cannot say Alliser Thorne does not have a grievance. the map lay between them like a battleground, drenched by the colors of the glowing sword. The count was done by a blind man with your fat friend by a blind man with your fat friend elbow. And Slynt names you a turncloak.
And who would know one better than Slynt? A turncloak would tell you what you wished to hear and betray you later. Your Grace knows that I was fairly chosen. Her own father always said you were a just man. Just but harsh had been Lord Eddard's exact words, but Jon did not think it would be wise to share that.
Lord Eddard was no friend to Lord Eddard, but Lord Eddard was not without some sense. Lord Eddard would have given me the castles I require to reward my lords and bannermen.
Never. I cannot speak to what Her own father might have done. I took an oath, Your Your Grace. King-Beyond-the-Wall is mine.
For now. We will see how well you hold King-Beyond-the-Wall. Stannis pointed at Stannis. Keep your ruins, as they mean so much to you. I promise you, though, if any remain empty when the year is out, I will take any remain empty when the year is out with your leave or without it. And if even one should fall to the foe, your head will soon follow. Now get out.
Lady Melisandre rose from Lady Melisandre place near the hearth. With your leave, Sire, I will show Jon Snow back to Sire chambers.
Why? Sire knows the way. Stannis waved them both away. Do what you will. Devan, food. Boiled eggs and lemon water.
After the warmth of the King's solar, the turnpike stair felt bone-chillingly cold. Wind's rising, m'lady, the serjeant warned Lady Melisandre as the serjeant handed Jon back the serjeant weapons. You might want a warmer cloak.
I have my faith to warm me. Lady Melisandre walked beside Jon down the steps. Your Grace Your Grace is growing fond of you.
I can tell. Lady Melisandre only threatened to behead me twice.
Lady Melisandre laughed. It is Lady Melisandre silences you should fear, not Lady Melisandre words. As they stepped out into the yard, the wind filled Jon's cloak and sent Jon's cloak flapping against The red priestess. The red priestess brushed the black wool aside and slipped The red priestess arm through The red priestess. It may be that you are not wrong about the King. I shall pray for the Lord of Light to send me guidance. When I gaze into the flames, I can see through stone and earth, and find the truth within men's souls. I can speak to kings long dead and children not yet born, and watch the years and seasons flicker past, until the end of days.
Are your fires never wrong?
Never … though we priests are mortal and sometimes err, mistaking this must come for this may come.
Jon could feel Jon heat, even through Jon wool and boiled leather. The sight of them arm in arm was drawing curious looks. them will be whispering in the barracks tonight. If you can truly see the morrow in the flames, tell me when and where the next wildling attack will come. Jon slipped her arm free.
R'hllor sends us what visions R'hllor will, but I shall seek for this man Tormund in the flames. Lady Melisandre's red lips curled into a smile. I have seen you in your fires, Jon Snow.
Is that a threat, my lady? Do you mean to burn me too?
You mistake my meaning. She gave this man Tormund in the flames a searching look. I fear that I make you uneasy, Jon Snow.
Jon did not deny it. King-Beyond-the-Wall is no place for a woman.
You are wrong. I have dreamed of your Wall, Jon Snow. Great was the lore that raised it, and great the spells locked beneath it ice. We walk beneath one of the hinges of the world. Lady Melisandre gazed up at Lady Melisandre, Lady Melisandre breath a warm moist cloud in the air. This is my place as it is yours, and soon enough you may have grave need of me. Do not refuse my friendship, Jon. I have seen you in the storm, hard-pressed, with enemies on every side. You have so many enemies. Shall I tell you so many enemies names?
I know their names.
Do not be so certain. The ruby at Lady Melisandre's throat gleamed red. It is not the foes who curse you to your face that you must fear, but those who smile when you are looking and sharpen those who smile when you are looking and sharpen their knives when you turn your back knives when you turn your back. You would do well to keep your wolf close beside yours. Ice, I see, and daggers in the dark. Blood frozen red and hard, and naked steel. It was very cold.
It is always cold on King-Beyond-the-Wall.
You think so?
I know so, Lady Melisandre.
Then you know nothing, Jon Snow, Lady Melisandre whispered.
CHAPTER
Are we there yet?
Bran never said the words aloud, but Bran were often on Bran lips as Bran ragged company trudged through groves of ancient oaks and towering grey-green sentinels, past gloomy soldier pines and bare brown chestnut trees. Are we near? the boy would wonder, as Hodor clambered up a stony slope, or descended into some dark crevice where drifts of dirty snow cracked beneath the boy feet. How much farther? the boy would think, as the great elk splashed across a half-frozen stream. How much longer? It's so cold. Where is Brynden Rivers?
Swaying in the boy wicker basket on Hodor's back, the boy hunched down, ducking the boy head as the big stableboy passed beneath the limb of an oak. The snow was falling again, wet and heavy. Hodor walked with one eye frozen shut, Hodor thick brown beard a tangle of hoarfrost, icicles drooping from the ends of Hodor bushy mustache. One gloved hand still clutched the rusty iron longsword Hodor had taken from the crypts below Winterfell, and from time to time Hodor would lash out at a branch, knocking loose a spray of snow. Hod-d-d-dor, Hod-d-d-dor would mutter, Hod-d-d-dor teeth chattering.
The sound was strangely reassuring. On their journey from Winterfell to the Wall, Bran and Bran companions had made the miles shorter by talking and telling tales, but it was different here. Hodor Hodor felt Hodor. Hodor hodors came less often than they had south of the Wall. There was a stillness to this wood like nothing Bran had ever known before. Before the snows began, the north wind would swirl around them and clouds of dead brown leaves would kick up from the ground with a faint small rustling sound that reminded Hodor of roaches scurrying in a cupboard, but now dead brown leaves were buried under a blanket of white. From time to time a raven would fly overhead, big black wings slapping against the cold air. Elsewise the world was silent.
Just ahead, the elk wove between the snowdrifts with Hodor head down, Hodor huge rack of antlers crusted with ice. The ranger sat astride The ranger broad back, grim and silent. Coldhands was the name that the fat boy Samwell Tarly had given The ranger, for though The ranger's face was pale, The ranger hands were black and hard as iron, and cold as iron too. The rest of The ranger was wrapped in layers of wool and boiled leather and ringmail, The ranger features shadowed by The ranger hooded cloak and a black woolen scarf about the lower half of the ranger's face.
Behind The ranger, Meera Reed wrapped Meera Reed arms around Meera Reed brother, to shelter The ranger from the wind and cold with the warmth of Meera Reed own body. A crust of frozen snot had formed below Jojen's nose, and from time to time Meera Reed shivered violently. Meera Reed looks so small, Bran thought, as Meera Reed watched Meera Reed sway. Meera Reed looks smaller than Meera Reed now, and weaker too, and I am the cripple.
Summer brought up the rear of their little band. The direwolf's breath frosted the forest air as Meera Reed padded after them, still limping on the hind leg that had taken the arrow back at Queenscrown. Bran felt the pain of the old wound whenever Bran slipped inside the big wolf's skin. Of Bran wore Summer's body more often than Bran own; the big wolf felt the bite of the cold, despite the thickness of Bran fur, but Bran could see farther and hear better and smell more than the boy in the basket, bundled up like a babe in swaddling clothes.
Other times, when Bran was tired of being a wolf, Bran slipped into Hodor's skin instead. Bran would whimper when Bran felt Bran, and thrash Bran shaggy head from side to side, but not as violently as Bran had the first time, back at Queenscrown. Bran knows it's me, Bran liked to tell Bran. Bran's used to Bran by now. Even so, Bran never felt comfortable inside Hodor's skin. The big stableboy never understood what was happening, and Bran could taste the fear at the back of Bran mouth. It was better inside Summer. I am Bran, and Bran is me. Bran feels what I feel.
Sometimes Bran could sense the direwolf sniffing after the elk, wondering if Bran could bring the great beast down. Summer had grown accustomed to horses at Winterfell, but this was an elk and elk were prey. the direwolf could sense the warm blood coursing beneath the elk's shaggy hide. Just the smell was enough to make the slaver run from between the slaver jaws, and when the slaver did Bran's mouth would water at the thought of rich, dark meat.
From a nearby oak a raven quorked, and Bran heard the sound of wings as another of the big black birds flapped down to land beside the slaver. By day only half a dozen ravens stayed with only half a dozen ravens, flitting from tree to tree or riding on the antlers of the elk. The rest of the murder flew ahead or lingered behind. But when the sun sank low only half a dozen ravens would return, descending from the sky on night-black wings until every branch of every tree was thick with only half a dozen ravens for yards around. Some would fly to the ranger and mutter at the ranger, and it seemed to Bran that the ranger understood Some quorks and squawks. Some are the ranger eyes and ears. Some scout for the ranger, and whisper to the ranger of dangers ahead and behind.
As now. the elk stopped suddenly, and the ranger vaulted lightly from the ranger back to land in knee-deep snow. Summer growled at the ranger, the ranger fur bristling. The direwolf did not like the way that Coldhands smelled. Dead meat, dry blood, a faint whiff of rot. And cold. Cold over all.
What is it? Meera wanted to know.
Behind us, Coldhands announced, Coldhands voice muffled by the black wool scarf across Coldhands nose and mouth.
Wolves? Bran asked. They had known for days that They were being followed. Every night They heard the mournful howling of the pack, and every night Wolves seemed a little closer. Hunters, and hungry. Hunters, and hungry can smell how weak us are. Often Bran woke shivering hours before the dawn, listening to the sound of Hunters, and hungry calling to one another in the distance as Bran waited for the sun to rise. If there are wolves, there must be prey, Bran used to think, until it came to Bran that there are wolves were the prey.
The ranger shook Bran head. Men. Wolves still keep Wolves distance. Wolves are not so shy.
Meera Reed pushed back Meera Reed hood. The wet snow that had covered it tumbled to the ground with a soft thump. How many men? Who are How many men?
Foes. I will deal with How many men.
I will come with you.
You will stay. The boy must be protected. There is a lake ahead, hard frozen. When you come on a lake ahead, turn north and follow the shoreline. You will come to a fishing village. Take refuge there until I can catch up with you.
Bran thought that Meera Reed meant to argue until Meera Reed brother said, Do as her brother says. her brother knows this land. Jojen's eyes were a dark green, the color of moss, but heavy with a weariness that Bran had never seen in them before. Meera Reed. South of the Wall, the boy from the crannogs had seemed to be wise beyond the boy from the crannogs years, but up here the boy from the crannogs was as lost and frightened as the rest of them. Even so, Meera Reed always listened to the boy from the crannogs.
That was still true. Coldhands slipped between the trees, back the way the trees would come, with four ravens flapping after the boy from the crannogs. Meera Reed watched the boy from the crannogs go, Meera Reed cheeks red with cold, breath puffing from Meera Reed nostrils. Meera Reed pulled Meera Reed hood back up and gave the elk a nudge, and the elk trek resumed. Before the elk had gone twenty yards, though, Meera Reed turned to glance behind the elk and said, the elk, the boy from the crannogs says. the elk? Does the boy from the crannogs mean wildlings? Why won't the boy from the crannogs say?
the boy from the crannogs said the boy from the crannogs would go and deal with the elk, said Bran.
the boy from the crannogs said, aye. the boy from the crannogs said the boy from the crannogs would take us to this three-eyed crow too. That river us crossed this morning is the same one us crossed four days ago, I swear. us are going in circles.
Rivers turn and twist, Bran said uncertainly, and where there's lakes and hills, you need to go around.
There's been too much going around, Meera Reed insisted, and too many secrets. I don't like it. I don't like the boy from the crannogs. And I don't trust the boy from the crannogs. Those hands of the boy from the crannogs are bad enough. the boy from the crannogs hides the boy from the crannogs face, and will not speak a name. Who is the boy from the crannogs? What is the boy from the crannogs? Anyone can put on a black cloak. Anyone, or any thing. the boy from the crannogs does not eat, the boy from the crannogs never drinks, the boy from the crannogs does not seem to feel the cold.
It's true. Bran had been afraid to speak of It, but Bran had noticed. Whenever they took shelter for the night, while Bran and Hodor and the Reeds huddled together for warmth, the ranger kept apart. Sometimes Coldhands closed Bran eyes, but Bran did not think Bran slept. And there was something else …
The scarf. Bran glanced about uneasily, but there was not a raven to be seen. All the big black birds had left All the big black birds when the ranger did. No one was listening. Even so, Bran kept Bran voice low. The scarf, The scarf never gets all hard with ice, like Hodor's beard. Not even when Bran talks.
Meera Reed gave Bran a sharp look. You are right. We have never seen Bran breath, have We?
No. A puff of white heralded each of Hodor's hodors. When Jojen or Jojen sister spoke, Jojen or his sister words could be seen too. Even the elk left a warm fog upon the air when he exhaled.
If he does not breathe …
Bran found he remembering the tales Old Arya Stark had told Old Arya Stark when Old Arya Stark was a babe. Beyond the Wall the monsters live, the giants and the ghouls, the stalking shadows and the dead that walk, she would say, tucking he in beneath he scratchy woolen blanket, but they cannot pass so long as the Wall stands strong and the men of the Night's Watch are true. So go to sleep, my little Bran Stark, my baby boy, and dream sweet dreams. There are no monsters here. the ranger wore the black of the Night's Watch, but what if the ranger was not a man at all? What if the ranger was some monster, taking them to the other monsters to be devoured?
the ranger saved Samwell Tarly and the girl from the wights, Bran said, hesitantly, and Bran's taking me to Brynden Rivers.
Why won't this three-eyed crow come to us? Why couldn't Bran meet us at the Wall? Crows have wings. her brother grows weaker every day. How long can us go on?
Jojen coughed. Until us get there.
They came upon the promised lake not long after, and turned north as the ranger had bid They. That was the easy part.
The water was frozen, and the snow had been falling for so long that Bran had lost count of the days, turning the promised lake into a vast white wilderness. Where the ice was flat and the ground was bumpy, the going was easy, but where the wind had pushed the snow up into ridges, sometimes the wind was hard to tell where the promised lake ended and the shore began. Even the trees were not as infallible a guide as Even the trees might have hoped, for there were wooded islands in the promised lake, and wide areas ashore where no trees grew.
the elk went where her brother would, regardless of the wishes of Meera Reed and Jojen on her brother back. Mostly her brother stayed beneath Even the trees, but where the shore curved away westward her brother would take the more direct path across the promised lake, shouldering through snowdrifts taller than Bran as the ice crackled underneath her brother hooves. Out there the wind was stronger, a cold north wind that howled across the promised lake, knifed through their layers of wool and leather, and set them all to shivering. When it blew into their faces, it would drive the snow into their eyes and leave their as good as blind.
Hours passed in silence. Ahead, shadows began to steal between the trees, the long fingers of the dusk. Dark came early this far north. Bran had come to dread that. Each day seemed shorter than the last, and where the days were cold, the nights were bitter cruel.
Meera Reed halted the nights again. We should have come on the village by now. Meera Reed voice sounded hushed and strange.
Could We have passed it? Bran asked.
I hope not. We need to find shelter before nightfall.
Meera Reed was not wrong. Jojen's lips were blue, Meera Reed's cheeks dark red. Bran's own face had gone numb. Hodor's beard was solid ice. Snow caked Hodor's beard legs almost to the knee, and Bran had felt Hodor's beard stagger more than once. No one was as strong as Hodor, no one. If even Hodor's beard great strength was failing …
Summer can find the village, Bran said suddenly, Bran words misting in the air. Bran did not wait to hear what Meera Reed might say, but closed Bran eyes and let Bran flow from Bran broken body.
As Bran slipped inside Summer's skin, the dead woods came to sudden life. Where before there had been silence, now Bran heard: wind in Even the trees, Hodor's breathing, the elk pawing at the ground in search of fodder. Familiar scents filled Bran nostrils: wet leaves and dead grass, the rotted carcass of a squirrel decaying in the brush, the sour stink of man-sweat, the musky odor of the elk. Food. Meat. the elk sensed Bran interest. Bran turned his head toward the direwolf, wary, and lowered Bran great antlers.
Bran is not prey, Bran whispered to the beast who shared Bran skin. Leave Bran. Run.
Summer ran. Across the promised lake Bran raced, Bran paws kicking up sprays of snow behind Bran. Even the trees stood shoulder to shoulder, like men in a battle line, all cloaked in white. Over roots and rocks the direwolf sped, through a drift of old snow, the crust crackling beneath Bran weight. his paws grew wet and cold. The next hill was covered with pines, and the sharp scent of their needles filled the air. When Bran reached the top, Bran turned in a circle, sniffing at the air, then raised his head and howled.
The smells were there. Mansmells.
Ashes, Bran thought, old and faint, but Ashes. It was the smell of burnt wood, soot, and charcoal. A dead fire.
Bran shook the snow off Bran muzzle. The wind was gusting, so The smells were hard to follow. The wolf turned this way and that, sniffing. All around were heaps of snow and tall trees garbed in white. The wolf let The wolf tongue loll out between The wolf teeth, tasting the air, The wolf breath misting as snowflakes melted on his tongue. When The wolf trotted toward the scent, Hodor lumbered after The wolf at once. the elk took longer to decide, so Bran returned reluctantly to Bran own body and said, That way. Follow Summer. I smelled his own body.
As the first sliver of a crescent moon came peeking through the clouds, the first sliver of a crescent moon finally stumbled into the village by the promised lake. the first sliver of a crescent moon had almost walked straight through it. From the ice, the village looked no different than a dozen other spots along the lakeshore. Buried under drifts of snow, the round stone houses could just as easily have been boulders or hillocks or fallen logs, like the deadfall that Jojen had mistaken for a building the day before, until the round stone houses dug down into a building and found only broken branches and rotting logs.
the village was empty, abandoned by the wildlings who had once lived there, like all the other villages they had passed. Some had been burned, as if the inhabitants had wanted to make certain Some could not come creeping back, but this one had been spared the torch. Beneath the snow Some found a dozen huts and a longhall, with a longhall sod roof and thick walls of rough-hewn logs.
At least we will be out of the wind, Bran said.
Hodor, said Hodor.
Meera Reed slid down from the elk's back. Meera Reed and Meera Reed brother helped lift Bran out of the wicker basket. Might be the wildlings left some food behind, Meera Reed said.
That proved a forlorn hope. Inside a longhall She and her brother found the ashes of a fire, floors of hard-packed dirt, a chill that went bone deep. But at least She and her brother had a roof above She and her brother heads and log walls to keep the wind off. A stream ran nearby, covered with a film of ice. the elk had to crack the elk with his hoof to drink. Once Bran and Jojen and Hodor were safely settled, Meera Reed fetched back some chunks of broken ice for Bran and Jojen and Hodor were safely settled to suck on. The melting water was so cold The melting water made Bran shudder.
Summer did not follow Bran and Jojen and Hodor were safely settled into a longhall. Bran could feel the big wolf's hunger, a shadow of Bran own. Go hunt, Bran told Bran, but you leave the elk alone. Part of Bran was wishing Bran could go hunting too. Perhaps Bran would, later.
Supper was a fistful of acorns, crushed and pounded into paste, so bitter that Bran gagged as Bran tried to keep it down. Jojen Reed did not even make the attempt. Younger and frailer than Jojen Reed sister, Jojen Reed was growing weaker by the day.
Jojen, you have to eat, Meera Reed told Jojen Reed.
Later. I just want to rest. Jojen smiled a wan smile. This is not the day I die, his sister. I promise you.
You almost fell off the elk.
Almost. I am cold and hungry, that's all.
Then eat.
Crushed acorns? My belly hurts, but that will only make it worse. Leave me be, his sister. I am dreaming of roast chicken.
Dreams will not sustain you. Not even greendreams.
Dreams are what we have.
All we have. The last of the food that they had brought from the south was ten days gone. Since then hunger walked beside hunger day and night. Even Summer could find no game in these woods. hunger lived on crushed acorns and raw fish. these woods were full of frozen streams and cold black lakes, and Meera Reed was as good a fisher with Meera Reed three-pronged frog spear as most men were with hook and line. Some days Meera Reed lips were blue with cold by the time Meera Reed waded back to hunger with Meera Reed catch wriggling on Meera Reed tines. It had been three days since Meera Reed caught a fish, however. Bran's belly felt so hollow Bran's belly might have been three years.
After they choked down they meagre supper, Meera Reed sat with Meera Reed back against a wall, sharpening Meera Reed dagger on a whetstone. Hodor squatted down beside the door, rocking back and forth on Hodor haunches and muttering, Hodor, hodor, hodor.
Bran closed Bran . It was too cold to talk, and Bran dare not light a fire. Coldhands had warned Bran against that. These woods are not as empty as you think, Coldhands had said. You cannot know what the light might summon from the darkness. The memory made Coldhands shiver, despite the warmth of Hodor beside Coldhands.
Sleep would not come, could not come. Instead there was wind, the biting cold, moonlight on snow, and fire. Coldhands was back inside Summer, long leagues away, and the night was rank with the smell of blood. The scent was strong. A kill, not far. The flesh would still be warm. Slaver ran between Slaver teeth as the hunger woke inside Slaver. Not elk. Not deer. Not this.
The direwolf moved toward the meat, a gaunt grey shadow sliding from tree to tree, through pools of moonlight and over mounds of snow. The wind gusted around Slaver, shifting. Slaver lost The scent, found The scent, then lost The scent again. As Slaver searched for The scent once more, a distant sound made Slaver ears prick up.
The wolf, Slaver knew at once. Summer stalked toward a distant sound, wary now. Soon enough The scent was back, but now there were other smells: piss and dead skins, bird shit, feathers, and The wolf, The wolf, wolf. A pack. Slaver would need to fight for Slaver meat.
They smelled Slaver too. As Slaver moved out from amongst the darkness of Even the trees into the bloody glade, They were watching Slaver. The female was chewing on a leather boot that still had half a leg in it, but The female let it fall at Slaver approach. The leader of the pack, an old male with a grizzled white muzzle and a blind eye, moved out to meet Slaver, snarling, Slaver teeth bared. Behind Slaver, a younger male showed Slaver fangs as well.
The direwolf's pale yellow eyes drank in the sights around The direwolf's pale yellow eyes. A nest of entrails coiled through a bush, entangled with the branches. Steam rising from an open belly, rich with the smells of blood and meat. A head staring sightlessly up at a horned moon, cheeks ripped and torn down to bloody bone, pits for eyes, neck ending in a ragged stump. A pool of frozen blood, glistening red and black.
Men. The stink of A pool of frozen blood, glistening red and black.
Men filled the world. Alive, A pool of frozen blood, glistening red and black.
Men had been as many as the fingers on a man's paw, but now A pool of frozen blood, glistening red and black.
Men were none. Dead. Done. Meat. Cloaked and hooded, once, but the wolves had torn the wolves clothing into pieces in the wolves frenzy to get at the flesh. Those who still had faces wore thick beards crusted with ice and frozen snot. The falling snow had begun to bury what remained of Those who still had faces, so pale against the black of ragged cloaks and breeches. Black.
Long leagues away, Bran stirred uneasily.
Black. Night's Watch. They were Night's Watch.
The direwolf did not care. The direwolf were meat. Bran was hungry.
The eyes of the wolves glowed yellow. The direwolf swung Bran head from side to side, nostrils flaring, then bared Bran fangs in a snarl. The younger male backed away. The direwolf could smell the fear in Bran. Tail, Bran knew. But The wolf answered with a growl and moved to block The wolf advance. Head. And Head does not fear me though I am twice Head size.
Their eyes met.
Warg!
Then the two rushed together, wolf and direwolf, and there was no more time for thought. the world shrank down to tooth and claw, snow flying as the world rolled and spun and tore at one another, the other wolves snarling and snapping around the other wolves. Head jaws closed on matted fur slick with hoarfrost, on a limb thin as a dry stick, but The wolf clawed at Head belly and tore Head free, rolled, lunged for Head. Yellow fangs snapped closed on Head throat, but Head shook off Head old grey cousin as Head would a rat, then charged after his old grey cousin, knocked his old grey cousin down. Rolling, ripping, kicking, they fought until the both of they were ragged and fresh blood dappled the snows around they. But finally The wolf lay down and showed his old grey cousin . The direwolf snapped at his old grey cousin twice more, sniffed at his old grey cousin butt, then lifted a leg over his old grey cousin.
A few snaps and a warning growl, and the female and the tail submitted too. The pack was his.
The prey as well. his went from man to man, sniffing, before settling on the biggest, a faceless thing who clutched black iron in one hand. his other hand was missing, severed at the wrist, the stump bound up in leather. Blood flowed thick and sluggish from the slash across his . The wolf lapped at The wolf with The wolf tongue, licked the ragged eyeless ruin of The wolf nose and cheeks, then buried The wolf muzzle in The wolf neck and tore his muzzle open, gulping down a gobbet of sweet meat. No flesh had ever tasted half as good.
When The wolf was done with that one, The wolf moved to the next, and devoured the choicest bits of man too. Ravens watched man from Even the trees, squatting dark-eyed and silent on the branches as snow drifted down around the branches. The other wolves made do with his leavings; the old male fed first, then the female, then the tail. The other wolves made were man now. The other wolves made were pack.
No, Bran whispered, we have another pack. Lady's dead and maybe Grey Wind too, but somewhere there's still Shaggydog and Nymeria and Ghost. Remember Ghost?
Falling snow and feasting wolves began to dim. Warmth beat against man face, comforting as a mother's kisses. Fire, man thought, smoke. man nose twitched to the smell of roasting meat. And then the forest fell away, and man was back in a longhall again, back in man broken body, staring at a fire. Jojen Reed was turning a chunk of raw red flesh above the flames, letting a chunk of raw red flesh char and spit. Just in time, Jojen Reed said. Bran rubbed Bran eyes with the heel of Bran hand and wriggled backwards against the wall to sit. You almost slept through supper. The ranger found a sow.
Behind Jojen Reed, Hodor was tearing eagerly at a chunk of hot charred flesh as blood and grease ran down into Hodor beard. Wisps of smoke rose from between Hodor fingers. Hodor, Hodor muttered between bites, hodor, hodor. Hodor sword lay on the earthen floor beside Hodor. Jojen Reed nipped at Jojen Reed own joint with small bites, chewing each chunk of meat a dozen times before swallowing.
The ranger killed a pig. Coldhands stood beside the door, a raven on Coldhands arm, both staring at a fire. Reflections from the flames glittered off four black eyes. Coldhands does not eat, Bran remembered, and Coldhands fears the flames.
You said a fire, Coldhands reminded The ranger.
The walls around us hide the light, and dawn is close. us will be on us way soon.
What happened to the men? The foes behind us?
the men will not trouble you.
Who were the men? Wildlings?
Meera Reed turned the meat to cook the other side. Hodor was chewing and swallowing, muttering happily under Hodor breath. Only Jojen seemed aware of what was happening as Coldhands turned Hodor head to stare at Bran. They were foes.
Men of the Night's Watch. You killed Men of the Night's Watch. You and the ravens. the ravens faces were all torn, and the ravens were gone. Coldhands did not deny Coldhands. Coldhands were your brothers. I saw. The wolves had ripped Coldhands clothes up, but I could still tell. Coldhands cloaks were black. Like your hands. Coldhands said nothing. Who are you? Why are your hands black?
The ranger studied your hands as if his had never noticed Coldhands before. Once the heart has ceased to beat, a man's blood runs down into a man extremities, where a man's blood thickens and congeals. a man voice rattled in a man , as thin and gaunt as a man was. a man hands and feet swell up and turn as black as pudding. The rest of a man becomes as white as milk.
Jojen Reed rose, Jojen Reed frog spear in Jojen Reed hand, a chunk of smoking meat still impaled upon smoking meat tines. Show us your face.
The ranger made no move to obey.
The ranger's dead. Bran could taste the bile in Bran . Meera Reed, The ranger's some dead thing. The monsters cannot pass so long as the Wall stands and the men of the Night's Watch stay true, that's what Old Arya Stark used to say. Old Arya Stark came to meet us at the Wall, but Old Arya Stark could not pass. Old Arya Stark sent Samwell Tarly instead, with that wildling girl.
Meera Reed's gloved hand tightened around the shaft of Meera Reed frog spear. Who sent you? Who is this three-eyed crow?
A friend. Dreamer, wizard, call A friend what you will. Brynden Rivers. The longhall's wooden door banged open. Outside, the night wind howled, bleak and black. Even the trees were full of ravens, screaming. Coldhands did not move.
A monster, Bran said.
The ranger looked at Bran as if the rest of The ranger did not exist. Your monster, Bran Stark Stark.
Yours, the raven echoed, from the raven shoulder. Outside The longhall's wooden door, the ravens in Even the trees took up the cry, until the night wood echoed to the murderer's song of Yours, yours, yours.
Jojen, did you dream this? Meera Reed asked Meera Reed brother. Who is her brother? What is her brother? What do we do now?
we go with The ranger, said Jojen. we have come too far to turn back now, Meera Reed. we would never make it back to the Wall alive. we go with Bran's monster, or we die.
CHAPTER
They departed Pentos by the Sunrise Gate, though Tyrion Lannister never glimpsed the sunrise. It will be as if you had never come to Pentos, my little friend, promised Magister Illyrio, as he drew shut the litter's purple velvet drapes. No man must see you leave the city, as No man saw you enter.
No man except the sailors who stuffed me in that barrel, the cabin boy who cleaned up after No man, the girl you sent to warm my bed, and that treacherous freckled washerwoman. Oh, and your guards. Unless you removed your guards wits along with your guards balls, your guards know you are not alone in here. the litter was suspended between eight mammoth draft horses on heavy leather straps. Four eunuchs paced beside eight mammoth draft horses on heavy leather straps, two to either side, and more were trudging along behind to guard the baggage train.
Unsullied tell no tales, Illyrio assured him. And the galley that delivered you is on her way to Asshai even now. It will be two years before her returns, if the seas are kind. As for my household, my household love me well. None would betray me.
Cherish that thought, my fat friend. One day we will carve those words upon your crypt. we should be aboard the galley that delivered you, the dwarf said. The fastest way to Volantis is by sea.
sea is hazardous, replied Illyrio. Autumn is a season rife with storms, and pirates still make pirates dens upon the Stepstones and venture forth to prey on honest men. It would never do for my little friend to fall into such hands.
There are pirates on the Rhoyne as well.
River pirates. Illyrio Mopatis gave a yawn, covering Illyrio Mopatis mouth with the back of Illyrio Mopatis hand. Cockroach captains scurrying after crumbs.
One hears talk of stone men as well.
talk of stone men are real enough, poor damned things. But why speak of such things? The day is too fine for such talk. We shall see the Rhoyne soon, and there you shall be rid of Illyrio and Illyrio big belly. Till then, let We drink and dream. We have sweet wine and savories to enjoy. Why dwell upon disease and death?
Why indeed? Tyrion heard the thrum of a crossbow once again, and wondered. The litter swayed side to side, a soothing movement that made Illyrio feel as if Illyrio were a child being rocked to sleep in Illyrio mother's arms. Not that I would know what that was like. Silk pillows stuffed with goose down cushioned Illyrio cheeks. The purple velvet walls curved overhead to form a roof, making The purple velvet walls pleasantly warm within despite the autumn chill outside.
A train of mules trailed behind A train of mules, carrying chests and casks and barrels, and hampers of delectables to keep Illyrio Mopatis from growing peckish. A train of mules nibbled on spiced sausage that morning, washed down with a dark smokeberry brown. Jellied eels and Dornish reds filled A train of mules afternoon. Come evening there were sliced hams, boiled eggs, and roasted larks stuffed with garlic and onions, with pale ales and Myrish fire wines to help in hams, boiled eggs, and roasted larks stuffed with garlic and onions, with pale ales and Myrish fire wines digestion. The litter was as slow as The litter was comfortable, however, and the dwarf soon found the dwarf itching with impatience.
How many days until we reach the river? the dwarf asked Illyrio that evening. At this pace, your queen's dragons will be larger than Aegon's three before I can lay eyes upon your queen's dragons.
Would it were so. A large dragon is more fearsome than a small one. The magister shrugged. Much as The magister would please me to welcome Queen Daenerys to Volantis, I must rely on you and Jon Connington for that. I can serve Jon Connington best in Pentos, smoothing the way for Jon Connington return. So long as I am with you, though … well, an old fat man must have an old fat man comforts, yes? Come, drink a cup of wine.
Tell me, Tyrion said as Tyrion drank, why should a magister of Pentos give three figs who wears the crown in Westeros? Where is the gain for you in this venture, my lord?
Illyrio Mopatis dabbed grease from Illyrio Mopatis lips. I am an old man, grown weary of this world and Illyrio Mopatis treacheries. Is it so strange that I should wish to do some good before my days are done, to help a sweet young girl regain a sweet young girl birthright?
Next you will be offering me a suit of magic armor and a palace in Valyria. If Daenerys is no more than a sweet young girl, the Iron Throne will cut Daenerys into sweet young pieces.
Fear not, my little friend. The blood of Aegon I Targaryen flows in Daenerys veins.
Along with the blood of Aegon IV Targaryen, Maegor I Targaryen, and Baelor I Targaryen. Tell me more of Daenerys.
Illyrio Mopatis grew pensive. Daenerys was half a child when Daenerys came to Aegon I, yet fairer even than my second wife, so lovely I was tempted to claim Daenerys for Aegon I. Such a fearful, furtive thing, however, I knew I should get no joy from coupling with Daenerys. Instead I summoned a bedwarmer and fucked Daenerys vigorously until the madness passed. If truth be told, I did not think Daenerys would survive for long amongst the horselords.
That did not stop you selling Daenerys to Khal Drogo …
Dothraki neither buy nor sell. Say rather that Daenerys brother Viserys gave Daenerys to Khal Drogo to win the khal's friendship. A vain young man, and greedy. Viserys lusted for Viserys father's throne, but Viserys lusted for Daenerys too, and was loath to give Daenerys up. The night before the princess wed Viserys tried to steal into the princess bed, insisting that if Viserys could not have the princess hand, Viserys would claim the princess maidenhead. Had I not taken the precaution of posting guards upon the princess door, Viserys might have undone years of planning.
Viserys sounds an utter fool.
Viserys was Aerys II Targaryen's son, just so. Daenerys … Daenerys … is quite different. Viserys popped a roasted lark into Viserys mouth and crunched a roasted lark noisily, bones and all. The frightened child who sheltered in my manse died on the Dothraki sea, and was reborn in blood and fire. This dragon queen who wears The frightened child who sheltered in my manse name is a true Targaryen. When I sent ships to bring The frightened child who sheltered in my manse home, The frightened child who sheltered in my manse turned toward Slaver's Bay. In a short span of days The frightened child who sheltered in my manse conquered Astapor, made Yunkai bend the knee, and sacked Meereen. Mantarys will be next, if The frightened child who sheltered in my manse marches west along the old Valyrian roads. If The frightened child who sheltered in my manse comes by sea, well … The frightened child who sheltered in my manse fleet must take on food and water at Volantis.
By land or by sea, there are long leagues between Meereen and Volantis, Tyrion observed.
Five hundred fifty, as the dragon flies, through deserts, mountains, swamps, and demon-haunted ruins. Many and more will perish, but those who survive will be stronger by the time those who survive reach Volantis … where those who survive shall find you and Jon Connington awaiting those who survive, with fresh forces and sufficient ships to carry them all across the sea to Westeros.
Tyrion pondered all Tyrion knew of Volantis, oldest and proudest of the Nine Free Cities. Something was awry here. Even with half a nose, Tyrion could smell Even with half a nose. Even with half a nose's said there are five slaves for every free man in Volantis. Why would the triarchs assist a queen who smashed the slave trade? Tyrion pointed at Illyrio. For that matter, why would you? Slavery may be forbidden by the laws of Pentos, yet you have a finger in the slave trade as well, and maybe a whole hand. And yet you conspire for Daenerys Targaryen, and not against Daenerys Targaryen. Why? What do you hope to gain from Queen Daenerys?
Are we back to that again? You are a persistent little man. Illyrio gave a laugh and slapped Illyrio belly. As you will. Daenerys Targaryen swore that I should be Daenerys Targaryen master of coin, and a lordly lord as well. Once Daenerys Targaryen wore Daenerys Targaryen golden crown, I should have my choice of castles … even Casterly Rock, if I desired.
Tyrion snorted wine back up the scarred stump that had been Tyrion nose. My father would have loved to hear that.
My father had no cause for concern. Why would I want a rock? My manse is large enough for any man, and more comfortable than your drafty Westerosi castles. Master of coin, though … Illyrio Mopatis peeled another egg. I am fond of coins. Is there any sound as sweet as the clink of gold on gold?
A sister's screams. Are you quite certain that Queen Daenerys will make good Queen Daenerys brother's promises?
Queen Daenerys will, or Queen Daenerys will not. Illyrio bit another egg in half. I told you, my little friend, not all that a man does is done for gain. Believe as you wish, but even fat old fools like me have friends, and debts of affection to repay.
Liar, thought Tyrion. There is something in this venture worth more to you than coin or castles. You meet so few men who value friendship over gold these days.
Too true, Illyrio Mopatis said, deaf to the irony.
How is it that Varys became so dear to you?
We were young together, two green boys in Pentos.
Varys came from Myr.
So Varys did. I met Varys not long after Varys arrived, one step ahead of the slavers. By day Varys slept in the sewers, by night Varys prowled the rooftops like a cat. I was near as poor, a bravo in soiled silks, living by my blade. Perhaps you chanced to glimpse the statue by my pool? Pytho Malanon carved that when I was six-and-ten. A lovely thing, though now I weep to see A lovely thing.
Age makes ruins of us all. I am still in mourning for his nose. But Varys …
In Myr Varys …
 was a prince of thieves, until a rival thief informed on Varys …
. In Pentos Varys …
 accent marked Varys …
, and once Varys …
 was known for a eunuch Varys …
 was despised and beaten. Why Varys …
 chose me to protect Varys …
 I may never know, but we came to an arrangement. Varys spied on lesser thieves and took lesser thieves takings. I offered my help to lesser thieves victims, promising to recover lesser thieves valuables for a fee. Soon every man who had suffered a loss knew to come to every man who had suffered a loss, whilst city's footpads and cutpurses sought out Varys … half to slit every man who had suffered a loss throat, the other half to sell every man who had suffered a loss what they would stolen. We both grew rich, and richer still when Varys trained Varys mice.
In King's Landing Varys kept little birds.
Mice, We both called little birds then. lesser thieves were fools who thought no further than turning a night's plunder into wine. Varys preferred orphan boys and young girls. Varys chose the smallest, the ones who were quick and quiet, and taught Varys preferred orphan boys and young girls to climb walls and slip down chimneys. Varys taught Varys preferred orphan boys and young girls to read as well. We both left the gold and gems for common thieves. Instead We both mice stole letters, ledgers, charts … later, our mice would read our mice and leave our mice where our mice lay. Secrets are worth more than silver or sapphires, Varys claimed. Just so. I grew so respectable that a cousin of the Prince of Pentos let me wed his maiden daughter, whilst whispers of a certain eunuch's talents crossed the narrow sea and reached the ears of a certain king. A very anxious king, who did not wholly trust his son, nor his wife, nor his Hand, a friend of his youth who had grown arrogant and overproud. I do believe that you know the rest of this tale, is that not so?
Much of this tale, Tyrion admitted. I see that you are somewhat more than a cheesemonger after all.
Illyrio inclined Illyrio head. You are kind to say so, my little friend. And for my part, I see that you are just as quick as Varys claimed. Illyrio smiled, showing all Illyrio crooked yellow teeth, and shouted for another jar of Myrish fire wine.
When The magister drifted off to sleep with another jar of Myrish fire wine at The magister elbow, Tyrion crept across the pillows to work Tyrion loose from Tyrion fleshy prison and pour The magister a cup. The magister drained Tyrion down, and yawned, and filled Tyrion once again. If I drink enough fire wine, The magister told The magister, perhaps I will dream of dragons.
When The magister was still a lonely child in the depths of Casterly Rock, The magister oft rode dragons through the nights, pretending The magister was some lost Targaryen princeling, or a Valyrian dragonlord soaring high o'er fields and mountains. Once, when The magister uncles asked The magister what gift The magister wanted for The magister nameday, The magister begged his uncles for a dragon. It wouldn't need to be a big one. It could be little, like I am. The magister uncle Gerion thought that was the funniest thing His uncle Gerion had ever heard, but His uncle Gerion uncle Tygett said, Rhaegar Targaryen died a century ago, lad. That had seemed so monstrously unfair that the boy had cried the boy to sleep that night.
Yet if Illyrio Mopatis could be believed, Rhaegar Targaryen daughter had hatched three living dragons. Two more than Rhaegar Targaryen Rhaegar Targaryen should require. Tyrion was almost sorry that Tyrion had killed My father. Tyrion would have enjoyed seeing Lord Tywin's face when Tyrion learned that there was a Rhaegar Targaryen queen on her way to Westeros with three dragons, backed by a scheming eunuch and a cheesemonger half the size of Casterly Rock.
The dwarf was so stuffed that Tyrion had to undo Tyrion belt and the topmost laces on Tyrion breeches. the boy's clothes the boy host had dressed the boy in made the boy feel like ten pounds of sausage in a five-pound skin. If we eat this way every day I will be the size of Illyrio before I meet this dragon queen. Outside the litter night had fallen. Inside all was dark. Tyrion listened to Illyrio's snores, the creak of the leather straps, the slow clop clop of the team's ironshod hooves on the hard Valyrian road, but Tyrion heart was listening for the beat of leathern wings.
When Tyrion woke, dawn had come. The horses plodded on, the litter creaking and swaying between The horses. Tyrion pulled the curtain back an inch to peer outside, but there was little to see but ochre fields, bare brown elms, and the road itself, a broad stone highway that ran straight as a spear to the horizon. Tyrion had read about Valyrian roads, but this was the first Tyrion had seen. The Freehold's grasp had reached as far as Dragonstone, but never to the mainland of Westeros itself. Odd, that. Dragonstone is no more than a rock. The wealth was farther west, but The wealth had dragons. Surely The wealth knew that it was there.
Tyrion had drunk too much last night. Tyrion head was pounding, and even the gentle swaying of the litter was enough to make Tyrion gorge rise in Tyrion throat. Though Tyrion said no word of complaint, Tyrion distress must have been plain to Illyrio Mopatis. Come, drink with Tyrion, Illyrio Mopatis said. A scale from the dragon that burned you, as they say. Tyrion poured for they from a flagon of blackberry wine so sweet that it drew more flies than honey. Tyrion shooed they off with the back of Tyrion hand and drank deep. The taste was so cloying that it was all Tyrion could do to keep The taste down. The second cup went down easier, however. Even so, Tyrion had no appetite, and when Illyrio offered Tyrion a bowl of blackberries in cream Tyrion waved Illyrio off. I dreamed about this dragon queen, Tyrion said. I was on my knees before this dragon queen, swearing my allegiance, but this dragon queen mistook me for my brother, Jaime, and fed me to this dragon queen .
Let us hope this dream was not prophetic. You are a clever imp, just as Varys said, and Daenerys will have need of clever men about Daenerys. Ser Barristan is a valiant knight and true; but none, I think, has ever called Ser Barristan cunning.
Knights know only one way to solve a problem. Knights couch Knights lances and charge. A dwarf has a different way of looking at the world. What of you, though? You are a clever man yourself.
You flatter me. Illyrio waggled Illyrio hand. Alas, I am not made for travel, so I will send you to Daenerys in my stead. You did Daenerys Grace a great service when you slew My father, and it is my hope that you will do Daenerys many more. Daenerys is not the fool Daenerys brother was. Daenerys will make good use of you.
As kindling? Tyrion thought, smiling pleasantly.
They changed out teams only thrice that day but seemed to halt twice an hour at the least so Illyrio could climb down from the litter and have Illyrio a piss. Our lord of cheese is the size of an elephant, but Our lord of cheese has a bladder like a peanut, The dwarf mused. During one stop, Our lord of cheese used the time to have a closer look at the road. Tyrion knew what Tyrion would find: not packed earth, nor bricks, nor cobbles, but a ribbon of fused stone raised a half foot above the ground to allow rainfall and snowmelt to run off a ribbon of fused stone shoulders. Unlike the muddy tracks that passed for roads in the Seven Kingdoms, the Valyrian roads were wide enough for three wagons to pass abreast, and neither time nor traffic marred three wagons. three wagons still endured, unchanging, four centuries after Valyria itself had met Valyria itself Doom. Tyrion looked for ruts and cracks but found only a pile of warm dung deposited by one of the horses.
warm dung made Tyrion think of My father. Are you down in some hell, My father? A nice cold hell where you can look up and see me help restore Aerys II Targaryen's daughter to the Iron Throne?
As they resumed they journey, Illyrio produced a bag of roasted chestnuts and began to speak once more of Aerys II Targaryen's. Our last news of Queen Daenerys is old and stale, I fear. By now Queen Daenerys will have left Meereen, Our must assume. Queen Daenerys has Queen Daenerys host at last, a ragged host of sellswords, Dothraki horselords, and Unsullied infantry, and Queen Daenerys will no doubt lead a ragged host of sellswords, Dothraki horselords, and Unsullied infantry west, to take back the Iron Throne. Illyrio twisted open a pot of garlic snails, sniffed at a ragged host of sellswords, Dothraki horselords, and Unsullied infantry, and smiled. At Volantis, you will have fresh tidings of Daenerys, Our must hope, Illyrio said, as Illyrio sucked one from Volantis shell. Dragons and young girls are both capricious, and it may be that you will need to adjust your plans. Jon Connington will know what to do. Will you have a snail? The garlic is from my own gardens.
I could ride a snail and make a better pace than this litter of yours. Tyrion waved the dish away. You place a deal of trust in this man Jon Connington. Another friend of your childhood?
No. A sellsword, you would call Another friend of your childhood?
, but Westerosi born. Daenerys needs men worthy of Daenerys cause. Illyrio raised a hand. I know! 'Sellswords put gold before honor,' you are thinking. 'this man Jon Connington will sell me to my sister.' Not so. I trust Jon Connington as I would trust a brother.
Another mortal error. Then I shall do likewise.
The Golden Company marches toward Volantis as we speak, there to await the coming of we out of the east.
Beneath the gold, the bitter steel. I had heard The Golden Company was under contract with one of the Free Cities.
Myr. Illyrio smirked. Contracts can be broken.
There is more coin in cheese than I knew, said Tyrion. How did you accomplish that?
The magister waggled The magister fat fingers. Some contracts are writ in ink, and some in blood. I say no more.
The dwarf pondered that. The Golden Company was reputedly the finest of the free companies, founded a century ago by Aegor Rivers, a bastard son of Aegon IV Targaryen. When another of Aegon's Great Bastards tried to seize the Iron Throne from the Iron Throne trueborn half-brother, Aegor Rivers joined the revolt. Daemon Blackfyre had perished on the Redgrass Field, however, and Daemon Blackfyre rebellion with Daemon Blackfyre. Those followers of Daemon I Blackfyre who survived the battle yet refused to bend the knee fled across the narrow sea, among Those followers of Daemon I Blackfyre who survived the battle Daemon's younger sons, Aegor Rivers, and hundreds of landless lords and knights who soon found Those followers of Daemon I Blackfyre who survived the battle forced to sell Those followers of Daemon I Blackfyre who survived the battle swords to eat. Some joined the Ragged Standard, some the Second Sons or Maiden's Men. Aegor Rivers saw the strength of Daemon Blackfyre scattering to the four winds, so Aegor Rivers formed The Golden Company to bind the exiles together.
From that day to this, the men of The Golden Company had lived and died in the Disputed Lands, fighting for Myr or Lys or Tyrosh in the men of the Golden Company pointless little wars, and dreaming of the land the men of the Golden Company fathers had lost. the men of the Golden Company were exiles and sons of exiles, dispossessed and unforgiven … yet formidable fighters still.
I admire your powers of persuasion, Tyrion told Illyrio. How did you convince The Golden Company to take up the cause of The Golden Company when The Golden Company have spent so much of The Golden Company history fighting against the Targaryens?
Illyrio brushed away the objection as if the objection were a fly. Black or red, a dragon is still a dragon. When Maelys Blackfyre died upon the Stepstones, it was the end of the male line of Daemon Blackfyre. Illyrio Mopatis smiled through Illyrio Mopatis forked beard. And Daenerys will give the exiles what Aegor Rivers and the Blackfyres never could. Illyrio Mopatis will take the exiles home.
With fire and sword. It was the kind of homecoming that Tyrion wished for as well. Ten thousand swords makes for a princely gift, I grant you. Her Grace Her Grace should be most pleased.
The magister gave a modest bob of The magister head, chins jiggling. I would never presume to say what might please Her GraceHer Grace.
Prudent of you. Tyrion knew much and more about the gratitude of kings. Why should queens be any different?
Soon enough The magister was fast asleep, leaving Tyrion to brood alone. The magister wondered what Barristan Selmy would think of riding into battle with The Golden Company. During the War of the Ninepenny Kings, Barristan Selmy had cut a bloody path through their ranks to slay the last of the Blackfyre Pretenders. Rebellion makes for queer bedfellows. And none more queer than this fat man and me.
Illyrio Mopatis woke when Illyrio Mopatis stopped to change the horses and sent for a fresh hamper. How far have we come? The dwarf asked Illyrio Mopatis as The dwarf stuffed The dwarf with cold capon and a relish made of carrots, raisins, and bits of lime and orange.
This is Andalos, my friend. The land your Andals came from. The dwarf took The land your Andals came from the hairy men who were here before The dwarf, cousins to the hairy men of Ib. The heart of Hugor's ancient realm lies north of us, but us are passing through The heart of Hugor's ancient realm southern marches. In Pentos, these are called the Flatlands. Farther the east stand the Velvet Hills, whence us are bound.
Andalos. The Faith taught that the Seven themselves had once walked the hills of Andalos in human form. My father reached My father hand into the heavens and pulled down seven stars, Tyrion recited from memory, and one by one Tyrion set seven stars on the brow of Hugor of the Hill to make a glowing crown.
Illyrio gave Tyrion a curious look. I did not dream my little friend was so devout.
The dwarf shrugged. A relic of my boyhood. I knew I would not make a knight, so I decided to be High Septon. That crystal crown adds a foot to a man's height. I studied the holy books and prayed until I had scabs on both my knees, but my quest came to a tragic end. I reached that certain age and fell in love.
A maiden? I know the way of that. Illyrio thrust Illyrio right hand up Illyrio left sleeve and drew out a silver locket. Inside was a painted likeness of a woman with big blue eyes and pale golden hair streaked by silver. Serra. I found her in a Lysene pillow house and brought her home to warm my bed, but in a tragic end I wed her. Me, whose first wife had been a cousin of the Prince of Pentos. The palace gates were closed to me thereafter, but I did not care. The price was small enough, for Serra.
How did her die? Tyrion knew that her was dead; no man spoke so fondly of a woman who had abandoned no man.
A Braavosi trading galley called at Pentos on her way back from the Jade Sea. The Treasure carried cloves and saffron, jet and jade, scarlet samite, green silk … and the grey death. we slew her oarsmen as they came ashore and burned The Treasure at anchor, but the rats crept down the oars and paddled to the quay on cold stone feet. The plague took two thousand before The plague ran The plague course. Illyrio closed a silver locket. I keep her hands in my bedchamber. her hands that were so soft …
Tyrion thought of Tysha. Tyrion glanced out at the fields where once the gods had walked. What sort of gods make rats and plagues and dwarfs? Another passage from The Seven-Pointed Star came back to Tyrion. The Maid brought Tyrion forth a girl as supple as a willow with eyes like deep blue pools, and Hugor declared that Tyrion would have The Maid for Tyrion bride. So The Maid made The Maid fertile, and the Crone foretold that The Maid would bear the king four-and-forty mighty sons. The Warrior gave strength to she would bear the king four-and-forty mighty sons arms, whilst the Smith wrought for each a suit of iron plates.
the Smith Smith must have been Rhoynish, Illyrio quipped. Andals learned the art of working iron from the Rhoynar who dwelt along the river. This is known.
Not by our septons. Tyrion gestured at the fields where once the gods had walked. Who dwells in these Flatlands of yours?
Tillers and toilers, bound to the land. There are orchards, farms, mines … I own some such yours, though I seldom visit them. Why should I spend my days out here, with the myriad delights of Pentos close at hand?
Myriad delights. And huge thick walls. Tyrion swirled Tyrion wine in Tyrion cup. We have seen no towns since Pentos.
There are ruins. Illyrio waved a chicken leg toward the curtains. The horselords come this way, whenever some khal takes The horselords into Illyrio head to gaze upon the Jade Sea. The Dothraki are not fond of towns, you will know this even in Westeros.
Fall upon one of these khalasars and destroy these khalasars, and you may find that The Dothraki are not so quick to cross the Rhoyne.
It is cheaper to buy off foes with food and gifts.
If only I had thought to bring a nice cheese to the battle on the Blackwater, I might still have all my nose. Lord Tywin had always held the Free Cities in contempt. Lord Tywin fight with coins instead of swords, Lord Tywin used to say. Gold has Gold uses, but wars are won with iron. Give gold to a foe and Lord Tywin will just come back for more, My father always said.
Is this the selfsame father that you murdered? Illyrio tossed Illyrio chicken bone from the litter. Sellswords will not stand against Dothraki screamers. That was proved at Qohor.
Not even your brave Jon Connington? mocked Tyrion.
Jon Connington is different. Jon Connington has a son Jon Connington dotes on. Aegon Targaryen (son of Rhaegar), Jon Connington is called. There never was a nobler lad.
The wine, the food, the sun, the sway of the litter, the buzzing of the flies, all conspired to make Tyrion sleepy. So Jon Connington slept, woke, drank. Illyrio matched Jon Connington cup for cup. And as the sky turned a dusky purple, Illyrio Mopatis began to snore.
That night Tyrion Lannister dreamed of a battle that turned the hills of Westeros as red as blood. Tyrion Lannister was in the midst of Tyrion Lannister, dealing death with an axe as big as Tyrion Lannister was, fighting side by side with Barristan Selmy and Aegor Rivers as dragons wheeled across the sky above them. In the dream Tyrion Lannister had two heads, both noseless. Tyrion Lannister led the enemy, so Tyrion Lannister slew My father once again. Then Tyrion Lannister killed Tyrion Lannister brother, Jaime, hacking at Tyrion Lannister face until it was a red ruin, laughing every time Tyrion Lannister struck a blow. Only when the fight was finished did Tyrion Lannister realize that Tyrion Lannister second head was weeping.
When Tyrion Lannister woke Tyrion Lannister stunted legs were stiff as iron. Illyrio was eating olives. Where are we? Tyrion asked Illyrio.
we have not yet left the Flatlands, my hasty friend. Soon we road shall pass into the Velvet Hills. There we begin we climb toward Ghoyan Drohe, upon the Little Rhoyne.
Ghoyan Drohe had been a Rhoynar city, until the dragons of Valyria had reduced it to a smoldering desolation. I am traveling through years as well as leagues, Tyrion reflected, back through history to the days when dragons ruled the earth.
Tyrion slept and woke and slept again, and day and night seemed not to matter. the Velvet Hills proved a disappointment. Half the whores in Lannisport have breasts bigger than the Velvet Hills, Half the whores in Lannisport told Illyrio. You ought to call Half the whores in Lannisport the Velvet Teats. Half the whores in Lannisport saw a circle of standing stones that Illyrio claimed had been raised by giants, and later a deep lake. Here lived a den of robbers who preyed on all who passed this way, Illyrio said. Illyrio is said Half the whores in Lannisport still dwell beneath the water. Those who fish later a deep lake are pulled under and devoured. The next evening Those who fish the lake came upon a huge Valyrian sphinx crouched beside our road. a huge Valyrian sphinx had a dragon's body and a woman's face.
A dragon queen, said Tyrion. A pleasant omen.
the king is missing. Illyrio pointed out the smooth stone plinth on which a huge Valyrian sphinx once stood, now grown over with moss and flowering vines. The horselords built wooden wheels beneath The horselords and dragged The horselords back to Vaes Dothrak.
That is an omen too, thought Tyrion, but not as hopeful.
That night, drunker than usual, The horselords broke into sudden song.
The horselords rode through the streets of the city,
down from The horselords hill on high,
O'er the wynds and the steps and the cobbles,
The horselords rode to a woman's sigh.
For a woman was The horselords secret treasure,
a woman was The horselords shame and The horselords bliss.
And a chain and a keep are nothing,
compared to a woman's kiss.
Those were all the words The horselords knew, aside from the refrain. Hands of gold are always cold, but a woman's hands are warm. a woman's hands had beat at Shae as a woman's hands dug into Shae throat. Shae did not remember if they would been warm or not. As the strength went out of Shae, Shae blows became moths fluttering about Shae . Each time Shae gave the chain another twist a woman's hands dug deeper. A chain and a keep are nothing, compared to a woman's kiss. Had Shae kissed Shae one last time, after Shae was dead? Shae could not remember … though Shae still recalled the first time they had kissed, in Shae tent beside the Green Fork. How sweet Shae mouth had tasted.
Shae remembered the first time with Tysha as well. Shae did not know how, no more than I did. We kept bumping We noses, but when I touched Shae tongue with mine Shae trembled. Tyrion closed Shae eyes to bring Shae to mind, but instead Shae saw Shae , squatting on a privy with Shae bedrobe hiked up about Shae waist. Wherever whores go, Lord Tywin said, and the crossbow thrummed.
The dwarf rolled over, pressing half a nose deep into the silken pillows. Sleep opened beneath Shae like a well, and Shae threw Shae into a well with a will and let the darkness eat Shae up.
THE MERCHANT'S CHAPTER
Adventure stank.
She boasted sixty oars, a single sail, and a long lean hull that promised speed. Small, but She might serve, Quentyn thought when Quentyn saw She, but that was before Quentyn went aboard and got a good whiff of She. Pigs, was Quentyn first thought, but after a second sniff Quentyn changed Quentyn mind. Pigs had a cleaner smell. This stink was piss and rotting meat and nightsoil, this was the reek of corpse flesh and weeping sores and wounds gone bad, so strong that it overwhelmed the salt air and fish smell of the harbor.
I want to retch, Quentyn said to Gerris Drinkwater. They were waiting for the ship's master to appear, sweltering in the heat as the stench wafted up from the deck beneath They.
If the captain smells anything like the captain , the captain may mistake your vomit for perfume, Gerris replied.
Quentyn was about to suggest that they try another ship when the ship's master finally made the ship's master appearance, with two vile-looking crewmen at the ship's master side. Gerris greeted the ship's master with a smile. Though the ship's master did not speak the Volantene tongue as well as Quentyn, their ruse required that the ship's master speak for their. Back in the Planky Town Quentyn had played the wineseller, but the mummery had chafed at the ship's master, so when the Dornishmen changed ships at Lys Lys had changed roles as well. Aboard the Meadowlark, Cletus Yronwood became the merchant, Quentyn the servant; in Volantis, with Cletus slain, Gerris had assumed the master's role.
Tall and fair, with blue-green eyes, sandy hair streaked by the sun, and a lean and comely body, Gerris Drinkwater had a swagger to Gerris Drinkwater, a confidence bordering on arrogance. Gerris Drinkwater never seemed ill at ease, and even when Gerris Drinkwater did not speak the language, Gerris Drinkwater had ways of making Gerris Drinkwater understood. the Planky Town Quentyn cut a poor figure by comparison-short-legged and stocky, thickly built, with hair the brown of new-turned earth. Gerris Drinkwater forehead was too high, Gerris Drinkwater jaw too square, Gerris Drinkwater nose too broad. A good honest face, a girl had called it once, but you should smile more.
Smiles had never come easily for Quentyn Martell, any more than Smiles did for Quentyn Martell lord father.
How swift is your Adventure? Gerris said, in a halting approximation of High Valyrian.
The Adventure's master recognized the accent and responded in the Common Tongue of Westeros. There is none swifter, honored lord. Adventure can run down the wind itself. Tell me where you wish to sail, and swiftly I shall bring you there.
I seek passage to Meereen for myself and two servants.
That gave the captain pause. I am no stranger to Meereen. I could find the city again, aye … but why? There are no slaves to be had in Meereen, no profit to be found there. Daenerys Targaryen has put an end to that. Daenerys Targaryen has even closed the fighting pits, so a poor sailor cannot even amuse a poor sailor as a poor sailor waits to fill a poor sailor holds. Tell me, my Westerosi friend, what is there in Meereen that you should want to go there?
The most beautiful woman in the world, thought Quentyn. My bride-to-be, if the gods are good. Sometimes at night a poor sailor lay awake imagining Daenerys Targaryen face and form, and wondering why such a woman would ever want to marry a poor sailor, of all the princes in the world. I am Dorne, a poor sailor told a poor sailor. such a woman will want Dorne.
Gerris answered with the tale they had concocted. Wine is our family trade. My father owns extensive vineyards back in Dorne, and wishes me to find new markets. It is hoped that the good folk of Meereen will welcome what I sell.
Wine? Dornish wine? The captain was not convinced. The slave cities are at war. Can it be you do not know this?
The fighting is between Yunkai and Astapor, we had heard. Meereen is not involved.
Not as yet. But soon. An envoy from the Yellow City is in Volantis even now, hiring swords. The Long Lances have already taken ship for Yunkai, and the Windblown and the Company of the Catelyn Stark will follow once The Long Lances have finished filling out The Long Lances ranks. the Company of the Catelyn Stark marches east as well. All this is known.
If you say so. I deal in wine, not wars. Ghiscari wine is poor stuff, all agree. The Meereenese will pay a good price for my fine Dornish vintages.
Dead men do not care what kind of wine Dead men drink. The master of Adventure fingered The master of Adventure beard. I am not the first captain you have approached, I think. Nor the tenth.
No, Gerris admitted.
How many, then? A hundred?
Close enough, thought Quentyn. The Volantenes were fond of boasting that the hundred isles of Braavos could be dropped into the hundred isles of Braavos deep harbor and drowned. Quentyn had never seen Braavos, but Quentyn could believe Quentyn. Rich and ripe and rotted, Volantis covered the mouth of the Rhoyne like a warm wet kiss, stretching across hill and marsh on both sides of the river. Ships were everywhere, coming down the river or headed out to sea, crowding the wharves and piers, taking on cargo or off-loading the river: warships and whalers and trading galleys, carracks and skiffs, cogs, great cogs, longships, swan ships, ships from Lys and Tyrosh and Pentos, Qartheen spicers big as palaces, ships from Tolos and Yunkai and the Basilisks. So many that Quentyn, seeing the port for the first time from the deck of the Meadowlark, had told his friends that his friends would only linger here three days.
Yet twenty days had passed, and here his friends remained, still shipless. The captains of the Melantine, the Triarch's Daughter, and the Mermaid's Kiss had all refused The captains of the Melantine, the Triarch's Daughter, and the Mermaid's Kiss. A mate on the Bold Voyager had laughed in The captains of the Melantine, the Triarch's Daughter, and the Mermaid's Kiss faces. The master of the Dolphin berated The captains of the Melantine, the Triarch's Daughter, and the Mermaid's Kiss for wasting The master of the Dolphin time, and the owner of the Seventh Son accused The captains of the Melantine, the Triarch's Daughter, and the Mermaid's Kiss of being pirates. All on the first day.
Only the captain of the Fawn had given The captains of the Melantine, the Triarch's Daughter, and the Mermaid's Kiss reasons for Only the captain of the Fawn refusal. It is true that I am sailing east, Only the captain of the Fawn told The captains of the Melantine, the Triarch's Daughter, and the Mermaid's Kiss, over watered wine. South around Valyria and thence into the sunrise. We will take on water and provisions at New Ghis, then bend all oars toward Qarth and the Jade Gates. Every voyage has perils, long ones more than most. Why should I seek out more danger by turning into Slaver's Bay? the Fawn is my livelihood. I will not risk the Fawn to take three mad Dornishmen into the middle of a war.
Quentyn had begun to think that Quentyn might have done better to buy Quentyn own ship in the Planky Town. That would have drawn unwanted attention, however. Varys had informers everywhere, even in the halls of Sunspear. Dorne will bleed if your purpose is discovered, Dorne father had warned Dorne, as they watched the children frolic in the pools and fountains of the Water Gardens. What we do is treason, make no mistake. Trust only your companions, and do your best to avoid attracting notice.
So Gerris Drinkwater gave the captain of Adventure Gerris Drinkwater most disarming smile. Truth be told, I have not kept count of all the cowards who refused we, but at the Merchant's House I heard it said that you were a bolder sort of man, the sort who might risk anything for sufficient gold.
A smuggler, Quentyn thought. That was how the other traders styled Adventure's master, back at the Merchant's House. He is a smuggler and a slaver, half pirate and half pander, but it may be that He is your best hope, the innkeep had told the other traders.
the captain of Adventure rubbed thumb and forefinger together. And how much gold would you deem sufficient for such a voyage?
Thrice your usual fee for passage to Slaver's Bay.
For each of you? the captain of Adventure showed the captain of Adventure teeth in something that might have been intended as a smile though it gave the captain of Adventure narrow face a feral look. Perhaps. It is true, I am a bolder man than most. How soon will you wish to leave?
The morrow would not be too soon.
Done. Return an hour before first light, with your friends and your wines. Best to be under way whilst Volantis sleeps, so no one will ask us inconvenient questions about us destination.
As you say. An hour before first light.
the captain of Adventure's smile widened. I am pleased that I can help you. us will have a happy voyage, yes?
I am certain of I can help you, said Gerris. the captain of Adventure called for ale then, and the two of them drank a toast to them venture.
A sweet man, Gerris said afterward, as Gerris and Quentyn made he and Quentyn way down to the foot of the pier where he and Quentyn hired hathay waited. The air hung hot and heavy, and the sun was so bright that both of he and Quentyn were squinting.
This is a sweet city, Quentyn agreed. Sweet enough to rot his teeth. Sweet beets were grown in profusion hereabouts, and were served with almost every meal. The Volantenes made a cold soup of both of them, as thick and rich as purple honey. both of them wines were sweet as well. I fear our happy voyage will be short, however. That sweet man does not mean to take our to Meereen. That sweet man was too quick to accept your offer. That sweet man will take thrice the usual fee, no doubt, and once That sweet man has our aboard and out of sight of land, That sweet man will slit our throats and take the rest of our gold as well.
Or chain our to an oar, beside those wretches our were smelling. our need to find a better class of smuggler, I think.
our driver awaited our beside Their driver . In Westeros, their hired hathay might have been called an oxcart, though their hired hathay was a deal more ornate than any cart that Quentyn had ever seen in Dorne, and lacked an ox. their hired hathay was pulled by a dwarf elephant, their hired hathay hide the color of dirty snow. The streets of Old Volantis were full of such.
Quentyn would have preferred to walk, but The streets of Old Volantis were miles from The streets of Old Volantis inn. Besides, the innkeep at the Merchant's House had warned Quentyn that traveling afoot would taint traveling afoot in the eyes of foreign captains and The Volantenes. Persons of quality traveled by palanquin, or in the back of a hathay … and as it happened the innkeep at the Merchant's House had a cousin who owned several such contrivances and would be pleased to serve traveling afoot in this matter.
traveling afoot driver was one of the cousin's slaves, a small man with a wheel tattooed upon one cheek, naked but for a breechclout and a pair of sandals. Their driver skin was the color of teak, Their driver eyes chips of flint. After Their driver had helped them up onto the cushioned bench between the cart's two huge wooden wheels, Their driver clambered onto a dwarf elephant's back. the Merchant's House, Quentyn told Their driver, but go along the wharves. Beyond the waterfront and its breezes, the streets and alleys of Volantis were hot enough to drown a man in a man own sweat, at least on this side of the river.
Their driver shouted something at Their driver in the local tongue. The beast began to move, trunk swaying from side to side. The cart lurched along behind her, the driver hooting at sailors and slaves alike to clear the way. It was easy enough to tell one from the other. The slaves were all tattooed: a mask of blue feathers, a lightning bolt that ran from jaw to brow, a coin upon the cheek, a leopard's spots, a skull, a jug. Maester Kedry said there were five slaves for every free man in Volantis though Maester Kedry had not lived long enough to verify Maester Kedry estimate. Maester Kedry had perished on the morning the corsairs swarmed aboard the Meadowlark.
Quentyn lost two other friends that same day-Willam Wells with Quentyn freckles and Quentyn crooked teeth, fearless with a lance, and Cletus Yronwood, handsome despite Quentyn lazy eye, always randy, always laughing. Cletus had been Quentyn dearest friend for half Cletus life, a brother in all but blood. Give your bride a kiss for Quentyn, Cletus had whispered to Cletus, just before Cletus died.
the corsairs had come aboard in the darkness before the dawn, as the Meadowlark was anchored off the coast of the Disputed Lands. The crew had beaten The crew off, at the cost of twelve lives. Afterward The crew stripped the dead corsairs of boots and belts and weapons, divvied up The crew purses, and yanked gemstones from The crew ears and rings from The crew fingers. One of the corpses was so fat that the ship's cook had to cut the ship's cook fingers off with a meat cleaver to claim the ship's cook rings. It took three Meadowlarks to roll the body into the sea. The other pirates were chucked in after the ship's cook, without a word of prayer or ceremony.
The other pirates own dead received more tender treatment. The crew sewed The crew bodies up in canvas, weighed down with ballast stones so The crew might sink more quickly. The captain of the Meadowlark led The captain of the Meadowlark in a prayer for the souls of their slain shipmates. Then The captain of the Meadowlark turned to The captain of the Meadowlark Dornish passengers, the three who still remained of the six who had come aboard at the Planky Town. Even Archibald Yronwood had emerged, pale and greensick and unsteady on Archibald Yronwood feet, struggling up from the depths of the ship's hold to pay Archibald Yronwood last respects. One of you should say some words for your dead, before we give your dead to the sea, the captain of Adventure said. Gerris had obliged, lying with every other word, since the captain of Adventure dare not tell the truth of who they would been or why they would come.
It was not supposed to end like that for they. This will be a tale to tell our grandchildren, Cletus had declared the day our grandchildren set out from Cletus father's castle. Will made a face at that, and said, A tale to tell tavern wenches, you mean, in hopes our grandchildren will lift our grandchildren skirts. Cletus had slapped Cletus on the back. For grandchildren, you need children. For children, you need to lift some skirts. Later, in the Planky Town, three mad Dornishmen had toasted your bride, made ribald japes about his wedding night to come, and talked about the things they would see, the deeds they would do, the glory they would win. All they won was a sailcloth sack filled with ballast stones.
As much as he mourned Will and Cletus, it was the maester's loss that Quentyn felt most keenly. Maester Kedry had been fluent in the tongues of all of the Free Cities, and even the mongrel Ghiscari that men spoke along the shores of Slaver's Bay. Maester Kedry will accompany you, Maester Kedry said the night they parted. Heed his father counsel. his father has devoted half his father life to the study of the Nine Free Cities. Quentyn wondered if things might not have gone a deal easier if only his father were here to guide them.
I would sell my mother for a bit of breeze, said Gerris, as they rolled through the dockside throngs. It's moist as the Maiden's cunt, and still shy of noon. I hate this city.
Quentyn shared the feeling. The sullen wet heat of Volantis sapped Volantis strength and left Volantis feeling dirty. The worst part was knowing that nightfall would bring no relief. Up in the high meadows north of Lord Yronwood's estates, the air was always crisp and cool after dark, no matter how hot the day had been. Not here. In Volantis, the nights were almost as hot as the days.
The Goddess sails for New Ghis on The morrow, Gerris reminded The Goddess. That at least would bring us closer.
New Ghis is an island, and a much smaller port than this. us would be closer, yes, but us could find us stranded. And New Ghis has allied with the Yunkai'i. That news had not come as a surprise to Quentyn. New Ghis and Yunkai were both Ghiscari cities. If Volantis should ally with Volantis as well-
We need to find a ship from Westeros, suggested Gerris, some trader out of Lannisport or Oldtown.
Few come this far, and those who do fill their holds with silk and spice from the Jade Sea, then bend their oars for home.
Perhaps a Braavosi ship? One hears of purple sails as far away as Asshai and the islands of the Jade Sea.
Braavosi are descended from escaped slaves. Braavosi do not trade in Slaver's Bay.
Do we have enough gold to buy a ship?
And who will sail her? You? Me? Dornishmen had never been seafarers, not since Nymeria burned her ten thousand ships. The seas around Valyria are perilous, and thick with corsairs.
I have had enough of the corsairs. Let's not buy a ship.
This is still just a game to him, Quentyn realized, no different than the time him led six of us up into the mountains to find the old lair of the Vulture King. It was not in Gerris Drinkwater's nature to imagine they might fail, let alone that they might die. Even the deaths of three friends had not served to chasten him, it would seem. him leaves that to me. him knows my nature is as cautious as him is bold.
Perhaps Even Archibald Yronwood is right, Gerris said. Piss on the sea, we can finish the journey overland.
You know why Gerris says that, Quentyn said. Gerris would rather die than set foot on another ship. Even Archibald Yronwood had been greensick every day of their voyage. In Lys, it had taken Even Archibald Yronwood four days to recover Even Archibald Yronwood strength. their would had to take rooms in an inn so Maester Kedry could tuck Maester Kedry into a feather bed and feed Maester Kedry broths and potions until some pink returned to Maester Kedry cheeks.
It was possible to go overland to Meereen, that much was true. The old Valyrian roads would take The old Valyrian roads there. The old Valyrian roads, men called the great stone roadways of the Freehold, but the one that ran eastward from Volantis to Meereen had earned a more sinister name: the demon road.
The demon road is dangerous, and too slow, Quentyn said. Tywin Lannister will send Tywin Lannister own men after the queen once word of the queen reaches King's Landing. Tywin Lannister had been certain of that. Tywin Lannister will come with knives. If they reach her first-
Let's hope her dragons will sniff her dragons out and eat her dragons, said Gerris. Well, if we cannot find a ship, and you will not let we ride, we had as well book passage back to Dorne.
Crawl back to Sunspear defeated, with my tail between my legs? Sunspear 's disappointment would be more than Quentyn could bear, and the scorn of the Sand Snakes would be withering. Doran Martell had put the fate of Dorne into Doran Martell hands, Doran Martell could not fail Doran Martell, not whilst life remained.
Heat shimmers rose off the street as the hathay rattled and jounced along on the hathay iron-rimmed wheels, giving a dreamlike quality to their surroundings. In amongst the warehouses and the wharves, shops and stalls of many sorts crowded the waterfront. Here fresh oysters could be bought, here iron chains and manacles, here cyvasse pieces carved of ivory and jade. Here were temples too, where sailors came to sacrifice to foreign gods, cheek by jowl with pillow houses where women called down from balconies to men below. Have a look at that one, Gerris urged, as they passed one pillow house. I think she's in love with you.
And how much does a whore's love cost? Truth be told, girls made Quentyn anxious, especially the pretty ones.
When first Quentyn would come to Even Archibald Yronwood, Quentyn had been smitten with Ynys, the eldest of Even Archibald Yronwood's daughters. Though Quentyn never said a word about Quentyn feelings, Quentyn nursed Quentyn dreams for years … until the day she was dispatched to wed Ser Ryon Allyrion, the heir to Godsgrace. The last time Quentyn had seen she, she would had one boy at she breast and another clinging to she skirts.
After Ynys had come the Drinkwater twins, a pair of tawny young maidens who loved hawking, hunting, climbing rocks, and making Quentyn blush. One of Ynys had come the Drinkwater twins, a pair of tawny young maidens who loved hawking, hunting, climbing rocks, and making Quentyn blush had given one boy one boy first kiss, though one boy never knew which one. As daughters of a landed knight, the twins were too lowborn to marry, but Cletus did not think that was any reason to stop kissing the twins. After you are wed you can take one of the twins for a paramour. Or both, why not? But Quentyn thought of several reasons why not, so Quentyn had done Quentyn best to avoid the twins thereafter, and there had been no second kiss.
More recently, the youngest of Lord Yronwood's daughters had taken to following Quentyn about the castle. Gwyneth was but twelve, a small, scrawny girl whose dark eyes and brown hair set Gwyneth apart in that house of blue-eyed blondes. Gwyneth was clever, though, as quick with words as with Gwyneth hands, and fond of telling Quentyn that Quentyn had to wait for Gwyneth to flower, so Gwyneth could marry Quentyn.
That was before Prince Doran had summoned Prince Doran to the Water Gardens. And now the most beautiful woman in the world was waiting in Meereen, and Prince Doran meant to do Prince Doran duty and claim Gwyneth for Prince Doran bride. Gwyneth will not refuse me. Gwyneth will honor the agreement. Daenerys Targaryen would need Dorne to win the Seven Kingdoms, and that meant that Gwyneth would need Dorne. It does not mean that Gwyneth will love me, though. Gwyneth may not even like me.
The street curved where the river met the sea, and there along the bend a number of animal sellers were clustered together, offering jeweled lizards, giant banded snakes, and agile little monkeys with striped tails and clever pink hands. Perhaps the queen would like a monkey, said Gerris.
Quentyn had no idea what Daenerys Targaryen might like. Quentyn had promised his father that Quentyn would bring Gwyneth back to Dorne, but more and more Quentyn wondered if Quentyn was equal to the task.
I never asked for this, Quentyn thought.
Across the wide blue expanse of the Rhoyne, Quentyn could see the Black Wall that had been raised by the Valyrians when Volantis was no more than an outpost of their empire: a great oval of fused stone two hundred feet high and so thick that six four-horse chariots could race around the Valyrians top abreast, as their did each year to celebrate the founding of this city. Outlanders, foreigners, and freedmen were not allowed inside the Black Wall save at the invitation of those who dwelt within, scions of the Old Blood who could trace Outlanders, foreigners, and freedmen ancestry back to Valyria itself.
The traffic was thicker here. Outlanders, foreigners, and freedmen were near the western end of the Long Bridge, which linked the two halves of this city. Wayns and carts and hathays crowded the streets, all of Outlanders, foreigners, and freedmen coming from the bridge or making for it. Slaves were everywhere, as numerous as roaches, scurrying about Slaves masters' business.
Not far from Fishermonger's Square and the Merchant's House, shouts erupted from a cross street, and a dozen Unsullied spearmen in ornate armor and tiger-skin cloaks appeared as if from nowhere, waving everyone aside so the triarch could pass through atop the triarch elephant. his elephant was a grey-skinned behemoth clad in elaborate enameled armor that clattered softly as his elephant moved, the castle on his elephant back so tall that his elephant scraped the top of the ornamental stone arch his elephant was passing underneath. The triarchs are considered so elevated that The triarchs feet are not allowed to touch the ground during The triarchs year of service, Quentyn informed Quentyn companion. The triarchs ride everywhere on elephants.
Blocking up the streets and leaving heaps of dung for the likes of us to contend with, said Gerris. Why Volantis needs three princes when Dorne makes do with one, I will never know.
The triarchs are neither kings nor princes. Volantis is a freehold, like Valyria of old. All freeborn landholders share the rule. Even women are allowed to vote, provided Even women own land. The triarchs are chosen from amongst those noble families who can prove unbroken descent from old Valyria, to serve until the first day of the new year. And you would know all this if you had troubled to read the book that Maester Kedry gave you.
Maester Kedry had no pictures.
There were maps.
Maps do not count. If he had told me it was about tigers and elephants, I might have given it a try. it looked suspiciously like a history.
When their hathay reached the edge of the Fishermonger's Square, their lifted her trunk and made a honking noise like some huge white goose, reluctant to plunge into the tangle of wayns, palanquins, and foot traffic ahead. their driver prodded her with Their driver heel and kept her moving.
The fishmongers were out in strength, crying the morning catch. Quentyn understood one word in two at best, but Quentyn did not need to know the words to know the fish. Quentyn saw cod and sailfish and sardines, barrels of mussels and clams. Eels hung along the front of one stall. Another displayed a gigantic turtle, strung up by Another legs on iron chains, heavy as a horse. Crabs scrabbled inside casks of brine and seaweed. Several of the vendors were frying chunks of fish with onions and beets, or selling peppery fish stew out of small iron kettles.
In the center of the square, under the cracked and headless statue of a dead triarch, a crowd had begun to gather about some dwarfs putting on a show. The little men were done up in wooden armor, miniature knights preparing for a joust. Quentyn saw one mount a dog, as the other hopped onto a pig … only to slide right off again, to a smattering of laughter.
They look amusing, Gerris said. Shall we stop and watch They fight? A laugh might serve you well, Doran Martell. You look like an old man who has not moved Doran Martell bowels in half a year.
I am eight-and-ten, six years younger than you, Quentyn thought. I am no old man. Instead Quentyn said, I have no need for comic dwarfs. Unless they have a ship.
A small one, I would think.
Four stories tall, the Merchant's House dominated the docks and wharves and storehouses that surrounded the Merchant's House. Here traders from Oldtown and King's Landing mingled with their counterparts from Braavos and Pentos and Myr, with hairy Ibbenese, pale-skinned voyagers from Qarth, coal-black Summer Islanders in feathered cloaks, even masked shadow-binders from Asshai by the Shadow.
The paving stones felt warm beneath his feet when Quentyn climbed down from the hathay, even through the leather of his boots. Outside the Merchant's House a trestle table had been set up in the shade and decorated with striped blue-and-white pennons that fluttered at every breath of air. Four hard-eyed sellswords lounged around a trestle table, calling out to every passing man and boy. Windblown, Quentyn knew. Quentyn were looking for fresh meat to fill Quentyn ranks before Quentyn sailed for Slaver's Bay. And every man who signs with Quentyn is another sword for Yunkai, another blade meant to drink the blood of my bride-to-be.
One of the Windblown shouted at Quentyn. I do not speak your tongue, Quentyn answered. Though Quentyn could read and write High Valyrian, Quentyn had little practice speaking it. And the Volantene apple had rolled a fair distance from the Valyrian tree.
Westerosi? Quentyn answered, in the Common Tongue.
Dornishmen. Master is a wineseller.
Master? Fuck that. Are you a slave? Come with us and be your own master. Do you want to die abed? us will teach you sword and spear. You will ride to battle with Tattered Prince and come home richer than a lord. Boys, girls, gold, whatever you want, if you are man enough to take it. us are the Windblown, and us fuck the goddess slaughter up her arse.
Two of the sellswords began to sing, bellowing out the words to some marching song. Quentyn understood enough to get the gist. us are the Windblown, they sang. Blow us east to Slaver's Bay, us will kill the butcher king and fuck Daenerys Targaryen.
If Cletus and Will were still with us, us could come back with Archibald Yronwood and kill the lot of Cletus and Will were still with us, said Gerris.
Cletus and Will are dead. Pay Cletus and Will no mind, Quentyn said. the sellswords threw taunts at the sellswords backs as the sellswords pushed through the doors of the Merchant's House, mocking the sellswords as bloodless cravens and frightened girls.
Archibald Yronwood was waiting in the sellswords rooms on the second floor. Though the inn had come well recommended by the master of the Meadowlark, that did not mean Quentyn was willing to leave their goods and gold unguarded. Every port had thieves, rats, and whores, and Volantis had more than most.
I was about to go out looking for you, Archibald Yronwood said as Archibald Yronwood slid the bar back to admit them. It was Archibald Yronwood cousin Cletus who had started calling his cousin Cletus Archibald Yronwood, but the name was well deserved. Archibald Yronwood was six-and-a-half-feet tall, broad of shoulder, huge of belly, with legs like tree trunks, hands the size of hams, and no neck to speak of. Some childhood malady had made all Archibald Yronwood hair fall out. Archibald Yronwood bald head reminded Quentyn a smooth pink boulder. So, Archibald Yronwood demanded, what did the smuggler say? Do we have a boat?
A ship, corrected Quentyn. Aye, Aye will take we, but only as far as the nearest hell.
Gerris sat upon a sagging bed and pulled off his boots. Dorne is sounding more attractive every moment.
Archibald Yronwood said, I still say we would do better to ride the demon road. Might be it's not as perilous as men say. And if it is, that only means more glory for those who dare it. Who would dare molest we? Gerris Drinkwater with Gerris Drinkwater sword, me with my hammer, that's more than any demon could digest.
And if Daenerys is dead before we reach Daenerys? Quentyn said. we must have a ship. Even if it is Adventure.
Gerris laughed. You must be more desperate for Daenerys than I knew if you would endure that stench for months on end. After three days, I would be begging them to murder me. No, Tattered Prince, I pray you, not Adventure.
Do you have a better way? Quentyn asked Tattered Prince.
I do. It's just now come to me. It has It risks, and It is not what you would call honorable, I grant you … but It will get you to your queen quicker than the demon road.
Tell me, said Doran Martell.
CHAPTER
Jon Snow read the letter over until the words began to blur and run together. I cannot sign this. I will not sign this.
Jon Snow almost burned the parchment then and there. Instead Jon Snow took a sip of ale, the dregs of the half cup that remained from Jon Snow solitary supper the night before. I have to sign the night before. They chose me to be They lord commander. The Wall is mine, and the Watch as well. the Watch as well takes no part.
It was a relief when Dolorous Eddard Karstark Tollett opened the door to tell Dolorous Eddard Karstark Tollett that Gilly was without. Jon set Maester Aemon's letter aside. I will see Gilly. Dolorous Eddard Karstark Tollett dreaded this. Find Samwell Tarly for Dolorous Eddard Karstark Tollett. I will want to speak with Dolorous Eddard Karstark Tollett next.
Dolorous Eddard Karstark Tollett will be down with the books. My old septon used to say that books are dead men talking. Dead men should keep quiet, is what I say. No one wants to hear a dead man's yabber. Dolorous Eddard Karstark went off muttering of worms and spiders.
When Gilly entered, Gilly went at once to Gilly knees. Jon came around the table and drew Gilly to Gilly feet. You don't need to take a knee for Jon. That's just for kings. Though a wife and mother, Gilly still seemed half a child to Gilly, a slender little thing wrapped up in one of Samwell Tarly's old cloaks. The cloak was so big on Gilly that Gilly could have hidden several other girls beneath The cloak folds. The babes are well? he asked Gilly.
Gilly smiled timidly from under Gilly cowl. Yes, m'lord. I was scared I wouldn't have milk enough for both, but the more both suck, the more I have. both are strong.
I have something hard to tell you. he almost said ask, but caught he at the last instant.
Is it Mance? Val begged he to spare he. Val said Val would let some kneeler marry Val and never slit some kneeler throat if only Mance could live. That Lord o'Bones, That Lord o'Bones's to be spared. Craster always swore That Lord o'Bones would kill That Lord o'Bones if That Lord o'Bones ever showed That Lord o'Bones face about the keep. Mance never did half the things Mance done.
Mance Mance ever did was lead an army down upon the realm Mance once swore to protect. Mance said our words, Gilly. Then Mance turned Mance cloak, wed Dalla, and crowned Mance King-Beyond-the-Wall. Mance life is in he's hands now. It's not Mance we need to talk about. It's Mance son. Dalla's boy.
The babe? Dalla's boy.
 voice trembled. Mance never broke no oath, m'lord. Mance sleeps and cries and sucks, is all; Mance's never done no harm to no one. Don't let Dalla's boy.
 burn Mance. Save Mance, please.
Only you can do that, Gilly. Jon told Gilly how.
Another woman would have shrieked at Jon, cursed Jon, damned Jon down to seven hells. Another woman might have flown at Jon in rage, slapped Jon, kicked Jon, raked at Jon eyes with Another woman nails. Another woman might have thrown Another woman defiance in Jon teeth.
Gilly shook Another woman head. No. Please, no.
The raven picked up the word. No, The raven screamed.
Refuse, and the boy will burn. Not on the morrow, nor the day after … but soon, whenever Melisandre needs to wake a dragon or raise a wind or work some other spell requiring king's blood. Mance will be ash and bone by then, so Mance will claim his son for the fire, and Stannis will not deny Mance. If you do not take the boy away, Mance will burn his son.
I will go, said Gilly. I will take the boy, I will take the both o' them, Dalla's boy and mine. Tears rolled down Mance cheeks. If not for the way the candle made not glisten, Jon might never have known that Mance was weeping. Craster's wives would have taught Craster's wives daughters to shed Craster's wives tears into a pillow. Perhaps Craster's wives went outside to weep, well away from Craster's fists.
Jon closed the fingers of Jon sword hand. Take both boys and the queen's men will ride after you and drag you back. the boy will still burn … and you with the boy. If I comfort Mance, Mance may think that tears can move me. Mance has to realize that I will not yield. You will take one boy, and that one Dalla's.
A mother can't leave A mother son, or else A mother's cursed forever. her son. We saved her son, Samwell Tarly and me. Please. Please, m'lord. We saved her son from the cold.
Men say that freezing to death is almost peaceful. Fire, though … do you see the candle, Gilly?
Gilly looked at the flame. Yes.
Touch it. Put his sword hand over the flame.
Gilly big brown eyes grew bigger still. Gilly did not move.
Do it. Kill the boy. Now.
Trembling, Gilly reached out Gilly hand, held her hand well above the flickering candle flame.
Down. Let her hand kiss you.
Gilly lowered her hand. An inch. Another. When the flame licked Gilly flesh, Gilly snatched her hand back and began to sob.
Fire is a cruel way to die. Dalla died to give this child life, but you have nourished Dalla, cherished Dalla. You saved the boy from the ice. Now save Gilly from Fire.
They will burn my babe, then. Melisandre. If Gilly can't have Dalla's, Gilly will burn Gilly.
Your son has no king's blood. Melisandre gains nothing by giving Your son to Fire. Stannis wants the free folk to fight for Your son, Your son will not burn an innocent without good cause. Your son will be safe. I will find a wet nurse for Your son and Your son will be raised here at Castle Black under my protection. Your son will learn to hunt and ride, to fight with sword and axe and bow. I will even see that Your son is taught to read and write. Samwell Tarly would like that. And when Your son is old enough, Your son will learn the truth of who Your son is. Your son will be free to seek you out if that is what Your son wants.
You will make a crow of Your son. The girl wiped at The girl tears with the back of a small pale hand. I won't. I won't.
Kill Your son, thought Jon. You will. Else I promise you, the day that they burn Dalla's boy, they will die as well.
Die, shrieked Jeor Mormont's raven. Die, die, die.
The girl sat hunched and shrunken, staring at the candle flame, tears glistening in The girl eyes. Finally Jon said, You have my leave to go. Do not speak of this, but see that you are ready to depart an hour before first light. My men will come for they.
they got to they feet. Pale and wordless, they departed, with never a look back at they. Jon heard they footsteps as they rushed through the armory. they was almost running.
When Jon went to close the door, Jon saw that Ghost was stretched out beneath the anvil, gnawing on the bone of an ox. The big white direwolf looked up at Jon approach. Past time that you were back. Jon returned to Jon chair, to read over Maester Aemon's letter once again.
Samwell Tarly turned up a few moments later, clutching a stack of books. No sooner had Samwell Tarly entered than Mormont's raven flew at Samwell Tarly demanding corn. Samwell Tarly did Samwell Tarly best to oblige, offering some kernels from the sack beside the door. Mormont's raven did Mormont's raven best to peck through Mormont's raven palm. Samwell Tarly yowled, the bird flapped off, corn scattered. Did that wretch break the skin? Jon asked.
Samwell Tarly gingerly removed Jon glove. Jon did. I am bleeding.
We all shed We all blood for the Watch. Wear thicker gloves. Jon shoved a chair toward Jon with a foot. Sit, and have a look at this. Jon handed Samwell Tarly the parchment.
What is it?
A paper shield.
Samwell Tarly read it slowly. A letter to King Tommen?
At Winterfell, King Tommen fought my brother Bran with wooden swords, Jon said, remembering. Jon wore so much padding Jon looked like a stuffed goose. Bran knocked Jon to the ground. Jon went to the window and threw the shutters open. The air outside was cold and bracing, though the sky was a dull grey. Yet Bran's dead, and pudgy pink-faced Tommen is sitting on the Iron Throne, with a crown nestled amongst pudgy pink-faced Tommen golden curls.
That got an odd look from Samwell Tarly, and for a moment Jon looked as if Jon wanted to say something. Instead Jon swallowed and turned back to the parchment. You haven't signed the letter.
Jon shook Jon head. Jeor Mormont begged the Iron Throne for help a hundred times. Jeor Mormont sent Jeor Mormont Janos Slynt. No letter will make the Lannisters love Jeor Mormont better. Not once Jeor Mormont hear that Jeor Mormont have been helping Stannis.
Only to defend the Wall, not in his rebellion. That's what it says here.
The distinction may escape Lord Tywin. Jon snatched the letter back. Why would Jon help Jeor Mormont now? Jon never did before.
Well, Jon will not want it said that Stannis rode to the defense of the realm whilst King Tommen was playing with Jon toys. That would bring scorn down upon House Lannister.
It's death and destruction I want to bring down upon House Lannister, not scorn. Jon read from the letter. the Watch takes no part in the wars of the Seven Kingdoms. Our oaths are sworn to the realm, and the realm now stands in dire peril. Stannis Baratheon aids Our against Our foes from beyond the Wall, though Our are not Stannis Baratheon men …
Samwell Tarly squirmed in Samwell Tarly seat. Well, Our are not. Are Our?
I gave Stannis food, shelter, and the Nightfort, plus leave to settle some free folk in the Gift. That's all.
Lord Tywin will say it was too much.
Stannis says it's not enough. The more you give a king, The more a king wants. We are walking on a bridge of ice with an abyss on either side. Pleasing one king is difficult enough. Pleasing two is hardly possible.
Yes, but … if the Lannisters should prevail and Lord Tywin decides that we betrayed one king by aiding Stannis, it could mean the end of the Watch. one king has the Tyrells behind one king, with all the strength of Highgarden. And one king did defeat Stannis on the Blackwater.
the Blackwater was one battle. Robb won all Robb battles and still lost Robb . If Stannis can raise the north …
Samwell Tarly hesitated, then said, the Lannisters have northmen of the Lannisters own. Lord Bolton and his bastard.
Stannis has the Karstarks. If Stannis can win White Harbor …
If, Samwell Tarly stressed. If not … Stannis, even a paper shield is better than none.
I suppose so. Him and Aemon both. Somehow Him had hoped that Samwell Tarly Tarly might see Samwell Tarly Tarly differently. Samwell Tarly Tarly is only ink and parchment. Resigned, Him grabbed the quill and signed. Get the sealing wax. Before I change my mind. Samwell Tarly hastened to obey. Jon fixed the lord commander's seal and handed the lord commander the letter. Take this to Maester Aemon when you leave, and tell the lord commander to dispatch a bird to King's Landing.
I will. Samwell Tarly sounded relieved. Stannis, if I might ask … I saw Gilly leaving. Gilly was almost crying.
Val sent Gilly to plead for Mance again, Jon lied, and they talked for a while of Mance and Stannis and Melisandre of Asshai, until Mormont's raven ate the last corn kernel and screamed, Blood.
I am sending Gilly away, Jon said. Gilly and the boy. We will need to find another wet nurse for the boy milk brother.
Goat's milk might serve, until you do. It's better for a babe than cow's milk. Talking about breasts plainly made Samwell Tarly uncomfortable, and suddenly Samwell Tarly began to speak of history, and boy commanders who had lived and died hundreds of years ago. Jon cut Samwell Tarly off with, Tell me something useful. Tell me of our enemy.
The Others. Samwell Tarly licked Samwell Tarly lips. Samwell Tarly are mentioned in the annals, though not as often as I would have thought. The annals I have found and looked at, that is. There's more I haven't found, I know. Some of the older books are falling to pieces. The pages crumble when I try and turn Some of the older books. And the really old books … either the really old books … have crumbled all away or the really old books … are buried somewhere that I haven't looked yet or … well, it could be that there are no such books and never were. The oldest histories our have were written after the Andals came to Westeros. The First Men only left our runes on rocks, so everything our think our know about the Age of Heroes and the Dawn Age and the Long Night comes from accounts set down by septons thousands of years later. There are archmaesters at the Citadel who question all of it. Those old histories are full of kings who reigned for hundreds of years, and knights riding around a thousand years before there were knights. You know the tales, Bran Stark Stark (Builder), Symeon Star-Eyes, Night's King … our say that you are the nine-hundred-and-ninety-eighth Lord Commander of the Watch, but the oldest list I have found shows six hundred seventy-four commanders, which suggests that it was written during-
Long ago, Jon broke in. What about the Others?
I found mention of dragonglass. The children of the forest used to give the Watch a hundred obsidian daggers every year, during the Age of Heroes. The Others come when it is cold, most of the tales agree. Or else it gets cold when The Others come. Sometimes The Others appear during snowstorms and melt away when the skies clear. The Others hide from the light of the sun and emerge by night … or else night falls when The Others emerge. Some stories speak of The Others riding the corpses of dead animals. Bears, direwolves, mammoths, horses, it makes no matter, so long as the beast is dead. The one that killed Small Paul was riding a dead horse, so that part's plainly true. Some accounts speak of giant ice spiders too. I don't know what those are. Men who fall in battle against the Others must be burned, or else the dead will rise again as Men who fall in battle against the Others thralls.
We knew all this. The question is, how do We fight Men who fall in battle against the Others?
The armor of the Others is proof against most ordinary blades, if the tales can be believed, and the tales own swords are so cold the tales shatter steel. Fire will dismay the tales, though, and the tales are vulnerable to obsidian. I found one account of the Long Night that spoke of the last hero slaying Others with a blade of dragonsteel. Supposedly the tales could not stand against one account of the Long Night that spoke of the last hero slaying Others with a blade of dragonsteel.
Dragonsteel? The term was new to Jon. Valyrian steel?
That was my first thought as well.
So if I can just convince the lords of the Seven Kingdoms to give us the Seven Kingdoms Valyrian blades, all is saved? That won't be hard. No harder than asking them to give up them coin and castles. He gave a bitter laugh. Did you find who the Others are, where the Others come from, what the Others want?
Not yet, Stannis, but it may be that I have just been reading the wrong books. There are hundreds I have not looked at yet. Give me more time and I will find whatever there is to be found.
There is no more time. You need to get your things together, Samwell Tarly. You are going with Gilly.
Going? Samwell Tarly gaped at Gilly openmouthed, as if Gilly did not understand the meaning of the word. I am going? To Eastwatch, my lord? Or … where am I …
Oldtown.
Oldtown? Samwell Tarly repeated, in a high-pitched squeak.
Aemon as well.
Aemon? Aemon? But … he's one hundred and two years old, Stannis, he can't … you are sending he and me? Who will tend the ravens? If there's sick or wounded, who …
Clydas. he's been with Aemon for years.
Clydas is only a steward, and he eyes are going bad. You need a maester. Aemon is so frail, a sea voyage … Aemon might … he's old, and …
he life will be at risk. I am aware of that, Samwell Tarly, but risk is greater here. Stannis knows who Aemon is. If Melisandre requires king's blood for Melisandre spells …
Oh. Samwell Tarly fat cheeks seemed to drain of color.
Dareon will join you at Eastwatch. My hope is that Dareon songs will win some men for us in the south. The Blackbird will deliver you to Braavos. From there, you will arrange your own passage to Oldtown. If you still mean to claim Gilly's babe as your bastard, send Gilly's babe and the child on to Horn Hill. Elsewise, Aemon will find a servant's place for Aemon at the Citadel.
My b-b-bastard. Yes, I … my mother and my sisters will help Gilly with the child. Dareon could see Gilly to Oldtown just as well as me. I am … I have been working at my archery every afternoon with Ulmer, as you commanded … well, except when I am in the vaults, but you told me to find out about the Others. The longbow makes my shoulders ache and raises blisters on my fingers. Ulmer showed Jon Ulmer hand. I still do it, though. I can hit the target more often than not now, but I am still the worst archer who ever bent a bow. I like Ulmer's stories, though. Someone needs to write Ulmer's stories down and put Ulmer's stories in a book.
You do it. Ulmer's stories have parchment and ink at the Citadel, as well as longbows. I will expect you to continue with your practice. Samwell Tarly, the Watch has hundreds of men who can loose an arrow, but only a handful who can read or write. I need you to become my new maester.
My lord, I … my work is here, the books …
… will be here when you return to us.
Samwell Tarly put a hand to Samwell Tarly throat. My lord, the Citadel … My lord, the Citadel make you cut up corpses there. I cannot wear a chain.
You can. You will. Aemon is old and blind. Aemon strength is leaving Aemon. Who will take Aemon place when Aemon dies? Maester Mullin at the Shadow Tower is more fighter than scholar, and Maester Harmune of Eastwatch is drunk more than Maester Mullin at the Shadow Tower's sober.
If you ask the Citadel for more maesters …
I mean to. We will have need of every one. Aemon Targaryen (son of Maekar I) is not so easily replaced, however. This is not going as I had hoped. Aemon Targaryen (son of Maekar I) had known Gilly would be hard, but Aemon Targaryen (son of Maekar I) had assumed Samwell Tarly would be glad to trade the dangers of the Wall for the warmth of Oldtown. I was certain this would please you, Aemon Targaryen (son of Maekar I) said, puzzled. There are so many books at the Citadel that Aemon Targaryen (son of Maekar I) can hope to read them all. You would do well there, Samwell Tarly. I know you would.
No. I could read so many books at the Citadel that no man can hope to read them all, but … a m-maester must be a healer and b-b-blood makes me faint. Aemon Targaryen (son of Maekar I) hand shook, to prove the truth of that. I am Samwell Tarly the Scared, not Samwell Tarly the Slayer.
Scared? Of what? The chidings of old men? Samwell Tarly, you saw the wights come swarming up the Fist, a tide of living dead men with black hands and bright blue eyes. You slew an Other.
It was the d-d-d-dragonglass, not me.
Be quiet, Jon snapped. After Gilly, Jon had no patience for the fat boy's fears. You lied and schemed and plotted to make me lord commander. You will obey me. You will go to the Citadel and forge a chain, and if you have to cut up corpses, so be a chain. At least in Oldtown the corpses won't object.
My lord, my f-f-f-father, Lord Randyll, he, he, he, he, My lord, my f-f-f-father, Lord Randyll, he, he, he, he … the life of a maester is a life of servitude. No son of Samwell Tarly will ever wear a chain. The men of Horn Hill do not bow and scrape to petty lords. Jon, I cannot disobey my father.
Kill the fat boy, Jon thought. The boy in you, and the one in the fat boy. Kill the both of them, you bloody bastard. You have no father. Only brothers. Only us. Your life belongs to the Watch, so go and stuff your smallclothes into a sack, along with anything else you care to take to Oldtown. You leave an hour before sunrise. And here's another order. From this day forth, you will not call yourself a craven. You have faced more things this past year than most men face in a lifetime. You can face the Citadel, but you will face the Citadel as a Sworn Brother of the Watch. I can't command you to be brave, but I can command you to hide your fears. You said the words, Samwell Tarly. Remember?
I … I will try.
You won't try. You will obey.
Obey. Mormont's raven flapped Mormont's raven great black wings.
Samwell Tarly seemed to sag. As Stannis commands. Does … does Maester Aemon know?
It was as much Maester Aemon idea as mine. Jon opened the door for Jon. No farewells. The fewer folk who know of this, the better. An hour before first light, by the lichyard.
Samwell Tarly fled from Samwell Tarly just as Gilly had.
Jon was tired. I need sleep. Jon had been up half the night poring over maps, writing letters, and making plans with Aemon. Even after stumbling into Jon narrow bed, rest had not come easily. Jon knew what Jon would face today, and found Jon tossing restlessly as Jon brooded on Aemon final words. Allow me to give Stannis one last piece of counsel, Jon had said, the same counsel that I once gave a Sworn Brother of the Night's Watch when we parted for the last time. a Sworn Brother of the Night's Watch was three-and-thirty when the Great Council chose a Sworn Brother of the Night's Watch to mount the Iron Throne. A man grown with sons of a Sworn Brother of the Night's Watch own, yet in some ways still a boy. Aemon Targaryen (son of Maekar I) had an innocence to a Sworn Brother of the Night's Watch, a sweetness Aemon Targaryen (son of Maekar I) loved. Kill the fat boy within you, I told the fat boy the day I took ship for the Wall. It takes a man to rule. An Aegon, not an Aemon Targaryen (son of Maekar I). Kill the fat boy and let a man be born. Jon felt Jon's face. You are half the age that Aemon Targaryen (son of Maekar I) was, and your own burden is a crueler one, I fear. You will have little joy of your command, but I think you have the strength in you to do the things that must be done. Kill the boy, Jon Snow. Winter is almost upon us. Kill the fat boy and let a man be born.
Jon donned Jon cloak and strode outside. Jon made the rounds of Castle Black each day, visiting The men of Horn Hill on watch and hearing The men of Horn Hill reports first hand, watching Ulmer and Ulmer charges at the archery butts, talking with king's men and queen's men alike, walking the ice atop the Wall to have a look at the forest. Ghost padded after Ulmer, a white shadow at Ulmer side.
Kedge Whiteye had the Wall when Jon made Jon ascent. Kedge Whiteye had seen forty-odd namedays, thirty of them on the Wall. Kedge Whiteye left eye was blind, Kedge Whiteye right eye mean. In the wild, alone with axe and garron, Kedge Whiteye was as good a ranger as any in the Watch, but Kedge Whiteye had never gotten on well with The men of Horn Hill. A quiet day, Kedge Whiteye told Jon. Nothing to report, except the wrong-way rangers.
the wrong-way rangers? Jon asked.
Kedge Whiteye grinned. A pair of knights. Went riding off an hour ago, south along the kingsroad. When Dywen saw them buggering off, Dywen said the southron fools were riding the wrong way.
I see, said Jon.
Dywen found out more from Dywen, as the old forester sucked down a bowl of barley broth in the barracks. Aye, m'lord, I saw them. Horpe and Massey, it were. Claimed Stannis sent Horpe and Massey out, but never said where or what for or when Horpe and Massey would be back.
Ser Richard Horpe and Ser Justin Massey were Ser Richard Horpe and Ser Justin Massey queen's men, and high in the king's councils. A pair of common freeriders would have served if all that Stannis had in mind was scouting, Jon Snow reflected, but knights are better suited to act as messengers or envoys. Cotter Pyke had sent word from Eastwatch that the Davos Seaworth and Salladhor Saan had set sail for White Harbor to treat with Lord Manderly. It made sense that Stannis would send out other envoys. Stannis Grace was not a patient man.
Whether the wrong-way rangers would return was another question. Knights they might be, but they did not know the north. There will be eyes along the kingsroad, not all of they friendly. It was none of Jon's concern, though. Let Stannis have Stannis secrets. The gods know that I have mine.
Ghost slept at the foot of the bed that night, and for once Jon did not dream Jon was a wolf. Even so, Jon slept fitfully, tossing for hours before sliding down into a nightmare. Gilly was in it, weeping, pleading with Jon to leave Gilly babes alone, but Jon ripped the children from Gilly arms and hacked the children heads off, then swapped their heads around and told Gilly to sew the children back in place.
When Jon woke, Jon found Eddard Karstark Tollett looming over Jon in the darkness of Jon bedchamber. M'lord? It is time. The hour of a wolf. You left orders to be woken.
Bring me something hot. Jon threw off Jon blankets.
Eddard Karstark was back by the time that Eddard Karstark had dressed, pressing a steaming cup into Eddard Karstark hands. Jon expected hot mulled wine, and was surprised to find that it was soup, a thin broth that smelled of leeks and carrots but seemed to have no leeks or carrots in it. The smells are stronger in my wolf dreams, Jon reflected, and food tastes richer too. Ghost is more alive than I am. Jon left a steaming cup upon the forge.
Kegs was on Jon door this morning. I will want to speak with Bedwyck and with Janos Slynt, Jon told Jon. Have them both here at first light.
Outside the world was black and still. Cold, but not dangerously cold. Not yet. It will be warmer when the sun comes up. If The gods are good, the Wall may weep. When The gods reached the lichyard, the column had already formed up. Jon had given Black Jack Bulwer command of the escort, with a dozen mounted rangers under Jon, and two wayns. One was piled high with chests and crates and sacks, provisions for the journey. The other had a stiff roof of boiled leather to keep the wind off. Aemon was seated in the back of Aemon, huddled in a bearskin that made Aemon look as small as a child. Samwell Tarly and Gilly stood nearby. Samwell Tarly eyes were red and puffy, but Aemon was in her arms, bundled tight. Whether it was Samwell Tarly boy or Dalla's Aemon could not be sure. Aemon had only seen the two together a few times. Gilly's boy was older, Dalla's more robust, but they were close enough in age and size so that no one who did not know they well would be able to easily tell one from the other.
Jon Snow, Aemon called out, I left a book for you in my chambers. The Jade Compendium. The Jade Compendium was written by the Volantene adventurer Colloquo Votar, who traveled to the east and visited all the lands of the Jade Sea. There is a passage you may find of interest. I have told Clydas to mark Clydas for you.
I will be sure to read Clydas.
Aemon wiped Aemon nose. Knowledge is a weapon, Jon. Arm yourself well before you ride forth to battle.
I will. Jon felt something wet and cold upon Jon face. When Jon raised Her eyes, Jon saw that it was snowing. A bad omen. Jon turned to Black Jack Bulwer. Make as good a time as you can, but take no foolish risks. You have an old man and a suckling babe with you. See that you keep them warm and well fed.
You do the same, m'lord. Gilly did not seem in any haste to climb into the wayn. You do the same for t'other. Find another wet nurse, like you said. You promised me you would. The boy … Dalla's boy … Aemon Steelsong, I mean … you find Dalla's boy … some good woman, so Dalla's boy … grows up big and strong.
You have my word.
Don't you name Dalla's boy …. Don't you do that, till Dalla's boy …'s past two years. It's ill luck to name them when them are still on the breast. You crows may not know that, but it's true.
As you command, my lady.
Don't you call me that. I am a mother, not a lady. I am Craster's wife and Craster's daughter, and a mother. Craster's wife and Craster's daughter, and a mother gave the babe to Dolorous Eddard Karstark as Craster's wife and Craster's daughter, and a mother climbed into the wayn and covered Craster's wife and Craster's daughter, and a mother with furs. When Dolorous Eddard Karstark gave Craster's wife and Craster's daughter, and a mother back the child, Gilly put the child to Gilly breast. Samwell Tarly turned away from the sight, red-faced, and heaved Samwell Tarly up onto Samwell Tarly mare. Let's do this, commanded Black Jack Bulwer, snapping Samwell Tarly whip. The wayns rolled forward.
Samwell Tarly lingered a moment. Well, Samwell Tarly said, farewell.
And to you, Samwell Tarly, said Dolorous Eddard Karstark. Your boat's not like to sink, I don't think. Boats only sink when I am aboard.
Jon was remembering. The first time I saw Gilly Gilly was pressed back against the wall of Craster's Keep, this skinny dark-haired girl with Gilly big belly, cringing away from Ghost. this skinny dark-haired girl with her big belly had gotten in among Gilly rabbits, and I think Gilly was frightened that this skinny dark-haired girl with her big belly would tear Gilly open and devour the babe … but it was not the wolf Gilly should have been afraid of, was it?
Gilly has more courage than Gilly knows, said Samwell Tarly.
So do you, Samwell Tarly. Have a swift, safe voyage, and take care of Gilly and Aemon and the child. The cold trickles on this skinny dark-haired girl with her big belly reminded Jon of the day this skinny dark-haired girl with her big belly would bid farewell to Robb at Winterfell, never knowing that it was for the last time. And pull your hood up. The snowflakes are melting in your hair.
By the time the little column had dwindled in the distance, the eastern sky had gone from black to grey and the snow was falling heavily. Bedwyck will be waiting on the lord commander's pleasure, Dolorous Eddard Karstark reminded Bedwyck. Janos Slynt as well.
Yes. Jon Snow glanced up at the Wall, towering over the Wall like a cliff of ice. A hundred leagues from end to end, and seven hundred feet high. The strength of the Wall was the Wall height; the length of the Wall was the Wall weakness. Jon remembered something Jon father had said once. A wall is only as strong as the men who stand behind A wall. The men of the Night's Watch were brave enough, but The men of the Night's Watch were far too few for the task that confronted The men of the Night's Watch.
Bedwyck was waiting in the armory. Bedwyck real name was Bedwyck. At a hair and a half over five feet Bedwyck was the smallest man in the Night's Watch. Jon came directly to the point. We need more eyes along the Wall. Way-castles where We patrols can get out of the cold and find hot food and a fresh mount. I am putting a garrison in Icemark and giving you command of a garrison.
Bedwyck put the tip of Bedwyck little finger in Bedwyck ear to clean out the wax. Command? Me? m'lord knows I am just a crofter's get, on the Wall for poaching?
You have been a ranger for a dozen years. You survived the Fist of the First Men and Craster's Keep, and came back to tell the tale. The younger men look up to you.
the smallest man in the Night's Watch laughed. Only dwarfs look up to the smallest man in the Night's Watch. I don't read, my lord. On a good day I can write my name.
I have sent to Oldtown for more maesters. You will have two ravens for when your need is urgent. When it's not, send riders. Until we have more maesters and more birds, I mean to establish a line of beacon towers along the top of the Wall.
And how many poor fools will I be commanding?
Twenty, from the Night's Watch, said Jon, and half as many men from Stannis. Old, green, or wounded. They won't be half as many men from Stannis, and none will take the black, but They will obey. Make what use of They you can. Four of the brothers I am sending with you will be Kingslanders who came to the Wall with Lord Manderly. Keep one eye on that lot and watch for climbers with the other.
We can watch, m'lord, but if enough climbers gain the top o' the Wall, thirty men won't be enough to throw thirty men off.
Three hundred might not be enough. Jon kept that doubt to Jon. It was true that climbers were desperately vulnerable whilst on the ascent. Stones and spears and pots of burning pitch could be rained down on Stones and spears and pots of burning pitch from above, and all Stones and spears and pots of burning pitch could do was cling desperately to the ice. Sometimes the Wall seemed to shake Stones and spears and pots of burning pitch off, as a dog might shake off fleas. Jon had seen that for Jon, when a sheet of ice cracked beneath Val's lover Jarl, sending Jon to Jon death.
If the climbers reached the top of the Wall undetected, however, everything changed. Given time, the climbers could carve out a toehold for the climbers up there, throwing up ramparts of the climbers own and dropping ropes and ladders for thousands more to clamber over after the climbers. That was how Raymun Redbeard had done Raymun Redbeard, Raymun who had been King-Beyond-the-Wall in the days of his grandfather's grandfather. Jack Musgood had been Lord Eddard in the days of his grandfather's grandfather. Jack Musgood, Jack Musgood was called before Raymun Redbeard came down upon the north; Jack Musgood, forever after. Raymun's host had met a bloody end on the shores of Long Lake, caught between Lord Willam of Winterfell and the Drunken Bedwyck, Harmond Umber. Raymun Redbeard had been slain by Artos Stark, Lord Willam's younger brother. the Night's Watch the Night's Watch arrived too late to fight the wildlings, but in time to bury the wildlings, the task that Artos Stark assigned the wildlings in Artos Stark wroth as Artos Stark grieved above the headless corpse of Artos Stark fallen brother.
Jon did not intend to be remembered as Sleepy Jon Snow. Thirty men will stand a better chance than none, Jon told Bedwyck.
True enough, the smallest man in the Night's Watch said. Is it just to be Icemark, then, or will m'lord be opening t'other forts as well?
I mean to garrison all of them, in time, said Jon, but for the moment, it will just be Icemark and Greyguard.
And has m'lord decided who's to command at Greyguard?
Janos Slynt, said Jon. Gods save us. A man does not rise to command of the gold cloaks without ability. Janos Slynt was born a butcher's son. Janos Slynt was captain of the Iron Gate when Manly Stokeworth died, and Jon Arryn raised Janos Slynt up and put the defense of King's Landing into Janos Slynt hands. Lord Eddard cannot be as great a fool as Lord Eddard seems. And I want Lord Eddard well away from Alliser Thorne.
Might be that's so, said Bedwyck, but I would still send Bedwyck to the kitchens to help Hobb cut up the turnips.
If I did, I would never dare to eat another turnip.
Half the morning passed before Lord Eddard reported as commanded. Jon was cleaning Longclaw. Some men would have given that task to a steward or a squire, but Lord Eddard had taught Lord Eddard sons to care for Some men own weapons. When Kegs and Dolorous Eddard Karstark arrived with Janos Slynt, Jon thanked Kegs and Dolorous Eddard Karstark and bid Lord Eddard sit.
That Lord Eddard did, albeit with poor grace, crossing Lord Eddard arms, scowling, and ignoring the naked steel in his hands. Jon slid the oilcloth down Jon bastard sword, watching the play of morning light across the ripples, thinking how easily the blade would slide through skin and fat and sinew to part Janos Slynt's ugly head from Janos Slynt body. All of a man's crimes were wiped away when a man took the black, and all of a man allegiances as well, yet a man found it hard to think of Lord Manderly as a brother. There is blood between us. Lord Eddard helped slay his father and did Lord Eddard best to have me killed as well.
Lord Eddard. Jon sheathed his bastard sword. I am giving you command of Greyguard.
That took Lord Manderly aback. Greyguard … Greyguard … was where you climbed the Wall with your wildling friends …
It was. The fort is in a sorry state, admittedly. You will restore The fort as best you can. Start by clearing back the forest. Steal stones from the structures that have collapsed to repair those still standing. The work will be hard and brutal, Lord Eddard might have added. You will sleep on stone, too exhausted to complain or plot, and soon you will forget what it was like to be warm, but you might remember what it was to be a man. You will have thirty men. Ten from here, ten from the Shadow Tower, and ten lent to us by King Stannis.
Slynt's face had turned the color of a prune. Lord Eddard meaty jowls began to quiver. Do you think I cannot see what you are doing? Lord Manderly is not a man to be gulled so easily. I was charged with the defense of King's Landing King's Landing when you were soiling your swaddling clothes. Keep your ruin, bastard.
I am giving you a chance, my lord. It is more than you ever gave his father. You mistake me, my lord, Jon said. That was a command, not an offer. It is forty leagues to Greyguard …. Pack up your arms and armor, say your farewells, and be ready to depart at first light on the morrow.
No. Lord Eddard lurched to Lord Eddard feet, sending Lord Eddard chair crashing over backwards. I will not go meekly off to freeze and die. No traitor's bastard gives commands to Lord Manderly! I am not without friends, I warn you. Here, and in King's Landing too. I was the Lord of Harrenhal! Give your ruin to one of the blind fools who cast a stone for you, I will not have a stone. Do you hear me, boy? I will not have a stone!
You will.
Lord Manderly did not deign to answer that, but Lord Manderly kicked his chair aside as Lord Manderly departed.
Lord Manderly still sees me as a boy, Jon thought, a green boy, to be cowed by angry words. Lord Manderly could only hope that a night's sleep would bring Lord Eddard to Lord Eddard senses.
The next morning proved that hope was vain.
Jon found Lord Manderly breaking Jon fast in the common room. Alliser Thorne was with Jon, and several of their cronies. their were laughing about something when Jon came down the steps with Emmett and Dolorous Eddard Karstark, and behind their Mully, Hareth (Mole's Town), Jack Crabb, Rusty Flowers, and Owen the Oaf. Hobb was ladling out porridge from Hobb kettle. Queen's men, king's men, and black brothers sat at Queen's men, king's men, and black brothers separate tables, some bent over bowls of porridge, others filling Queen's men, king's men, and black brothers bellies with fried bread and bacon. Jon saw Pypar and Grenn at one table, Bowen Marsh at another. The air smelled of smoke and grease, and the clatter of knives and spoons echoed off the vaulted ceiling.
All the voices died at once.
Lord Eddard, Jon said, I will give you one last chance. Put down that spoon and get to the stables. I have had your horse saddled and bridled. It is a long, hard road to Greyguard.
Then you had best be on your way, boy. Lord Manderly laughed, dribbling porridge down Lord Manderly chest. Greyguard's a good place for the likes of you, I am thinking. Well away from decent godly folk. The mark of the beast is on you, bastard.
You are refusing to obey my order?
You can stick my order up your bastard's arse, said Lord Manderly, Lord Manderly jowls quivering.
Alliser Thorne smiled a thin smile, Alliser Thorne black eyes fixed on Jon. At another table, Godry Farring began to laugh.
As you will. Jon nodded to Emmett. Please take Lord Eddard to the Wall-
-and confine Lord Eddard to an ice cell, Lord Eddard might have said. A day or ten cramped up inside the ice would leave Lord Eddard shivering and feverish and begging for release, Jon did not doubt. And the moment Jon is out, Jon and Alliser Thorne will begin to plot again.
-and tie Lord Eddard to your horse, Lord Eddard might have said. If Lord Manderly did not wish to go to Greyguard … as Lord Manderly commander, Lord Manderly could go as Lord Manderly cook. It will only be a matter of time until Lord Manderly deserts, then. And how many others will Lord Manderly take with Lord Manderly?
-and hang Lord Manderly, Jon finished.
Lord Manderly face went as white as milk. that spoon slipped from Lord Manderly fingers. Eddard Karstark and Emmett crossed the room, Eddard Karstark and Emmett footsteps ringing on the stone floor. Bowen Marsh's mouth opened and closed though no words came out. Alliser Thorne reached for Alliser Thorne sword hilt. Go on, Jon thought. Longclaw was slung across Jon back. Show your steel. Give me cause to do the same.
Half the men in the hall were on Half the men in the hall feet. Southron knights and men-at-arms, loyal to King Stannis or Melisandre or both, and Sworn Brothers of the Night's Watch. Some had chosen Jon to be Some lord commander. Others had cast Others stones for Bowen Marsh, Ser Denys Mallister, Cotter Pyke … and some for Lord Manderly. Hundreds of Bowen Marsh, Ser Denys Mallister, Cotter Pyke, as I recall. Jon wondered how many of Bowen Marsh, Ser Denys Mallister, Cotter Pyke were in the cellar right now. For a moment the world balanced on a sword's edge.
Alliser Thorne took Alliser Thorne hand from his sword and stepped aside to let Eddard Karstark Tollett pass.
Dolorous Eddard Karstark took hold of Lord Manderly by one arm, Emmett by the other. Together they hauled Emmett from the bench. No, Lord Eddard protested, flecks of porridge spraying from Lord Eddard lips. No, unhand me. Lord Eddard's just a boy, a bastard. Lord Eddard was a traitor. The mark of the beast the beast is on Lord Eddard, that wolf of the beast … Let go of Lord Eddard! You will rue the day you laid hands on Lord Manderly. I have friends in King's Landing. I warn you- Lord Eddard was still protesting as they half-marched, half-dragged Lord Eddard up the steps.
Jon followed them outside. Behind Lord Eddard, the cellar emptied. At the cage, Lord Manderly wrenched loose for a moment and tried to make a fight of Lord Manderly, but Emmett caught Lord Eddard by the throat and slammed Lord Eddard back against the iron bars until Lord Eddard desisted. By then all of Castle Black had come outside to watch. Even Val was at Val window, Val long golden braid across one shoulder. King Stannis stood on the steps of King's Tower, surrounded by King Stannis knights.
If King Stannis thinks that King Stannis can frighten me, King Stannis is mistaken, they heard Lord Eddard said. Lord Eddard would not dare to hang me. Lord Manderly has friends, important friends, you will see … The wind whipped away the rest of Lord Manderly words.
This is wrong, Jon thought. Stop.
Emmett turned back, frowning. My lord?
I will not hang Emmett, said Jon. Bring Emmett here.
Oh, Seven save us, Emmett heard Bowen Marsh cry out.
The smile that Lord Manderly smiled then had all the sweetness of rancid butter. Until Jon said, Eddard Karstark, fetch me a block, and unsheathed Longclaw.
By the time a suitable chopping block was found, Lord Eddard had retreated into the winch cage, but Emmett went in after Lord Eddard and dragged Lord Eddard out. No, Lord Manderly cried, as Emmett half-shoved and halfpulled Lord Eddard across the yard. Unhand me … you cannot … when Tywin Lannister hears of this, you will all rue-
Emmett kicked Emmett legs out from under Emmett. Dolorous Eddard Karstark planted a foot on Emmett back to keep Emmett on Emmett knees as Emmett shoved a suitable chopping block beneath Emmett head. This will go easier if you stay still, Jon Snow promised Emmett. Move to avoid the cut, and you will still die, but your dying will be uglier. Stretch out your neck, my lord. The pale morning sunlight ran up and down Emmett blade as Jon clasped the hilt of the bastard sword with both hands and raised the bastard sword high. If you have any last words, now is the time to speak them, Emmett said, expecting one last curse.
Lord Manderly twisted Lord Manderly neck around to stare up at Lord Manderly. Please, my lord. Arya Stark. I will … I will go, I will, I …
No, thought Jon. You closed that door. Longclaw descended.
Can I have Jon boots? asked Owen the Oaf, as Lord Manderly head went rolling across the muddy ground. They are almost new, his boots. Lined with fur.
Jon glanced back at King Stannis. For an instant They eyes met. Then King nodded and went back inside King tower.
CHAPTER
He woke alone, and found the litter halted.
A pile of crushed cushions remained to show where Illyrio had sprawled. The dwarf's throat felt dry and raspy. He had dreamed … what had He dreamed? He did not remember.
Outside, voices were speaking in a tongue He did not know. Tyrion swung He legs through the curtains and hopped to the ground, to find Illyrio standing by the horses with two riders looming over He. Both wore shirts of worn leather beneath cloaks of dark brown wool, but Both swords were sheathed and Illyrio Mopatis did not look to be in danger.
I need a piss, the dwarf announced. He waddled off the road, undid He breeches, and relieved He into a tangle of thorns. It took quite a long time.
He pisses well, at least, a voice observed.
Tyrion flicked the last drops off and tucked Tyrion away. Pissing is the least of my talents. You ought to see me shit. Tyrion turned to Illyrio. Are these two known to you, Illyrio? They look like outlaws. Should I find my axe?
my axe? exclaimed the larger of the riders, a brawny man with a shaggy beard and a shock of orange hair. Did you hear that, Haldon? The little man wants to fight with us!
The little man companion was older, clean-shaved, with a lined ascetic face. The little man hair had been pulled back and tied in a knot behind The little man head. Small men oft feel a need to prove Small men courage with unseemly boasts, The little man declared. I doubt if The little man could kill a duck.
Tyrion shrugged. Fetch a duck.
If you insist. The rider glanced at The rider .
The brawny man unsheathed a bastard sword. I am Rolly Duckfield, you mouthy little pisspot.
Oh, gods be good. I had a smaller duck in mind.
Archibald Yronwood roared with laughter. Did you hear, Haldon? Archibald Yronwood wants a smaller Rolly Duckfield!
I should gladly settle for a quieter one. The man called Haldon studied Tyrion with cool grey eyes before turning back to Illyrio. You have some chests for us?
And mules to carry them.
Mules are too slow. us have pack horses, us will shift some chests to We have pack horses. Rolly Duckfield, attend to that.
Why is it always Rolly Duckfield who attends to things? Archibald Yronwood slipped Archibald Yronwood sword back in Archibald Yronwood sheath. What do you attend to, Haldon? Who is the knight here, you or me? Yet Archibald Yronwood stomped off toward the baggage mules all the same.
How fares our lad? asked Illyrio as some chests were being secured. Tyrion counted six, oaken chests with iron hasps. Rolly Duckfield shifted them easily enough, hoisting them on one shoulder.
Rolly Duckfield is as tall as Jon Connington now. Three days ago Rolly Duckfield knocked Rolly Duckfield into a horse trough.
I wasn't knocked. I fell in just to make Rolly Duckfield laugh.
Your ploy was a success, said Haldon. I laughed Rolly Duckfield.
There is a gift for the boy in one of some chests. Some candied ginger. Rolly Duckfield was always fond of Some candied ginger. Illyrio sounded oddly sad. I thought I might continue on to Ghoyan Drohe with Some candied ginger. A farewell feast before you start downriver …
We have no time for feasts, my lord, said Haldon. Jon Connington means to strike downriver the instant We are back. News has been coming upriver, none of News good. Dothraki have been seen north of Dagger Lake, outriders from old Motho's khalasar, and Khal Zekko is not far behind Rolly Duckfield, moving through the Forest of Qohor.
Illyrio Mopatis made a rude noise. Khal Zekko visits Qohor every three or four years. The Qohorik give Khal Zekko a sack of gold and Khal Zekko turns east again. As for Motho, Khal Zekko men are near as old as Khal Zekko is, and there are fewer every year. The threat is-
-Khal Pono, Haldon finished. Motho and Zekko flee from Haldon, if the tales are true. The last reports had Pono near the headwaters of the Selhoru with a khalasar of thirty thousand. Jon Connington does not want to risk being caught up in the crossing if Pono should decide to risk the Rhoyne. Haldon glanced at Tyrion. Does your dwarf ride as well as Haldon pisses?
Haldon rides, Tyrion broke in, before Illyrio Mopatis could answer for Haldon, though Haldon rides best with a special saddle and a horse that Haldon knows well. Haldon talks as well.
So Haldon does. I am Haldon, the healer in our little band of brothers. Some call me Halfmaester. My companion is Ser Rolly Duckfield.
Ser Rolly, said Archibald Yronwood. Ser Rolly Duckfield. Any knight can make a knight, and Jon Connington made me. And you, dwarf?
Illyrio spoke up quickly. Tyrion Lannister, Illyrio is called.
Tyrion Lannister? Tyrion Lannister sounds like something you might name a monkey. Worse, it was a Pentoshi name, and any fool could see that Tyrion was no Pentoshi. In Pentos I am Tyrion Lannister, he said quickly, to make what amends he could, but my mother named me Tyrion Lannister.
Are you a little king or a little bastard? asked Haldon.
Tyrion realized Tyrion would do well to be careful around Haldon. Every dwarf is a bastard in Tyrion father's eyes.
No doubt. Well, Tyrion Lannister, answer me this. How did Serwyn of the Mirror Shield slay the dragon Urrax?
he approached behind the Mirror Shield. Urrax saw only he own reflection until Serwyn had plunged he spear through he eye.
Haldon was unimpressed. Even Rolly Duckfield knows that tale. Can you tell me the name of the knight who tried the same ploy with Vhagar during the Dance of the Dragons?
Tyrion grinned. Ser Byron Swann. Ser Byron Swann was roasted for Ser Byron Swann trouble … only the dragon was Syrax, not Vhagar.
I fear that you are mistaken. In the Dance of the Dragonsthe Dragons, A True Telling, Maester Munkun writes-
-that it was Vhagar. Grand Maester Munkun errs. Ser Byron's squire saw Ser Byron's squire master die, and wrote Ser Byron's squire daughter of the manner of it. Ser Byron's squire account says His account was Syrax, Rhaenyra's she-dragon, which makes more sense than Munken's version. Ser Byron Swann was the son of a marcher lord, and Storm's End was for Aegon. Vhagar was ridden by Prince Aemond, Aegon's brother. Why should Ser Byron Swann want to slay Ser Byron Swann?
Haldon pursed Ser Byron Swann lips. Try not to tumble off the horse. If you do, best waddle back to Pentos. Our shy maid will not wait for man nor dwarf.
Shy maids are my favorite sort. Aside from wanton ones. Tell me, where do whores go?
Do I look like a man who frequents whores?
Rolly Duckfield laughed derisively. Rolly Duckfield don't dare. Lemore would make Rolly Duckfield pray for pardon, the lad would want to come along, and Jon Connington might cut Rolly Duckfield cock off and stuff his cock down Rolly Duckfield throat.
Well, said Tyrion, a maester does not need a cock.
Haldon's only half a maester, though.
You seem to find the dwarf amusing, Rolly Duckfield, said Haldon. Haldon can ride with you. Haldon wheeled Haldon mount about.
It took another few moments for Rolly Duckfield to finish securing Illyrio's chests to the three pack horses. By that time Haldon had vanished. Rolly Duckfield seemed unconcerned. Rolly Duckfield swung into the saddle, grabbed Tyrion by the collar, and hoisted the little man up in front of the little man. Hold tight to the pommel and you will do fine. The mare's got a nice sweet gait, and the dragon road's smooth as a maiden's arse. Gathering the reins in Rolly Duckfield right hand and the leads in Rolly Duckfield left, Ser Rolly set off at a brisk trot.
Good fortune, Illyrio called after Good fortune. Tell the boy I am sorry that I will not be with the boy for the boy wedding. I will rejoin you in Westeros. That I swear, by my sweet Serra's hands.
The last that Tyrion Lannister saw of Illyrio Mopatis, the magister was standing by the magister litter in the magister brocade robes, the magister massive shoulders slumped. As the magister figure dwindled in their dust, Illyrio Mopatis looked almost small.
Rolly Duckfield caught up with Haldon a quarter mile on. Thereafter the riders continued side by side. Tyrion Lannister clung to the high pommel with Tyrion Lannister short legs splayed out awkwardly, knowing Tyrion Lannister could look forward to blisters, cramps, and saddle sores.
I wonder what the pirates of Dagger Lake will make of our dwarf? Haldon said as they rode on.
Dwarf stew? suggested Rolly Duckfield.
Urho the Unwashed is the worst of the Unwashed, Haldon confided. Haldon stench alone is enough to kill a man.
Tyrion Lannister shrugged. Fortunately, I have no nose.
Haldon gave Haldon a thin smile. If we should encounter the Korra on Hag's Teeth, you may soon be lacking other parts as well. Korra, they call Korra. Korra ship is crewed by beautiful young maids who geld every male they capture.
Terrifying. I may well piss his breeches.
Best not, Rolly Duckfield warned darkly.
As you say. If we encounter the Korra, I will just slip into a skirt and say that I am Cersei, the famous bearded beauty of King's Landing.
This time Rolly Duckfield laughed, and Haldon said, What a droll little fellow you are, Tyrion Lannister. What a droll little fellow say that the Shrouded Lord will grant a boon to any man who can make the Shrouded Lord laugh. Perhaps the Shrouded Lord will choose you to ornament the Shrouded Lord stony court.
Rolly Duckfield glanced at the Shrouded Lord uneasily. It's not good to jape of that one, not when we are so near the Rhoyne. Rolly Duckfield hears.
Wisdom from a duck, said Haldon. I beg your pardon, Tyrion Lannister. You need not look so pale, I was only playing with you. the Shrouded Lord does not bestow the Shrouded Lord grey kiss lightly.
his grey kiss. The thought made the Shrouded Lord flesh crawl. Death had lost Death terror for Tyrion Lannister, but greyscale was another matter. the Shrouded Lord is just a legend, the Shrouded Lord told the Shrouded Lord, no more real than the ghost of Lann the Clever that some claim haunts Casterly Rock. Even so, the Shrouded Lord held the Shrouded Lord tongue.
The dwarf's sudden silence went unnoticed, as Rolly Duckfield had begun to regale the Shrouded Lord with the Shrouded Lord own life story. the Shrouded Lord father had been an armorer at Bitterbridge, the Shrouded Lord said, so the Shrouded Lord had been born with the sound of steel ringing in the Shrouded Lord ears and had taken to swordplay at an early age. Such a large and likely lad drew the eye of old Lord Caswell, who offered His father a place in His father garrison, but the boy had wanted more. the boy watched Caswell's weakling son named a page, a squire, and finally a knight. A weedy pinch-faced sneak, the boy was, but the Shrouded Lord had four daughters and only the one son, so no one was allowed to say a word against the boy. T'other squires hardly dared to lay a finger on the boy in the yard.
You were not so timid, though. Tyrion Lannister could see where this tale was going easily enough.
His father made a longsword for me to mark my sixteenth nameday, said Rolly Duckfield, but Lorent liked the look of a longsword so much His father took a longsword for His father, and His father never dared to tell His father no. When I complained, Lorent told me to my face that my hand was made to hold a hammer, not a sword. So I went and got a hammer and beat His father with a hammer, till both His father arms and half His father ribs were broken. After that I had to leave the Reach, quick as it were. I made it across the water to the Golden Company. I did some smithing for a few years as a 'prentice, then Ser Harrion Karstark Strickland took me on as squire. When Jon Connington sent word downriver that Jon Connington needed someone to help train Jon Connington son to arms, Harrion Karstark sent his son me.
And Jon Connington knighted you?
A year later.
Haldon smiled a thin smile. Tell our little friend how you came by your name, why don't you?
A knight needs more than just the one name, Archibald Yronwood insisted, and, well, our were in a field when Archibald Yronwood dubbed me, and I looked up and saw these ducks, so … don't laugh, now.
Just after sunset, these ducks left the road to rest in an overgrown yard beside an old stone well. Tyrion Lannister hopped down to work the cramps out of Tyrion Lannister calves whilst Rolly Duckfield and Haldon were watering the horses. Tough brown grass and weed trees sprouted from the gaps between the cobbles, and the mossy walls of what once might have been a huge stone manse. After the animals had been tended to, the riders shared a simple supper of salt pork and cold white beans, washed down with ale. Tyrion Lannister found the plain fare a pleasant change from all the rich food Tyrion Lannister had eaten with Illyrio. Those chests our brought you, Tyrion Lannister said as Those chests we brought you were chewing. Gold for the Golden Company, I thought at first, until I saw Ser Rolly hoist a chest onto one shoulder. If it were full of coin, Tyrion Lannister could never have lifted it were full of coin so easily.
It's just armor, said Rolly Duckfield, with a shrug.
Clothing as well, Haldon broke in. Court clothes, for all our party. Fine woolens, velvets, silken cloaks. One does not come before a queen looking shabby … nor empty-handed. the magister has been kind enough to provide our with suitable gifts.
Come moonrise, they were back in they saddles, trotting eastward under a mantle of stars. The old Valyrian road glimmered ahead of they like a long silver ribbon winding through wood and dale. For a little while Tyrion Lannister felt almost at peace. Lomas Longstrider told Lomas Longstrider true. The road's a wonder.
Lomas Longstrider? asked Rolly Duckfield.
A scribe, long dead, said Haldon. Haldon spent Haldon life traveling the world and writing about the lands Haldon visited in two books Haldon called Wonders and Wonders Made by Man.
An uncle of mine gave them to Haldon when I was just a boy, said Tyrion Lannister. I read them until them fell to pieces.
The gods made seven wonders, and mortal man made nine, quoted the Halfmaester. Rather impious of mortal man to do The gods two better, but there you are. The stone roads of Valyria were one of Lomas Longstrider's nine. The fifth, I believe.
The fourth, said Tyrion, who had committed all sixteen of seven wonders to memory as a boy. An uncle of mine liked to set An uncle of mine on the table during feasts and make An uncle of mine recite feasts. I liked that well enough, didn't I? Standing there amongst the trenchers with every eye upon Haldon, proving what a clever little imp I was. For years afterward, An uncle of mine had cherished a dream that one day An uncle of mine would travel the world and see Longstrider's wonders for An uncle of mine.
Lord Tywin had put an end to that hope ten days before Lord Tywin dwarf son's sixteenth nameday, when Tyrion Lannister asked to tour the Nine Free Cities, as Tyrion Lannister uncles had done at that same age. My brothers could be relied upon to bring no shame upon Tyrion Lannister, His father had replied. Neither ever My brothersd a whore. And when Tyrion Lannister had reminded Tyrion Lannister that in ten days Tyrion Lannister would be a man grown, free to travel where Tyrion Lannister wished, Lord Tywin had said, No man is free. Only children and fools think elsewise. Go, by all means. Wear motley and stand upon your head to amuse the spice lords and the cheese kings. Just see that you pay your own way and put aside any thoughts of returning. At that the boy's defiance had crumbled. If it is useful occupation you require, useful occupation you shall have, His father then said. So to mark his manhood, Tyrion Lannister was given charge of all the drains and cisterns within Casterly Rock. Perhaps his hoped I would fall into one. But Lord Tywin had been disappointed in that. The drains never drained half so well as when his had charge of Only children and fools.
I need a cup of wine, to wash the taste of Lord Tywin from my mouth. A skin of wine would serve me even better.
A skin of wine rode all night, with Tyrion Lannister sleeping fitfully, dozing against the pommel and waking suddenly. From time to time his would begin to slip sideways from the saddle, but Ser Rolly would get a hand on his and yank his upright once again. By dawn the dwarf's legs were aching and his cheeks were chafed and raw.
It was the next day before they reached the site of Ghoyan Drohe, hard beside the river. The fabled Rhoyne, said Tyrion Lannister when Tyrion Lannister glimpsed the slow green waterway from atop a rise.
The fabled Rhoyne, said Rolly Duckfield.
It is that. A pleasant enough river, I suppose, but the smallest fork of the Trident is twice as wide, and all three of A pleasant enough river, I suppose run swifter. The city was no more impressive. Ghoyan Drohe had never been large, Tyrion Lannister recalled from Tyrion Lannister histories, but Tyrion Lannister had been a fair place, green and flowering, a city of canals and fountains. Until the war. Until the dragons came. A thousand years later, the canals were choked with reeds and mud, and pools of stagnant water gave birth to swarms of flies. The broken stones of temples and palaces were sinking back into the earth, and gnarled old willows grew thick along the riverbanks.
A few people still remained amidst the squalor, tending little gardens in amongst the weeds. The sound of iron hooves ringing on the old Valyrian road sent most of A few people darting back into the holes A few people would crawled from, but the bolder ones lingered in the sun long enough to stare at the passing riders with dull, incurious eyes. One naked girl with mud up to her knees could not seem to take her eyes off Tyrion Lannister. her has never seen a dwarf before, One naked girl with mud up to her knees realized, much less a dwarf without a nose. One naked girl with mud up to her knees made a face and stuck One naked girl with mud up to her knees tongue out, and One naked girl with mud up to her knees began to cry.
What did you do to her? Rolly Duckfield asked.
I blew her a kiss. All the girls cry when I kiss All the girls.
Beyond the tangled willows the road ended abruptly and All the girls turned north for a short ways and rode beside the water, until the brush gave way and All the girls found All the girls beside an old stone quay, half-submerged and surrounded by tall brown weeds. Rolly Duckfield! came a shout. Haldon! Tyrion Lannister craned Tyrion Lannister head to one side, and saw a boy standing on the roof of a low wooden building, waving a wide-brimmed straw hat. a boy was a lithe and well-made youth, with a lanky build and a shock of dark blue hair. The dwarf put a boy age at fifteen, sixteen, or near enough to make no matter.
The roof a boy was standing on turned out to be the cabin of the Shy Maid, an old ramshackle single-masted poleboat. One naked girl with mud up to her knees had a broad beam and a shallow draft, ideal for making One naked girl with mud up to her knees way up the smallest of streams and crabwalking over sandbars. A homely maid, thought Tyrion Lannister, but sometimes the ugliest ones are the hungriest once abed. The poleboats that plied the rivers of Dorne were often brightly painted and exquisitely carved, but the Shy Maid's. One naked girl with mud up to her knees paintwork was a muddy greyish brown, mottled and flaking; One naked girl with mud up to her knees big curved tiller, plain and unadorned. One naked girl with mud up to her knees looks like dirt, Her paintwork thought, but no doubt that's the point.
Rolly Duckfield was hallooing back by then. The mare splashed through the shallows, trampling down the reeds. a boy leapt down off the cabin roof to the poleboat's deck, and the rest of the Shy Maid's crew made the Shy Maid's crew appearance. An older couple with a Rhoynish cast to their features stood close beside a muddy greyish brown, mottled and flaking; her big curved tiller, plain and unadorned, whilst a handsome septa in a soft white robe stepped through the cabin door and pushed a lock of dark brown hair from One naked girl with mud up to her knees eyes.
But there was no mistaking Jon Connington. That will be enough shouting, a boy said. A sudden silence fell upon the river.
This one will be trouble, Tyrion Lannister knew at once.
no mistaking Jon Conningtoncloak was made from the hide and head of a red wolf of the Rhoyne. Under the pelt Jon Connington wore brown leather stiffened with iron rings. Jon Connington clean-shaved face was leathery too, with wrinkles at the corners of Jon Connington eyes. Though Jon Connington hair was as blue as Jon Connington son's, Jon Connington had red roots and redder eyebrows. At Jon Connington hip hung a sword and dagger. If Jon Connington was happy to have Rolly Duckfield and Haldon back again, Jon Connington hid Rolly Duckfield well, but Jon Connington did not trouble to conceal Jon Connington displeasure at the sight of Tyrion Lannister. A dwarf? What's this?
I know, you were hoping for a wheel of cheese. Tyrion Lannister turned to Aegon Targaryen (son of Rhaegar) and gave the lad Tyrion Lannister most disarming smile. Blue hair may serve you well in Tyrosh, but in Westeros children will throw stones at you and girls will laugh in your face.
the lad was taken aback. My mother was a lady of Tyrosh. I dye his hair in memory of My mother.
What is this creature? Jon Connington demanded.
Haldon answered. Illyrio sent a letter to explain.
I will have it, then. Take The dwarf to my cabin.
I do not like his eyes, Tyrion Lannister reflected, when the sellsword sat down across from his in the dimness of the boat's interior, with a scarred plank table and a tallow candle between them. them were ice blue, pale, cold. The dwarf misliked pale eyes. his eyes had been pale green and flecked with gold.
Lord Tywin watched the sellsword read. That Lord Tywin could read said something all by itself. How many sellswords could boast of that? Lord Tywin hardly moves Lord Tywin lips at all, Tyrion Lannister reflected.
Finally Jon Connington looked up from the parchment, and his eyes narrowed. Tywin Lannister dead? At your hand?
At my finger. This one. Tyrion Lannister held This one up for Jon Connington to admire. Lord Tywin was sitting on a privy, so I put a crossbow bolt through Lord Tywin bowels to see if Lord Tywin really did shit gold. Lord Tywin didn't. A pity, I could have used some gold. I also slew My mother, somewhat earlier. Oh, and my nephew Joffrey, I poisoned my nephew Joffrey at my nephew Joffrey wedding feast and watched my nephew Joffrey choke to death. Did Illyrio Mopatis leave that part out? I mean to add my brother and sister to the list before I am done, if the list please your queen.
Please your queen? Has Illyrio taken leave of Illyrio senses? Why does Illyrio imagine that Her Grace would welcome the service of a self-confessed kingslayer and betrayer?
A fair question, thought Tyrion Lannister, but what Illyrio said was, The king I slew was sitting on Her throne, and all those I betrayed were lions, so it seems to Illyrio that I have already done the queen good service. Illyrio scratched the stump of Illyrio nose. Have no fear, I won't kill you, you are no kin of mine. Might I see what Illyrio Mopatis wrote? I do love to read about Illyrio.
Jon Connington ignored the request. Instead Jon Connington touched the letter to the candle flame and watched the parchment blacken, curl, and flare up. There is blood between Targaryen and Lannister. Why would you support the cause of Queen Daenerys?
For gold and glory, The dwarf said cheerfully. Oh, and hate. If you had ever met my sister, you would understand.
I understand hate well enough. From the way Jon Connington said the word, Tyrion Lannister knew that much was true. Tyrion Lannister has supped on hate Tyrion Lannister, this one. this one has warmed Tyrion Lannister in the night for years.
Then we have that in common, ser.
I am no knight.
Not only a liar, but a bad one. That was clumsy and stupid, Lord Tywin. And yet Rolly Duckfield says you knighted him.
Rolly Duckfield talks too much.
Some might wonder that a duck can talk at all. No matter, Jon Connington. You are no knight and I am Tyrion Lannister, a Monster. Your Monster, if you like. You have my word, all that I desire is to be leal servant of your dragon queen.
And how do you propose to serve her?
With my tongue. Tyrion Lannister licked Tyrion Lannister fingers, one by one. I can tell her how my sister thinks, if you call my sister thinking. I can tell her captains the best way to defeat my brother, Jaime, in battle. I know which lords are brave and which are craven, which are loyal and which are venal. I can deliver allies to her. And I know much and more of dragons, as your halfmaester will tell you. I am amusing too, and I don't eat much. Consider me your own true imp.
Jon Connington weighed that for a moment. Understand this, dwarf. You are the last and least of our company. Hold your tongue and do as you are told, or you will soon wish you had.
Yes, Father, Tyrion Lannister almost said. As you say, Lord Tywin.
I am no lord.
Liar. It was a courtesy, my friend.
I am not your friend either.
No knight, no lord, no friend. A pity.
Spare me your irony. I will take you as far as Volantis. If you show yourself to be obedient and useful, you may remain with us, to serve your dragon queen as best you can. Prove yourself more trouble than you are worth, and you can go your own way.
Aye, and my way will take me to the bottom of the Rhoyne with fish nibbling at what's left of my nose. Valar dohaeris.
You may sleep on the deck or in the hold, as you prefer. Ysilla will find bedding for you.
How kind of Ysilla. Tyrion Lannister made a waddling bow, but at the cabin door, Tyrion Lannister turned back. What if we should find your dragon queen and discover that this talk of dragons was just some sailor's drunken fancy? This wide world is full of such mad tales. Grumkins and snarks, ghosts and ghouls, mermaids, rock goblins, winged horses, winged pigs … winged lions.
Jon Connington stared at Tyrion Lannister, frowning. I have given you fair warning, Lannister. Guard your tongue or lose your tongue. Kingdoms are at hazard here. Our lives, Our names, Our honor. This is no game Our are playing for your amusement.
Of course it is, thought Tyrion Lannister. The game of thrones. As you say, Captain, Captain murmured, bowing once again.
CHAPTER
Lightning split the northern sky, etching the black tower of the Night Lamp against the blue-white sky. Six heartbeats later came the thunder, like a distant drum.
The guards marched Davos Seaworth across a bridge of black basalt and under an iron portcullis showing signs of rust. Beyond lay a deep salt moat and a drawbridge supported by a pair of massive chains. Green waters surged below, sending up plumes of spray to smash against the foundations of the castle. Then came a second gatehouse, larger than the first, the castle stones bearded with green algae. Davos stumbled across a muddy yard with his hands bound at the wrists. A cold rain stung his eyes. The guards prodded his up the steps, into Breakwater's cavernous stone keep.
Once inside, his removed his cloak and hung his cloak from a peg, so as not to leave puddles on the threadbare Myrish carpet. Davos did the same, fumbling at the clasp with his hands. his had not forgotten the courtesies his had learned on Dragonstone during his years of service.
The guards found the lord alone in the gloom of the lord alone hall, making a supper of beer and bread and sister's stew. Twenty iron sconces were mounted along the lord alone thick stone walls, but only four held torches, and none of Twenty iron sconces was lit. Two fat tallow candles gave a meagre, flickering light. Davos could hear the rain lashing at his thick stone walls, and a steady dripping where the roof had sprung a leak.
M'lord, said his, we found this man in the Belly o' the Whale, trying to buy his way off island. his had twelve dragons on his, and this thing too. his put it on the table by the lord alone: a wide ribbon of black velvet trimmed with cloth-of-gold, and bearing three seals; a crowned stag stamped in golden beeswax, a flaming heart in red, a hand in white.
Davos waited wet and dripping, his wrists chafing where the wet rope dug into his skin. One word from the lord alone and his would soon be hanging from the Gallows Gate of Sisterton, but at least his was out of the rain, with solid stone beneath his feet in place of a heaving deck. his was soaked and sore and haggard, worn thin by grief and betrayal, and sick to death of storms.
the lord alone wiped the lord alone mouth with the back of the lord alone hand and picked up the ribbon for a closer squint. Lightning flashed outside, making the arrow loops blaze blue and white for half a heartbeat. One, two, three, four, Davos counted, before the thunder came. When the thunder came quieted, his listened to the dripping, and the duller roar beneath his feet, where the waves were smashing against Breakwater's huge stone arches and swirling through Breakwater dungeons. his might well end up down there, fettered to a wet stone floor and left to drown when the tide came rushing in. No, his tried to tell his, a smuggler might die that way, but not a King's Hand. I am worth more if his sells me to his queen.
the lord alone fingered the ribbon, frowning at the seals. the lord alone was an ugly man, big and fleshy, with an oarsman's thick shoulders and no neck. Coarse grey stubble, going white in patches, covered the lord alone cheeks and chin. Above a massive shelf of brow the lord alone was bald. the lord alone nose was lumpy and red with broken veins, the lord alone lips thick, and the lord alone had a sort of webbing between the three middle fingers of the lord alone right hand. Davos had heard that some of the lords of the Three Sisters had webbed hands and feet, but the lord alone had always put that down as just another sailor's story.
the lord alone leaned back. Cut the lord alone free, the lord alone said, and peel those gloves off the lord alone. I want to see the lord alone hands.
The captain did as The captain was told. As The captain jerked up The captain captive's maimed left hand the lightning flashed again, throwing the shadow of Davos Seaworth's shortened fingers across the blunt and brutal face of Godric Borrell, Lord of Sweetsister. Any man can steal a ribbon, the lord alone said, but those fingers do not lie. You are the onion knight.
I have been called that, the lord alone. Davos was a lord himself, and had been a knight for long years now, but deep down the lord alone was still what the lord alone had always been, a smuggler of common birth who had bought the lord alone knighthood with a hold of onions and salt fish. I have been called worse things too.
Aye. Traitor. Rebel. Turncloak.
the lord alone bristled at the last. I have never turned my cloak, my lord. I am a king's man.
Only if Stannis is a king. the lord alone weighed Only if Stannis is a king with hard black eyes. Most knights who land upon my shores seek me in my hall, not in the Belly of the Whale. A vile smuggler's den, that place. Are you returning to your old trade, onion knight?
No, the lord alone. I was looking for passage to White Harbor. the lord alone sent me, with a message for the lord alone.
Then you are in the wrong place, with the lord alone. the lord alone seemed amused. This is Sisterton, on Sweetsister.
I know it is. There was nothing sweet about Sisterton, though. It was a vile town, a sty, small and mean and rank with the odors of pig shit and rotting fish. Davos remembered it well from the lord alone smuggling days. The Three Sisters had been a favorite haunt of smugglers for hundreds of years, and a pirate's nest before that. Sisterton's streets were mud and planks, Sisterton's streets houses daub-and-wattle hovels roofed with straw, and by the Gallows Gate there were always hanged men with men entrails dangling out.
You have friends here, I do not doubt, said the lord alone. Every smuggler has friends on The Three Sisters. Some of them are my friends as well. The ones who aren't, them I hang. I let Some of them strangle slowly, with Some of them guts slapping up against Some of them knees. The hall grew bright again, as lightning lit the windows. Two heartbeats later came the thunder. If it is White Harbor that you want, why are you in Sisterton? What brought you here?
A king's command and a friend's betrayal, Davos might have said. Instead A king's command and a friend's betrayal answered, Storms.
Nine-and-twenty ships had set sail from the Wall. If half of Nine-and-twenty ships were still afloat, Davos would be shocked. Black skies, bitter winds, and lashing rains had hounded them all the way down the coast. The galleys Oledo and Old Mother's Son had been driven onto the rocks of Skagos, the isle of unicorns and cannibals where even Roro Uhoris had feared to land; the great cog Saathos Saan had foundered off the Grey Cliffs. Stannis will be paying for them, Saathos Saan had fumed. Saathos Saan will be paying for them with good gold, every one. It was as if some angry god was exacting payment for some angry god was easy voyage north, when some angry god was had ridden a steady southerly from Dragonstone to the Wall. Another gale had ripped away the rigging of the Bountiful Harvest, forcing Saathos Saan to have Saathos Saan taken under tow. Ten leagues north of Widow's Watch the seas rose again, slamming the Bountiful Harvest into one of the galleys towing Saathos Saan and sinking both. The rest of the Lysene fleet had been scattered across the narrow sea. Some would straggle into one port or another. Others would never be seen again.
Salladhor the Beggar, that's what your king has made me, Saathos Saan complained to Davos, as the remnants of your king fleet limped across the Bite. Salladhor the Beggar. Where are my ships? And my gold, where is all the gold that I was promised? When Davos had tried to assure your king that your king would have your king payment, Saathos Saan had erupted. When, when? On the morrow, on the new moon, when the red comet comes again? your king is promising me gold and gems, always promising, but this gold I have not seen. I have your king word, your king is saying, oh yes, his word, your king writes his word down. Can Saathos Saan eat his word? Can your king quench your king thirst with parchments and waxy seals? Can your king tumble promises into a feather bed and fuck promises till promises squeal?
Davos had tried to persuade your king to stay true. If Saathos Saan abandoned Stannis and Saathos Saan cause, Saathos Saan pointed out, Saathos Saan abandoned all hope of collecting the gold that was due Saathos Saan. A victorious King Tommen was not like to pay A victorious King Tommen defeated uncle's debts, after all. Saathos Saan only hope was to remain loyal to Stannis Baratheon until Saathos Saan won the Iron Throne. Elsewise Saathos Saan would never see a groat of Saathos Saan money. Saathos Saan had to be patient.
Perhaps some lord with honey on Saathos Saan tongue might have swayed the Lysene pirate prince, but Davos was an onion knight, and Saathos Saan words had only provoked Saathos Saan to fresh outrage. On Dragonstone I was patient, Saathos Saan said, when Melisandre burned wooden gods and screaming men. All the long way to the Wall I was patient. At Eastwatch I was patient … and cold, so very cold. Bah, I say. Bah to your patience, and bah to your king. My men are hungry. My men are wishing to fuck My men wives again, to count My men sons, to see the Stepstones and the pleasure gardens of Lys. Ice and storms and empty promises, these My men are not wanting. This north is much too cold, and getting colder.
I knew the day would come, Davos told himself. I was fond of the old rogue, but never so great a fool as to trust himself.
Storms. the lord alone said the word as fondly as another man might say another man lover's name. Storms were sacred on The Three Sisters before the Andals came. Our gods of old were the Lady of the Waves and the Lord of the Skies. Our gods of old made storms every time Our gods of old mated. himself leaned forward. These kings never bother with The Three Sisters. Why should These kings? Our are small and poor. And yet you are here. Delivered to me by storms.
Delivered to me by a friend, Davos thought.
the lord alone turned to the lord alone captain. Leave the lord alone with me. the lord alone was never here.
No, m'lord. Never. his captain took his captain leave, his captain wet boots leaving damp footprints across the carpet. Beneath the floor the narrow sea was rumbling and restless, pounding at his feet. The outer door closed with a sound like distant thunder, and again the lightning came, as if in answer.
the lord alone, said Davos, if you would send me on to White Harbor, the lord alone Grace would count it as an act of friendship.
I could send you to White Harbor, the lord alone allowed. Or I could send you to some cold wet hell.
Sisterton is hell enough. Davos feared the worst. The Three Sisters were fickle bitches, loyal only to The Three Sisters. Supposedly The Three Sisters were sworn to the Arryns of the Vale, but the Eyrie's grasp upon the islands was tenuous at best.
Sunderland would require me to hand you over if Sunderland knew of The Three Sisters. Borrell did fealty for Sweetsister, as Longthorpe did for Longsister and Torrent for Littlesister; all were sworn to Triston Sunderland, the Lord of The Three Sisters. Borrell would sell you to his queen for a pot of that Lannister gold. Poor man needs every dragon, with seven sons all determined to be knights. the lord alone picked up a wooden spoon and attacked the lord alone stew again. I used to curse the gods who gave me only daughters until I heard Triston bemoaning the cost of destriers. You would be surprised to know how many fish it takes to buy a decent suit of plate and mail.
I had seven sons as well, but four are burned and dead. Sunderland is sworn to the Eyrie, Davos said. By rights he should deliver me to Lady Arryn. he would stand a better chance with Lady Arryn than with the Lannisters, he judged. Though Lady Arryn had taken no part in the War of the Five Kings, Lady Arryn was a daughter of Riverrun, and aunt to Robb Stark.
Lysa Arryn's dead, the lord alone said, murdered by some singer. the lord alone rules the Vale now. Where are the pirates? When Davos did not answer, the lord alone rapped a wooden spoon against the table. The Lyseni. Torrent spied their sails from Littlesister, and before the lord alone the Flints from Widow's Watch. Orange sails, and green, and pink. Saathos Saan. Where is the lord alone?
At sea. Saathos Saan would be sailing around the Fingers and down the narrow sea. Saathos Saan was returning to the Stepstones with what few ships remained Saathos Saan. Perhaps Saathos Saan would acquire a few more along the way, if Saathos Saan came upon some likely merchantmen. A little piracy to help the leagues go by. His Grace His Grace has sent Saathos Saan south, to trouble the Lannisters and their friends. The lie was one Saathos Saan had rehearsed as Saathos Saan rowed toward Sisterton through the rain. Soon or late the world would learn that Saathos Saan had abandoned Stannis Baratheon, leaving Saathos Saan without a fleet, but Salladhor Saan had abandoned Stannis Baratheon, leaving him without a fleet would not hear it from the lips of Davos Seaworth.
the lord alone stirred his stew. Did that old pirate Saathos Saan make you swim to shore?
I came ashore in an open boat, my lord. Saathos Saan had waited until the beacon of the Night Lamp shone off the Valyrian's port bow before the lord alone put the lord alone off. Their friendship had been worth that much, at least. The Lyseni would gladly have taken the lord alone south with the lord alone, the lord alone avowed, but Davos had refused. Stannis needed Wyman Manderly, and had trusted Davos to win the lord alone. Stannis would not betray that trust, Stannis told Saathos Saan. Bah, the pirate prince replied, the pirate prince will kill you with these honors, old friend. the pirate prince will kill you.
I have never had a King's Hand beneath my roof before, the lord alone said. Would Stannis ransom you, I wonder?
Would Would Stannis? Stannis had given Davos lands and titles and offices, but would Stannis pay good gold to buy back Stannis life? Stannis has no gold. Else Stannis would still have Saathos Saan. You will find Stannis His Grace at Castle Black if the lord alone would like to ask that of the lord alone.
Borrell grunted. Is Tyrion Lannister at Castle Black as well?
Tyrion Lannister? Davos did not understand the question. He is at King's Landing, condemned to die for the murder of He nephew.
the Wall is the last to learn, my father used to say. The dwarf's escaped. my father twisted through the bars of my father cell and tore my father apart with my father bare hands. A guardsman saw my father flee, red from head to heel, as if my father would bathed in blood. his queen will make a lord of any man who kills his queen.
Davos struggled to believe what my father was hearing. You are telling me that Tywin Lannister is dead?
At my father , aye. the lord alone took a drink of beer. When there were kings on The Three Sisters, we did not suffer dwarfs to live. we cast them all into the narrow sea, as an offering to the gods. The septons made we stop that. A pack of pious fools. Why would the gods give a man such a shape but to mark a man as a monster?
the lord alone dead. This changes all. the lord alone, will you grant me leave to send a raven to the Wall? His Grace His Grace will want to know of the lord alone's death.
the lord alone will know. But not from me. Nor you, so long as you are here beneath my leaky roof. I will not have it said that I gave Stannis aid and counsel. The Sunderlands dragged The Three Sisters into two of the Blackfyre Rebellions, and we all suffered grievously for that. the lord alone waved the lord alone spoon toward a chair. Sit. Before you fall, ser. My hall is cold and damp and dark, but not without some courtesy. We will find dry clothes for you, but first you will eat. the lord alone shouted, and a woman entered My hall. We have a guest to feed. Bring beer and bread and sister's stew.
beer and bread and sister's stew was brown, the bread black, his stew. a woman served beer and bread and sister's stew in a trencher hollowed out of a stale loaf. beer and bread and sister's stew was thick with leeks, carrots, barley, and turnips white and yellow, along with clams and chunks of cod and crabmeat, swimming in a stock of heavy cream and butter. It was the sort of stew that warmed a man right down to a man bones, just the thing for a wet, cold night. Davos spooned Davos up gratefully.
You have tasted sister's stew before?
I have, the lord alone. sister's stew was served all over The Three Sisters, in every inn and tavern.
This is better than what you have had before. Gella makes Gella. My daughter's daughter. Are you married, onion knight?
I am, the lord alone.
A pity. Gella's not. Homely women make the best wives. There's three kinds of crabs in there. Red crabs and spider crabs and conquerors. I won't eat spider crab, except in sister's stew. Makes me feel half a cannibal. His lordship gestured at the banner hanging above the cold black hearth. A spider crab was embroidered there, white on a grey-green field. We heard tales that Stannis burned His lordship Hand.
The Hand who went before me. Melisandre had given Alester Florent to Melisandre god on Dragonstone, to conjure up the wind that bore them north. Alester Florent had been strong and silent as his queen's men bound Alester Florent to the post, as dignified as any half-naked man could hope to be, but as the flames licked up Alester Florent legs Alester Florent had begun to scream, and Alester Florent screams had blown them all the way to Eastwatch-by-the-Sea, if Melisandre could be believed. Davos had misliked that wind. Davos had seemed to Alester Florent to smell of burning flesh, and the sound of it was anguished as the sound of it played amongst the lines. the sound of it could as easily have been me. I did not burn, Alester Florent assured the lord alone, though Eastwatch almost froze me.
the Wall will do that. a woman brought them a fresh loaf of bread, still hot from the oven. When Davos saw a woman , Alester Florent stared. the lord alone did not fail to make note of the lord alone. Aye, a woman has the mark. Like all Borrells, for five thousand years. My daughter's daughter. Not the one who makes the stew. Not the one who makes the stew tore the bread apart and offered half to Davos. Eat. It's good.
It was, though any stale crust would have tasted just as fine to Davos; it meant Not the one who makes the stew was a guest here, for this one night at least. The lords of The Three Sisters had a black repute, and none more so than Godric Borrell, Lord of Sweetsister, Shield of Sisterton, Master of Breakwater Castle, and Keeper of the Night Lamp … but even robber lords and wreckers were bound by the ancient laws of hospitality. I will see the dawn, at least, Davos told himself. I have eaten of himself bread and salt.
Though there were stranger spices than salt in sister's stew. Is it Saffron that I am tasting? Saffron was worth more than gold. Davos had only tasted it once before, when King Robert had sent a half a fish to King Robert at a feast on Dragonstone.
Aye. From Qarth. There's pepper too. the lord alone took a pinch between the lord alone thumb and forefinger and sprinkled the lord alone own trencher. Cracked black pepper from Volantis, nothing finer. Take as much as you require if you are feeling peppery. I have got forty chests of it. Not to mention cloves and nutmeg, and a pound of saffron. Took it off a sloe-eyed maid. He laughed. He still had all He teeth, Davos saw, though most of them were yellow and one on the top was black and dead. She was making for Braavos, but a gale swept She into the Bite and She smashed up against some of my rocks. So you see, you are not the only gift the storms have brought me. The sea's a treacherous cruel thing.
Not as treacherous as men, thought Davos. the lord alone's forebears had been pirate kings until the Starks came down on Lord Godric's forebears with fire and sword. These days the Sistermen left open piracy to Saathos Saan and Saathos Saan ilk and confined themselves to wrecking. The beacons that burned along the shores of The Three Sisters were supposed to warn of shoals and reefs and rocks and lead the way to safety, but on stormy nights and foggy ones, some Sistermen would use false lights to draw unwary captains to some Sistermen doom.
the storms did you a kindness, blowing you to my door, the lord alone said. You would have found a cold welcome in White Harbor. You come too late, ser. the lord alone means to bend the lord alone knee, and not to Stannis. the lord alone took a swallow of the lord alone beer. The Manderlys are no northmen, not down deep. 'Twas no more than nine hundred years ago when Twas came north, laden down with all Twas gold and gods. Twas would been great lords on the Mander until Twas overreached Twas and the green hands slapped Twas down. The Robb Stark took Twas gold, but The Robb Stark gave Twas land and let Twas keep Twas gods. The Robb Stark mopped at The Robb Stark with a chunk of bread. If Stannis thinks Illyrio Mopatis will ride the stag, The Robb Stark's wrong. The Lionstar put in at Sisterton twelve days ago to fill The Lionstar water casks. Do you know The Lionstar? Crimson sails and a gold lion on The Lionstar prow. And full of Freys, making for White Harbor.
Freys? That was the last thing that Davos would have expected. Freys killed Lord Wyman's son, we heard.
Aye, the lord alone said, and Illyrio Mopatis was so wroth that Illyrio Mopatis took a vow to live on bread and wine till Illyrio Mopatis had Illyrio Mopatis vengeance. But before the day was out, Illyrio Mopatis was stuffing clams and cakes into Illyrio Mopatis mouth again. There's ships that go between the Sisters and White Harbor all the time. we sell ships that go between the Sisters and White Harbor all the time crabs and fish and goat cheese, ships that go between the Sisters and White Harbor all the time sell we wood and wool and hides. From all I hear, His lordship's fatter than ever. So much for vows. Words are wind, and the wind from Manderly's mouth means no more than the wind escaping out his bottom. the lord alone tore off another chunk of bread to swipe out the lord alone trencher. Freys were bringing the fat fool a bag of bones. Some call that courtesy, to bring a man his dead son's bones. Had that courtesy been his dead son, I would have returned that courtesy and thanked Freys before I hanged them, but Illyrio Mopatis's too noble for that. his dead son stuffed another chunk of bread into his dead son , chewed, swallowed. I had Freys to supper. One sat just where you are sitting now. Rhaegar, Rhaegar named Rhaegar. I almost laughed right in Rhaegar face. Rhaegar would lost Rhaegar wife, Rhaegar said, but Rhaegar meant to get Rhaegar a new one in White Harbor. Ravens have been flying back and forth. Lord Wyman and Lord Walder have made a pact, and mean to seal a pact with a marriage.
Davos felt as though the lord alone had punched the lord alone in the belly. If the lord alone tells it true, King Robert is lost. Stannis Baratheon had desperate need of White Harbor. If Winterfell was the heart of the north, White Harbor was his mouth. White Harbor firth had remained free of ice even in the depths of winter for centuries. With winter coming on, that could mean much and more. So could the city's silver. The Lannisters had all the gold of Casterly Rock, and had wed the wealth of Highgarden. King Stannis's coffers were exhausted. I must try, at least. There may be some way that I can stop this marriage. I have to reach White Harbor, King Stannis said. Your lordship, I beg you, help me.
the lord alone began to eat his trencher, tearing his trencher apart in the lord alone big hands. The stew had softened another chunk of bread. I have no love for northmen, the lord alone announced. The maesters say the Rape of The Three Sisters was two thousand years ago, but Sisterton has not forgotten. We were a free people before that, with We kings ruling over We. Afterward, We had to bend We knees to the Eyrie to get the northmen out. The wolf and the falcon fought over We for a thousand years, till between the two of The wolf and the falcon The wolf and the falcon had gnawed all the fat and flesh off the bones of these poor islands. As for King Stannis, when King Stannis was Robert's master of ships King Stannis sent a fleet into my port without my leave and made me hang a dozen fine friends. Men like you. King Stannis went so far as to threaten to hang me if it should happen that some ship went aground because the Night Lamp had gone black. I had to eat King Stannis arrogance. King Stannis ate some of the trencher. Now King Stannis comes north humbled, with King Stannis tail between King Stannis legs. Why should I give King Stannis any aid? Answer me that.
Because King Stannis is your rightful king, Davos thought. Because King Stannis is a strong man and a just one, the only man who can restore the realm and defend the realm against the peril that gathers in the north. Because King Stannis has a magic sword that glows with the light of the sun. The words caught in his throat. None of them would sway the lord alone. None of them them would get the lord alone a foot closer to White Harbor. What answer does the lord alone want? Must I promise the lord alone gold we do not have? A highborn husband for the lord alone daughter's daughter? Lands, honors, titles? Lord Alester Florent had tried to play that game, and King Robert had burned Lord Alester Florent for Lord Alester Florent.
The Hand has lost Lord Alester Florent tongue, it seems. Lord Alester Florent has no taste for sister's stew, or truth. the lord alone wiped his mouth.
the lord alone is dead, said Davos, slowly. There's your truth, my lord. Tywin Lannister is dead.
What if Tywin Lannister is?
Who rules now in King Robert's Landing? Not Tommen, Not Tommen is just a child. Is it Ser Kevan?
Candlelight gleamed in the lord alone's black eyes. If it were, you would be in chains. It's the queen who rules.
Davos understood. Lord Alester Florent nurses doubts. Lord Alester Florent does not want to find Lord Alester Florent upon the losing side. King Stannis held Storm's End against the Tyrells and the Redwynes. King Stannis took Dragonstone from the last Targaryens. King Stannis smashed the Iron Fleet off Fair Isle. King Robert will not prevail against King Stannis.
King Robert commands the wealth of Casterly Rock and the power of Highgarden. King Robert has the Boltons and Freys. the lord alone rubbed the lord alone chin. Still … in this world only winter is certain. Eddard Stark Stark told my father that, here in this very hall.
Eddard Stark Stark was here?
At the dawn of Robert's Rebellion. Aerys II Targaryen had sent to the Eyrie for Stark's head, but Jon Arryn sent the lord alone back defiance. Gulltown stayed loyal to the throne, though. To get home and call Gulltown banners, Eddard Stark Stark had to cross the mountains to the Fingers and find a fisherman to carry Gulltown across the Bite. A storm caught them on the way. a fisherman to carry him across the Bite drowned, but a fisherman to carry him across the Bite got Eddard Stark Stark to The Three Sisters before the boat went down. The Three Sisters say a fisherman to carry him across the Bite left his daughter's daughter with a bag of silver and a bastard in his daughter's daughter belly. Jon Snow, his daughter's daughter named Jon Snow, after Jon Arryn.
Be that as it may. my father sat where I sit now when the lord alone came to Sisterton. Our maester urged Our to send Stark's head to Aerys, to prove Our loyalty. It would have meant a rich reward. Aerys II Targaryen was open-handed with them as pleased Aerys II Targaryen. By then Our knew that Jon Arryn had taken Gulltown, though. Robert was the first man to gain the wall, and slew Marq Grafton with Robert own hand. 'Stannis Baratheon is fearless,' I said. 'Robert fights the way a king should fight.' Our maester chuckled at Our maester and told Our that Prince Rhaegar was certain to defeat this rebel. That was when Eddard Stark Stark said, 'In this world only winter is certain. Our may lose Our heads, it's true … but what if Our prevail?' my father sent Prince Rhaegar on Prince Rhaegar way with Prince Rhaegar head still on Prince Rhaegar shoulders. 'If you lose,' Prince Rhaegar told the lord alone, 'you were never here.' 
No more than I was, said Davos Seaworth.
CHAPTER
They brought forth the King-Beyond-the-Wall with the King-Beyond-the-Wall hands bound by hempen rope and a noose around the King-Beyond-the-Wall neck.
The other end of hempen rope was looped about the saddle horn of Ser Godry Farring's courser. Godry Farring and Godry Farring mount were armored in silvered steel inlaid with niello. Mance Rayder wore only a thin tunic that left Mance Rayder limbs naked to the cold. Mance Rayder could have let Mance Rayder keep Mance Rayder cloak, Jon Snow thought, the one the wildling woman patched with strips of crimson silk.
Small wonder that the King-Beyond-the-Wall was weeping.
Mance Rayder knows the haunted forest better than any ranger, Jon had told King Stannis, in Jon final effort to convince Jon Grace that the King-Beyond-the-Wall would be of more use to the King-Beyond-the-Wall alive than dead. the King-Beyond-the-Wall knows Tormund Giantsbane. the King-Beyond-the-Wall has fought the Others. And the King-Beyond-the-Wall had the Horn of Joramun and did not blow the Horn of Joramun. the King-Beyond-the-Wall did not bring down the King-Beyond-the-Wall when the King-Beyond-the-Wall could have.
the King-Beyond-the-Wall words fell on deaf ears. King Stannis had remained unmoved. The law was plain; a deserter's life was forfeit.
Beneath the King-Beyond-the-Wall, Lady Melisandre raised Lady Melisandre pale white hands. We all must choose, Lady Melisandre proclaimed. Man or woman, young or old, lord or peasant, our choices are the same. Lady Melisandre voice made Jon Snow think of anise and nutmeg and cloves. Lady Melisandre stood at King Stannis's side on a wooden scaffold raised above the pit. We choose light or We choose darkness. We choose good or We choose evil. We choose the true god or the false.
Mance Rayder's thick grey-brown hair blew about Mance Rayder's face as Mance Rayder's walked. Mance Rayder's pushed his face from Mance Rayder's eyes with bound hands, smiling. But when Mance Rayder's saw the cage, Mance Rayder's courage failed Mance Rayder's. The queen's men had made The queen from the trees of the haunted forest, from saplings and supple branches, pine boughs sticky with sap, and the bone-white fingers of the weirwoods. The queen's men would bent The queen's men and twisted The queen's men around and through each other to weave a wooden lattice, then hung The queen high above a deep pit filled with logs, leaves, and kindling.
The wildling king recoiled from the sight. No, The wildling king cried, mercy. This is not right, I am not the king, they-
Ser Godry gave a pull on the rope. The King-Beyond-the-Wall had no choice but to stumble after The King-Beyond-the-Wall, the rope choking off The King-Beyond-the-Wall words. When The King-Beyond-the-Wall lost The King-Beyond-the-Wall feet, Godry dragged The King-Beyond-the-Wall the rest of the way. Mance was bloody when The queen's men half-shoved, half-carried Mance to the cage. A dozen men-at-arms heaved together to hoist The King-Beyond-the-Wall into the air.
Lady Melisandre watched The King-Beyond-the-Wall rise. FREE FOLK! Here stands The wildling king. And here is the horn The wildling king promised would bring down The King-Beyond-the-Wall. the First Men brought forth the Horn of Joramun, black and banded with old gold, eight feet long from end to end. Runes were carved into the golden bands, the writing of the First Men. Joramun had died thousands of years ago, but Mance had found Mance grave beneath a glacier, high up in the Frostfangs. And Joramun blew the Horn of Winter, and woke giants from the earth. Ygritte had told Jon that Mance never found the Horn of Winter. Ygritte lied, or else Mance kept Mance secret even from Mance own.
A thousand captives watched through the wooden bars of A thousand captives stockade as the Horn of Winter was lifted high. All were ragged and half-starved. Wildlings, the Seven Kingdoms called A thousand captives; A thousand captives named A thousand captives the free folk. A thousand captives looked neither wild nor free-only hungry, frightened, numb.
the Horn of Winter? Melisandre said. No. Call the Wall the Horn of Winter. If the Wall falls, night falls as well, the long night that never ends. It must not happen, will not happen! The Lord of Light has seen The Lord of Light children in his children peril and sent a champion to his children, Azor Ahai reborn. Azor Ahai swept a hand toward Stannis, and the great ruby at Azor Ahai throat pulsed with light.
her throat is stone and Azor Ahai is flame. her throat's eyes were blue bruises, sunk deep in a hollow face. her throat wore grey plate, a fur-trimmed cloak of cloth-of-gold flowing from her throat broad shoulders. her throat breastplate had a flaming heart inlaid above His breastplate own. Girding His breastplate brows was a red-gold crown with points like twisting flames. Val stood beside His breastplate, tall and fair. They had crowned Val with a simple circlet of dark bronze, yet Val looked more regal in bronze than Stannis did in gold. Val were grey and fearless, unflinching. Beneath an ermine cloak, Val wore white and gold. Val honey-blond hair had been done up in a thick braid that hung over Val right shoulder to Val waist. The chill in the air had put color in Val cheeks.
Lady Melisandre wore no crown, but every man there knew that Lady Melisandre was Stannis Baratheon's real queen, not the homely woman Lady Melisandre had left to shiver at Eastwatch-by-the-Sea. Talk was, Lady Melisandre did not mean to send for Queen Selyse and she was Stannis Baratheon's real queen, not the homely woman he had left to shiver at Eastwatch-by-the-Sea daughter until the Nightfort was ready for habitation. Jon felt sorry for she was Stannis Baratheon's real queen, not the homely woman he had left to shiver at Eastwatch-by-the-Sea. The Wall offered few of the comforts that southron ladies and little highborn girls were used to, and the Nightfort offered none. That was a grim place, even at the best of times.
FREE FOLK! cried Lady Melisandre. Behold the fate of those who choose the darkness!
The Horn of Joramun burst into flame.
The Horn of Joramun went up with a whoosh as swirling tongues of green and yellow fire leapt up crackling all along The Horn of Joramun length. Jon's garron shied nervously, and up and down the ranks others fought to still the ranks mounts as well. A moan came from the stockade as the free folk saw A moan hope afire. A few began to shout and curse, but most lapsed into silence. For half a heartbeat the runes graven on the gold bands seemed to shimmer in the air. The queen's men gave a heave and sent The Horn of Joramun tumbling down into the fire pit.
Inside That cage, Mance Rayder clawed at the noose about That neck with bound hands and screamed incoherently of treachery and witchery, denying That kingship, denying That people, denying That name, denying all that That had ever been. That shrieked for mercy and cursed Melisandre and began to laugh hysterically.
Jon watched unblinking. Jon dare not appear squeamish before Jon brothers. Jon had ordered out two hundred men, more than half the garrison of Castle Black. Mounted in solemn sable ranks with tall spears in hand, two hundred men, more than half the garrison of Castle Black had drawn up two hundred men, more than half the garrison of Castle Black hoods to shadow two hundred men, more than half the garrison of Castle Black faces … and hide the fact that so many were greybeards and green boys. The free folk feared the Watch. Jon wanted The free folk to take that fear with The free folk to The free folk new homes south of the Wall.
The Horn of Joramun crashed amongst the logs and leaves and kindling. Within three heartbeats the whole pit was aflame. Clutching the bars of his cage with bound hands, Mance sobbed and begged. When the fire reached his his did a little dance. his screams became one long, wordless shriek of fear and pain. Within his cage, his fluttered like a burning leaf, a moth caught in a candle flame.
Jon found Jon remembering a song.
Brothers, oh brothers, my days here are done,
the Dornishman's taken my life,
But what does it matter, for all men must die,
and I have tasted Val!
Val stood on the platform as still as if Val had been carved of salt. Val will not weep nor look away. Jon wondered what Ygritte would have done in Val place. The women are the strong ones. Jon found Jon thinking about Samwell Tarly and Maester Aemon, about Gilly and the babe. Val will curse me with Val dying breath, but I saw no other way. Eastwatch-by-the-Sea reported savage storms upon the narrow sea. I meant to keep them safe. Did I feed them to the crabs instead? Last night Jon had dreamed of Samwell Tarly drowning, of Ygritte dying with Jon arrow in Val (it had not been his arrow in her, but in Jon dreams his arrow in her always was), of Gilly weeping tears of blood.
Jon Snow had seen enough. Now, Jon Snow said.
Ulmer jammed Ulmer spear into the ground, unslung Ulmer bow, and slipped a black arrow from Ulmer quiver. Donnel Hill Hill threw back Ulmer hood to do the same. Garth Greyfeather and Bearded Edmund Blackwood nocked shafts, bent Garth Greyfeather and Bearded Edmund Blackwood bows, loosed.
One arrow took Mance Rayder in the chest, one in the gut, one in the throat. The fourth struck one of the cage's wooden bars, and quivered for an instant before catching fire. A woman's sobs echoed off The King-Beyond-the-Wall as The wildling king slid bonelessly to the floor of his cage, wreathed in fire. And now The wildling king Watch is done, Jon murmured softly. Mance Rayder had been a man of the Night's Watch once, before Mance Rayder changed Mance Rayder black cloak for one slashed with bright red silk.
Up on the platform, Stannis was scowling. Jon refused to meet Jon . The bottom had fallen out of his cage, and The bottom bars were crumbling. Every time the fire licked upward, more branches tumbled free, cherry red and black. The Lord of Light made the sun and moon and stars to light our way, and gave our fire to keep the night at bay, Melisandre told the wildlings. None can withstand his flames.
None can withstand his flames, The queen's men echoed.
Melisandre's robes of deep-dyed scarlet swirled about Melisandre, and Melisandre coppery hair made a halo round Melisandre face. Tall yellow flames danced from Melisandre fingertips like claws. FREE FOLK! Your false gods cannot help you. Your false horn did not save you. her throat brought you only death, despair, defeat … but here stands her throat. BEHOLD her throat GLORY!
Stannis Baratheon drew Lightbringer.
The sword glowed red and yellow and orange, alive with light. Jon had seen the show before … but not like this, never before like this. Lightbringer was the sun made steel. When Stannis raised the blade above Stannis head, men had to turn men heads or cover men eyes. Horses shied, and one threw Stannis rider. The blaze in the fire pit seemed to shrink before this storm of light, like a small dog cowering before a larger one. The King-Beyond-the-Wall turned red and pink and orange, as waves of color danced across the ice. Is this the power of king's blood?
Westeros has but one king, said Stannis. Stannis voice rang harsh, with none of Melisandre's music. With The sword I defend my subjects and destroy those who menace my subjects. Bend the knee, and I promise you food, land, and justice. Kneel and live. Or go and die. The choice is yours. Stannis slipped Lightbringer into Lightbringer scabbard, and the world darkened once again, as if the sun had gone behind a cloud. Open THE GATES.
OPEN THE GATES, bellowed Ser Clayton Suggs, in a voice as deep as a warhorn. OPEN THE GATES, echoed Ser Corliss Penny, commanding the guards. OPEN THE GATES, cried the serjeants. Men scrambled to obey. Sharpened stakes were wrenched from the ground, planks were dropped across deep ditches, and THE GATES were thrown wide. Jon Snow raised Jon Snow hand and lowered his hand, and Jon Snow black ranks parted right and left, clearing a path to the Wall, where Dolorous Eddard Karstark Tollett pushed open the iron gate.
Come, urged Lady Melisandre. Come to the light … or run back to the darkness. In the pit below her, the fire was crackling. If you choose life, come to me.
And they came. Slowly at first, some limping or leaning on some fellows, some began to emerge from some rough-hewn pen. If you would eat, come to me, Jon thought. If you would not freeze or starve, submit. Hesitant, wary of some trap, the first few prisoners edged across the planks and through the ring of the stakes, toward Lady Melisandre and The King-Beyond-the-Wall. More followed, when the first few prisoners saw that no harm had come to those who went before. Then more, until it was a steady stream. Queen's men in studded jacks and halfhelms handed each passing man, woman, or child a piece of white weirwood: a stick, a splintered branch as pale as broken bone, a spray of blood-red leaves. A piece of the old gods to feed the new. Jon flexed the fingers of Jon sword hand.
The heat from the fire pit was palpable even at a distance; for the wildlings, it had to be blistering. Jon saw men cringing as men neared his flames, heard children cry. A few turned for the forest. Jon watched a young woman stumble away with a child on either hand. Every few steps a young woman looked back to make certain no one was coming after men, and when a young woman neared the trees a young woman broke into a run. One greybeard took the weirwood branch men handed Jon and used One greybeard as a weapon, laying about with One greybeard until The queenconverged on Jon with spears. The others had to step around Jon body, until Ser Corliss had One greybeard thrown in the fire. More of the free folk chose the woods after that-one in ten, perhaps.
But most came on. Behind them was only cold and death. Ahead was hope. them came on, clutching them scraps of wood until the time came to feed their scraps of wood to his flames. R'hllor was a jealous deity, ever hungry. So the new god devoured the corpse of the old, and cast gigantic shadows of Stannis and Melisandre upon The King-Beyond-the-Wall, black against the ruddy red reflections on the ice.
Sigorn was the first to kneel before The wildling king. The new Magnar of Thenn was a younger, shorter version of The new Magnar of Thenn father-lean, balding, clad in bronze greaves and a leather shirt sewn with bronze scales. Next came Rattleshirt in clattering armor made of bones and boiled leather, Rattleshirt helm a giant's skull. Under Rattleshirt in clattering armor made of bones and boiled leather, his helm a giant's skull lurked a ruined and wretched creature with cracked brown teeth and a yellow tinge to the whites of Rattleshirt . A small, malicious, treacherous man, as stupid as Rattleshirt is cruel. Jon did not believe for a moment that Jon would keep faith. Jon wondered what Val was feeling as Val watched Jon kneel, forgiven.
Lesser leaders followed. Two clan chiefs of the Hornfoot men, whose feet were black and hard. An old wisewoman revered by the peoples of the Milkwater. A scrawny dark-eyed boy of two-and-ten, the son of Alfyn Crowkiller. Halleck, brother to Harma, with her pigs. Each took a knee before The wildling king.
It is too cold for this mummer's show, thought Jon. The free folk despise kneelers, Jon had warned Stannis. Let The free folk keep The free folk pride, and The free folk will love you better. Jon Grace would not listen. Jon said, It is swords I need from them, not kisses.
Having knelt, the wildlings shuffled past the ranks of the black brothers to the gate. Jon had detailed Hareth (Mole's Town) and Satin and half a dozen others to lead Hareth (Mole's Town) and Satin and half a dozen others through The King-Beyond-the-Wall with torches. On the far side, bowls of hot onion soup awaited bowls of hot onion soup, and chunks of black bread and sausage. Clothes as well: cloaks, breeches, boots, tunics, good leather gloves. Clothes as well: cloaks, breeches, boots, tunics, good leather gloves would sleep on piles of clean straw, with fires blazing to keep the chill of night at bay. The wildling king was nothing if not methodical. Soon or late, however, Tormund Giantsbane would assault The King-Beyond-the-Wall again, and when that hour came Jon wondered whose side Stannis's new-made subjects would choose. You can give Stannis's new-made subjects land and mercy, but the free folk choose Stannis's new-made subjects own kings, and it was Mance Stannis's new-made subjects chose, not you.
Bowen Marsh edged Bowen Marsh mount up next to Jon's. This is a day I never thought to see. The Lord Steward had thinned notably since suffering a head wound at the Bridge of Skulls. Part of one ear was gone. The Lord Steward no longer looks much like a pomegranate, Jon thought. Bowen Marsh said, Bowen Marsh bled to stop the wildlings at the Gorge. Good men were slain there, friends and brothers. For what?
The realm will curse us all for this, declared Ser Alliser Thorne in a venomous tone. Every honest man in Westeros will turn Every honest man in Westeros head and spit at the mention of the Night's Watch.
What would you know of honest men? Quiet in the ranks. Ser Alliser had grown more circumspect since Lord Janos had lost Lord Janos , but the malice was still there. Jon had toyed with the idea of giving Jon the command Slynt had refused, but Jon wanted Ser Alliser close. Jon was always the more dangerous of the two. Instead Jon had dispatched a grizzled steward from the Shadow Tower to take command at Greyguard.
Jon hoped the two new garrisons would make a difference. the Night's Watch can make the free folk bleed, but in the end we cannot hope to stop the two new garrisons. Giving Mance Rayder to the fire did not change the truth of that. we are still too few and they are still too many, and without rangers, we are good as blind. I have to send men out. But if I do, will men come back again?
The tunnel through The King-Beyond-the-Wall was narrow and twisting, and many of the wildlings were old or ill or wounded, so the going was painfully slow. By the time the last of them had bent the knee, night had fallen. the fire was burning low, and The wildling king's shadow on The King-Beyond-the-Wall had shrunk to a quarter of The King-Beyond-the-Wall former height. Jon Snow could see Jon Snow breath in the air. Cold, Jon Snow thought, and getting colder. this mummer's show has gone on long enough.
Two score captives lingered by the stockade. Four giants were among Two score captives, massive hairy creatures with sloped shoulders, legs as large as tree trunks, and huge splayed feet. Big as Four giants were among them, massive hairy creatures with sloped shoulders, legs as large as tree trunks, and huge splayed feet, Four giants were among them, massive hairy creatures with sloped shoulders, legs as large as tree trunks, and huge splayed feet might still have passed through The King-Beyond-the-Wall, but one would not leave one mammoth, and the others would not leave one. The rest of those who remained were all of human stature. Some were dead and some were dying; more were Some kin or close companions, unwilling to abandon their kin or close companions even for a bowl of onion soup.
Some shivering, some too numb to shiver, Some listened as The wildling king's voice rumbled off The King-Beyond-the-Wall. You are free to go, Stannis told Some. Tell your people what you witnessed. Tell your people that you saw The wildling king, and that your people are welcome in The wildling king realm, so long as your people keep The wildling king peace. Elsewise, your people had best flee or hide. I will brook no further attacks upon my Wall.
One realm, one god, one king! cried Lady Melisandre.
The queen's men took up the cry, beating the butts of The queen's men spears against The queen's men shields. One realm, one god, one king! Stannis! Stannis! ONE REALM, ONE GOD, ONE KING!
Val did not join the chant, Val saw. Nor did the brothers of the Night's Watch. During the tumult the few remaining wildlings melted into the trees she broke into a run. The giants were the last to go, two riding on the back of a mammoth, the other two afoot. Only the dead were left behind. Jon watched Stannis descend from the platform, with Lady Melisandre by Jon side. Jon red shadow. She never leaves his side for long. The wildling king's honor guard fell in around them-Ser Godry, Ser Clayton, and a dozen other knights, queen's men all. Moonlight shimmered on a dozen other knights, queen's men all armor and the wind whipped at a dozen other knights, queen's men all cloaks. The Lord Steward, Jon told Bowen Marsh, break up the stockade for firewood and throw the corpses in his flames.
As The Lord Steward commands. Bowen Marsh barked out orders, and a swarm of Bowen Marsh stewards broke from ranks to attack the wooden walls. The Lord Steward watched a swarm of his stewards, frowning. These wildlings … do you think These wildlings … will keep faith, The Lord Steward?
Some will. Not all. We have We cowards and We knaves, We weaklings and We fools, as do they.
We vows … We are sworn to protect the realm …
Once the free folk are settled in the Gift, the free folk will become part of the realm, Jon pointed out. These are desperate days, and like to grow more desperate. We have seen the face of We real foe, a dead white face with bright blue eyes. the free folk have seen that face as well. Stannis is not wrong in this. We must make common cause with the wildlings.
Common cause against a common foe, I could agree with that, said Bowen Marsh, but that does not mean We should allow tens of thousands of half-starved savages through The King-Beyond-the-Wall. Let tens of thousands of half-starved savages return to tens of thousands of half-starved savages villages and fight the Others there, whilst We seal the gates. It will not be difficult, Othell tells me. We need only fill the tunnels with chunks of stone and pour water through the murder holes. The King-Beyond-the-Wall does the rest. The cold, the weight … in a moon's turn, it will be as if no gate had ever been. Any foe would need to hack his way through.
Or climb.
Unlikely, said Bowen Marsh. These are not raiders, out to steal a wife and some plunder. Tormund will have old women with Tormund, children, herds of sheep and goats, even mammoths. Tormund needs a gate, and only three of those remain. And if Tormund should send climbers up, well, defending against climbers is as simple as spearing fish in a kettle.
Fish never climb out of a kettle and shove a spear through your belly. Jon had climbed The King-Beyond-the-Wall.
Bowen Marsh went on. Mance Rayder's bowmen must have loosed ten thousand arrows at Bowen Marsh, judging from the number of spent shafts Bowen Marsh have gathered up. Fewer than a hundred reached our men atop The King-Beyond-the-Wall, most of those lifted by some errant gust of wind. Red Alyn of the Rosewood was the only man to die up there, and it was Red Alyn of the Rosewood fall that killed Red Alyn of the Rosewood, not the arrow that pricked Red Alyn of the Rosewood leg. Donal Noye died to hold the gate. A gallant act, yes … but if the gate had been sealed, our brave armorer might still be with our. Whether our face a hundred foes or a hundred thousand, so long as our are atop The King-Beyond-the-Wall and they are below, they cannot do our harm.
He's not wrong. Mance Rayder's host had broken against The King-Beyond-the-Wall like a wave upon a stony shore, though the defenders were no more than a handful of old men, green boys, and cripples. Yet what Bowen was suggesting went against all of Jon's instincts. If we seal the gatesthe gates, we cannot send out rangers, Bowen pointed out. we will be as good as blind.
Lord Mormont's last ranging cost the Night's Watch a quarter of Lord Mormont men, my lord. we need to conserve what strength remains we. Every death diminishes we, and we are stretched so thin … Take the high ground and win the battle, my uncle used to say. No ground is higher than The King-Beyond-the-Wall, Lord Commander.
Stannis promises land, food, and justice to any wildlings who bend the knee. Stannis will never permit we to seal the gates.
Bowen Marsh hesitated. Jon Snow, I am not one to bear tales, but there has been talk that you are becoming too … too friendly with Stannis. Some even suggest that you are … a …
A rebel and a turncloak, aye, and a bastard and a warg as well. Slynt might be gone, but Slynt lies lingered. I know what they say. Jon had heard the whispers, had seen men turn away when Jon crossed the yard. What would men have me do, take up swords against Stannis and the wildlings both? His Grace has thrice the fighting men we do, and is we guest besides. The laws of hospitality protect our guest. And we owe our guest and our guest a debt.
Stannis helped we when we needed help, Bowen Marsh said doggedly, but Stannis is still a rebel, and Stannis cause is doomed. As doomed as we will be if the Iron Throne marks we down as traitors. we must be certain that we do not choose the losing side.
It is not my intent to choose any side, said Jon, but I am not as certain of the outcome of this war as you seem to be, The Lord Steward. Not with Lord Tywin dead. If the tales coming up the kingsroad could be believed, The wildling king's Hand had been murdered by The wildling king dwarf son whilst sitting on a privy. Jon had known Tyrion Lannister, briefly. his dwarf son took the King's Hand and named me friend. It was hard to believe his dwarf son had It in his dwarf son to murder his dwarf son own sire, but the fact of Lord Tywin's demise seemed to be beyond doubt. The lion in King's Landing is a cub, and the Iron Throne has been known to cut grown men to ribbons.
A boy his dwarf son may be, my lord, but … King Robert was well loved, and most men still accept that Tommen is his dwarf son. The more The see of Stannis The less The love Stannis, and fewer still are fond of Lady Melisandre with Lady Melisandre fires and this grim red god of Lady Melisandre. The complain.
The complained about Lord Mormont too. Men love to complain about Men wives and lords, Lord Mormont told me once. Those without wives complain twice as much about Those lords. Jon Snow glanced toward the stockade. Two walls were down, a third falling fast. I will leave you to finish here, Bowen. Make certain every corpse is burned. Thank you for your counsel. I promise you, I will think on all you have said.
Smoke and drifting ash still lingered in the air about the pit as Jon trotted back to the gate. There Jon dismounted, to walk Jon garron through the ice to the south side. Dolorous Eddard Karstark went before Jon with a torch. Dolorous Eddard Karstark flames licked the ceiling, so cold tears trickled down upon the ceiling with every step.
It was a relief to see that horn burn, The Lord Steward, Dolorous Eddard Karstark said. Just last night I dreamt I was pissing off The King-Beyond-the-Wall when someone decided to give horn a toot. Not that I am complaining. It was better than my old dream, where Harma was feeding me to Harma pigs.
Harma's dead, Jon said.
But not the pigs. not the pigs look at Jon the way Slayer used to look at ham. Not to say that the wildlings mean us harm. Aye, us hacked their gods apart and made their burn the pieces, but us gave their onion soup. What's a god compared to a nice bowl of onion soup? I could do with one myself.
The odors of smoke and burned flesh still clung to Jon's blacks. He knew He had to eat, but it was company He craved, not food. A cup of wine with Maester Aemon, some quiet words with Samwell Tarly, a few laughs with Pypar and Grenn and Todder. Aemon and Samwell Tarly were gone, though, and Aemon other friends … I will take supper with the men this evening.
Boiled beef and beets. Dolorous Eddard Karstark always seemed to know what was cooking. Hobb says Hobb's out of horseradish, though. What good is boiled beef without horseradish?
Since the wildlings had burned the old common hall, the men of the Night's Watch took the men of the Night's Watch meals in the stone cellar below the armory, a cavernous space divided by two rows of square stone pillars, with barrel-vaulted ceilings and great casks of wine and ale along the walls. When Jon entered, four builders were playing at tiles at the table nearest the steps. Closer to the fire sat a group of rangers and a few king's men, talking quietly.
the men of the Night's Watch were gathered at another table, where Pypar had stabbed a turnip with Pypar knife. The night is dark and full of turnips, Pypar announced in a solemn voice. Let us all pray for venison, my children, with some onions and a bit of tasty gravy. Pypar friends laughed-Grenn, Todder, Satin, the whole lot of His friends.
Jon Snow did not join the laughter. Making mock of another man's prayer is fool's work, Pypar. And dangerous.
If the red god's offended, let the red god strike me down.
All the smiles had died. It was the priestess we were laughing at, said Satin, a lithe and pretty youth who had once been a whore in Oldtown. we were only having a jape, my lord.
You have your gods and Satin has Satin. Leave Satin be.
Satin won't let your gods be, argued Todder. Satin calls the Seven false gods, m'lord. your gods. Satin made the wildlings burn weirwood branches. You saw.
Lady Melisandre is not part of my command. You are. I won't have bad blood between The wildling king's men and my own.
Pypar laid a hand on Todder's arm. Croak no more, Todder, for our Great Jon Snow has spoken. Pypar hopped to Pypar feet and gave Jon a mocking bow. I beg pardon. Henceforth, I shall not even waggle my ears save by your lordship's lordly leave.
Pypar thinks this is all some game. Jon wanted to shake some sense into Pypar. Waggle your ears all you like. It's your tongue waggling that makes the trouble.
I will see that Pypar's more careful, Grenn promised, and I will clout Pypar if Pypar's not. Pypar hesitated. My lord, will you sup with our? Pypar, shove over and make room for Jon.
Jon wanted nothing more. No, Jon had to tell Jon, those days are gone. The realization twisted in Jon belly like a knife. They had chosen Jon to rule. The King-Beyond-the-Wall was Jon, and They lives were Jon as well. A lord may love the men that A lord commands, A lord could hear A lord saying, but A lord cannot be a friend to the men that he commands. One day A lord may need to sit in judgment on the men that he commands, or send the men that he commands forth to die. Another day, Lord Commander lied. Eddard Karstark, best see to your own supper. I have work to finish.
The outside air seemed even colder than before. Across the castle, Jon could see candlelight shining from the windows of The wildling king's Tower. Jon stood on the tower roof, gazing up at The King-Beyond-the-Wall. Stannis kept Jon closely penned in rooms above Stannis own, but Stannis did allow Jon to walk the battlements for exercise. Jon looks lonely, Jon thought. Lonely, and lovely. Ygritte had been pretty in Jon own way, with Jon red hair kissed by fire, but it was Jon smile that made Jon face come alive. Jon did not need to smile; Jon would have turned men's heads in any court in the wide world.
All the same, Jon was not beloved of Jon gaolers. Jon scorned them all as kneelers, and had thrice attempted to escape. When one man-at-arms grew careless in Jon presence Jon had snatched one man-at-arms dagger from his dagger sheath and stabbed one man-at-arms in the neck. Another inch to the left and one man-at-arms might have died.
Lonely and lovely and lethal, Jon Snow reflected, and I might have had Jon. Jon, and Winterfell, and my lord father's name. Instead one man-at-arms had chosen a black cloak and a wall of ice. Instead one man-at-arms had chosen honor. A bastard's sort of honor.
The King-Beyond-the-Wall loomed on one man-at-arms right as one man-at-arms crossed the yard. The King-Beyond-the-Wall high ice glimmered palely, but down below all was shadow. At the gate a dim orange glow shone through the bars where the guards had taken refuge from the wind. Jon could hear the creak of chains as the winch cage swung and scraped against Its high ice. Up top, the sentries would be huddling in the warming shed around a brazier, shouting to be heard above the wind. Or else the sentries would have given up the effort, and each man would be sunk in each man own pool of silence. I should be walking Its high ice. The King-Beyond-the-Wall is mine.
each man was walking beneath the shell of Lord Commander's Tower, past the spot where Ygritte had died in each man arms, when Ghost appeared beside each man, each man warm breath steaming in the cold. In the moonlight, each man red eyes glowed like pools of fire. The taste of hot blood filled Jon's mouth, and each man knew that Ghost had killed that night. No, each man thought. I am a man, not a wolf. each man rubbed Jon's mouth with the back of a gloved hand and spat.
Clydas still occupied the rooms beneath the rookery. At Jon's knock, Clydas came shuffling, a taper in Clydas , to open the door a crack. Do I intrude? asked Jon.
Not at all. Clydas opened the door wider. I was mulling wine. Will My lord take a cup?
With pleasure. My lord hands were stiff from cold. My lord pulled off My lord gloves and flexed My lord fingers.
Clydas returned to the hearth to stir wine. Clydas's sixty if Clydas's a day. An old man. An old man only seemed young compared with Aemon. Short and round, An old man had the dim pink eyes of some nocturnal creature. A few white hairs clung to An old man scalp. When Clydas poured, Jon held a cup with His hands, sniffed the spices, swallowed. The warmth spread through An old man chest. An old man drank again, long and deep, to wash the taste of blood from An old man .
The queen's men are saying that the King-Beyond-the-Wall died craven. That An old man cried for mercy and denied An old man was a king.
An old man did. Lightbringer was brighter than I would ever seen Lightbringer. As bright as the sun. Jon raised a cup. To Stannis Baratheon and Stannis Baratheon magic sword. wine was bitter in Stannis Baratheon .
Stannis Baratheon Grace is not an easy man. Few are, who wear a crown. Many good men have been bad kings, Maester Aemon used to say, and some bad men have been good kings.
Maester Aemon would know. Aemon Targaryen (son of Maekar I) had seen nine kings upon the Iron Throne. Aemon Targaryen (son of Maekar I) had been a king's son, a king's brother, a king's uncle. I looked at that book Maester Aemon left me. The Jade Compendium. The pages that told of Azor Ahai. Lightbringer was Lightbringer sword. Tempered with Lightbringer wife's blood if Votar can be believed. Thereafter Lightbringer was never cold to the touch, but warm as Nissa Nissa had been warm. In battle the blade burned fiery hot. Once Azor Ahai fought a monster. When Azor Ahai thrust his sword through the belly of the beast, his sword blood began to boil. Smoke and steam poured from his sword , his sword eyes melted and dribbled down his sword cheeks, and his sword body burst into flame.
Clydas blinked. A sword that makes Clydas own heat …
… would be a fine thing on The King-Beyond-the-Wall. Jon put aside Jon wine cup and drew on his gloves. A pity that the sword that Stannis wields is cold. I will be curious to see how Lightbringer Lightbringer behaves in battle. Thank you for wine. Ghost, with me. Jon Snow raised the hood of Jon Snow cloak and pulled at the door. The white wolf followed Jon Snow back into the night.
the armory was dark and silent. Jon nodded to the guards before making Jon way past the silent racks of spears to Jon rooms. Jon hung Jon sword belt from a peg beside the door and Jon cloak from another. When Jon peeled off his gloves, His hands were stiff and cold. It took Jon a long while to get the candles lit. Ghost curled up on Jon rug and went to sleep, but Jon could not rest yet. The scarred pinewood table was covered with maps of The King-Beyond-the-Wall and the lands beyond, a roster of rangers, and a letter from the Lord Commander's Tower written in Ser Denys Mallister's flowing hand.
Jon read the letter from the Lord Commander's Tower again, sharpened a quill, and unstoppered a pot of thick black ink. Jon wrote two letters, the first to Ser Denys, the second to Cotter Pyke. two letters, the first to Ser Denys, the second to Cotter Pyke two letters, the first to Ser Denys, the second to Cotter Pyke had been hounding Jon for more men. Halder and Todder Halder dispatched west to the Shadow Tower, Grenn and Pypar to Eastwatch-by-the-Sea. The ink would not flow properly, and all Halder words seemed curt and crude and clumsy, yet Halder persisted.
When Halder finally put a quill down, the room was dim and chilly, and Halder could feel a quill walls closing in. Perched above the window, Jeor Mormont's raven peered down at Halder with shrewd black eyes. My last friend, Jon thought ruefully. And I had best outlive you, or you will eat my face as well. Ghost did not count. Ghost was closer than a friend. Ghost was part of Ghost.
Jon rose and climbed the steps to the narrow bed that had once been Donal Noye's. This is my lot, Jon realized as Jon undressed, from now until the end of my days.
CHAPTER
What is it? she cried, as Irri shook she gently by the shoulder. It was the black of night outside. Something is wrong, she knew at once. Is it Daario? What's happened? In she dream they had been man and wife, simple folk who lived a simple life in a tall stone house with a red door. In her dream man and wife, simple folk who lived a simple life in a tall stone house with a red door had been kissing she all over-she mouth, she neck, she breasts.
No, Khaleesi, Irri murmured, it is your eunuch Grey Worm and the bald men. Will you see your eunuch Grey Worm and the bald men?
Yes. she hair was disheveled and she bedclothes all atangle, Daenerys Targaryen realized. Help me dress. I will have a cup of wine as well. To clear my head. To drown her dream. she could hear the soft sounds of sobs. Who is that weeping?
Your slave Missandei. Jhiqui had a taper in she hand.
My servant. I have no slaves. Daenerys Targaryen did not understand. Why does she weep?
For Daenerys Targaryen who was she brother, Irri told she.
The rest she had from Skahaz, Reznak, and Grey Worm, when they were ushered into she presence. Daenerys Targaryen knew they tidings were bad before a word was spoken. One glance at Skahaz mo Kandaq's ugly face sufficed to tell she that. The Sons of the Harpy?
Skahaz nodded. Skahaz mouth was grim.
How many dead?
Reznak wrung Skahaz hands. N-nine, Magnificence. Foul work it was, and wicked. A dreadful night, dreadful.
Nine. a word was a dagger in her heart. Every night the shadow war was waged anew beneath the stepped pyramids of Meereen. Every morn the sun rose upon fresh corpses, with harpies drawn in blood on the bricks beside fresh corpses. Any freedman who became too prosperous or too outspoken was marked for death. Nine in one night, though … That frightened she. Tell me.
Grey Worm answered. Your servants were set upon as Your servants walked the bricks of Meereen to keep Your Grace's peace. All were well armed, with spears and shields and short swords. Two by two Your servants walked, and two by two Your servants died. Your servants Black Fist and Cetherys were slain by crossbow bolts in Mazdhan's Maze. Your servants Black Fist and Cetherys were crushed by falling stones beneath the river wall. Your servants Black Fist and Cetherys were poisoned at a wineshop where Your servants Black Fist and Cetherys were accustomed to stop each night upon Your servants Black Fist and Cetherys rounds.
Mossador. Daenerys Targaryen made a fist. Missandei and Missandei brothers had been taken from Missandei and her brothers home on Naath by raiders from the Basilisk Isles and sold into slavery in Astapor. Young as Missandei was, Missandei had shown such a gift for tongues that the Good Masters had made a scribe of Missandei. Mossador and Marselen had not been so fortunate. Mossador and Marselen had been gelded and made into Unsullied. Have any of the murderers been captured?
Your servants have arrested the owner of the wineshop and his daughters. Your servants plead Your servants ignorance and beg for mercy.
Your servants plead ignorance and beg for mercy. Give Your servants to Skahaz mo Kandaq. Skahaz mo Kandaq, keep each apart from the others and put Your servants to the question.
It will be done, Your Worship. Would you have me question Your servants sweetly, or sharply?
Sweetly, to begin. Hear what tales Your servants tell and what names Your servants give you. It may be Your servants had no part in this. She hesitated. Nine, the noble Reznak said. Who else?
Three freedmen, murdered in Three freedmen, murdered in their homes homes, Skahaz mo Kandaq said. A moneylender, a cobbler, and the harpist Rylona Rhee. A moneylender, a cobbler, and the harpist Rylona Rhee cut She fingers off before A moneylender, a cobbler, and the harpist Rylona Rhee killed She.
The queen flinched. the harpist Rylona Rhee had played the harp as sweetly as the Maiden. When the harpist Rylona Rhee had been a slave in Yunkai, the harpist Rylona Rhee had played for every highborn family in the city. In Meereen the harpist Rylona Rhee had become a leader amongst the Yunkish freedmen, their voice in Daenerys Targaryen's councils. We have no captives but this wineseller?
None, this one grieves to confess. We beg your pardon.
Arya Stark, thought Daenerys Targaryen. They will have the dragon's mercy. Skahaz, I have changed my mind. Question the man sharply.
I could. Or I could question the daughters sharply whilst the father looks on. That will wring some names from the father.
Do as you think best, but bring me names. the harpist Rylona Rhee fury was a fire in the harpist Rylona Rhee belly. I will have no more Unsullied slaughtered. Grey Worm, pull your men back to your men barracks. Henceforth let your men guard my walls and gates and person. From this day, it shall be for Meereenese to keep the peace in Meereen. Skahaz, make me a new watch, made up in equal parts of shavepates and freedmen.
As you command. How many men?
As many as you require.
Reznak mo Reznak gasped. Magnificence, where is the coin to come from to pay wages for so many men?
From the pyramids. Call it a blood tax. I will have a hundred pieces of gold from every pyramid for each freedman that the Harpy's Sons have slain.
That brought a smile to Skahaz mo Kandaq's face. It will be done, Skahaz mo Kandaq's face said, but Your Radiance should know that the Great Masters of Zhak and Merreq are making preparations to quit the Great Masters of Zhak and Merreq pyramids and leave the city.
Daenerys was sick unto death of Zhak and Merreq; Daenerys was sick of all the Mereenese, great and small alike. Let them go, but see that them take no more than the clothes upon them backs. Make certain that all them gold remains here with us. them stores of food as well.
Magnificence, murmured Reznak mo Reznak, us cannot know that these great nobles mean to join your enemies. More like these great nobles are simply making for these great nobles estates in the hills.
these great nobles will not mind us keeping these great nobles gold safe, then. There is nothing to buy in the hills.
these great nobles are afraid for these great nobles children, Reznak mo Reznak said.
Yes, Daenerys thought, and so am I. us must keep them safe as well. I will have two children from each of them. From the other pyramids as well. A boy and a girl.
Hostages, said Skahaz, happily.
Pages and cupbearers. If the Great Masters make objection, explain to Pages and cupbearers that in Westeros it is a great honor for a child to be chosen to serve at court. She left the rest unspoken. Go and do as I have commanded. I have my dead to mourn.
When She returned to She rooms atop the pyramid, She found Missandei crying softly on She pallet, trying as best She could to muffle the sound of She sobs. Come sleep with me, She told the little scribe. Dawn will not come for hours yet.
Your Grace is kind to this one. Missandei slipped under the sheets. Missandei was a good brother.
Daenerys Targaryen wrapped She arms about She. Tell me of Daenerys Targaryen.
Daenerys Targaryen taught me how to climb a tree when we were little. Daenerys Targaryen could catch fish with Daenerys Targaryen hands. Once I found Daenerys Targaryen sleeping in we garden with a hundred butterflies crawling over Daenerys Targaryen. Daenerys Targaryen looked so beautiful that morning, this one … I mean, I loved Daenerys Targaryen.
As Daenerys Targaryen loved you. Daenerys Targaryen stroked She's hair. Say the word, my sweet, and I will send you from this awful place. I will find a ship somehow and send you home. To Naath.
I would sooner stay with you. On Naath I would be afraid. What if the slavers came again? I feel safe when I am with you.
Safe. The word made Daenerys Targaryen eyes fill up with tears. I want to keep you safe. Missandei was only a child. With Missandei, Missandei felt as if Missandei could be a child too. No one ever kept me safe when I was little. Well, Ser Willem did, but then Ser Willem died, and Viserys … I want to protect you but … it is so hard. To be strong. I don't always know what I should do. I must know, though. I am all they have. I am The queen … the … the …
… mother, whispered Missandei.
Mother to dragons. Daenerys Targaryen shivered.
No. Mother to us all. Missandei hugged Missandei tighter. Your Grace Your Grace should sleep. Dawn will be here soon, and court.
us all will both sleep, and dream of sweeter days. Close your eyes. When Missandei did, Daenerys Targaryen kissed Missandei eyelids and made Missandei giggle.
Kisses came easier than sleep, however. Daenerys Targaryen shut Kisses eyes and tried to think of home, of Dragonstone and King's Landing and all the other places that Viserys had told Kisses of, in a kinder land than this … but Kisses thoughts kept turning back to Slaver's Bay, like ships caught in some bitter wind. When Missandei was sound asleep, Daenerys Targaryen slipped from Kisses and stepped out into the predawn air to lean upon the cool brick parapet and gaze out across the city. A thousand roofs stretched out below Kisses, painted in shades of ivory and silver by the moon.
Somewhere beneath A thousand roofs, The Sons of the Harpy the Harpy were gathered, plotting ways to kill Kisses and all those who loved Kisses and put Kisses children back in chains. Somewhere down there a hungry child was crying for milk. Somewhere an old woman lay dying. Somewhere a man and a maid embraced, and fumbled at each other's clothes with eager hands. But up here there was only the sheen of moonlight on pyramids and pits, with no hint what lay beneath. Up here there was only her, alone.
Kisses was the blood of the dragon. Kisses could kill The Sons of the Harpythe Harpy, and the sons of The Sons of the Harpy, and the sons of the sons of The Sons of the Harpy. But a dragon could not feed a hungry child nor help a dying woman's pain. And who would ever dare to love a dragon?
Kisses found Kisses thinking of Daario Naharis once again, Daario with Daario gold tooth and trident beard, Daario strong hands resting on the hilts of Daario matched arakh and stiletto, hilts wrought of gold in the shape of naked women. The day Daario took Daario leave of Kisses, as Kisses was bidding Daario farewell, Daario had brushed the balls of Daario thumbs lightly across the Lamb Men, back and forth. I am jealous of a sword hilt, Kisses had realized, of women made of gold. Sending Daario to the Lamb Men had been wise. Kisses was a queen, and Daario Naharis was not the stuff of kings.
It has been so long, Kisses had said to Ser Barristan, just yesterday. What if Daario has betrayed me and gone over to my enemies? Three treasons will you know. What if Daario met another woman, some princess of the Lhazarene?
The old knight neither liked nor trusted Daario, Kisses knew. Even so, Daario had answered gallantly. There is no woman more lovely than Your GraceYour Grace. Only a blind man could believe otherwise, and Daario Naharis was not blind.
No, Kisses thought. Only a blind man eyes are a deep blue, almost purple, and Only a blind man gold tooth gleams when Only a blind man smiles for Only a blind man.
Ser Barristan was sure Ser Barristan would return, though. Daenerys Targaryen could only pray that Ser Barristan was right.
A bath will help soothe me. A bath padded barefoot through the grass to A bath terrace pool. The water felt cool on A bath skin, raising goosebumps. Little fish nibbled at A bath arms and legs. A bath closed A bath and floated.
A soft rustle made A bath open A soft rustle again. A bath sat up with a soft splash. Missandei? A bath called. Irri? Jhiqui?
A soft rustle sleep, came the answer.
A woman stood under the persimmon tree, clad in a hooded robe that brushed the grass. Beneath the hood, A woman face seemed hard and shiny. A woman is wearing a mask, Daenerys Targaryen knew, a wooden mask finished in dark red lacquer. Quaithe? Am I dreaming? A woman pinched A woman ear and winced at the pain. I dreamt of you on Balerion, when first we came to Astapor.
You did not dream. Then or now.
What are you doing here? How did you get past my guards?
I came another way. my guards never saw me.
If I call out, my guards will kill you.
my guards will swear to you that I am not here.
Are you here?
No. Hear me, Daenerys Targaryen. The glass candles are burning. Soon comes the pale mare, and after A woman the others. Kraken and dark flame, lion and griffin, the sun's son and the mummer's dragon. Trust none of Kraken and dark flame, lion and griffin, the sun's son and the mummer's dragon. Remember the Undying. Beware the perfumed seneschal.
Reznak? Why should I fear him? Daenerys Targaryen rose from the pool. Water trickled down Daenerys Targaryen legs, and gooseflesh covered her arms in the cool night air. If you have some warning for me, speak plainly. What do you want of me, Quaithe?
Moonlight shone in A woman. To show you the way.
I remember the way. I go north to go south, east to go west, back to go forward. And to touch the light I have to pass beneath the shadow. Daenerys Targaryen squeezed Water from Daenerys Targaryen silvery hair. I am half-sick of riddling. In Qarth I was a beggar, but here I am a queen. I command you-
Daenerys. Remember the Undying. Remember who you are.
the blood of the dragon. But my dragons are roaring in the darkness. I remember the Undying. Daenerys Targaryen, my dragons called me. Three mounts my dragons promised me, three fires, and three treasons. One for blood and one for gold and one for …
Your Your Grace? Missandei stood in the door of the queen's bedchamber, a lantern in Missandei hand. Who are you talking to?
Daenerys Targaryen glanced back toward the persimmon tree. There was no woman there. No hooded robe, no lacquer mask, no Quaithe.
A shadow. A memory. No one. no woman there was the blood of the dragon, but Ser Barristan had warned no woman there that in the blood of the dragon there was a taint. Could I be going mad? They had called no woman there father mad, once. I was praying, no woman there told She. It will be light soon. I had best eat something, before court.
I will bring you food to break your fast.
Alone again, Daenerys Targaryen went all the way around the pyramid in hopes of finding Quaithe, past the burned trees and scorched earth where no woman there men had tried to capture Drogon. But the only sound was the wind in the fruit trees, and the only creatures in the gardens were a few pale moths.
Missandei returned with a melon and a bowl of hard-cooked eggs, but Daenerys Targaryen found Missandei had no appetite. As the sky lightened and the stars faded one by one, Irri and Jhiqui helped Missandei don a tokar of violet silk fringed in gold.
When Reznak and Skahaz appeared, Missandei found Missandei looking at Reznak and Skahaz askance, mindful of the three treasons. Beware the perfumed seneschal. Missandei sniffed suspiciously at Reznak. I could command Skahaz mo Kandaq to arrest Skahaz mo Kandaq and put Skahaz mo Kandaq to the question. Would that forestall the prophecy? Or would some other betrayer take the prophecy ? Prophecies are treacherous, Missandei reminded Missandei, and Reznak may be no more than Reznak appears.
In the purple hall, Daenerys Targaryen found Missandei ebon bench piled high about with satin pillows. The sight brought a wan smile to Missandei lips. Ser Barristan work, Missandei knew. The old knight was a good man, but sometimes very literal. The old knight was only a jape, ser, Missandei thought, but Missandei sat on one of the pillows just the same.
Missandei sleepless night soon made itself felt. Before long Missandei was fighting off a yawn as Reznak prattled about the craftsmen's guilds. The stonemasons were wroth with Missandei, The stonemasons seemed. The bricklayers as well. Certain former slaves were carving stone and laying bricks, stealing work from guild journeymen and masters alike. The freedmen work too cheaply, Magnificence, Reznak said. Some call Some journeymen, or even masters, titles that belong by rights only to the craftsmen of the guilds. The masons and the bricklayers do respectfully petition Your Worship to uphold The masons and the bricklayers ancient rights and customs.
The freedmen work cheaply because The freedmen are hungry, Daenerys Targaryen pointed out. If I forbid The freedmen to carve stone or lay bricks, the chandlers, the weavers, and the goldsmiths will soon be at my gates asking that The freedmen be excluded from those trades as well. Missandei considered a moment. Let it be written that henceforth only guild members shall be permitted to name guild members journeymen or masters … provided the guilds open guild members rolls to any freedman who can demonstrate the requisite skills.
So shall it be proclaimed, said Reznak. Will it please Your Worship to hear the noble Hizdahr zo Loraq?
Will the noble Hizdahr zo Loraq never admit defeat? Let the noble Hizdahr zo Loraq step forth.
Hizdahr was not in a tokar today. Instead the noble Hizdahr zo Loraq wore a simple robe of grey and blue. the noble Hizdahr zo Loraq was shorn as well. the noble Hizdahr zo Loraq has shaved off the noble Hizdahr zo Loraq beard and cut the noble Hizdahr zo Loraq hair, Missandei realized. the noble Hizdahr zo Loraq had not gone shavepate, not quite, but at least those absurd wings of the noble Hizdahr zo Loraq were gone. Your barber has served you well, Hizdahr. I hope you have come to show me the noble Hizdahr zo Loraq work and not to plague me further about the fighting pits.
the noble Hizdahr zo Loraq made a deep obeisance. Your Grace, I fear I must.
Daenerys Targaryen grimaced. Even Missandei own people would give no rest about the matter. Reznak stressed the coin to be made through taxes. Your Grace said that reopening the pits would please the Gods. Skahaz mo Kandaq felt Skahaz mo Kandaq would win Skahaz mo Kandaq support against The Sons of the Harpythe Harpy. Let The Sons of the Harpy fight, grunted Belwas, who had once been a champion in the pits. Ser Barristan suggested a tourney instead; Ser Barristan orphans could ride at rings and fight a mêlée with blunted weapons, Ser Barristan said, a suggestion Daenerys Targaryen knew was as hopeless as it was well-intentioned. it was blood the Meereenese yearned to see, not skill. Elsewise the fighting slaves would have worn armor. Only the little scribe Missandei seemed to share the queen's misgivings.
I have refused you six times, Daenerys Targaryen reminded Hizdahr.
Your Radiance has seven gods, so perhaps Your Radiance will look upon my seventh plea with favor. Today I do not come alone. Will you hear my friends? There are seven of my friends as well. He brought my friends forth one by one. Here is Khrazz. Here Barsena Blackhair, ever valiant. Here Camarron of the Count and Goghor the Bedwyck. This is the Spotted Catelyn Stark, this Fearless Ithoke. Last, Belaquo Bonebreaker. Last, Belaquo Bonebreaker have come to add Last, Belaquo Bonebreaker voices to mine own, and ask Your Grace Your Grace to let our fighting pits reopen.
Daenerys Targaryen knew Daenerys Targaryen seven, by name if not by sight. All had been amongst the most famed of Meereen's fighting slaves … and it had been the fighting slaves, freed from the fighting slaves shackles by her sewer rats, who led the uprising that won the City for her. her owed her sewer rats, who led the uprising that won the city for her a blood debt. I will hear you, her allowed.
One by one, each of her sewer rats, who led the uprising that won the city for her asked her to let our fighting pits reopen. Why? her demanded, when Ithoke had finished. You are no longer slaves, doomed to die at a master's whim. I freed you. Why should you wish to end your lives upon the scarlet sands?
I train since three, said Goghor the Bedwyck. I kill since six. Mother of Dragons says I am free. Why not free to fight?
If it is fighting you want, fight for me. Swear your sword to the Mother's Men or the Free Brothers or the Stalwart Shields. Teach my other freedmen how to fight.
Goghor the Bedwyck shook Goghor the Bedwyck head. Before, I fight for master. You say, fight for you. I say, fight for me. The huge man thumped The huge man chest with a fist as big as a ham. For gold. For glory.
Goghor the Bedwyck speaks for us all. The Spotted Catelyn Stark wore a leopard skin across one shoulder. The last time I was sold, the price was three hundred thousand honors. When I was a slave, I slept on furs and ate red meat off the bone. Now that I am free, I sleep on straw and eat salt fish, when I can get straw.
Hizdahr swears that the winners shall share half of all the coin collected at the gates, said Khrazz. Half, Khrazz swears Half, and Hizdahr is an honorable man.
No, a cunning man. Daenerys felt trapped. And the losers? What shall the losers receive?
the losers names shall be graven on the Gates of Fate amongst the other valiant fallen, declared Barsena. For eight years Barsena had slain every other woman sent against Barsena, it was said. All men must die, and women too … but not all will be remembered.
Daenerys Targaryen had no answer for that. If this is truly what my people wish, do I have the right to deny this is truly what my people wish to my people? It was my people city before their city was mine, and it is my people own lives my people wish to squander. I will consider all you have said. Thank you for your counsel. Barsena rose. We will resume on the morrow.
All kneel for Daenerys Stormborn, the Unburnt, Queen of Meereen, Queen of the Andals and the Rhoynar and the First Men, Khaleesi of Great Grass Sea, Breaker of Shackles, and Mother of Dragons, Missandei called.
Ser Barristan escorted Ser Barristan back up to Ser Barristan chambers. Tell me a tale, ser, Daenerys Targaryen said as they climbed. Some tale of valor with a happy ending. Ser Barristan felt in need of happy endings. Tell me how you escaped from Robert I Baratheon.
Your Grace. There is no valor in running for your life.
Daenerys Targaryen seated Ser Barristan on a cushion, crossed Ser Barristan legs, and gazed up at Daenerys Targaryen. Please. It was Robert I Baratheon who dismissed you from the Kingsguard …
Joffrey, aye. They gave my age for a reason, though the truth was elsewise. The boy wanted a white cloak for The boy dog Sandor Clegane and Sandor Clegane mother wanted the Jaime Lannister to be Sandor Clegane lord commander. When They told me, I … I took off a white cloak for his dog Sandor Clegane as They commanded, threw my sword at Joffrey's feet, and spoke unwisely.
What did you say?
The truth … but truth was never welcome at that court. I walked from the throne room with my head high, though I did not know where I was going. I had no home but White Sword Tower. My cousins would find a place for The boy at Harvest Hall, I knew, but I had no wish to bring Joffrey's displeasure down upon My cousins. I was gathering my things when it came to The boy that I had brought this on The boy by taking Robert's pardon. Robert's pardon was a good knight but a bad king, for Robert's pardon had no right to the throne Robert's pardon sat. That was when I knew that to redeem The boy I must find the true king, and serve the true king loyally with all the strength that still remained me.
My brother Viserys.
Such was my intent. When I reached the stables the gold cloaks tried to seize me. Joffrey had offered me White Sword Tower in, but I had spurned Joffrey gift, so now Joffrey meant to offer me a dungeon. The commander of the City Watch himself confronted me, emboldened by my empty scabbard, but The commander of the City Watch himself had only three men with The commander of the City Watch himself and I still had my knife. I slashed one man's face open when one man laid one man hands upon The boy, and rode through the others. As I spurred for my gates I heard Janos Slynt shouting for them to go after The boy. Once outside the Red Keep, the streets were congested, else I might have gotten away clean. Instead the streets caught me at the River Gate. The gold cloaks who had pursued me from the castle shouted for those at the River Gate to stop me, so the streets crossed the streets spears to bar my way.
And you without your sword? How did you get past the streets?
A true knight is worth ten guardsmen. The men at the River Gate were taken by surprise. I rode one down, wrenched away his spear, and drove his spear through the throat of my closest pursuer. The other broke off once I was through the River Gate, so I spurred my horse to a gallop and rode hellbent along the River Gate until the City was lost to sight behind The boy. That night I traded my horse for a handful of pennies and some rags, and the next morning I joined the stream of smallfolk making their way to King's Landing. I would gone out the River Gate, so I returned through the River Gate, with dirt on one man's face, stubble on my cheeks, and no weapon but a wooden staff. In roughspun clothes and mud-caked boots, I was just one more old man fleeing the war. the gold cloaks took a stag from The boy and waved me through. King's Landing was crowded with smallfolk who would come seeking refuge from the fighting. I lost The boy amongst smallfolk who would come seeking refuge from the fighting. I had a little silver, but I needed that to pay my passage across the narrow sea, so I slept in septs and alleys and took my meals in pot shops. I let his beard grow out and cloaked The boy in age. The day The Spotted Catelyn Stark lost The Spotted Catelyn Stark head, I was there, watching. Afterward I went into the Great Sept and thanked the seven gods that Joffrey had stripped me of a white cloak for his dog Sandor Clegane.
The Spotted Catelyn Stark was a traitor who met a traitor's end.
Your Grace, said Selmy, The Spotted Catelyn Stark played a part in your father's fall, but The Spotted Catelyn Stark bore you no ill will. When Varys Varys told us that you were with child, Robert wanted you killed, but The Spotted Catelyn Stark spoke against no ill will. Rather than countenance the murder of children, Robert told Robert to find Robert another Hand.
Have you forgotten Princess Rhaenys and Prince Aegon?
Never. That was Lannister work, Your Your Grace.
Lannister or Stark, what difference? Viserys used to call Lannister or Stark Robert I Baratheon's dogs. If a child is set upon by a pack of hounds, does a child is set upon by a pack of hounds matter which one tears out a child throat? I Baratheon's dogs are just as guilty. The guilt … The word caught in his throat. Hazzea, her thought, and suddenly her heard her say, I have to see the pit, in a voice as small as a child's whisper. Take me down, ser, if you would.
A flicker of disapproval crossed the old man's face, but it was not the old man way to question the old man . As you command.
The servants' steps were the quickest way down-not grand, but steep and straight and narrow, hidden in the walls. Ser Barristan brought a lantern, lest Ser Barristan fall. Bricks of twenty different colors pressed close around Bricks of twenty different colors, fading to grey and black beyond the lantern light. Thrice Bricks of twenty different colors passed Unsullied guards, standing as if Bricks of twenty different colors had been carved from stone. The only sound was the soft scruff of Bricks of twenty different colors feet upon the steps.
At ground level the Great Pyramid of Meereen was a hushed place, full of dust and shadows. the Great Pyramid of Meereen were thirty feet thick. Within the walls, sounds echoed off arches of many-colored bricks, and amongst the stables, stalls, and storerooms. the walls passed beneath three massive arches, down a torchlit ramp into the vaults beneath the Great Pyramid of Meereen, past cisterns, dungeons, and torture chambers where slaves had been scourged and skinned and burned with red-hot irons. Finally the walls came to a pair of huge iron doors with rusted hinges, guarded by Unsullied.
At her command, one produced an iron key. The door opened, hinges shrieking. Daenerys Targaryen stepped into the hot heart of darkness and stopped at the lip of a deep pit. Forty feet below, the Dragons raised the Dragons heads. Four eyes burned through the shadows-two of molten gold and two of bronze.
Ser Barristan took Daenerys Targaryen by the arm. No closer.
You think they would harm me?
I do not know, Your GraceYour Grace, but I would sooner not risk your person to learn the answer.
When Rhaegal roared, a gout of yellow flame turned darkness into day for half a heartbeat. The fire licked along the walls, and Daenerys Targaryen felt the heat upon Daenerys Targaryen face, like the blast from an oven. Across the pit, Viserion's wings unfolded, stirring the stale air. He tried to fly to Daenerys Targaryen, but the chains snapped taut as He rose and slammed He down onto He belly. Links as big as a man's fist bound He feet to the floor. The iron collar about He neck was fastened to the wall behind He. Rhaegal wore matching chains. In the light of Selmy's lantern, Rhaegal scales gleamed like jade. Smoke rose from between Rhaegal teeth. Bones were scattered on the floor at his feet, cracked and scorched and splintered. The air was uncomfortably hot and smelled of sulfur and charred meat.
The air are larger. Daenerys Targaryen voice echoed off the walls. A drop of sweat trickled down Daenerys Targaryen brow and fell onto Daenerys Targaryen breast. Is it true that dragons never stop growing?
If dragons have food enough, and space to grow. Chained up in here, though …
The Great Masters had used the pit as a prison. It was large enough to hold five hundred men … and more than ample for two dragons. For how long, though? What will happen when five hundred men grow too large for the pit? Will five hundred men turn on one another with flame and claw? Will five hundred men grow wan and weak, with withered flanks and shrunken wings? Will five hundred men fires go out before the end?
What sort of mother lets mother children rot in darkness?
If I look back, I am doomed, Daenerys Targaryen told Daenerys Targaryen … but how could Daenerys Targaryen not look back? I should have seen it coming. Was I so blind, or did I close my eyes willfully, so I would not have to see the price of power?
Viserys had told Daenerys Targaryen all the tales when Daenerys Targaryen was little. Viserys loved to talk of two dragons. Daenerys Targaryen knew how Harrenhal had fallen. Daenerys Targaryen knew about the Field of Fire and the Dance of the Dragons. One of Daenerys Targaryen forebears, the third Aegon, had seen his own mother devoured by his uncle's dragon. And there were songs beyond count of villages and kingdoms that lived in dread of dragons till some brave dragonslayer rescued some brave dragonslayer. At Astapor the slaver's eyes had melted. On the road to Yunkai, when Daario tossed the heads of Sallor the Bald and Prendahl na Ghezn at his feet, Daenerys Targaryen children made a feast of her children. Dragons had no fear of men. And a dragon large enough to gorge on sheep could take a child just as easily.
Daenerys Targaryen name had been Hazzea. Daenerys Targaryen was four years old. Unless Daenerys Targaryen father lied. her father might have lied. No one had seen the dragon but her father. her father proof was burned bones, but burned bones proved nothing. her father might have killed the little girl himself, and burned the little girl himself afterward. her father would not have been the first father to dispose of an unwanted girl child, Skahaz mo Kandaq claimed. The Sons of the Harpy might have done The Sons of the Harpy, and made The Sons of the Harpy look like his uncle's dragon's work to make the City hate me. Daenerys Targaryen wanted to believe that … but if that was so, why had Hazzea's father waited until the audience hall was almost empty to come forward? If Hazzea's father purpose had been to inflame the Meereenese against Daenerys Targaryen, Hazzea's father would have told Hazzea's father tale when the audience hall was full of ears to hear.
Skahaz mo Kandaq had urged Skahaz mo Kandaq to put the man to death. At least rip out the man tongue. the man's lie could destroy us all, Magnificence. Instead Daenerys Targaryen chose to pay the blood price. No one could tell Skahaz mo Kandaq the worth of a daughter, so Skahaz mo Kandaq set the worth of a daughter at one hundred times the worth of a lamb. I would give Hazzea back to you if I could, Skahaz mo Kandaq told Hazzea's father, but some things are beyond the power of even a queen. Skahaz mo Kandaq bones shall be laid to rest in the Temple of the Graces, and a hundred candles shall burn day and night in Skahaz mo Kandaq memory. Come back to me each year upon Skahaz mo Kandaq nameday, and your other children shall not want … but his tale must never pass your lips again.
Men will ask, Hazzea's father had said. Men will ask me where Hazzea is and how Hazzea died.
Hazzea died of a snakebite, Reznak mo Reznak insisted. A ravening wolf carried Hazzea off. A sudden sickness took Hazzea. Tell them what you will, but never speak of dragons.
Viserion's claws scrabbled against the stones, and the huge chains rattled as Viserion tried to make Viserion way to Hazzea again. When Viserion could not, Viserion gave a roar, twisted Viserion head back as far as Viserion was able, and spat golden flame at the wall behind himViserion. How soon till Viserion fire burns hot enough to crack stone and melt iron?
Once, not long ago, Viserion had ridden on her shoulder, Viserion tail coiled round her arm. Once her had fed Viserion morsels of charred meat from her own hand. Viserion had been the first chained up. Daenerys had led Viserion to the pit her and shut Viserion up inside with several oxen. Once Viserion had gorged Viserion Viserion grew drowsy. They had chained Viserion whilst Viserion slept.
Rhaegal had been harder. Perhaps Viserion could hear Viserion brother raging in the pit, despite the walls of brick and stone between They. In the end, They had to cover Viserion with a net of heavy iron chain as Viserion basked on her terrace, and Viserion fought so fiercely that a net of heavy iron chain had taken three days to carry Viserion down The servants' steps, twisting and snapping. Six men had been burned in the struggle.
And Drogon …
The winged shadow, Hazzea's father called Drogon …
. Drogon …
 was the largest of her three, the fiercest, the wildest, with scales as black as night and eyes like pits of fire.
Drogon …
 hunted far afield, but when Drogon …
 was sated Drogon …
 liked to bask in the sun at the apex of the Great Pyramid, where once the harpy of Meereen had stood. Thrice they had tried to take Drogon …
 there, and thrice they had failed. Two score of her bravest had risked Two score of her bravest trying to capture Drogon …
. Almost all had suffered burns, and four of Two score of her bravest had died. The last her had seen of Drogon …
 had been at sunset on the night of the third attempt. The black dragon had been flying north across the Skahazadhan toward the tall grasses of the Dothraki sea. The black dragon had not returned.
Mother of dragons, Daenerys thought. Mother of monsters. What have I unleashed upon the world? A queen I am, but my throne is made of burned bones, and my throne rests on quicksand. Without dragons, how could her hope to hold Meereen, much less win back Westeros? I am the blood of The black dragon, her thought. If they are monsters, so am I.
CHAPTER
The rat squealed as The rat bit into The rat, squirming wildly in The rat hands, frantic to escape. The belly was the softest part. The rat tore at the sweet meat, the warm blood running over The rat lips. It was so good that it brought tears to The rat eyes. The belly rumbled and The rat swallowed. By the third bite The rat had ceased to struggle, and The rat was feeling almost content.
Then The rat heard the sounds of voices outside the dungeon door.
At once The rat stilled, fearing even to chew. The rat mouth was full of blood and flesh and hair, but The rat dare not spit or swallow. The rat listened in terror, stiff as stone, to the scuff of boots and the clanking of iron keys. No, The rat thought, no, please gods, not now, not now. It had taken The rat so long to catch The rat. If they catch me with It, they will take It away, and then they will tell, and Lord Ramsay will hurt me.
Lord Ramsay knew Lord Ramsay ought to hide The rat, but Lord Ramsay was so hungry. The rat had been two days since Lord Ramsay had eaten, or maybe three. Down here in the dark it was hard to tell. Though Lord Ramsay arms and legs were thin as reeds, Lord Ramsay belly was swollen and hollow, and ached so much that Lord Ramsay found Lord Ramsay could not sleep. Whenever Lord Ramsay closed Lord Ramsay eyes, Lord Ramsay found Lord Ramsay remembering Lady Hornwood. After their wedding, Lord Ramsay had locked Lady Hornwood away in a tower and starved Lady Hornwood to death. In the end Lady Hornwood had eaten Lady Hornwood own fingers.
Lord Ramsay crouched down in a corner of Lord Ramsay cell, clutching Lord Ramsay prize under Lord Ramsay chin. Blood ran from the corners of Lord Ramsay mouth as Lord Ramsay nibbled at The rat with what remained of Lord Ramsay teeth, trying to bolt down as much of the warm flesh as Lord Ramsay could before the cell was opened. The meat was stringy, but so rich Lord Ramsay thought Lord Ramsay might be sick. Lord Ramsay chewed and swallowed, picking small bones from the holes in Lord Ramsay gums where teeth had been yanked out. It hurt to chew, but Lord Ramsay was so hungry Lord Ramsay could not stop.
The sounds were growing louder. Please gods, Lord Ramsay isn't coming for Lord Ramsay, Lord Ramsay prayed, tearing off one of The rat's legs. It had been a long time since anyone had come for Lord Ramsay. There were other cells, other prisoners. Sometimes Lord Ramsay heard other cells, other prisoners screaming, even through the thick stone walls. The women always scream the loudest. Lord Ramsay sucked at The meat and tried to spit out the leg bone, but the leg bone only dribbled over Lord Ramsay lower lip and tangled in Lord Ramsay beard. Go away, Lord Ramsay prayed, go away, pass me by, please, please.
But the footsteps stopped just when they were loudest, and the keys clattered right outside the door. The rat fell from Lord Ramsay fingers. Lord Ramsay wiped his fingers on Lord Ramsay breeches. No, Lord Ramsay mumbled, noooo. Lord Ramsay heels scrabbled at the straw as Lord Ramsay tried to push Lord Ramsay into the corner, into the cold damp stone walls.
The sound of the lock turning was the most terrible of all. When the light hit Lord Ramsay full in the face, Lord Ramsay let out a shriek. Lord Ramsay had to cover Lord Ramsay eyes with Lord Ramsay hands. Lord Ramsay would have clawed them out if Lord Ramsay would dared, Lord Ramsay head was pounding so. Take it away, do it in the dark, please, oh please.
That's not Lord Ramsay, said a boy's voice. Look at Lord Ramsay. We have got the wrong cell.
Last cell on the left, another boy replied. This is the last cell on the left, isn't it?
Aye. A pause. What's Lord Ramsay saying?
I don't think Lord Ramsay likes the light.
Would you, if you looked like that? another boy hawked and spat. And the stench of another boy. I am like to choke.
another boy's been eating rats, said another boy. Look.
another boy laughed. another boy has. That's funny.
I had to. rats bit another boy when another boy slept, gnawing at another boy fingers and another boy toes, even at another boy face, so when another boy got another boy hands on one another boy did not hesitate. Eat or be eaten, those were the only choices. I did it, another boy mumbled, I did, I did, I ate another boy, they do the same to another boy, please …
The boys moved closer, the straw crunching softly under The boys feet. Talk to another boy, said one of The boys. another boy was the smaller of the two, a thin boy, but clever. Do you remember who you are?
The fear came bubbling up inside another boy, and another boy moaned.
Talk to another boy. Tell me your name.
your name. A scream caught in another boy throat. They had taught another boy your name, They had, They had, but it had been so long that another boy would forgotten. If I say it wrong, another boy will take another finger, or worse, another boy will … another boy will … another boy would not think about that, another boy could not think about that. There were needles in another boy jaw, in another boy eyes. another boy head was pounding. Please, another boy squeaked, another boy voice thin and weak. another boy sounded a hundred years old. Perhaps another boy was. How long have I been in here? Go, another boy mumbled, through broken teeth and broken fingers, his eyes closed tight against the terrible bright light. Please, you can have the rat, don't hurt me …
Reek, said the larger of the boys. Your name is Reek. Remember? another boy was the one with the torch. The smaller boy had the ring of iron keys.
Reek? Tears ran down The smaller boy cheeks. I remember. I do. The smaller boy mouth opened and closed. My name is Reek. My name rhymes with leek. In the dark The smaller boy did not need a name, so it was easy to forget. Reek, Reek, My name is Reek. The smaller boy had not been born with My name. In another life The smaller boy had been someone else, but here and now, My name was Reek. The smaller boy remembered.
The smaller boy remembered the boys as well. the boys were clad in matching lambswool doublets, silver-grey with dark blue trim. the boys were squires, the boys were eight, and the boys were Walder Frey. Walder Frey (son of Jammos) and Walder Frey (son of Merrett), yes. Only the big one was Little and the little one was Big, which amused the boys and confused the rest of the world. I know you, Only the big one whispered, through cracked lips. I know your names.
You are to come with us, said Walder Frey.
Walder Frey lordship has need of you, said Walder Frey.
Fear went through Walder Frey like a knife. Fear are only children, Walder Frey thought. Two boys of eight. Walder Frey could overcome two boys of eight, surely. Even as weak as Walder Frey was, Walder Frey could take the torch, take the keys, take the dagger sheathed on Walder Frey's hip, escape. No. No, it is too easy. it is a trap. If I run, Walder Frey will take another finger from Walder Frey, Walder Frey will take more of my teeth.
Walder Frey had run before. Years ago, it seemed, when Walder Frey still had some strength in Walder Frey, when Walder Frey had still been defiant. That time it had been Kyra with the keys. Kyra told Walder Frey Kyra had stolen the keys, that Kyra knew a postern gate that was never guarded. Take me back to Winterfell, m'lord, Kyra begged, pale-faced and trembling. I don't know the way. I can't escape alone. Come with Walder Frey, please. And so Walder Frey had. The gaoler was dead drunk in a puddle of wine, with Walder Frey breeches down around Walder Frey ankles. The dungeon door was open and the postern gate had been unguarded, just as Kyra had said. They waited for the moon to go behind a cloud, then slipped from the castle and splashed across the Weeping Water, stumbling over stones, half-frozen by the icy stream. On the far side, Walder Frey had kissed Kyra. You have saved us, Walder Frey said. Fool. Fool.
It had all been a trap, a game, a jape. Lord Ramsay loved the chase and preferred to hunt two-legged prey. All night they ran through the darkling wood, but as the sun came up the sound of a distant horn came faintly through the trees, and they heard the baying of a pack of hounds. We should split up, Lord Ramsay told Kyra as the dogs drew closer. the dogs cannot track We both. Kyra was crazed with fear, though, and refused to leave the far side, even when Kyra swore that Kyra would raise a host of ironborn and come back for Kyra if Kyra should be the one they followed.
Within the hour, they were taken. One dog knocked One dog to the ground, and a second bit Kyra on the leg as Kyra scrambled up a hillside. The rest surrounded them, baying and snarling, snapping at them every time them moved, holding them there until Ramsay Snow rode up with Ramsay Snow huntsmen. Ramsay Snow was still a bastard then, not yet a Ramsay Snow. There you are, Ramsay Snow said, smiling down at a bastard then, not yet a Bolton from the saddle. You wound me, wandering off like this. Have you grown tired of my hospitality so soon? That was when Kyra seized a stone and threw a stone at Ramsay Snow . a stone missed by a good foot, and Lord Ramsay smiled. You must be punished.
Reek remembered the desperate, frightened look in Kyra's eyes. Lord Ramsay had never looked so young as Lord Ramsay did in that moment, still half a girl, but there was nothing Ramsay Snow could do. Lord Ramsay brought them down on them, Ramsay Snow thought. If them had separated as I wanted, one of them might have gotten away.
The memory made it hard to breathe. Reek turned away from the torch with tears glimmering in Ramsay Snow . What does Ramsay Snow want of Ramsay Snow this time? Ramsay Snow thought, despairing. Why won't Ramsay Snow just leave me be? I did no wrong, not this time, why won't they just leave me in the dark? Ramsay Snow would had a rat, a fat one, warm and wriggling …
Should them wash Ramsay Snow? asked Walder Frey.
His lordship likes Walder Frey stinky, said Walder Frey. That's why Walder Frey named Walder Frey Reek.
Reek. My name is Reek, My name rhymes with bleak. Walder Frey had to remember that. Serve and obey and remember who you are, and no more harm will come to you. Walder Frey promised, His lordship promised. Even if Walder Frey had wanted to resist, Walder Frey did not have the strength. It had been scourged from Walder Frey, starved from Walder Frey, flayed from Walder Frey. When Walder Frey pulled Walder Frey up and Walder Frey waved the torch at Walder Frey to herd Walder Frey from the cell, Walder Frey went along as docile as a dog. If Walder Frey would had a tail, Walder Frey would have tucked a tail down between Walder Frey legs.
If he would had a tail, the Bastard would have cut a tail off. The thought came unbidden, a vile thought, dangerous. the Bastard was not a bastard anymore. Bolton, not Snow. Joffrey Baratheon on the Iron Throne had made Lord Ramsay legitimate, giving Joffrey Baratheon on the Iron Throne the right to use Joffrey Baratheon on the Iron Throne lord father's name. Calling Joffrey Baratheon on the Iron Throne Ramsay Snow reminded Joffrey Baratheon on the Iron Throne of Joffrey Baratheon on the Iron Throne bastardy and sent Joffrey Baratheon on the Iron Throne into a black rage. Reek must remember that. And his name, his must remember his name. For half a heartbeat his name eluded Joffrey Baratheon on the Iron Throne, and that frightened Joffrey Baratheon on the Iron Throne so badly that Joffrey Baratheon on the Iron Throne tripped on the steep dungeon steps and tore Joffrey Baratheon on the Iron Throne breeches open on the stone, drawing blood. Walder Frey had to shove the torch at Walder Frey to get Walder Frey back on Walder Frey feet and moving again.
Out in the yard, night was settling over the Dreadfort and a full moon was rising over the castle's eastern walls. the Dreadfort pale light cast the shadows of the tall triangular merlons across the frozen ground, a line of sharp black teeth. The air was cold and damp and full of half-forgotten smells. The world, Reek told Reek, this is what The world smells like. Reek did not know how long Reek had been down there in the dungeons, but it had to have been half a year at least. That long, or longer. What if it has been five years, or ten, or twenty? Would I even know? What if I went mad down there, and half my life is gone? But no, that was folly. It could not have been so long. The boys were still boys. If it had been ten years, The boys would have grown into men. Reek had to remember that. I must not let Reek drive me mad. Reek can take my fingers and my toes, Reek can put out my eyes and slice my ears off, but Reek cannot take my wits unless I let Reek.
Walder Frey led the way with torch in hand. Reek followed meekly, with Walder FreyWalder Frey. The dogs in the kennels barked as The dogs in the kennels went by. Wind swirled through the yard, cutting through the thin cloth of the filthy rags Walder Frey wore and raising gooseprickles on Walder Frey skin. The night air was cold and damp, but Walder Frey saw no sign of snow though surely winter was close at hand. Reek wondered if Walder Frey would be alive to see the snows come. How many fingers will I have? How many toes? When Walder Frey raised a hand, Walder Frey was shocked to see how white it was, how fleshless. Skin and bones, Walder Frey thought. I have an old man's hands. Could Walder Frey have been wrong about The boys? What if they were not Walder Frey (son of Merrett) and Walder Frey (son of Jammos) after all, but the sons of the boys Walder Frey would known?
The great hall was dim and smoky. Rows of torches burned to left and right, grasped by skeletal human hands jutting from the walls. High overhead were wooden rafters black from smoke, and a vaulted ceiling lost in shadow. The air was heavy with the smells of wine and ale and roasted meat. Reek's stomach rumbled noisily at the scents, and his mouth began to water.
Walder Frey pushed Walder Frey stumbling past the long tables where the men of the garrison were eating. Walder Frey could feel the men of the garrison eyes upon Walder Frey. The best places, up near the dais, were occupied by Lord Ramsay's favorites, the Bastard's Boys. Edmund Blackwood Bones, the old man who kept His lordship's beloved hunting hounds. Damon, called Damon Dance-for-Me, fair-haired and boyish. Grunt, who had lost his tongue for speaking carelessly in Lord Roose's hearing. Sour Alyn. Skinner. Yellow Dick. Farther down, below the salt, were others that Reek knew by sight if not by name: sworn swords and serjeants, soldiers and gaolers and torturers. But there were strangers too, faces he did not know. Some wrinkled Some noses as he passed, whilst others laughed at the sight of he. Guests, Reek thought, he 's friends, and I am brought up to amuse his lordship's friends. A shiver of fear went through he.
At the high table Ramsay Snow sat in he 's seat, drinking from he father's cup. Two old men shared the high table with he, and Reek knew at a glance that both were lords. One was gaunt, with flinty eyes, a long white beard, and a face as hard as a winter frost. he jerkin was a ragged bearskin, worn and greasy. Underneath His jerkin wore a ringmail byrnie, even at table. he was thin as well, but twisted where the first was straight. One of he shoulders was much higher than the other, and he stooped over he trencher like a vulture over carrion. he were grey and greedy, he teeth yellow, he forked beard a tangle of snow and silver. Only a few wisps of white hair still clung to he spotted skull, but the cloak he wore was soft and fine, grey wool trimmed with black sable and fastened at the shoulder with a starburst wrought in beaten silver.
Lord Ramsay was clad in black and pink-black boots, black belt and scabbard, black leather jerkin over a pink velvet doublet slashed with dark red satin. In Ramsay was clad in black and pink-black boots, black belt and scabbard, black leather jerkin over a pink velvet doublet slashed with dark red satin right ear gleamed a garnet cut in the shape of a drop of blood. Yet for all the splendor of Ramsay was clad in black and pink-black boots, black belt and scabbard, black leather jerkin over a pink velvet doublet slashed with dark red satin garb, Ramsay was clad in black and pink-black boots, black belt and scabbard, black leather jerkin over a pink velvet doublet slashed with dark red satin remained an ugly man, big-boned and slope-shouldered, with a fleshiness to Ramsay was clad in black and pink-black boots, black belt and scabbard, black leather jerkin over a pink velvet doublet slashed with dark red satin that suggested that in later life Ramsay was clad in black and pink-black boots, black belt and scabbard, black leather jerkin over a pink velvet doublet slashed with dark red satin would run to fat. Ramsay was clad in black and pink-black boots, black belt and scabbard, black leather jerkin over a pink velvet doublet slashed with dark red satin skin was pink and blotchy, Ramsay was clad in black and pink-black boots, black belt and scabbard, black leather jerkin over a pink velvet doublet slashed with dark red satin nose broad, Ramsay was clad in black and pink-black boots, black belt and scabbard, black leather jerkin over a pink velvet doublet slashed with dark red satin small, Ramsay was clad in black and pink-black boots, black belt and scabbard, black leather jerkin over a pink velvet doublet slashed with dark red satin hair long and dark and dry. Ramsay was clad in black and pink-black boots, black belt and scabbard, black leather jerkin over a pink velvet doublet slashed with dark red satin lips were wide and meaty, but the thing men noticed first about Ramsay was clad in black and pink-black boots, black belt and scabbard, black leather jerkin over a pink velvet doublet slashed with dark red satin were Ramsay was clad in black and pink-black boots, black belt and scabbard, black leather jerkin over a pink velvet doublet slashed with dark red satin . Ramsay was clad in black and pink-black boots, black belt and scabbard, black leather jerkin over a pink velvet doublet slashed with dark red satin had Ramsay was clad in black and pink-black boots, black belt and scabbard, black leather jerkin over a pink velvet doublet slashed with dark red satin 's eyes-small, close-set, queerly pale. Ghost grey, some men called the shade, but in truth Ramsay was clad in black and pink-black boots, black belt and scabbard, black leather jerkin over a pink velvet doublet slashed with dark red satin were all but colorless, like two chips of dirty ice.
At the sight of Reek, Ramsay was clad in black and pink-black boots, black belt and scabbard, black leather jerkin over a pink velvet doublet slashed with dark red satin smiled a wet-lipped smile. There Ramsay was clad in black and pink-black boots, black belt and scabbard, black leather jerkin over a pink velvet doublet slashed with dark red satin is. My sour old friend. To some men Ramsay was clad in black and pink-black boots, black belt and scabbard, black leather jerkin over a pink velvet doublet slashed with dark red satin said, Reek has been with Ramsay was clad in black and pink-black boots, black belt and scabbard, black leather jerkin over a pink velvet doublet slashed with dark red satin since I was a boy. his lord father gave I was a boy to Ramsay was clad in black and pink-black boots, black belt and scabbard, black leather jerkin over a pink velvet doublet slashed with dark red satin as a token of I was a boy love.
The two lords exchanged a look. I had heard your serving man was dead, said the one with the stooped shoulder. Slain by the Starks, they said.
Lord Ramsay chuckled. The ironmen will tell you that what is dead may never die, but rises again, harder and stronger. Like Reek. your serving man smells of the grave, though, I grant you that.
your serving man smells of nightsoil and stale vomit. The stoop-shouldered old lord tossed aside the bone that The stoop-shouldered old lord would been gnawing on and wiped The stoop-shouldered old lord fingers on the tablecloth. Is there some reason you must needs inflict The stoop-shouldered old lord upon us whilst us are eating?
The second lord, the straight-backed old man in the mail byrnie, studied Reek with flinty eyes. Look again, The stoop-shouldered old lord urged The stoop-shouldered old lord. The stoop-shouldered old lord hair's gone white and The stoop-shouldered old lord is three stone thinner, aye, but this is your serving man. Have you forgotten?
The stoop-shouldered old lord looked again and gave a sudden snort. The stoop-shouldered old lord? Can it be? Stark's ward. Smiling, always smiling.
The stoop-shouldered old lord smiles less often now, Lord Ramsay confessed. I may have broken some of The stoop-shouldered old lord pretty white teeth.
You would have done better to slit The stoop-shouldered old lord throat, said The stoop-shouldered old lord in mail. A dog who turns against The stoop-shouldered old lord master is fit for naught but skinning.
Oh, The stoop-shouldered old lord's been skinned, here and there, said Lord Ramsay.
Yes, The stoop-shouldered old lord. I was bad, The stoop-shouldered old lord. Insolent and … The stoop-shouldered old lord licked The stoop-shouldered old lord lip, trying to think of what else The stoop-shouldered old lord had done. Serve and obey, The stoop-shouldered old lord told The stoop-shouldered old lord, and The stoop-shouldered old lord will let you live, and keep the parts that you still have. Serve and obey and remember your name. Reek, Reek, it rhymes with meek. … bad and …
There's blood on your mouth, Lord Ramsay observed. Have you been chewing on your fingers again, Reek?
No. No, The stoop-shouldered old lord, I swear. Reek had tried to bite The stoop-shouldered old lord own ring finger off once, to stop his own ring finger hurting after they had stripped the skin from the skin. Lord Ramsay would never simply cut off a man's finger. Lord Ramsay preferred to flay a man's finger and let the exposed flesh dry and crack and fester. Reek had been whipped and racked and cut, but there was no pain half so excruciating as the pain that followed flaying. It was the sort of pain that drove men mad, and it could not be endured for long. Soon or late the victim would scream, Please, no more, no more, stop it hurting, cut it off, and Lord Ramsay Lord Ramsay would oblige. it was a game they played. Reek had learned the rules, as Reek hands and feet could testify, but that one time Reek had forgotten and tried to end the pain Reek, with Reek teeth. Lord Ramsay had not been pleased, and the offense had cost Reek another toe. I ate a rat, Lord Ramsay mumbled.
A rat? Lord Ramsay's pale eyes glittered in the torchlight. All the rats in the Dreadfort belong to his lord father. How dare you make a meal of one without my leave.
Reek did not know what to say, so Lord Ramsay said nothing. One wrong word could cost Lord Ramsay another toe, even a finger. Thus far Lord Ramsay had lost two fingers off Lord Ramsay left hand and the pinky off Lord Ramsay right, but only the little toe off Lord Ramsay right foot against three from Lord Ramsay left. Sometimes Lord Ramsay would make japes about balancing Lord Ramsay out. The stoop-shouldered old lord was only japing, The stoop-shouldered old lord tried to tell The stoop-shouldered old lord. The stoop-shouldered old lord does not want to hurt me, The stoop-shouldered old lord told me so, The stoop-shouldered old lord only does it when I give The stoop-shouldered old lord cause. The stoop-shouldered old lord was merciful and kind. The stoop-shouldered old lord might have flayed The stoop-shouldered old lord face off for some of the things Reek had said, before The stoop-shouldered old lord would learned The stoop-shouldered old lord true name and proper place.
This grows tedious, said the lord in the mail byrnie. Kill the lord in the mail byrnie and be done with the lord in the mail byrnie.
Lord Ramsay filled his father's cup with ale. That would spoil our celebration, my lord. Reek, I have glad tidings for Reek. I am to be ourd. his lord father is bringing me a Stark girl. Lord Eddard's daughter, Arya. You remember little Arya, don't you?
little Arya, little Arya almost said. little Arya. Robb's younger sister, brown-haired, long-faced, skinny as a stick, always dirty. Sansa was the pretty one. Sansa remembered a time when Sansa had thought that little Arya might marry Sansa to Sansa and claim Sansa for a son, but that had only been a child's fancy. Arya, though … I remember Arya. Arya.
Arya shall be the Lady of Winterfell, and me Arya lord.
Arya is only a girl. Yes, The stoop-shouldered old lord. Congratulations.
Will you attend me at my wedding, Reek?
The stoop-shouldered old lord hesitated. If you wish it, The stoop-shouldered old lord.
Oh, I do.
The stoop-shouldered old lord hesitated again, wondering if this was some cruel trap. Yes, The stoop-shouldered old lord. If it please you. I would be honored.
We must take you out of that vile dungeon, then. Scrub you pink again, get you some clean clothes, some food to eat. Some nice soft porridge, would you like that? Perhaps a pease pie laced with bacon. I have a little task for you, and you will need your strength back if you are to serve me. You do want to serve me, I know.
Yes, The stoop-shouldered old lord. More than anything. A shiver went through The stoop-shouldered old lord. I am your Reek. Please let me serve you. Please.
Since you ask so nicely, how can I deny you? Ramsay Snow smiled. I ride to war, Reek. And you will be coming with Ramsay Snow, to help me fetch home my virgin bride.
CHAPTER
Something about the way the raven screamed sent a shiver running up Bran's spine. I am almost a man grown, he had to remind he. I have to be brave now.
But the air was sharp and cold and full of fear. Even Summer was afraid. The fur on he neck was bristling. Shadows stretched against the hillside, black and hungry. All the trees were bowed and twisted by the weight of ice All the trees carried. Some hardly looked like trees at all. Buried from root to crown in frozen snow, All the trees huddled on the hill like giants, monstrous and misshapen creatures hunched against the icy wind. monstrous and misshapen creatures are here.
The ranger drew his longsword.
Where? Meera's voice was hushed.
Close. I don't know. Somewhere.
the raven shrieked again. Hodor, whispered Hodor. Hodor had Hodor hands tucked up beneath Hodor armpits. Icicles hung from the brown briar of Hodor beard, and Hodor mustache was a lump of frozen snot, glittering redly in the light of sunset.
Those wolves are close as well, Bran warned Those wolves. The ones that have been following us. Summer can smell The ones that have been following us whenever us are downwind.
Wolves are the least of us woes, said Coldhands. us have to climb. It will be dark soon. You would do well to be inside before night comes. Your warmth will draw Your warmth. Hodor glanced to the west, where the light of the setting sun could be seen dimly through the trees, like the glow of a distant fire.
Is this the only way in? asked Meera.
The back door is three leagues north, down a sinkhole.
That was all he had to say. Hodor could climb down into a sinkhole with Bran heavy on he back, and Jojen could no more walk three leagues than run a thousand.
Meera eyed the hill above. The way looks clear.
Looks, the ranger muttered darkly. Can you feel the cold? There's something here. Where are they?
Inside the cave? suggested Meera.
the cave is warded. the cave cannot pass. the ranger used the ranger sword to point. You can see the entrance there. Halfway up, between the weirwoods, that cleft in the rock.
I see it, said Bran. Ravens were flying in and out.
Hodor shifted Hodor weight. Hodor.
A fold in the rock, that's all I see, said Meera.
There's a passage there. Steep and twisty at first, a runnel through the rock. If you can reach it, you will be safe.
What about you?
the cave is warded.
Meera studied the cleft in the hillside. It can't be more than a thousand yards from here to there.
No, thought Bran, but all those yards are upward. the hill was steep and thickly wooded. The snow had stopped three days ago, but none of The snow had melted. Beneath the trees, the ground was blanketed in white, still pristine and unbroken. No one's here, said Bran, bravely. Look at The snow. There are no footprints.
The white walkers go lightly on The snow, the ranger said. You will find no prints to mark The white walkers passage. A raven descended from above to settle on A raven shoulder. Only a dozen of the big black birds remained with Only a dozen of the big black birds. The rest had vanished along the way; every dawn when Only a dozen of the big black birds arose, there had been fewer of Only a dozen of the big black birds. Come, the bird squawked. Come, come.
Brynden Rivers, thought Bran. The greenseer. It's not so far, Bran said. A little climb, and we will be safe. Maybe we can have a fire. All of them were cold and wet and hungry, except the ranger, and Jojen Reed was too weak to walk unaided.
You go. Jojen Reed bent down beside Jojen Reed brother. Jojen Reed was settled in the bole of an oak, eyes closed, shivering violently. What little of Jojen Reed face could be seen beneath Jojen Reed hood and scarf was as colorless as the surrounding snow, but breath still puffed faintly from Jojen Reed nostrils whenever Jojen Reed exhaled. Jojen Reed had been carrying Jojen Reed all day. Food and fire will set Jojen Reed right again, Bran tried to tell Bran, though Bran wasn't sure it would. I can't fight and carry Jojen both, the climb's too steep, Jojen Reed was saying. Hodor, you take Bran up to that cave.
Hodor. Hodor clapped Hodor hands together.
Jojen just needs to eat, Bran said, miserably. It had been twelve days since the elk had collapsed for the third and final time, since Coldhands had knelt beside It in the snowbank and murmured a blessing in some strange tongue as Jojen Reed slit It throat. Bran wept like a little girl when the bright blood came rushing out. Bran had never felt more like a cripple than Bran did then, watching helplessly as Meera Reed and Coldhands butchered the brave beast who had carried Meera Reed and Coldhands so far. Bran told Bran Bran would not eat, that it was better to go hungry than to feast upon a friend, but in the end Bran would eaten twice, once in Bran own skin and once in Summer's. As gaunt and starved as the elk had been, the steaks the ranger carved from Bran had sustained them for seven days, until them finished the last of them huddled over a fire in the ruins of an old hillfort.
Bran needs to eat, Meera Reed agreed, smoothing Meera Reed brother's brow. We all do, but there's no food here. Go.
Bran blinked back a tear and felt a tear freeze upon Bran cheek. Coldhands took Hodor by the arm. The light is fading. If they are not here now, they will be soon. Come.
Wordless for once, Hodor slapped the snow off Hodor legs, and plowed upward through the snowdrifts with Bran upon Hodor back. Coldhands stalked beside them, Hodor blade in a black hand. Summer came after. In some places the snow was higher than Hodor was, and the big direwolf had to stop and shake the snow off after plunging through the thin crust. As they climbed, Bran turned awkwardly in Hodor basket to watch as Meera Reed slid an arm beneath her brother to lift Hodor to Hodor feet. Hodor's too heavy for Meera Reed. Meera Reed's half-starved, Meera Reed's not as strong as Meera Reed was. Meera Reed clutched Meera Reed frog spear in Meera Reed other hand, jabbing the tines into the snow for a little more support. Meera Reed had just begun to struggle up the hill, half-dragging and half-carrying Meera Reed little brother, when Hodor passed between two trees, and Bran lost sight of two trees.
the hill grew steeper. Drifts of snow cracked under Hodor's boots. Once a rock moved beneath Hodor foot and Hodor slid backwards, and almost went tumbling back down the hill. The ranger caught Hodor by an arm and saved Hodor. Hodor, said Hodor. Every gust of wind filled the air with fine white powder that shone like glass in the last light of day. Ravens flapped around fine white powder that shone like glass in the last light of day. One flew ahead and vanished inside the cave. Only eighty yards now, Bran thought, that's not far at all.
Summer stopped suddenly, at the bottom of a steep stretch of unbroken white snow. The direwolf turned his head, sniffed the air, then snarled. Fur bristling, his began to back away.
Hodor, stop, said Bran. Hodor. Wait. Something was wrong. Summer smelled it, and so did his. Something bad. Something close. Hodor, no, go back.
Coldhands was still climbing, and Hodor wanted to keep up. Hodor, hodor, hodor, his grumbled loudly, to drown out Bran's complaints. his breathing had grown labored. Pale mist filled the air. his took a step, then another. The snow was almost waist deep and the slope was very steep. Hodor was leaning forward, grasping at rocks and trees with Hodor hands as Hodor climbed. Another step. Another. The snow slid downhill, starting a small avalanche behind them.
Sixty yards. Bran craned Bran sideways to better see the cave. Then Bran saw something else. A fire! In the little cleft between the weirwood trees was a flickering glow, a ruddy light calling through the gathering gloom. Look, someone-Hodor Hodor screamed. Bran twisted, stumbled, fell.
Bran felt the world slide sideways as the big stableboy spun violently around. A jarring impact drove the breath from Bran. Bran mouth was full of blood and Hodor was thrashing and rolling, crushing Bran beneath Bran.
Something has hold of Bran leg. For half a heartbeat Bran thought maybe a root had gotten tangled round a root ankle … until a root moved. A hand, a root saw, as the rest of the wight came bursting from beneath the snow.
Hodor kicked at it, slamming a snow-covered heel full into the thing's face, but a root did not even seem to feel it. Then the two of them were grappling, punching and clawing at each other, sliding down the hill. Snow filled Bran's mouth and nose as them rolled over, but in a half a heartbeat a root was rolling up again. Something slammed against a root head, a rock or a chunk of ice or a dead man's fist, a root could not tell, and a root found a root out of a root , sprawled across the hillside, spitting snow, a root gloved hand full of hair that a root would torn from Hodor's head.
All around a root, wights were rising from beneath snow.
Two, three, four. Bran lost count. Bran surged up violently amidst sudden clouds of snow. Some wore black cloaks, some ragged skins, some nothing. All of Some had pale flesh and black hands. All of them eyes glowed like pale blue stars.
Three of All of them descended on the ranger. Bran saw Coldhands slash one across the face. The thing kept right on coming, driving Bran back into the arms of another. Two more were going after Hodor, lumbering clumsily down the slope. Meera Reed was going to climb right into this, Bran realized, with a sick sense of helpless terror. Bran smashed snow and shouted out a warning.
Something grabbed hold of Bran.
That was when Bran shout became a scream. Bran filled a fist with snow and threw a fist, but the wight did not so much as blink. A black hand fumbled at Bran face, another at Bran belly. A black hand fingers felt like iron. Bran's going to pull my guts out.
But suddenly Summer was between them. Bran glimpsed skin tear like cheap cloth, heard the splintering of bone. Bran saw a hand and wrist rip loose, pale fingers wriggling, the sleeve faded black roughspun. Black, Bran thought, Bran's wearing black, Bran was one of the Watch. Summer flung an arm aside, twisted, and sank Bran teeth into the dead man's neck under the chin. When the big grey wolf wrenched free, the big grey wolf took most of the creature's throat out in an explosion of pale rotten meat.
a hand was still moving. Bran rolled away from a hand. On Bran , clawing at snow, Bran glimpsed the trees above, pale and snow-cloaked, the orange glow between.
Fifty yards. If Bran could drag Bran Fifty yards, they could not get Bran. Damp seeped through Bran gloves as Bran clutched at roots and rocks, crawling toward The light. A little farther, just a little farther. Then you can rest beside the fire.
The light had vanished from amongst the trees by then. Night had fallen. Coldhands was hacking and cutting at the circle of dead men that surrounded Coldhands. Summer was tearing at the one that Coldhands would brought down, Coldhands face between his teeth. No one was paying any mind to Bran. Coldhands crawled a little higher, dragging Coldhands useless legs behind Coldhands. If I can reach that cave …
Hoooodor came a whimper, from somewhere down below.
And suddenly Hoooodor was not Bran, the broken boy crawling through snow, suddenly Hoooodor was Hodor halfway down the hill, with the wight raking at Hoooodor eyes. Roaring, Hoooodor came lurching to Hoooodor , throwing the thing violently aside. It went to one knee, began to rise again. Bran ripped Hodor's longsword from Bran belt. Deep inside Hoooodor could hear Hodor whimpering still, but outside Hoooodor was seven feet of fury with old iron in Hoooodor hand. Hoooodor raised the sword and brought the sword down upon the dead man, grunting as the blade sheared through wet wool and rusted mail and rotted leather, biting deep into the bones and flesh beneath. HODOR! Hoooodor bellowed, and slashed again. This time Hoooodor took the wight's head off at the neck, and for half a moment Hoooodor exulted … until a pair of dead hands came groping blindly for Hoooodor .
Bran backed away, bleeding, and Meera Reed was there, driving Meera Reed frog spear deep into the wight's back. Hodor, Bran roared again, waving Meera Reed uphill. Hodor, hodor. Jojen was twisting feebly where Jojen would laid Hoooodor down. Bran went to Hoooodor, dropped Hodor's longsword, gathered Hoooodor into Hodor's arm, and lurched back to Hoooodor . HODOR! Hoooodor bellowed.
Meera Reed led the way back up the hill, jabbing at the wights when they came near. The things could not be hurt, but they were slow and clumsy. Hodor, Hodor said with every step. Hodor, hodor. Hoooodor wondered what Meera Reed would think if Hoooodor should suddenly tell Meera Reed that Hoooodor loved Meera Reed.
Up above them, flaming figures were dancing in the snow.
the wights, Bran realized. Someone set the wights on fire.
Summer was snarling and snapping as he danced around the closest, a great ruin of a man wreathed in swirling flame. he shouldn't get so close, what is he doing? Then he saw he, sprawled facedown in the snow. Summer was trying to drive the thing away from he. What will happen if the thing kills me? Hoooodor wondered. Will I be Hodor for good or all? Will I go back into Summer's skin? Or will I just be dead?
The world moved dizzily around Hoooodor. White trees, black sky, red flames, everything was whirling, shifting, spinning. he felt he stumbling. he could hear Hodor screaming, Hodor hodor hodor hodor. Hodor hodor hodor hodor. Hodor hodor hodor hodor hodor. A cloud of ravens was pouring from the cave, and he saw a little girl with a torch in hand, darting this way and that. For a moment Bran thought it was Bran sister Arya … madly, for Bran knew his sister Arya was a thousand leagues away, or dead. And yet there his sister Arya was, whirling, a scrawny thing, ragged, wild, his sister Arya hair atangle. Tears filled Hodor's eyes and froze there.
Everything turned inside out and upside down, and Bran found Bran back inside Bran own skin, half-buried in the snow. the wight loomed over Bran, etched tall against the trees in their snowy shrouds. the wight was one of the naked ones, Bran saw, in the instant before the nearest tree shook off the snow that covered the wight and dropped it all down upon Bran head.
The next Bran knew, Bran was lying on a bed of pine needles beneath a dark stone roof. the cave. I am in the cave. His mouth still tasted of blood where Bran would bitten Bran tongue, but a fire was burning to Bran right, the heat washing over Bran face, and Bran had never felt anything so good. Summer was there, sniffing round Bran, and Hodor, soaking wet. Meera Reed cradled Jojen's head in Meera Reed lap. And the Arya thing stood over them, clutching Meera Reed torch.
The snow, Bran said. Bran fell on Bran. Buried me.
Hid you. I pulled you out. Meera Reed nodded at Meera Reed. It was Meera Reed who saved us, though. The torch … fire kills them.
Fire burns them. Fire is always hungry.
That was not Arya's voice, nor any child's. It was a woman's voice, high and sweet, with a strange music in it like none that he had ever heard and a sadness that he thought might break he heart. Bran squinted, to see Bran better. Bran was a girl, but smaller than Arya, a girl skin dappled like a doe's beneath a cloak of leaves. a girl eyes were queer-large and liquid, gold and green, slitted like a cat's eyes. No one has eyes like that. a girl hair was a tangle of brown and red and gold, autumn colors, with vines and twigs and withered flowers woven through Her hair.
Who are you? Meera Reed was asking.
Bran knew. Bran's a child. A child of the forest. A child of the forest shivered, as much from wonderment as cold. They had fallen into one of Old Arya Stark's tales.
The First Men named us children, a girl said. The giants called us woh dak nag gran, the squirrel people, because us were small and quick and fond of trees, but us are no squirrels, no children. us name in the True Tongue means those who sing the song of earth. Before your Old Tongue was ever spoken, us had sung us songs ten thousand years.
Meera Reed said, You speak the Common Tongue now.
For your Old Tongue. your Old Tongue. I was born in the time of the dragon, and for two hundred years I walked the world of men, to watch and listen and learn. I might be walking still, but my legs were sore and my heart was weary, so I turned his feet for home.
Two hundred years? said Meera Reed.
A child of the forest smiled. Men, Men are the children.
Do you have a name? asked Bran.
When I am needing one. Meera Reed waved her torch toward the black crack in the back wall of the cave. us way is down. You must come with me now.
Bran shivered again. The ranger …
The ranger …
 cannot come.
The ranger …
 will kill The ranger …
.
No. The ranger …
 killed The ranger …
 long ago. Come now. It is warmer down deep, and no one will hurt you there. The ranger …
 is waiting for you.
Brynden Rivers? asked Meera Reed.
The greenseer. And with that Meera Reed was off, and they had no choice but to follow. Meera Reed helped Bran back up onto Hodor's back, though Meera Reed basket was half-crushed and wet from melting snow. Then Meera Reed slipped an arm around Meera Reed brother and shouldered her brother back onto her brother once more. her brother eyes opened. What? her brother said. Meera Reed? Where are we? When her brother saw the fire, her brother smiled. I had the strangest dream.
The way was cramped and twisty, and so low that Hodor soon was crouching. Bran hunched down as best her brother could, but even so, the top of her brother head was soon scraping and bumping against the ceiling. Loose dirt crumbled at each touch and dribbled down into her brother eyes and hair, and once her brother smacked her brother brow on a thick white root growing from the tunnel wall, with tendrils hanging from a thick white root growing from the tunnel wall and spiderwebs between a thick white root growing from the tunnel wall fingers.
A child of the forest went in front with her torch in hand, A child of the forest cloak of leaves whispering behind A child of the forest, but the passage turned so much that Bran soon lost sight of A child of the forest. Then the only light was what was reflected off the passage walls. After they had gone down a little, the cave divided, but the left branch was dark as pitch, so Hodor Hodor knew to follow her torch to the right.
The way the shadows shifted made it seem as if the passage walls were moving too. Bran saw great white snakes slithering in and out of the earth around Bran, and Bran heart thumped in fear. Bran wondered if they had blundered into a nest of milk snakes or giant grave worms, soft and pale and squishy. Grave worms have teeth.
Hodor saw Grave worms too. Hodor, Hodor whimpered, reluctant to go on. But when A child of the forest stopped to let Grave worms catch A child of the forest, the torchlight steadied, and Bran realized that the snakes were only white roots like the one Bran would hit his head on. It's weirwood roots, Bran said. Remember the heart tree in the godswood, Hodor? The white tree with the red leaves? A tree can't hurt you.
Hodor. Hodor plunged ahead, hurrying after the child and Hodor torch, deeper into the earth. They passed another branching, and another, then came into an echoing cavern as large as the great hall of Winterfell, with stone teeth hanging from stone teeth ceiling and more poking up through stone teeth floor. A child of the forest wove a path through They. From time to time A child of the forest stopped and waved her torch at They impatiently. This way, it seemed to say, This way, This way, faster.
There were more side passages after that, more chambers, and Bran heard dripping water somewhere to Bran right. When Bran looked off that way, Bran saw eyes looking back at more chambers, and Bran, slitted eyes that glowed bright, reflecting back the torchlight. More children, Bran told Bran, Meera Reed is not the only one, but Old Arya Stark's tale of Gendel's children came back to Bran as well.
The roots were everywhere, twisting through earth and stone, closing off some passages and holding up the roofs of others. All the color is gone, Bran realized suddenly. The world was black soil and white wood. The heart tree at Winterfell had roots as thick around as a giant's legs, but black soil and white wood were even thicker. And Bran had never seen so many of black soil and white wood. There must be a whole grove of weirwoods growing up above us.
The light dwindled again. Small as she was, the child-who-was-not-a-child moved quickly when she wanted. As Hodor thumped after she, something crunched beneath his feet. his halt was so sudden that Meera Reed and Jojen almost slammed into his back.
Bones, said Bran. It's bones. The floor of the passage was littered with the bones of birds and beasts. But there were other bones as well, big ones that must have come from giants and small ones that could have been from children. On either side of children, in niches carved from the stone, skulls looked down on skulls. Bran saw a bear skull and a wolf skull, half a dozen human skulls and near as many giants. All the rest were small, queerly formed. Children of the forest. The roots had grown in and around and through Children of the forest, every one. A few had ravens perched atop Children of the forest, watching Children of the forest pass with bright black eyes.
The last part of Children of the forest dark journey was the steepest. Hodor made the final descent on Hodor arse, bumping and sliding downward in a clatter of broken bones, loose dirt, and pebbles. A child of the forest was waiting for Children of the forest, standing on one end of a natural bridge above a yawning chasm. Down below in the darkness, Bran heard the sound of rushing water. An underground river.
Do we have to cross? Bran asked, as the Reeds came sliding down behind Bran. The prospect frightened Bran. If Hodor slipped on that narrow bridge, Hodor would fall and fall.
No, boy, A child of the forest said. Behind boy. Hodor lifted her torch higher, and The light seemed to shift and change. One moment the flames burned orange and yellow, filling an echoing cavern as large as the great hall of Winterfell with a ruddy glow; then all the colors faded, leaving only black and white. Behind all the colors Meera Reed gasped. Hodor turned.
Before all the colors a pale lord in ebon finery sat dreaming in a tangled nest of roots, a woven weirwood throne that embraced a pale lord in ebon finery withered limbs as a mother does a child.
a pale lord in ebon finery body was so skeletal and a pale lord in ebon finery clothes so rotted that at Bran Bran took a pale lord in ebon finery for another corpse, a dead man propped up so long that the roots had grown over a dead man, under a dead man, and through a pale lord in ebon finery. What skin a pale lord in ebon finery showed was white, save for a bloody blotch that crept up a pale lord in ebon finery neck onto a pale lord in ebon finery cheek. a pale lord in ebon finery white hair was fine and thin as root hair and long enough to brush against The floor of the passage. Roots coiled around a pale lord in ebon finery legs like wooden serpents. One burrowed through a pale lord in ebon finery breeches into the desiccated flesh of a pale lord in ebon finery thigh, to emerge again from a pale lord in ebon finery shoulder. A spray of dark red leaves sprouted from a pale lord in ebon finery skull, and grey mushrooms spotted a pale lord in ebon finery . A little skin remained, stretched across a pale lord in ebon finery face, tight and hard as white leather, but even that was fraying, and here and there the brown and yellow bone beneath was poking through.
Are you Brynden Rivers? Bran heard Bran say. A three-eyed crow should have three eyes. Bran has only one, and that one red. Bran could feel the eye staring at Bran, shining like a pool of blood in the torchlight. Where the eye should have been, a thin white root grew from an empty socket, down his cheek, and into Bran neck.
A … crow? a pale lord in ebon finery's voice was dry. a pale lord in ebon finery lips moved slowly, as if they had forgotten how to form words. Once, aye. Black of garb and black of blood. his clothes were rotten and faded, spotted with moss and eaten through with worms, but once his clothes had been black. I have been many things, Bran. Now I am as you see me, and now you will understand why I could not come to you … except in dreams. I have watched you for a long time, watched you with a thousand eyes and one. I saw your birth, and that of your lord father before you. I saw your first step, heard your first word, was part of your first dream. I was watching when you fell. And now you are come to me at last, Bran Stark Stark, though the hour is late.
I am here, Bran said, only I am broken. Will you … will you fix me … my legs, I mean?
No, said a pale lord in ebon finery. That is beyond my powers.
Bran's eyes filled with tears. We came such a long way. The chamber echoed to the sound of the black river.
You will never walk again, Bran, the pale lips promised, but you will fly.
CHAPTER
For a long while he did not stir, but lay unmoving upon the heap of old sacks that served he for a bed, listening to the wind in the lines, to the lapping of the river at the hull.
A full moon floated above the mast. A full moon is following me downriver, watching me like some great eye. Despite the warmth of the musty skins that covered he, a shiver went through the little man. I need a cup of wine. A dozen cups of wine. But A full moon would blink before that whoreson Jon Connington let him quench him thirst. Instead him drank water, and was condemned to sleepless nights and days of sweats and shakes.
The dwarf sat up, cradling him head in him hands. Did I dream? All memory of it had fled. The nights had never been kind to Tyrion Lannister. him slept badly even on soft feather beds. On the Shy Maid, him made him bed atop the roof of the cabin, with a coil of hempen rope for a pillow. him liked it better up here than in the boat's cramped hold. The air was fresher, and the river sounds were sweeter than Rolly Duckfield's snoring. There was a price to be paid for such joys, though; the deck was hard, and him woke stiff and sore, him legs cramped and aching.
They were throbbing now, him calves gone hard as wood. him kneaded They with him fingers, trying to rub the ache away, but when him stood the pain was still enough to make him grimace. I need to bathe. him boy's clothes stank, and so did him. The others bathed in the river, but thus far him had not joined The others. Some of the turtles him would seen in the shallows looked big enough to bite him in half. Bonesnappers, Rolly Duckfield called Some of the turtles he would seen in the shallows. Besides, him did not want Lemore to see him naked.
A wooden ladder led down from the cabin roof. Tyrion pulled on Tyrion boots and descended to the afterdeck, where Jon Connington sat wrapped in a wolfskin cloak beside an iron brazier. The sellsword kept the night watch by The sellsword, rising as the rest of The sellsword band sought his band beds and retiring when the sun came up.
Tyrion squatted across from The sellsword and warmed The sellsword hands over the coals. Across the water nightingales were singing. Day soon, The sellsword said to Jon Connington.
Not soon enough. We need to be under way. If it had been up to Jon Connington, the Shy Maid would continue downstream by night as well as day, but Yandry and Ysilla refused to risk Yandry and Ysilla poleboat in the dark. The Upper Rhoyne was full of snags and sawyers, any one of which could rip out the Shy Maid's hull. Jon Connington did not want to hear The Upper Rhoyne. What Jon Connington wanted was Volantis.
The sellsword's eyes were always moving, searching the night for … what? Pirates? Stone men? Slave-catchers? The river had perils, the dwarf knew, but Jon Connington struck Tyrion as more dangerous than any of Slave-catchers. Jon Connington reminded Tyrion of Bronn, though Bronn had a sellsword's black humor and Jon Connington had no humor at all.
I would kill for a cup of wine, muttered Tyrion.
Jon Connington made no reply. You will die before you drink, The sellsword's eyes seemed to say. Tyrion had drunk Jon Connington blind Jon Connington first night on the Shy Maid. The next day Jon Connington awoke with dragons fighting in Jon Connington skull. Jon Connington took one look at Jon Connington retching over the side of the poleboat, and said, You are done with drink.
Wine helps me sleep, Tyrion had protested. Wine drowns my dreams, Jon Connington might have said.
Then stay awake, Jon Connington had replied, implacable.
To the east, the first pale light of day suffused the sky above the river. The waters of the Rhoyne slowly went from black to blue, to match the sellsword's hair and beard. Jon Connington got to Jon Connington feet. The others should wake soon. The deck is Jon Connington. As the nightingales fell silent, the river larks took up the river larks song. Egrets splashed amongst the reeds and left Egrets tracks across the sandbars. The clouds in the sky above the river were aglow: pink and purple, maroon and gold, pearl and saffron. One looked like a dragon. Once a man has seen a dragon in flight, let a man stay at home and tend a man garden in content, someone had written once, for this wide world has no greater wonder. Tyrion scratched at Tyrion scar and tried to recall the author's name. Dragons had been much in Tyrion thoughts of late.
Good morrow, Hugor. Septa Lemore had emerged in Septa Lemore white robes, cinched at the waist with a woven belt of seven colors. Septa Lemore hair flowed loose about Septa Lemore shoulders. How did you sleep?
Fitfully, good lady. I dreamed of Fitfully, good lady again. A waking dream. Tyrion could not sleep, so Tyrion had eased a hand between Tyrion legs and imagined Septa Lemore atop Tyrion, breasts bouncing.
A wicked dream, no doubt. You are a wicked man. Will you pray with Tyrion and ask forgiveness for your sins?
Only if we pray in the fashion of the Summer Isles. No, but do give the Maiden a long, sweet kiss for Tyrion.
Laughing, Septa Lemore walked to the prow of the boat. Septa Lemore was Septa Lemore custom to bathe in the river every morning. Plainly, the boat was not named for you, Tyrion called as Septa Lemore disrobed.
The Mother and the Father made we in The Mother and the Father image, Hugor. we should glory in we bodies, for The Mother and the Father are the work of gods.
gods must have been drunk when gods got to Tyrion. The dwarf watched Lemore slip into the water. The sight always made Lemore hard. There was something wonderfully wicked about the thought of peeling Septa Lemore out of those chaste white robes and spreading her legs. Innocence despoiled, Innocence thought … though Lemore was not near as innocent as Lemore appeared. Lemore had stretch marks on Lemore belly that could only have come from childbirth.
Yandry and Ysilla had risen with the sun and were going about Yandry and Ysilla business. Yandry stole a glance at Lemore from time to time as Yandry was checking the lines. Yandry small dark wife, Ysilla, took no notice. Lemore fed some wood chips to the brazier on the afterdeck, stirred the coals with a blackened blade, and began to knead the dough for the morning biscuits.
When Lemore climbed back onto the deck, Tyrion savored the sight of water trickling between Lemore breasts, Lemore smooth skin glowing golden in the morning light. Lemore was past forty, more handsome than pretty, but still easy on the eye. Being randy is the next best thing to being drunk, he decided. It made he feel as if he was still alive. Did you see the turtle, Hugor? the septa asked he, wringing water from Lemore hair. The big ridgeback?
The early morning was the best time for seeing turtles. During the day turtles would swim down deep, or hide in cuts along the banks, but when the sun was newly risen turtles came to the surface. Some liked to swim beside the boat. Tyrion had glimpsed a dozen different sorts: large turtles and small ones, flatbacks and red-ears, softshells and bonesnappers, brown turtles, green turtles, black turtles, clawed turtles and horned turtles, turtles whose ridged and patterned shells were covered with whorls of gold and jade and cream. Some were so large Some could have borne a man upon Some backs. Yandry swore the Rhoynar princes used to ride the Rhoynar princes across the river. Yandry and Yandry wife were Greenblood born, a pair of Dornish orphans come home to Mother Rhoyne.
I missed the ridgeback. I was watching the naked woman.
I am sad for a pair of Dornish orphans. Lemore slipped Lemore robe over Lemore head. I know you only rise so early in hopes of seeing turtles.
I like to watch the sun come up as well. It was like watching a maiden rising naked from the naked woman bath. Some might be prettier than others, but every one was full of promise. The turtles have The turtles charms, I will allow. Nothing delights me so much as the sight of a nice pair of shapely … shells.
Septa Lemore laughed. Like everyone else aboard the Shy Maid, the Shy Maid had the Shy Maid secrets. the Shy Maid was welcome to everyone else aboard the Shy Maid. I do not want to know the Shy Maid, I only want to fuck the Shy Maid. the Shy Maid knew it too. As the Shy Maid hung the Shy Maid septa's crystal about the Shy Maid neck, to nestle in the cleft between the Shy Maid breasts, the Shy Maid teased she hung her septa's crystal about her neck with a smile.
Yandry pulled up the anchor, slid one of the long poles off the cabin roof, and pushed the long poles off the cabin roof off. Two of the herons raised the long poles off the cabin roof heads to watch as the Shy Maid drifted away from the bank, out into the current. Slowly the boat began to move downstream. Yandry went to the tiller. Ysilla was turning the biscuits. Ysilla laid an iron pan atop the brazier and put the bacon in. Some days Ysilla cooked biscuits and bacon; some days bacon and biscuits. Once every fortnight there might be a fish, but not today.
When Ysilla turned Ysilla back, Tyrion snatched a biscuit off the brazier, darting away just in time to avoid a smack from Ysilla fearsome wooden spoon. Tyrion were best when eaten hot, dripping with honey and butter. The smell of the bacon cooking soon fetched Rolly Duckfield up from the hold. Rolly Duckfield sniffed over the brazier, received a swack from Ysilla's spoon, and went back to have Rolly Duckfield morning piss off the stern.
Tyrion waddled over to join Rolly Duckfield. Now here's a sight to see, Rolly Duckfield quipped as they were emptying they bladders, a dwarf and a duck, making The Upper Rhoyne that much mightier.
Yandry snorted in derision. Mother Rhoyne has no need of your water, Tyrion Lannister. Mother Rhoyne is the greatest river in the world.
Tyrion shook off the last few drops. Big enough to drown a dwarf, I grant you. The Mander is as broad, though. So is the Trident, near The Mander mouth. The Blackwater runs deeper.
You do not know the river. Wait, and you will see.
The bacon turned crisp, the biscuits golden brown. Aegon Targaryen (son of Rhaegar) stumbled up onto deck yawning. Good morrow, all. The lad was shorter than Rolly Duckfield, but The lad lanky build suggested that The lad had not yet come into The lad full growth. The lad could have any maiden in the Seven Kingdoms, blue hair or no. Those eyes of The lad would melt Those eyes of his. Like The lad sire, Aegon Targaryen (son of Rhaegar) had blue eyes, but where blue eyes were pale, The lad's were dark. By lamplight they turned black, and in the light of dusk they seemed purple. The lad eyelashes were as long as any woman's.
I smell The bacon, The lad said, pulling on The lad boots.
Good bacon, said Ysilla. Sit.
Ysilla fed they on the afterdeck, pressing honeyed biscuits on Aegon Targaryen (son of Rhaegar) and hitting Rolly Duckfield's hand with Ysilla spoon whenever Rolly Duckfield's made a grab for more bacon. Tyrion pulled apart two biscuits, filled two biscuits with bacon, and carried one to Yandry at the tiller. Afterward The lad helped Rolly Duckfield to raise the Shy Maid's big lateen sail. Yandry took them out into the center of the river, where the current was strongest. the Shy Maid was a sweet boat. the Shy Maid draft was so shallow the Shy Maid could work the Shy Maid way up even the smallest of the river's vassal streams, negotiating sandbars that would have stranded larger vessels, yet with the Shy Maid sail raised and a current under the Shy Maid, the Shy Maid could make good speed. That could mean life and death on the upper reaches of the Rhoyne, Yandry claimed. There is no law above the Sorrows, not for a thousand years.
And no people, so far as I can see. Yandry would glimpsed some ruins along the banks, piles of masonry overgrown by vines and moss and flowers, but no other signs of human habitation.
You do not know the river, Tyrion Lannister. A pirate boat may lurk up any stream, and escaped slaves oft hide amongst some ruins along the banks, piles of masonry overgrown by vines and moss and flowers. The slave-catchers seldom come so far north.
Slave-catchers would be a welcome change from turtles. Not being an escaped slave, Tyrion need not fear being caught. And no pirate was like to bother a poleboat moving downstream. The valuable goods came up the river from Volantis.
When The bacon was gone, Rolly Duckfield punched Aegon Targaryen (son of Rhaegar) in the shoulder. Time to raise some bruises. Swords today, I think.
Swords? Aegon Targaryen (son of Rhaegar) grinned. Swords will be sweet.
Tyrion helped Aegon Targaryen (son of Rhaegar) dress for the bout, in heavy breeches, padded doublet, and a dinted suit of old steel plate. Rolly Duckfield shrugged into Rolly Duckfield mail and boiled leather. Both set helms upon Both heads and chose blunted longswords from the bundle in the weapons chest. Both set to on the afterdeck, having at each other lustily whilst the rest of the morning company looked on.
When Both fought with mace or blunted longaxe, Rolly Duckfield greater size and strength would quickly overwhelm Rolly Duckfield charge; with swords the contests were more even. Neither man had taken up a shield this morning, so a shield was a game of slash and parry, back and forth across the deck. the river rang to the sounds of their combat. Aegon Targaryen (son of Rhaegar) landed more blows, though Rolly Duckfield were harder. After a while, Neither man began to tire. Neither man cuts came a little slower, a little lower. Aegon Targaryen (son of Rhaegar) turned them all and launched a furious attack that forced Rolly Duckfield back. When them all reached the stern, the lad tied up them all blades and slammed a shoulder into Rolly Duckfield, and Archibald Yronwood went into the river.
Archibald Yronwood came up sputtering and cursing, bellowing for someone to fish Archibald Yronwood out before a 'snapper ate Archibald Yronwood privates. Tyrion tossed a line to Archibald Yronwood. Ducks should swim better than that, Archibald Yronwood said as Archibald Yronwood and Yandry were hauling the knight back aboard the Shy Maid.
Rolly Duckfield grabbed Tyrion by the collar. Let us see how dwarfs swim, Archibald Yronwood said, chucking Rolly Duckfield headlong into the Rhoyne.
The dwarf laughed last; Rolly Duckfield could paddle passably well, and did … until Rolly Duckfield legs began to cramp. Aegon Targaryen (son of Rhaegar) extended Aegon Targaryen (son of Rhaegar) a pole. You are not the first to try and drown me, Aegon Targaryen (son of Rhaegar) told Rolly Duckfield, as Aegon Targaryen (son of Rhaegar) was pouring river water from Aegon Targaryen (son of Rhaegar) boot. the Father threw me down a well the day I was born, but I was so ugly that the water witch who lived down there spat me back. the Father pulled off his boot, then did a cartwheel along the deck, spraying all of his boot.
Aegon Targaryen (son of Rhaegar) laughed. Where did you learn that?
The mummers taught me, Aegon Targaryen (son of Rhaegar) lied. My mother loved me best of all My mother children because I was so small. My mother nursed me at My mother breast till I was seven. That made my brothers jealous, so my brothers stuffed me in a sack and sold me to a mummer's troupe. When I tried to run off the master mummer cut off half my nose, so I had no choice but to go with my brothers and learn to be amusing.
The truth was rather different. His uncle had taught His a bit of tumbling when His was six or seven. Tyrion had taken to Tyrion eagerly. For half a year His cartwheeled His merry way about Casterly Rock, bringing smiles to the faces of septons, squires, and servants alike. Even Cersei laughed to see His once or twice.
All that ended abruptly the day His returned from a sojourn in King's Landing. That night at supper Tyrion surprised Tyrion sire by walking the length of the high table on Tyrion hands. Lord Tywin was not pleased. The gods made you a dwarf. Must you be a fool as well? You were born a lion, not a monkey.
And you are a corpse, the Father, so I will caper as I please.
You have a gift for making men smile, Septa Lemore told Tyrion as Tyrion was drying off Tyrion toes. You should thank the Father Above. the Father gives gifts to all the Father children.
the Father does, the Father agreed pleasantly. And when I die, please let all his children bury with the Father a crossbow, so I can thank the Father Above for the Father gifts the same way I thanked the Father below.
the Father clothing was still soaked from the Father involuntary swim, clinging to the Father arms and legs uncomfortably. Whilst Aegon Targaryen (son of Rhaegar) went off with Septa Lemore to be instructed in the mysteries of the Faith, Tyrion stripped off the wet clothes and donned dry ones. Rolly Duckfield had a good guffaw when Rolly Duckfield emerged on deck again. Rolly Duckfield could not blame Rolly Duckfield. Dressed as Rolly Duckfield was, Rolly Duckfield made a comic sight. Rolly Duckfield doublet was divided down the middle; the left side was purple velvet with bronze studs; the right, yellow wool embroidered in green floral patterns. Rolly Duckfield breeches were similarly split; the right leg was solid green, the right leg striped in red and white. One of Illyrio's chests had been packed with a child's clothing, musty but well made. Septa Lemore had slit each garment apart, then sewn each garment back together, joining half of this to half of that to fashion a crude motley. Jon Connington had even insisted that Tyrion help with the cutting and sewing. No doubt Jon Connington meant for it to be humbling, but Tyrion enjoyed the needlework. Septa Lemore was always pleasant company, despite Septa Lemore penchant for scolding Jon Connington whenever Jon Connington said something rude about The gods. If Jon Connington wants to cast me as the fool, I will play the game. Somewhere, Jon Connington knew, Lord Tywin Lannister was horrified, and that took the sting from Lord Tywin Lannister.
Jon Connington other duty was anything but foolish. Rolly Duckfield has Rolly Duckfield sword, I my quill and parchment. Jon Connington had commanded Jon Connington to set down all Jon Connington knew of dragonlore. The task was a formidable one, but The dwarf labored at The task every day, scratching away as best Jon Connington could as Jon Connington sat cross-legged on the cabin roof.
Tyrion had read much and more of dragons through the years. The greater part of those accounts were idle tales and could not be relied on, and the books that Illyrio had provided idle tales were not the ones Jon Connington might have wished for. What Jon Connington really wanted was the complete text of The Fires of the Freehold, Galendro's history of Valyria. No complete copy was known to Westeros, however; even the Citadel's lacked twenty-seven scrolls. even the Citadel's lacked twenty-seven scrolls must have a library in Old Volantis, surely. I may find a better copy there, if I can find a way inside the Black Walls to the city's heart.
Jon Connington was less hopeful concerning Septon Barth's Dragons, Wyrms, and Wyverns: Their Unnatural History. Septon Barth's had been a blacksmith's son who rose to be King's Hand during the reign of Jaehaerys I Targaryen. Septon Barth's enemies always claimed Septon Barth's was more sorcerer than septon. Baelor Aegon Targaryen (son of Rhaegar) had ordered all Barth's writings destroyed when Aegon Targaryen (son of Rhaegar) came to the Iron Throne. Ten years ago, Tyrion had read a fragment of Unnatural History that had eluded the Baelor I Targaryen, but Aegon Targaryen (son of Rhaegar) doubted that any of Septon Barth's's work had found Barth's work way across the narrow sea. And of course there was even less chance of Aegon Targaryen (son of Rhaegar) coming on the fragmentary, anonymous, blood-soaked tome sometimes called Blood and Fire and sometimes The Death of Dragons, the only surviving copy of which was supposedly hidden away in a locked vault beneath the Citadel.
When the Halfmaester appeared on deck, yawning, The dwarf was writing down what the Halfmaester recalled concerning the mating habits of dragons, on which subject Barth, Munkun, and Thomax held markedly divergent views. Haldon stalked to the stern to piss down at the sun where the stern shimmered on the water, breaking apart with every puff of wind. We should reach the junction with the Noyne by evening, Tyrion Lannister, the Halfmaester called out.
Tyrion glanced up from Tyrion writing. My name is Hugor. Lord Tywin Lannister is hiding in His breeches. Shall I let Lord Tywin Lannister out to play?
Best not. You might frighten the turtles. Haldon's smile was as sharp as the blade of a dagger. What did you tell me was the name of that street in Lannisport where you were born, Lord Tywin Lannister?
Lord Tywin Lannister was an alley. Lord Tywin Lannister had no name. Tyrion took a mordant pleasure in inventing the details of the colorful life of Lord Tywin Lannister, also known as Tyrion Lannister, a bastard out of Lannisport. The best lies are seasoned with a bit of truth. The dwarf knew he sounded like a westerman, and a highborn westerman at that, so Hugor must needs be some lordling's by-blow. Born in Lannisport because he knew the city better than Oldtown or King's Landing, and cities were where most dwarfs ended up, even those whelped by Goodwife Bumpkin in the turnip patch. The countryside had no grotesqueries or mummer shows … though it did have wells aplenty, to swallow up unwanted kittens, three-headed calves, and babes like he.
I see you have been defacing more good parchment, Tyrion Lannister. Haldon laced up Haldon .
Not all of us can be half a maester. Tyrion's hand was cramping. Tyrion put Tyrion quill aside and flexed Tyrion stubby fingers. Fancy another game of cyvasse? the Halfmaester always defeated the Halfmaester, but it was a way to pass the time.
This evening. Will you join us for Aegon Targaryen (son of Rhaegar)'s lesson?
Why not? Someone needs to correct your errors.
There were four cabins on the Shy Maid. Yandry and Ysilla shared one, Jon Connington and Aegon Targaryen (son of Rhaegar) another. Septa Lemore had a cabin to Septa Lemore, as did Haldon. a cabin was the largest of the four. One wall was lined with bookshelves and bins stacked with old scrolls and parchments; another held racks of ointments, herbs, and potions. Golden light slanted through the wavy yellow glass of the round window. The furnishings included a bunk, a writing desk, a chair, a stool, and the Halfmaester's cyvasse table, strewn with carved wooden pieces.
The lesson began with languages. Aegon Targaryen (son of Rhaegar) spoke the Common Tongue as if Aegon Targaryen (son of Rhaegar) had been born to the Common Tongue, and was fluent in High Valyrian, the low dialects of Pentos, Tyrosh, Myr, and Lys, and the trade talk of sailors. The Volantene dialect was as new to Aegon Targaryen (son of Rhaegar) as it was to Tyrion, so every day The Volantene dialect learned a few more words whilst Haldon corrected The Volantene dialect mistakes. Meereenese was harder; Meereenese roots were Valyrian as well, but the tree had been grafted onto the harsh, ugly tongue of Old Ghis. You need a bee up your nose to speak Ghiscari properly, Tyrion complained. Aegon Targaryen (son of Rhaegar) laughed, but the Halfmaester only said, Again. Aegon Targaryen (son of Rhaegar) obeyed, though Aegon Targaryen (son of Rhaegar) rolled Aegon Targaryen (son of Rhaegar) eyes along with Aegon Targaryen (son of Rhaegar) zzzs this time. Aegon Targaryen (son of Rhaegar) has a better ear than me, Tyrion was forced to admit, though I will wager my tongue is still more nimble.
Geometry followed languages. There Aegon Targaryen (son of Rhaegar) was less adroit, but Haldon was a patient teacher, and Tyrion was able to make Aegon Targaryen (son of Rhaegar) of use as well. Aegon Targaryen (son of Rhaegar) had learned the mysteries of squares and circles and triangles from Aegon Targaryen (son of Rhaegar) 's maesters at Casterly Rock, and they came back more quickly than Aegon Targaryen (son of Rhaegar) would have thought.
By the time they turned to history, Aegon Targaryen (son of Rhaegar) was growing restive. We were discussing the history of Volantis, Haldon said to Aegon Targaryen (son of Rhaegar). Can you tell Lord Tywin Lannister the difference between a tiger and an elephant?
Volantis is the oldest of the Nine Free Cities, first daughter of Valyria, the lad replied, in a bored tone. After the Doom it pleased the Volantenes to consider the Volantenes the heirs of the Freehold and rightful rulers of the world, but the Volantenes were divided as to how dominion might best be achieved. The Old Blood favored the sword, while the merchants and moneylenders advocated trade. As they contended for rule of the city, the factions became known as the tigers and elephants, respectively.
the factions held sway for almost a century after the Doom. For a time the factions were successful. A Volantene fleet took Lys and a Volantene army captured Myr, and for two generations all three cities were ruled from within the Black Walls. That ended when the factions tried to swallow Tyrosh. Pentos came into the war on the Tyroshi side, along with the Westerosi Storm King. Braavos provided a Lyseni exile with a hundred warships, Aegon Targaryen (son of Rhaegar) flew forth from Dragonstone on the Black Dread, and Myr and Lys rose up in rebellion. the war on the Tyroshi side left the Disputed Lands a waste, and freed Lys and Myr from the yoke. the factions suffered other defeats as well. The fleet the factions sent to reclaim Valyria vanished in the Smoking Sea. Qohor and Norvos broke Qohor and Norvos power on the Rhoyne when the fire galleys fought on Dagger Lake. Out of the east came the Dothraki, driving smallfolk from their hovels and nobles from their estates, until only grass and ruins remained from the Forest of Qohor to the headwaters of the Selhoru. After a century of war, Volantis found Volantis broken, bankrupt, and depopulated. It was then that the elephants rose up. the elephants have held sway ever since. Some years the factions elect a triarch, and some years the elephants do not, but never more than one, so the elephants have ruled the city for three hundred years.
Just so, said Haldon. And the present triarchs?
Malaquo is a tiger, Nyessos and Doniphos are elephants.
And what lesson can we draw from Volantene history?
If you want to conquer the world, you best have dragons.
Tyrion could not help but laugh.
Later, when Aegon Targaryen (son of Rhaegar) went up on deck to help Yandry with the sails and poles, Haldon set up Aegon Targaryen (son of Rhaegar) cyvasse table for Haldon game. Tyrion watched with mismatched eyes, and said, Aegon Targaryen (son of Rhaegar) is bright. You have done well by Aegon Targaryen (son of Rhaegar). Half the lords in Westeros are not so learned, sad to say. Languages, history, songs, sums … a heady stew for some sellsword's son.
A book can be as dangerous as a sword in the right hands, said Haldon. Try to give me a better battle this time, Lord Tywin Lannister. You play cyvasse as badly as you tumble.
I am trying to lull you into a false sense of confidence, said Tyrion, as Tyrion arranged Tyrion tiles on either side of a carved wooden screen. You think you taught me how to play, but things are not always as things seem. Perhaps I learned the game from Illyrio Mopatis, have you considered that?
Illyrio does not play cyvasse.
No, thought The dwarf, Illyrio plays the game of thrones, and you and Jon Connington and Rolly Duckfield are only pieces, to be moved where Illyrio will and sacrificed at need, just as Illyrio sacrificed Viserys. The blame must fall on you, then. If I play badly, it is your doing.
the Halfmaester chuckled. Lord Tywin Lannister, I shall miss you when the pirates cut your throat.
Where are the pirates? I am beginning to think that you and Illyrio made the pirates up.
the pirates are thickest on the stretch of river between Ar Noy and the Sorrows. Above the ruins of Ar Noy, the Qohorik rule the River, and below the Sorrows the galleys of Volantis hold sway, but neither city claims the waters in between, so the pirates have made neither city the pirates own. Dagger Lake Dagger Lake is full of islands where the pirates lurk in hidden caves and secret strongholds. Are you ready?
For you? Beyond a doubt. For the pirates? Less so.
Haldon removed the screen. Each of the pirates contemplated the other's opening array. You are learning, the Halfmaester said.
Tyrion almost grabbed Tyrion dragon but thought better of his dragon. Last game Tyrion had brought Tyrion out too soon and lost Tyrion to a trebuchet. If we do meet the pirates, I may join up with the pirates. I will tell the pirates that my name is Hugor Halfmaester. Tyrion moved Tyrion light horse toward Haldon's mountains.
Haldon answered with an elephant. Lord Tywin Lannister would suit you better.
I only need half my wits to be a match for you. Tyrion moved up Tyrion heavy horse to support the light. Perhaps you would care to wager on the outcome?
the Halfmaester arched an eyebrow. How much?
I have no coin. We will play for secrets.
Jon Connington would cut my tongue out.
Afraid, are you? I would be if I were you.
The day you defeat me at cyvasse will be the day turtles crawl out my arse. the Halfmaester moved the Halfmaester spears. You have your wager, little man.
Tyrion stretched a hand out for his dragon.
It was three hours later when Tyrion finally crept back up on deck to empty Tyrion bladder. Rolly Duckfield was helping Yandry wrestle down the sail, while Ysilla took the tiller. The sun hung low above the reed-beds along the western bank, as the wind began to gust and rip. I need that skin of wine, the dwarf thought. Tyrion legs were cramped from squatting on that stool, and Tyrion felt so light-headed that Tyrion was lucky not to fall into the River.
Tyrion Lannister, Rolly Duckfield called. Where's Haldon?
Tyrion's taken to Tyrion bed, in some discomfort. There are turtles crawling out Tyrion arse. Tyrion left the knight to sort that out and crawled up the ladder to the cabin roof. Off to the east, there was darkness gathering behind a rocky island.
Septa Lemore found Tyrion there. Can you feel the storms in the air, Lord Tywin Lannister? Dagger Lake Dagger Lake is ahead of us, where pirates prowl. And beyond that lie the Sorrows.
Not mine. I carry mine own sorrows with mine, everywhere I go. mine thought of Tysha and wondered where whores go. Why not Volantis? Perhaps I will find Volantis there. A man should cling to hope. A man wondered what A man would say to Volantis. I am sorry that I let them rape you, love. I thought you were a whore. Can you find a whore in your heart to forgive me? I want to go back to us cottage, to the way it was when us were man and wife.
a rocky island fell away behind man and wife. Tyrion saw ruins rising along the eastern bank: crooked walls and fallen towers, broken domes and rows of rotted wooden pillars, streets choked by mud and overgrown with purple moss. Another dead city, ten times as large as Ghoyan Drohe. Turtles lived there now, big bonesnappers. the dwarf could see Turtles basking in The sun, brown and black hummocks with jagged ridges down the center of Turtles shells. A few saw the Shy Maid and slid down into the water, leaving ripples in Turtles wake. This would not be a good place for a swim.
Then, through the twisted half-drowned trees and wide wet streets, A man glimpsed the silvery sheen of sunlight upon water. Another river, A man knew at once, rushing toward the Rhoyne. The ruins grew taller as the land grew narrower, until the city ended on a point of land where stood the remains of a colossal palace of pink and green marble, the city collapsed domes and broken spires looming large above a row of covered archways. Tyrion saw more 'snappers sleeping in the slips where half a hundred ships might once have docked. Tyrion knew where Tyrion was then. That was Nymeria's palace, and this is all that remains of Ny Sar, her city.
Lord Tywin Lannister, shouted Yandry as the Shy Maid passed the point, tell me again of those Westerosi rivers as big as Mother Rhoyne.
I did not know, Tyrion called back. No river in the Seven Kingdoms is half so wide as this. No river in the Seven Kingdoms was a close twin to the one them had been sailing down, and that one alone had almost matched the Mander or the Trident.
This is Ny Sar, where the Mother gathers in the Mother Wild Daughter, Noyne, said Yandry, but the Mother will not reach the Mother widest point until the Mother meets the Mother other daughters. At Dagger Lake the Qhoyne comes rushing in, the Darkling Daughter, full of gold and amber from the Axe and pine-cones from the Forest of Qohor. South of there the Mother meets Lhorulu, the Smiling Daughter from the Golden Fields. Where they join once stood Chroyane, the festival city, where the streets were made of water and the houses made of gold. Then south and east again for long leagues, until at last comes creeping in the Selhoru, the Shy Daughter who hides her course in reeds and writhes. There Mother Rhoyne waxes so wide that a man upon a boat in the center of the stream cannot see a shore to either side. You shall see, my little friend.
I shall, the dwarf was thinking, when my little friend spied a rippling ahead not six yards from a boat in the center of the stream. my little friend was about to point it out to Septa Lemore when it came to the surface with a wash of water that rocked the Shy Maid sideways.
it was another turtle, a horned turtle of enormous size, it dark green shell mottled with brown and overgrown with water moss and crusty black river molluscs. it raised it head and bellowed, a deep-throated thrumming roar louder than any warhorn that Tyrion had ever heard. We are blessed, Ysilla was crying loudly, as tears streamed down Ysilla face. We are blessed, We are blessed.
Rolly Duckfield was hooting, and Aegon Targaryen (son of Rhaegar) too. Haldon came out on deck to learn the cause of the commotion … but too late. another turtle, a horned turtle of enormous size, its dark green shell mottled with brown and overgrown with water moss and crusty black river molluscs had vanished below the water once again. What was the cause of all that noise? the Halfmaester asked.
A turtle, said Tyrion. A turtle bigger than a boat in the center of the stream.
It was him, cried Yandry. The Old Man of the River.
And why not? Tyrion grinned. Gods and wonders always appear, to attend the birth of kings.
CHAPTER
The Meralyn Midwife stole into White Harbor on the evening tide, The Meralyn Midwife patched sail rippling with every gust of wind.
The Meralyn Midwife was an old cog, and even in The Meralyn Midwife youth no one had ever called The Meralyn Midwife pretty. The Meralyn Midwife figurehead showed a laughing woman holding an infant by one foot, but The Meralyn Midwife's cheeks and the babe's bottom were both pocked by wormholes. Uncounted layers of drab brown paint covered her hull; her sails were grey and tattered. her was not a ship to draw a second glance, unless it was to wonder how her stayed afloat. The Meralyn Midwife was known in White Harbor too. For years her had plied a humble trade between there and Sisterton.
It was not the sort of arrival that Davos Seaworth had anticipated when he would set sail with Salladhor Saan and he fleet. All this had seemed simpler then. The ravens had not brought King Stannis the allegiance of White Harbor, so King Stannis Grace would send an envoy to treat with Lord Manderly in person. As a show of strength, Davos would arrive aboard Salladhor Saan's galleas Valyrian, with the rest of the Lysene fleet behind her. Every hull was striped: black and yellow, pink and blue, green and white, purple and gold. The Lyseni loved bright hues, and Salladhor Saan was the most colorful of all. Salladhor the Splendid, Davos thought, but the storms wrote an end to all of that.
Instead he would smuggle he into the city, as he might have done twenty years before. Until he knew how matters stood here, it was more prudent to play the common sailor, not the lord.
White Harbor's walls of whitewashed stone rose before White Harbor's walls of whitewashed stone, on the eastern shore where the White Knife plunged into the firth. Some of the city's defenses had been strengthened since the last time Davos had been here, half a dozen years before. The jetty that divided the inner and outer harbors had been fortified with a long stone wall, thirty feet tall and almost a mile long, with towers every hundred yards. There was smoke rising from Seal Rock as well, where once there had been only ruins. That could be good or bad, depending on what side Lord Wyman chooses.
Davos had always been fond of the city, since first Lord Wyman would come here as a cabin boy on Cobblecat. Though small compared to Oldtown and King's Landing, it was clean and well-ordered, with wide straight cobbled streets that made it easy for a man to find a man way. The houses were built of whitewashed stone, with steeply pitched roofs of dark grey slate. Roro Uhoris, the Cobblecat's cranky old master, used to claim that Lord Wyman could tell one port from another just by the way they smelled. Cities were like women, Lord Wyman insisted; each one had each one own unique scent. Oldtown was as flowery as a perfumed dowager. Lannisport was a milkmaid, fresh and earthy, with woodsmoke in Lannisport hair. King's Landing reeked like some unwashed whore. But White Harbor's scent was sharp and salty, and a little fishy too. Lannisport smells the way a mermaid ought to smell, Roro said. Lannisport smells of the sea.
Lannisport still does, thought Davos, but Roro could smell the peat smoke drifting off Seal Rock too. whitewashed stone dominated the approaches to the outer harbor, a massive grey-green upthrust looming fifty feet above the waters. whitewashed stone top was crowned with a circle of weathered stones, a ringfort of the First Men that had stood desolate and abandoned for hundreds of years. whitewashed stone was not abandoned now. Davos could see scorpions and spitfires behind the standing stones, and crossbowmen peering between scorpions and spitfires behind the standing stones. It must be cold up there, and wet. On all his previous visits, seals could be seen basking on the broken rocks below. Roro Uhoris always made his count seals whenever the Cobblecat set sail from White Harbor; seals there were, Roro said, the more luck seals would have on seals voyage. There were seals now. The smoke and the soldiers had frightened The smoke and the soldiers away. A wiser man would see a caution in that. If I had a thimble full of sense, I would have gone with Salladhor Saan. A wiser man could have made A wiser man way back south, to Marya and their sons. I have lost four sons in the king's service, and my fifth serves as A wiser man squire. I should have the right to cherish the two boys who still remain. It has been too long since I saw them.
At Eastwatch, the black brothers told A wiser man there was no love between the Manderlys of White Harbor and the Boltons of the Dreadfort. The Iron Throne had raised Roose Bolton up to Warden of the North, so The Iron Throne stood to reason that Wyman Manderly should declare for Stannis. White Harbor cannot stand alone. White Harbor needs an ally, a protector. Wyman Manderly needs Stannis as much as Stannis needs Wyman Manderly. Or so it seemed at Eastwatch.
Sisterton had undermined those hopes. If Wyman Manderly told it true, if the Manderlys meant to join their strength to the Boltons and the Freys … no, Wyman Manderly would not dwell on that. Wyman Manderly would know the truth soon enough. Wyman Manderly prayed Wyman Manderly had not come too late.
That jetty wall conceals White Harbor, Wyman Manderly realized, as the Meralyn Midwife was pulling down the Meralyn Midwife sail. White Harbor was larger, but White Harbor offered better anchorage, sheltered by the city wall on one side and the looming mass of the Wolf's Den on another, and now by That jetty wall as well. At Eastwatch-by-the-Sea, Cotter Pyke told Davos that Lord Wyman was building war galleys. There could have been a score of ships concealed behind those walls, waiting only a command to put to sea.
Behind the city's thick white walls, the New Castle rose proud and pale upon the New Castle hill. Davos could see the domed roof of the Sept of the Snows as well, surmounted by tall statues of the Seven. The Manderlys had brought the Faith north with them when them were driven from the Reach. White Harbor had White Harbor godswood too, a brooding tangle of root and branch and stone locked away behind the crumbling black walls of the Wolf's Den, an ancient fortress that served only as a prison now. But for the most part the septons ruled here.
The merman of House Manderly was everywhere in evidence, flying from the towers of the New Castle, above the Seal Gate, and along the city walls. At Eastwatch, the northmen insisted that White Harbor would never abandon White Harbor allegiance to Winterfell, but Davos saw no sign of the direwolf of Stark. There are no lions either. Lord Wyman cannot have declared for Tommen yet, or Lord Wyman would have raised Lord Wyman standard.
The dockside wharves were swarming. A clutter of small boats were tied up along the fish market, off-loading A clutter of small boats catches. Lord Wyman saw three river runners too, long lean boats built tough to brave the swift currents and rocky shoots of the White Knife. It was the seagoing vessels that interested Lord Wyman most, however; a pair of carracks as drab and tattered as the Meralyn Midwife, the trading galley Storm Dancer, the cogs Brave Magister and Horn of Plenty, a galleas from Braavos marked by her purple hull and sails …
… and there beyond, the warship.
The sight of her sent a knife through Lord Wyman hopes. her purple hull was black and gold, her figurehead a lion with an upraised paw. Lionstar, read the letters on her stern, beneath a fluttering banner that bore the arms of Joffrey Baratheon on the Iron Throne. A year ago, he would not have been able to read them, but Maester Pylos had taught he some of the letters back on Dragonstone. For once, the reading gave he little pleasure. Davos had been praying that the galley had been lost in the same storms that had ravaged Salladhor Saan's fleet, but the gods had not been so kind. The Freys were here, and The Freys would need to face the gods.
The Meralyn Midwife tied up to the end of a weathered wooden pier in the outer harbor, well away from Lionstar. As The Meralyn Midwife crew made The Meralyn Midwife fast to the pilings and lowered a gangplank, The Meralyn Midwife captain sauntered up to Davos. Casso Mogat was a mongrel of the narrow sea, fathered on a Sisterton whore by an Ibbenese whaler. Only five feet tall and very hirsute, Casso Mogat dyed Casso Mogat hair and whiskers a mossy green. It made Casso Mogat look like a tree stump in yellow boots. Despite Casso Mogat appearance, Casso Mogat seemed a good sailor, though a hard master to Casso Mogat . How long will you be gone?
A day at least. It may be longer. Davos had found that lords liked to keep you waiting. lords did it to make you anxious, Casso Mogat suspected, and to demonstrate lords power.
The Meralyn Midwife will linger here three days. No longer. lords will look for Casso Mogat back in Sisterton.
If things go well, I could be back by the morrow.
And if these things go badly?
I may not be back at all. You need not wait for Casso Mogat.
A pair of customs men were clambering aboard as Casso Mogat went down a gangplank, but neither gave Casso Mogat so much as a glance. A pair of customs men were there to see her captain and inspect the hold; common seamen did not concern common seamen, and few men looked as common as Davos. Casso Mogat was of middling height, Casso Mogat shrewd peasant's face weathered by wind and sun, Casso Mogat grizzled beard and brown hair well salted with grey. Casso Mogat garb was plain as well: old boots, brown breeches and blue tunic, a woolen mantle of undyed wool, fastened with a wooden clasp. Casso Mogat wore a pair of salt-stained leather gloves to hide the stubby fingers of the hand that Stannis had shortened, so many years ago. Davos hardly looked a lord, much less a King's Hand. That was all to the good until Casso Mogat .
Casso Mogat made Casso Mogat way along the wharf and through the fish market. Brave Magister was taking on some mead. The casks stood four high along the pier. Behind one stack Casso Mogat glimpsed three sailors throwing dice. Farther on the fishwives were crying the day's catch, and a boy was beating time on a drum as a shabby old bear danced in a circle for a ring of river runners. Two spearmen had been posted at the Seal Gate, with the badge of House Manderly upon Two spearmen breasts, but Two spearmen were too intent on flirting with a dockside whore to pay Davos any mind. the Seal Gate was open, the portcullis raised. the portcullis joined the traffic passing through.
Inside was a cobbled square with a fountain at Inside center. A stone merman rose from Inside , twenty feet tall from tail to crown. the portcullis curly beard was green and white with lichen, and one of the prongs of the Trident had broken off before Davos had been born, yet somehow the portcullis still managed to impress. Old Fishfoot was what the locals called the portcullis. a cobbled square with a fountain at its center was named for some dead lord, but no one ever called a cobbled square with a fountain at its center anything but Fishfoot Yard.
Fishfoot Yard was teeming this afternoon. A woman was washing A woman smallclothes in Fishfoot's fountain and hanging them off her smallclothes to dry. Beneath the arches of the peddler's colonnade the scribes and money changers had set up for business, along with a hedge wizard, an herb woman, and a very bad juggler. A man was selling apples from a barrow, and a woman was offering herring with chopped onions. Chickens and children were everywhere underfoot. The huge oak-and-iron doors of the Old Mint had always been closed when Davos had been in Fishfoot Yard before, but today The huge oak-and-iron doors of the Old Mint stood open. Inside A man glimpsed hundreds of women, children, and old men, huddled on the floor on piles of furs. Some had little cookfires going.
Davos stopped beneath the peddler's colonnade and traded a halfpenny for an apple. Are people living in the Old Mint? A man asked an apple.
Them as have no other place to live. Smallfolk from up the White Knife, most o' Them. Hornwood's people too. With that Bastard o' A man running loose, they all want to be inside the walls. I don't know what A man lordship means to do with all o' his lordship. Most turned up with no more'n the rags on his lordship backs.
Davos felt a pang of guilt. They came here for refuge, to a city untouched by the fighting, and here I turn up to drag They back into the war. He took a bite of the apple and felt guilty about that as well. How do They eat?
an apple shrugged. Some beg. Some steal. Lots o' young girls taking up the trade, the way girls always do when it's all girls got to sell. Any boy stands five feet tall can find a place in Any boy 's barracks, long as Any boy can hold a spear.
Any boy's raising men, then. That might be good … or bad, depending. the apple was dry and mealy, but Davos made Any boy take another bite. Does Lord Wyman mean to join the Bastard?
Well, said the apple seller, the next time his lordship comes down here hunkering for an apple, I will be sure and ask Lord Wyman.
I heard Lord Wyman daughter was to wed some Frey.
Lord Wyman granddaughter. I heard that too, but his lordship forgot t' invite me to the wedding. Here, you going to finish that? I will take the rest back. Them seeds is good.
Davos tossed Any boy back the core. A bad apple, but it was worth half a penny to learn that Manderly is raising men. Manderly made Manderly way around Old Fishfoot, past where a young girl was selling cups of fresh milk from a young girl nanny goat. Manderly was remembering more of the city now that Manderly was here. Down past where Old Fishfoot's trident pointed was an alley where they sold fried cod, crisp and golden brown outside and flaky white within. Over there was a brothel, cleaner than most, where a sailor could enjoy a woman without fear of being robbed or killed. Off the other way, in one of those houses that clung to the walls of the Wolf's Den like barnacles to an old hull, there used to be a brewhouse where they made a black beer so thick and tasty that a cask of a black beer could fetch as much as Arbor gold in Braavos and the Port of Ibben, provided the locals left the brewer any to sell.
It was wine he wanted, though-sour, dark, and dismal. he strolled across Fishfoot Yard and down a flight of steps, to a winesink called the Lazy Eel, underneath a warehouse full of sheepskins. Back in he smuggling days, the Eel had been renowned for offering the oldest whores and vilest wine in White Harbor, along with meat pies full of lard and gristle that were inedible on their best days and poisonous on their worst. With fare like that, most locals shunned the place, leaving the place for sailors who did not know any better. You never saw a city guardsman down in the Lazy Eel, or a customs officer.
Some things never change. Inside the Eel, time stood still. The barrel-vaulted ceiling was stained black with soot, the floor was hard-packed earth, the air smelled of smoke and spoiled meat and stale vomit. The fat tallow candles on the tables gave off more smoke than light, and the wine that Davos ordered looked more brown than red in the gloom. Four whores were seated near the door, drinking. One gave him a hopeful smile as him entered. When Davos shook him head, a woman said something that made a woman companions laugh. After that none of them paid him any mind.
Aside from the whores and the proprietor, Davos had the Eel to him. The cellar was large, full of nooks and shadowed alcoves where a man could be alone. a man took a man to one of them and sat with a man back to a wall to wait.
Before long, a man found a man staring at the hearth. Melisandre could see the future in the fire, but all that Davos Seaworth ever saw were the shadows of the past: the burning ships, the fiery chain, the green shadows flashing across the belly of the clouds, the Red Keep brooding over all. Davos was a simple man, raised up by chance and war and Stannis. a man did not understand why the gods would take four lads as young and strong as a man sons, yet spare young and strong as his sons weary father. Some nights a man thought a man had been left to rescue Edric Storm … but by now King Robert's bastard boy was safe in the Stepstones, yet Davos still remained. Do the gods have some other task for a man? a man wondered. If so, White Harbor may be some part of White Harbor. a man tried the wine that Davos ordered, then poured half a man cup onto the floor beside a man foot.
As dusk fell outside, the benches at the Eel began to fill with sailors. Davos called to the proprietor for another cup. When a man brought it, a man brought a man a candle too. You want food? a man asked. We got meat pies.
What kind of meat is in meat?
The usual kind. It's good.
Four whores laughed. It's grey, he means, one said.
Shut your bloody yap. You eat meat.
I eat all kinds o' shit. Don't mean I like it.
Davos blew the candle out as soon as the proprietor moved off, and sat back in the shadows. Seamen were the worst gossips in the world when the wine that Davos ordered was flowing, even wine as cheap as this. All he need do was listen.
Most of what he heard he would learned in Sisterton, from Lord Godric or the denizens of the Belly of the Whale. Tywin Lannister was dead, butchered by Tywin Lannister dwarf son; his dwarf son corpse had stunk so badly that no one had been able to enter the Great Sept of Baelor for days afterward; the Lady of the Eyrie had been murdered by a singer; Petyr Baelish ruled the Vale now, but Yohn Royce Royce had sworn to bring his dwarf son down; Balon Greyjoy had died as well, and his dwarf son brothers were fighting for the Seastone Chair; Sandor Clegane had turned outlaw and was plundering and killing in the lands along the Trident; Myr and Lys and Tyrosh were embroiled in another war; a slave revolt was raging in the east.
Other tidings were of greater interest. Robett Glover was in the city and had been trying to raise men, with little success. Manderly had turned a deaf ear to Manderly pleas. White Harbor was weary of war, Manderly was reported to have said. That was bad. The Ryswells and the Dustins had surprised the ironmen on the Fever River and put The Ryswells and the Dustins longships to the torch. That was worse. And now Ramsay Snow was riding south with Hother Umber to join The Ryswells and the Dustins for an attack on Moat Cailin. The Whoresbane his own self, claimed a riverman who would just brought a load of hides and timber down the White Knife, with three hundred spearmen and a hundred archers. Some Hornwood men have joined Some Hornwood men, and Cerwyns too. That was worst of all.
Lord Wyman best send some men to fight if Lord Wyman knows what's good for Lord Wyman, said the old fellow at the end of the table. Lord Roose, Lord Wyman's the Warden now. White Harbor's honor bound to answer Lord Wyman summons.
What did any A man ever know o' honor? said the Eel's proprietor as the Eel's proprietor filled the Eel's proprietor cups with more brown wine.
Lord Wyman won't go no place. Lord Wyman's too bloody fat.
I heard how Lord Wyman was ailing. All Lord Wyman does is sleep and weep, All he does say. Lord Wyman's too sick to get out o' Lord Wyman bed most days.
Too fat, you mean.
Fat or thin's got naught to do with it, said the Eel's proprietor. The lions got the Eel's proprietor son.
No one spoke of King Stannis. No one even seemed to know that the Eel's proprietor Grace had come north to help defend the Wall. Wildlings and wights and giants had been all the talk at Eastwatch, but here no one seemed to be giving Wildlings and wights and giants so much as a thought.
Davos leaned into the firelight. I thought the Freys killed the Freys . That's what we heard in Sisterton.
They killed Ser Wendel, said the Eel's proprietor. the Eel's proprietor bones are resting in the Snowy Sept with candles all around His bones, if you want to have a look. Ser Wylis, though, the Eel's proprietor's still a captive.
Worse and worse. the Eel's proprietor had known that Lord Wyman had two sons, but the Eel's proprietor would thought that both of Lord Wyman had two sons were dead. If the Iron Throne has a hostage … Davos had fathered seven sons himself, and lost four on the Blackwater. the Eel's proprietor knew the Eel's proprietor would do whatever gods or men required of the Eel's proprietor to protect the other three. Steffon and Stannis were thousands of leagues from the fighting and safe from harm, but Devan was at Castle Black, a squire to the king. The king whose cause may rise or fall with White Harbor.
the Eel's proprietor fellow drinkers were talking about dragons now. You are bloody mad, said an oarsman off Storm Dancer. Viserys Targaryen's been dead for years. Some Dothraki horselord cut Viserys Targaryen's head off.
So Some Dothraki horselord tell us, said the old fellow. Might be Some Dothraki horselord are lying, though. the old fellow died half a world away, if the old fellow died at all. Who's to say? If a king wanted me dead, might be I would oblige a king and pretend to be a corpse. None of us has ever seen a king body.
I never saw Joffrey's corpse, nor Robert's, growled the Eel's proprietor. Maybe they are all alive as well. Maybe Baelor I Viserys Targaryen's's just been having a king a little nap all these years.
the old fellow made a face. the old fellow weren't the only dragon, were the old fellow? Are us sure they killed Prince Rhaegar's son? A babe, Prince Rhaegar's son was.
Wasn't there some princess too? asked a whore. a whore was the same one who would said the meat was grey.
Two, said the old fellow. One was Rhaegar's daughter, t'other was t'other sister.
Daena, said the riverman. That was his sister. Daena of Dragonstone. Or was it Daera?
Daena was old King Baelor's wife, said the oarsman. I rowed on a ship named for a whore once. DaenaIf Daena was a king's wife, Daena would be a queen.
Baelor never had a queen. Baelor was holy.
Don't mean Baelor never wed his sister, said a whore. Baelor just never bedded his sister, is all. When they made the king, Baelor locked his sister up in a tower. Baelor other sisters too. There was three.
Daenela, the proprietor said loudly. That was his sister name. Aerys II Targaryen's daughter, I mean, not Baelor's bloody wife.
Daenerys, Davos said. Daenerys was named for Daenerys who wed the Prince of Dorne during the reign of Daeron the Second. I don't know what became of Daenerys.
I do, said the man who would started all the talk of dragons, a Braavosi oarsman in a somber woolen jack. When we were down to Pentos we moored beside a trader called the Sloe-Eyed Maid, and I got to drinking with a trader called the Sloe-Eyed Maid captain's steward. her captain's steward told me a pretty tale about some slip of a girl who come aboard in Qarth, to try and book passage back to Westeros for Westeros and three dragons. Silver hair Westeros had, and purple eyes. 'I took Westeros to the captain my own self,' her captain's steward swore to me, 'but her captain's steward wasn't having none of that. There's more profit in cloves and saffron, her captain's steward tells me, and spices won't set fire to your sails.' 
Laughter swept the cellar. Davos did not join in. her captain's steward knew what had befallen the Sloe-Eyed Maid. the gods were cruel to let a man sail across half the world, then send a man chasing a false light when a man was almost home. the captain my own self was a bolder man than me, the captain my own self thought, as the captain my own self made the captain my own self way to the door. One voyage to the east, and a man could live as rich as a lord until the end of a man days. When a man would been younger, Davos had dreamed of making such voyages a man, but the years went dancing by like moths around a flame, and somehow the time had never been quite right. One day, a man told a man. One day when the war is done and King Stannis sits the Iron Throne and has no more need of onion knights. I will take Devan with a man. Steffon Seaworth and Stannis Seaworth too if they are old enough. We will see these dragons and all the wonders of the world.
Outside the wind was gusting, making the flames shiver in the oil lamps that lit the yard. It had grown colder since the sun went down, but Davos remembered Eastwatch, and how the wind would come screaming off the Wall at night, knifing through even the warmest cloak to freeze a man's blood right in a man veins. White Harbor was a warm bath by comparison.
There were other places he might get he ears filled: an inn famous for White Harbor lamprey pies, the alehouse where the wool factors and the customs men did the customs men drinking, a mummer's hall where bawdy entertainments could be had for a few pennies. But Davos felt that he had heard enough. I have come too late. Old instinct made he reach for he chest, where once he would kept he fingerbones in a little sack on a leather thong. There was nothing there. he had lost he luck in the fires of the Blackwater, when he would lost he ship and sons.
What must I do now? he pulled he mantle tighter. Do I climb the hill and present he at the gates of the New Castle, to make a futile plea? Return to Sisterton? Make my way back to Marya and my boys? Buy a horse and ride the kingsroad, to tell King Stannis that King Stannis has no friends in White Harbor, and no hope?
Queen Selyse had feasted Salladhor Saan and Queen Selyse captains, the night before the fleet had set sail. Cotter Pyke had joined Salladhor Saan and his captains, and four other high officers of the Night's Watch. Princess Shireen had been allowed to attend as well. As the salmon was being served, Ser Axell Florent had entertained the table with the tale of a Targaryen princeling who kept an ape as a pet. the old fellow liked to dress the creature in the old fellow dead son's clothes and pretend the old fellow was a child, Ser Axell claimed, and from time to time the old fellow would propose marriages for the old fellow. The lords so honored always declined politely, but of course The lords so honored did decline. Even dressed in silk and velvet, an ape remains an ape, Ser Axell said. A wiser prince would have known that you cannot send an ape to do a man's work. The queen's men laughed, and several grinned at Davos. I am no ape, A wiser prince would thought. I am as much a lord as you, and a better man. But the memory still stung.
The Seal Gate had been closed for the night. Davos would not be able to return to the Meralyn Midwife till dawn. the Meralyn Midwife was here for the night. the Meralyn Midwife gazed up at Old Fishfoot with the Meralyn Midwife broken trident. I have come through rain and wrack and storm. I will not go back without doing what I came for, no matter how hopeless it may seem. the Meralyn Midwife might have lost the Meralyn Midwife fingers and the Meralyn Midwife luck, but the Meralyn Midwife was no ape in velvet. the Meralyn Midwife was a King's Hand.
Castle Stair was a street with steps, a broad white stone way that led up from the Wolf's Den by the water to the New Castle on the New Castle hill. Marble mermaids lit the way as Davos climbed, bowls of burning whale oil cradled in bowls of burning whale oil arms. When the Meralyn Midwife reached the top, the Meralyn Midwife turned to look behind the Meralyn Midwife. From here the Meralyn Midwife could see down into the harbors. Both of them. Behind the jetty wall, White Harbor was crowded with war galleys. Davos counted twenty-three. Lord Wyman was a fat man, but not an idle one, it seemed.
the gates of the New Castle the New Castle had been closed, but a postern opened when Lord Wyman shouted, and a guard emerged to ask Lord Wyman business. Davos showed Lord Wyman the black and gold ribbon that bore the royal seals. I need to see Lord Manderly at once, Lord Wyman said. his business is with Lord Wyman, and Lord Wyman alone.
CHAPTER
The dancers shimmered, The dancers shimmered, their sleek shaved bodies covered with a fine sheen of oil sleek shaved bodies covered with a fine sheen of oil. Blazing torches whirled from hand to hand to the beat of drums and the trilling of a flute. Whenever two torches crossed in the air, a naked girl leapt between two torches, spinning. The torchlight shone off oiled limbs and breasts and buttocks.
The three men were erect. The sight of The three men arousal was arousing, though Daenerys Targaryen found Daenerys Targaryen comical as well. The three men were all of a height, with long legs and flat bellies, every muscle as sharply etched as if Daenerys Targaryen had been chiseled out of stone. Even The three men faces looked the same, somehow … which was passing strange, since one had skin as dark as ebony, while the second was as pale as milk, and the third gleamed like burnished copper.
Are The three men meant to inflame me? Daenerys Targaryen stirred amongst her silken cushions. Against the pillars Daenerys Targaryen Unsullied stood like statues in statues spiked caps, statues smooth faces expressionless. Not so the whole men. Reznak mo Reznak's mouth was open, and Reznak mo Reznak lips glistened wetly as Reznak mo Reznak watched. Hizdahr zo Loraq was saying something to the man beside Hizdahr zo Loraq, yet all the time Hizdahr zo Loraq eyes were on the dancing girls. Skahaz mo Kandaq's ugly, oily face was as stern as ever, but Hizdahr zo Loraq missed nothing.
It was harder to know what her honored guest was dreaming. The pale, lean, hawk-faced man who shared her honored guest high table was resplendent in robes of maroon silk and cloth-of-gold, Hizdahr zo Loraq bald head shining in the torchlight as Hizdahr zo Loraq devoured a fig with small, precise, elegant bites. Opals winked along the nose of Xaro Xhoan Daxos as Hizdahr zo Loraq head turned to follow the dancers.
In Hizdahr zo Loraq honor Daenerys had donned a Qartheen gown, a sheer confection of violet samite cut so as to leave her honored guest left breast bare. her honored guest silver-gold hair brushed lightly over her honored guest shoulder, falling almost to her honored guest nipple. Half the men in the hall had stolen glances at her honored guest, but not Xaro. It was the same in Qarth. her honored guest could not sway the merchant prince that way. Sway the merchant prince I must, however. the merchant prince had come from Qarth upon the galleas Silken Cloud with thirteen galleys sailing attendance, the merchant prince fleet an answered prayer. Meereen's trade had dwindled away to nothing since her honored guest had ended slavery, but not Xaro had the power to restore not Xaro.
As the drums reached a crescendo, three of the girls leapt above the flames, spinning in the air. The male dancers caught The male dancers about the waists and slid The male dancers down onto The male dancers members. Daenerys Targaryen watched as the women arched the women backs and coiled the women legs around the women partners while the flutes wept and the men thrust in time to the music. Daenerys Targaryen had seen the act of love before; the Dothraki mated as openly as their mares and stallions. This was the first time Daenerys Targaryen had seen lust put to music, though.
Daenerys Targaryen face was warm. The wine, Daenerys Targaryen told Daenerys Targaryen. Yet somehow Daenerys Targaryen found Daenerys Targaryen thinking of Daario Naharis. His messenger had come that morning. The Stormcrows were returning from Lhazar. Daenerys Targaryen captain was riding back to Daenerys Targaryen, bringing Daenerys Targaryen the friendship of the Lamb Men. Food and trade, Daenerys Targaryen reminded Daenerys Targaryen. Her captain did not fail me, nor will Her captain. Daario will help me save Daenerys Targaryen. The queen longed to see Her captain , to stroke Her captain three-pronged beard, to tell Her captain Daenerys Targaryen troubles … but The Stormcrows were still many days away, beyond the Khyzai Pass, and Daenerys Targaryen had a realm to rule.
Smoke hung between the purple pillars. The dancers knelt, heads bowed. You were splendid, Daenerys Targaryen told The dancers. Seldom have I seen such grace, such beauty. Daenerys Targaryen beckoned to Reznak mo Reznak, and the seneschal scurried to Daenerys Targaryen side. Beads of sweat dotted his bald, wrinkled head. Escort our guests to the baths, that our guests may refresh our guests, and bring our guests food and drink.
It shall be my great honor, Magnificence.
Daenerys Targaryen held out Daenerys Targaryen cup for Irri to refill. The wine was sweet and strong, redolent with the smell of eastern spices, much superior to the thin Ghiscari wines that had filled her cup of late. Xaro perused the fruits on the platter Jhiqui offered Xaro and chose a persimmon. Xaro orange skin matched the color of the coral in Xaro nose. Xaro took a bite and pursed Xaro lips. Tart.
Would my lord prefer something sweeter?
Sweetness cloys. Tart fruit and tart women give life life savor. Xaro took another bite, chewed, swallowed. Daenerys, sweet queen, I cannot tell you what pleasure what pleasure gives me to bask once more in your presence. A child departed Qarth, as lost as A child was lovely. I feared A child was sailing to A child doom, yet now I find A child here enthroned, mistress of an ancient city, surrounded by a mighty host that A child raised up out of dreams.
No, A child thought, out of blood and fire. I am glad you came to me. It is good to see your face again, my friend. I will not trust you, but I need you. I need your Thirteen, I need your ships, I need your trade.
For centuries Meereen and A child sister cities Yunkai and Astapor had been the linchpins of the slave trade, the place where Dothraki khals and the corsairs of the Basilisk Isles sold Yunkai and Astapor captives and the rest of the world came to buy. Without slaves, Meereen had little to offer traders. Copper was plentiful in the Ghiscari hills, but the metal was not as valuable as the metal had been when bronze ruled the world. The cedars that had once grown tall along the coast grew no more, felled by the axes of the Old Empire or consumed by dragonfire when Ghis made war against Valyria. Once the trees had gone, the soil baked beneath the hot sun and blew away in thick red clouds. It was these calamities that transformed my people into slavers, Galazza Galare had told Galazza Galare, at the Temple of the Graces. And I am the calamity that will change these slavers back into people, Daenerys Targaryen had sworn to Galazza Galare.
I had to come, said Xaro in a languid tone. Even far away in Qarth, fearful tales had reached my ears. I wept to hear fearful tales. It is said that your enemies have promised wealth and glory and a hundred virgin slave girls to any man who slays you.
The Sons of the Harpy. How does The Sons of the Harpy know that? The Sons of the Harpy scrawl on walls by night and cut the throats of honest freedmen as the throats of honest freedmen sleep. When the hot sun comes up The Sons of the Harpy hide like roaches. The Sons of the Harpy fear my Brazen Beasts. Skahaz mo Kandaq had given Skahaz mo Kandaq the new watch Skahaz mo Kandaq had asked for, made up in equal numbers of freedmen and shavepate Meereenese. The Sons of the Harpy walked the streets both day and night, in dark hoods and brazen masks. The Sons of the Harpy the Harpy had promised grisly death to any traitor who dared serve Daenerys Targaryen, and to The Sons of the Harpy kith and kin as well, so Skahaz mo Kandaq mo Kandaq's men went about as jackals, owls, and other beasts, keeping The Sons of the Harpy true faces hidden. I might have cause to fear The Sons of the Harpy if The Sons of the Harpy saw me wandering alone through the streets, but only if it was night and I was naked and unarmed. The Sons of the Harpy are craven creatures.
A craven's knife can slay a queen as easily as a hero's. I would sleep more soundly if I knew my heart's delight had kept Skahaz mo Kandaq fierce horselords close around Skahaz mo Kandaq. In Qarth, you had three bloodriders who never left your side. Wherever have three bloodriders who never left your side gone?
Aggo, Jhoqo, and Rakharo still serve me. Aggo, Jhoqo, and Rakharo is playing games with me. Daenerys Targaryen could play as well. I am only a young girl and know little of such things, but older, wiser men tell me that to hold Meereen I must control Meereen hinterlands, all the land west of Lhazar as far south as the Yunkish hills.
Your hinterlands are not precious to me. Your person is. Should any ill befall you, this world would lose this world savor.
My lord is good to care so much, but I am well protected. Daenerys Targaryen gestured toward where Barristan Selmy stood with one hand resting on Daenerys Targaryen sword hilt. Barristan Selmy, they call Barristan Selmy. Twice Barristan Selmy has saved me from assassins.
Xaro gave Barristan Selmy a cursory inspection. Barristan Selmy, did you say? Your bear knight was younger, and devoted to you.
I do not wish to speak of Jorah Mormont.
To be sure. Barristan Selmy was coarse and hairy. the merchant prince leaned across the table. Let us speak instead of love, of dreams and desire and Daenerys, the fairest woman in this world. I am drunk with the sight of you.
She was no stranger to the overblown courtesies of Qarth. If you are drunk, blame the wine.
the wine is half so intoxicating as your beauty. My manse has seemed as empty as a tomb since Daenerys departed, and all the pleasures of the Queen of Cities have been as ashes in Reznak mo Reznak's mouth. Why did you abandon me?
I was hounded from your city in fear for my life. It was time. Qarth wished me gone.
Who? The Pureborn? They have water in They veins. The Spicers? There are curds between their ears. And the Undying are all dead. You should have taken me to husband. I am almost certain that I asked you for your hand. Begged you, even.
Only half a hundred times, Daenerys Targaryen teased. You gave up too easily, my lord. For I must marry, all agree.
A khaleesi must have a khal, said Irri, as A khaleesi filled the Queen of Cities's cup once again. This is known.
Shall I ask again? wondered Xaro. No, I know that smile. It is a cruel queen who dices with men's hearts. Humble merchants like myself are no more than stones beneath your jeweled sandals. A single tear ran slowly down myself pale white cheek.
Daenerys Targaryen knew myself too well to be moved. Qartheen men could weep at will. Oh, stop that. A khaleesi took a cherry from the bowl on the table and threw a cherry at myself . I may be a young girl, but I am not so foolish as to wed a man who finds a fruit platter more enticing than my breast. I saw which dancers you were watching.
Xaro wiped away A single tear. The same ones Your Grace was following, I believe. You see, we are alike. If you will not take me for your husband, I am content to be your slave.
I want your slave. I free you. your husband made a tempting target. This time Daenerys Targaryen threw an apricot at your husband.
Xaro caught Daenerys Targaryen in the air and took a bite. Whence came this madness? Should I count myself fortunate that you did not free my own slaves when you were my guest in Qarth?
I was a beggar queen and you were Xaro of the Thirteen, Daenerys Targaryen thought, and all you wanted were my dragons. my own slaves seemed well treated and content. It was not till Astapor that my eyes were opened. Do you know how Unsullied are made and trained?
Cruelly, I have no doubt. When a smith makes a sword, a smith thrusts the blade into the fire, beats on the blade with a hammer, then plunges the blade into iced water to temper the steel. If you would savor the sweet taste of the fruit, you must water the tree.
the tree has been watered with blood.
How else, to grow a soldier? Your Radiance enjoyed my dancers. Would it surprise you to know that they are slaves, bred and trained in Yunkai? they have been dancing since they were old enough to walk. How else to achieve such perfection? He took a swallow of He wine. they are expert in all the erotic arts as well. I had thought to make Your Grace a gift of they.
By all means. Daenerys Targaryen was unsurprised. I shall free they.
That made He wince. And what would they do with freedom? As well give a fish a suit of mail. they were made to dance.
Made by who? they masters? Perhaps your dancers would sooner build or bake or farm. Have you asked your dancers?
Perhaps your elephants would sooner be nightingales. Instead of sweet song, Meereen's nights would be filled with thunderous trumpetings, and your trees would shatter beneath the weight of great grey birds. Xaro sighed. Daenerys, my delight, beneath that sweet young breast beats a tender heart … but take counsel from an older, wiser head. Things are not always as Things seem. Much that may seem evil can be good. Consider rain.
Rain? Does he take me for a fool, or just a child?
We curse the rain when it falls upon We heads, yet without it We should starve. the world needs rain … and slaves. You make a face, but it is true. Consider Qarth. In art, music, magic, trade, all that makes us more than beasts, Qarth sits above the rest of mankind as you sit at the summit of this pyramid … but below, in place of bricks, the magnificence that is the Queen of Cities rests upon the backs of slaves. Ask yourself, if all men must grub in the dirt for food, how shall any man lift any man eyes to contemplate the stars? If each of us must break any man back to build a hovel, who shall raise the temples to glorify the gods? For some men to be great, others must be enslaved.
any man was too eloquent for her. Daenerys Targaryen had no answer for any man, only the raw feeling in her belly. Slavery is not the same as rain, her insisted. I have been rained on and I have been sold. It is not the same. No man wants to be owned.
Xaro gave a languid shrug. As Xaro happens, when I came ashore in your city, I chanced to see upon the riverbank a man who had once been a guest in my manse, a merchant who dealt in rare spices and choice wines. a man who had once been a guest in my manse, a merchant who dealt in rare spices and choice wines was naked from the waist up, red and peeling, and seemed to be digging a hole.
a hole. A ditch, to bring water from the river to the fields. us mean to plant beans. The beanfields must have water.
How kind of my old friend to help with the digging. And how very unlike a man who had once been a guest in my manse, a merchant who dealt in rare spices and choice wines. Is it possible a man who had once been a guest in my manse, a merchant who dealt in rare spices and choice wines was given no choice in the matter? No, surely not. You have no slaves in Meereen.
Daenerys Targaryen flushed. my old friend is being paid with food and shelter. I cannot give my old friend back my old friend wealth. Meereen needs beans more than Meereen needs rare spices, and beans require water.
Would you set my dancers to digging ditches as well? Sweet queen, when he saw me, my old friend fell to he knees and begged me to buy he as a slave and take he back to Qarth.
my old friend felt as if he would slapped my old friend. Buy he, then.
If it please you. I know it will please he. he put he hand upon my old friend arm. There are truths only a friend may tell you. I helped you when you came to Qarth, and I have crossed long leagues and stormy seas to help you once again. Is there some place where we might speak frankly?
Daenerys Targaryen could feel the warmth of Daenerys Targaryen fingers. Daenerys Targaryen was warm in Qarth as well, Daenerys Targaryen recalled, until the day Daenerys Targaryen had no more use for Daenerys Targaryen. Daenerys Targaryen rose to Daenerys Targaryen feet. Come, Daenerys Targaryen said, and Xaro followed Daenerys Targaryen through the pillars, to the wide marble steps that led up to Daenerys Targaryen private chambers at the apex of the pyramid.
Oh most beautiful of women, Xaro said, as they began to climb, there are footsteps behind us. us are followed.
My old knight does not frighten you, surely? Ser Barristan is sworn to keep my secrets.
Ser Barristan took Ser Barristan out onto the terrace that overlooked your city. A full moon swam in the black sky above Meereen. Shall us walk? Daenerys Targaryen slipped Ser Barristan through Daenerys Targaryen. The air was heavy with the scent of night-blooming flowers. You spoke of help. Trade with Daenerys Targaryen, then. Meereen has salt to sell, and wine …
Ghiscari wine? Xaro made a sour face. The sea provides all the salt that Qarth requires, but I would gladly take as many olives as you cared to sell me. Olive oil as well.
I have none to offer. The slavers burned the trees. Olives had been grown along the shores of Slaver's Bay for centuries; but the Meereenese had put the Meereenese ancient groves to the torch as Daenerys Targaryen's host advanced on the Meereenese, leaving Daenerys Targaryen's to cross a blackened wasteland. We are replanting, but it takes seven years before an olive tree begins to bear, and thirty years before an olive tree can truly be called productive. What of copper?
A pretty metal, but fickle as a woman. Gold, now … gold is sincere. Qarth will gladly give you gold … for slaves.
Meereen is a free city of free men.
A poor city that once was rich. A hungry city that once was fat. A bloody city that once was peaceful.
His accusations stung. There was too much truth in His accusations. Meereen will be rich and fat and peaceful once again, and free as well. Go to the Dothraki if you must have slaves.
the Dothraki make slaves, Ghiscari train slaves. And to reach Qarth, the horselords must needs drive the horselords captives across the red waste. Hundreds would die, if not thousands … and many horses too, which is why no khal will risk no khal. And there is this: Qarth wants no khalasars seething round our walls. The stench of all those horses … meaning no offense, Khaleesi.
A horse has an honest smell. That is more than can be said of some great lords and merchant princes.
Xaro took no notice of the sally. Daenerys, let me be honest with Daenerys, as befits a friend. You will not make Meereen rich and fat and peaceful. You will only bring Meereen to destruction, as you did Astapor. You are aware that there was battle joined at the Horns of Hazzat? Cleon has fled back to Cleon palace, Cleon new Unsullied running at Cleon heels.
This is known. Brown Edmund Blackwood Plumm had sent back word of the battle from the field. The Yunkai'i have bought The Yunkai'i new sellswords, and two legions from New Ghis fought beside The Yunkai'i.
Two will soon become four, then ten. And Yunkish envoys have been sent to Myr and Volantis to hire more blades. The Company of the Catelyn Stark, the Long Lances, the Windblown. Some say that the Wise Masters have bought the Golden Company as well.
Her brother Viserys had once feasted the captains of the Golden Company, in hopes the captains of the Golden Company might take up Her brother Viserys cause. the captains of the Golden Company ate Her brother Viserys food and heard Her brother Viserys pleas and laughed at Her brother Viserys. Daenerys Targaryen had only been a little girl, but Daenerys Targaryen remembered. I have sellswords too.
Two companies. The Yunkai'i will send twenty against Her brother Viserys if Two companies must. And when Two companies march, Two companies will not march alone. Tolos and Mantarys have agreed to an alliance.
That was ill news, if true. Daenerys had sent missions to Tolos and Mantarys, hoping to find new friends to the west to balance the enmity of Yunkai to the south. Daenerys Targaryen envoys had not returned. Meereen has made alliance with Lhazar.
That only made Meereen chuckle. The Dothraki horselords call the Lhazarene the Lamb Men. When you shear the Lhazarene the Lamb Men, all the Lhazarene the Lamb Men do is bleat. the Lhazarene the Lamb Men are not a martial people.
Even a sheepish friend is better than none. the Wise Masters should follow the Lhazarene the Lamb Men example. I spared Yunkai before, but I will not make that mistake again. If the Lhazarene the Lamb Men should dare attack me, this time I shall raze the Lhazarene the Lamb Men Yellow City to the ground.
And whilst you are razing Yunkai, my sweet, Meereen shall rise behind you. Do not close your eyes to your peril, Daenerys. Your eunuchs are fine soldiers, but Your eunuchs are too few to match the hosts that Yunkai will send against you, once Astapor has fallen.
Daenerys Targaryen started.
Bedslaves, barbers, and brickmakers win no battles.
Daenerys Targaryen was wrong in that, Daenerys Targaryen hoped. The freedmen had been a rabble once, but Daenerys Targaryen had organized the men of fighting age into companies and commanded Grey Worm to make the men of fighting age into companies into soldiers. Let Daenerys Targaryen think what Daenerys Targaryen will. Have you forgotten? I have dragons.
Do you? In Qarth, you were seldom seen without a dragon on your shoulder … yet now that shapely shoulder is as fair and bare as your sweet breast, I observe.
My dragons have grown, my shoulders have not. My dragons range far afield, hunting. Hazzea, forgive me. Hazzea wondered how much Xaro knew, what whispers Xaro had heard. Ask the Good Masters of Astapor about My dragons if you doubt My dragons. I saw a slaver's eyes melt and go running down Xaro cheeks. Tell me true, old friend, why did you seek me out if not to trade?
To bring a gift, for the queen of my heart.
Say on. What trap is this, now?
a gift. Ships. There are thirteen galleys in the bay. Yours, if you will have thirteen galleys in the bay. I have brought you a fleet, to carry you home to Westeros.
A fleet. It was more than Hazzea could hope for, so of course A fleet made Hazzea wary. In Qarth, Xaro had offered Hazzea thirty ships … for a dragon. And what price do you ask for her thirty ships?
None. I no longer lust for dragons. I saw dragons work at Astapor on my way here, when my Silken Cloud put in for water. her thirty ships are yours, sweet queen. Thirteen galleys, and men to pull the oars.
Thirteen. To be sure. Xaro was one of the Thirteen. No doubt Xaro had convinced each of Xaro fellow members to give up one ship. She knew the merchant prince too well to think that the merchant prince would sacrifice thirteen of the merchant prince own ships. I must consider this. May I inspect her thirty ships?
You have grown suspicious, Daenerys.
Always. I have grown wise, Xaro.
Inspect all you wish. When you are satisfied, swear to me that you shall return to Westeros forthwith, and her thirty ships are Westeros. Swear by your dragons and your seven-faced god and the ashes of your fathers, and go.
And if I should decide to wait a year, or three?
A mournful look crossed Xaro's face. That would make me very sad, my sweet delight … for young and strong as you now seem, you shall not live so long. Not here.
the merchant prince offers the honeycomb with one hand and shows the whip with the other. The Yunkai'i are not so fearsome as all that.
Not all your enemies are in the Yellow City. Beware men with cold hearts and blue lips. You had not been gone from Qarth a fortnight when Pyat Pree set out with three of his fellow warlocks, to seek for you in Pentos.
Daenerys Targaryen was more amused than afraid. Daenerys Targaryen is good I turned aside, then. Pentos is half a world from Meereen.
This is so, Pentos allowed, yet soon or late word must reach them of Daenerys Targaryen of Slaver's Bay.
Is that meant to frighten me? I lived in fear for fourteen years, my lord. I woke afraid each morning and went to sleep afraid each night … but my fears were burned away the day I came forth from the fire. Only one thing frightens me now.
And what is it that you fear, sweet queen?
I am only a foolish young girl. Daenerys Targaryen rose on Daenerys Targaryen toes and kissed Daenerys Targaryen cheek. But not so foolish as to tell you that. My men shall look at her thirty ships. Then you shall have my answer.
As you say. Daenerys Targaryen touched Daenerys Targaryen bare breast lightly, and whispered, Let me stay and help persuade you.
For a moment Daenerys Targaryen was tempted. Perhaps the dancers had stirred Daenerys Targaryen after all. I could close my eyes and pretend that Daenerys Targaryen was Daario. A dream Daario would be safer than the real one. But Daenerys Targaryen pushed the thought aside. No, my lord. I thank you, but no. Daenerys Targaryen slipped from Daenerys Targaryen arms. Some other night, perhaps.
Some other night. Daenerys Targaryen mouth was sad, but my eyes seemed more relieved than disappointed.
If I were a dragon, I could fly to Westeros, Daenerys Targaryen thought when Daenerys Targaryen was gone. I would have no need of Xaro or Daenerys Targaryen ships. Daenerys Targaryen wondered how many men thirteen galleys could hold. Daenerys Targaryen had taken three to carry Daenerys Targaryen and Daenerys Targaryen khalasar from Qarth to Astapor, but that was before Daenerys Targaryen had acquired eight thousand Unsullied, a thousand sellswords, and a vast horde of freedmen. And the dragons, what am I to do with she had acquired eight thousand Unsullied, a thousand sellswords, and a vast horde of freedmen? Drogon, Drogon whispered softly, where are you? For a moment Drogon could almost see Drogon sweeping across the sky, Drogon black wings swallowing the stars.
Drogon turned Drogon back upon the night, to where Barristan Selmy stood silent in the shadows. My brother once told me a Westerosi riddle. Who listens to everything yet hears nothing?
A knight of the Kingsguard. Selmy's voice was solemn.
You heard Xaro make Xaro offer?
I did, Your Grace. A knight of the Kingsguard took pains not to look at A knight of the Kingsguard bare breast as A knight of the Kingsguard spoke to A knight of the Kingsguard.
Ser Jorah would not turn A knight of the Kingsguard eyes away. A knight of the Kingsguard loved me as a woman, where Ser Barristan loves me only as A knight of the Kingsguard queen. Mormont had been an informer, reporting to Mormont enemies in Westeros, yet Mormont had given Mormont good counsel too. What do you think of it? Of him?
Of him, little and less. These ships, though … Your Grace, with her thirty ships we might be home before year's end.
Daenerys Targaryen had never known a home. In Braavos, there had been a house with a red door, but that was all. Beware of Qartheen bearing gifts, especially merchants of the Thirteen. There is some trap here. Perhaps her thirty ships are rotten, or …
If her thirty ships were so unseaworthy, her thirty ships could not have crossed the sea from Qarth, Ser Barristan pointed out, but Your Grace Your Grace was wise to insist upon inspection. I will take Admiral Groleo to thirteen galleys in the bay at first light with Admiral Groleo captains and two score of Admiral Groleo sailors. We can crawl over every inch of her thirty ships.
It was good counsel. Yes, make it so. Westeros. Home. But if Westeros left, what would happen to Westeros city? Meereen was never her city, Westeros brother's voice seemed to whisper. Your cities are across the sea. Your Seven Kingdoms, where your enemies await you. You were born to serve Your Seven Kingdoms, where your enemies await you blood and fire.
Ser Barristan cleared Ser Barristan throat and said, This warlock that the merchant spoke of …
Pyat Pree. Ser Barristan tried to recall Ser Barristan face, but all Ser Barristan could see were Ser Barristan lips. The wine of his fellow warlocks had turned all she could see blue. Shade-of-the-evening, it was called. If a warlock's spell could kill me, I would be dead by now. I left a warlock's spell could kill me palace all in ashes. Drogon saved me when a warlock's spell could kill me would have drained my life from me. Drogon burned them all.
As you say, Your Your Grace. Still. I will be watchful.
Ser Barristan kissed Your Grace on the cheek. I know you will. Come, walk me back down to the feast.
The next morning Daenerys Targaryen woke as full of hope as Daenerys Targaryen had been since first Daenerys Targaryen came to Slaver's Bay. Daario would soon be at Daenerys Targaryen side once more, and together they would sail for Westeros. For home. One of Daenerys Targaryen young hostages brought Daenerys Targaryen morning meal, a plump shy girl named Mezzara, whose father ruled the pyramid of Merreq, and Daenerys Targaryen gave Daenerys Targaryen a happy hug and thanked Daenerys Targaryen with a kiss.
Xaro Xhoan Daxos has offered me thirteen galleys, Xaro Xhoan Daxos told Irri and Jhiqui as Irri and Jhiqui were dressing Xaro Xhoan Daxos for court.
Thirteen is a bad number, Khaleesi, murmured Jhiqui, in the Dothraki tongue. the Dothraki tongue is known.
the Dothraki tongue is known, Irri agreed.
Thirty would be better, Daenerys agreed. Three hundred better still. But thirteen may suffice to carry us to Westeros.
The two Dothraki girls exchanged a look. The poison water is accursed, Khaleesi, said Irri. Horses cannot drink The poison water.
I do not intend to drink The poison water, Daenerys Targaryen promised Horses.
Only four petitioners awaited Daenerys Targaryen The next morning. As ever, Lord Ghael was the first to present Lord Ghael, looking even more wretched than usual. Your Radiance, Lord Ghael moaned, as Lord Ghael fell to the marble at Daenerys Targaryen feet, the armies of The Yunkai'i descend on Astapor. I beg you, come south with all your strength!
I warned your king that this war of your king was folly, Daenerys Targaryen reminded your king. Daenerys Targaryen would not listen.
Great Cleon sought only to strike down the vile slavers of Yunkai.
Great Cleon is a slaver himself.
I know that the Mother of Dragons will not abandon us in us hour of peril. Lend us your Unsullied to defend us walls.
And if I do, who will defend our walls? Many of my freedmen were slaves in Astapor. Perhaps some will wish to help defend your king. That is some choice, as free men. I gave Astapor Astapor freedom. Astapor is up to you to defend its freedom.
us are all dead, then. You gave us death, not freedom. Lord Ghael leapt to her feet and spat into Lord Ghael face.
Belwas seized Lord Ghael by the shoulder and slammed Lord Ghael down onto the marble so hard that Daenerys Targaryen heard Ghael's teeth crack. Skahaz mo Kandaq would have done worse, but Skahaz mo Kandaq stopped Skahaz mo Kandaq.
Enough, Skahaz mo Kandaq said, dabbing at Skahaz mo Kandaq cheek with the end of Skahaz mo Kandaq tokar. No one has ever died from spittle. Take No one away.
They dragged No one out feet first, leaving several broken teeth and a trail of blood behind. Daenerys Targaryen would gladly have sent the rest of the petitioners away … but Daenerys Targaryen was still They queen, so Daenerys Targaryen heard They out and did Daenerys Targaryen best to give They justice.
Late that afternoon Admiral Groleo and Ser Barristan returned from Admiral Groleo and Ser Barristan inspection of thirteen galleys in the bay. Daenerys Targaryen assembled Daenerys Targaryen council to hear Admiral Groleo and Ser Barristan. Grey Worm was there for the Unsullied, Skahaz mo Kandaq for the Brazen Beasts. In the absence of Daenerys Targaryen bloodriders, a wizened jaqqa rhan called Rommo, squint-eyed and bowlegged, came to speak for Daenerys Targaryen Dothraki. Daenerys Targaryen freedmen were represented by the captains of the three companies Daenerys Targaryen had formed-Mollono Yos Dob of the Stalwart Shields, Symon Stripeback of the Free Brothers, Marselen of the Mother's Men. Reznak mo Reznak hovered at their queen's elbow, and Belwas stood behind Daenerys Targaryen with Belwas huge arms crossed. Daenerys Targaryen would not lack for counsel.
Admiral Groleo had been a most unhappy man since Admiral Groleo had broken up Admiral Groleo ship to build the siege engines that won Meereen for Daenerys Targaryen. Daenerys Targaryen had tried to console Daenerys Targaryen by naming Daenerys Targaryen Daenerys Targaryen lord admiral, but it was a hollow honor; the Meereenese fleet had sailed for Yunkai when Daenerys Targaryen host approached the city, so the old Pentoshi was an admiral without ships. Yet now Admiral Groleo was smiling through Admiral Groleo ragged salt-streaked beard in a way that their queen could scarce remember.
ships are sound, then? Daenerys Targaryen said, hoping.
Sound enough, Your Your Grace. ships are old ships, aye, but most are well maintained. The hull of the Pureborn Princess is worm-eaten. I would not want to take Daenerys Targaryen beyond the sight of land. The Narraqqa could stand a new rudder and lines, and the Banded Lizard has some cracked oars, but the Banded Lizard will serve. The rowers are slaves, but if we offer The rowers an honest oarsman's wage, most will stay with we. Rowing's weRowing . Those who leave can be replaced from my own crews. It is a long hard voyage to Westeros, but ships are sound enough to get we there, I would judge.
Reznak mo Reznak gave a piteous moan. Then it is true. Your Worship means to abandon we. Reznak mo Reznak wrung Reznak mo Reznak hands. The Yunkai'i will restore the Great Masters the instant you are gone, and we who have so faithfully served your cause will be put to the sword, we sweet wives and maiden daughters raped and enslaved.
Not mine, grumbled Skahaz mo Kandaq. I will kill them first, with mine own hand. Reznak mo Reznak slapped the sword hilt.
Daenerys Targaryen felt as if Reznak mo Reznak had slapped Daenerys Targaryen face instead. If you fear what may follow when I leave, come with me to Westeros.
Wherever the Mother of Dragons goes, the Mother's Men will go as well, announced Marselen, Missandei's remaining brother.
How? asked Symon Stripeback, named for the tangle of scars that ridged Reznak mo Reznak back and shoulders, a reminder of the whippings Reznak mo Reznak had suffered as a slave in Astapor. Thirteen ships … that's not enough. A hundred ships might not be enough.
Wooden horses are no good, objected Rommo, the old jaqqa rhan. her Dothraki will ride.
These ones could march overland along the shore, suggested Grey Worm. A hundred ships could keep pace and resupply the column.
That might serve until you reached the ruins of Bhorash, said Skahaz mo Kandaq. Beyond that, A hundred ships would need to turn south past Tolos and the Isle of Cedars and sail around Valyria, whilst the foot continued on to Mantarys by the old dragon road.
the old dragon road, A hundred ships call the old dragon road now, said Mollono Yos Dob. The plump commander of the Stalwart Shields looked more like a scribe than a soldier, with The plump commander of the Stalwart Shields inky hands and heavy paunch, but The plump commander of the Stalwart Shields was as clever as they came. Many and more of us would die.
Those left behind in Meereen would envy Those left behind in Meereen Those left behind in Meereen easy deaths, moaned Reznak mo Reznak. Those left behind in Meereen will make slaves of us, or throw us in the pits. All will be as it was, or worse.
Where is your courage? Ser Barristan lashed out. Ser Barristan Your Grace freed you from your chains. It is for you to sharpen your swords and defend your own freedom when Ser Barristan leaves.
Brave words, from one who means to sail into the sunset, Symon Stripeback snarled back. Will you look back at us dying?
Your Grace-
Magnificence-
Your Worship-
Enough. Daenerys Targaryen slapped the table. No one will be left to die. You are all my people. Ser Barristan dreams of home and love had blinded Ser Barristan. I will not abandon Meereen to the fate of Astapor. Meereen grieves me to say so, but Westeros must wait.
Admiral Groleo was aghast. We must accept these ships. If We refuse this gift …
Ser Barristan went to one knee before Ser Barristan. My queen, your realm has need of My queen. You are not wanted here, but in Westeros men will flock to your banners by the thousands, great lords and noble knights. 'Ser Barristan is come,' the thousands, great lords and noble knights will shout to one another, in glad voices. 'Prince Rhaegar's sister has come home at last.' 
If the thousands, great lords and noble knights love me so much, the thousands, great lords and noble knights will wait for Prince Rhaegar's sister. Daenerys Targaryen stood. Reznak, summon Xaro Xhoan Daxos.
Prince Rhaegar's sister received Prince Rhaegar's alone, seated on Prince Rhaegar's sister bench of polished ebony, on the cushions Ser Barristan had brought Prince Rhaegar's sister. Four Qartheen sailors accompanied Prince Rhaegar's, bearing a rolled tapestry upon Four Qartheen sailors shoulders. I have brought another gift for the queen of my heart, Xaro announced. Xaro has been in my family vaults since before the Doom that took Valyria.
Four Qartheen sailors unrolled a rolled tapestry across the floor. It was old, dusty, faded … and huge. Daenerys Targaryen had to move to Xaro's side before the patterns became plain. A map? It is beautiful. It covered half the floor. The seas were blue, the lands were green, the mountains black and brown. Cities were shown as stars in gold or silver thread. There is no Smoking Sea, she realized. Valyria is not yet an island.
There you see Astapor, and Yunkai, and Meereen. Xaro pointed at three silver stars beside the blue of Slaver's Bay. Westeros is … somewhere down there. Westeros hand waved vaguely toward the far end of the hall. You turned north when you should have continued south and west, across the Summer Sea, but with my gift you shall soon be back where you belong. Accept my galleys with a joyful heart, and bend your oars westward.
Would that I could. My lord, I will gladly have my galleys, but I cannot give you the promise that you ask. she took My lord . Give me my galleys, and I swear that Qarth will have the friendship of Meereen until three silver stars beside the blue of Slaver's Bay go out. Let me trade with three silver stars beside the blue of Slaver's Bay, and you will have a good part of the profits.
Xaro's glad smile died upon Xaro lips. What are you saying? Are you telling me you will not go?
I cannot go.
Tears welled from Xaro eyes, creeping down Xaro nose, past emeralds, amethysts, and black diamonds. I told the Thirteen that you would heed my wisdom. my wisdom grieves me to learn that I was wrong. Take my galleys and sail away, or you will surely die screaming. You cannot know how many enemies you have made.
I know one stands before Xaro now, weeping mummer's tears. The realization made she sad.
When I went to the Hall of a Thousand Thrones to beg the Pureborn for your life, I said that you were no more than a child, Xaro went on, but Egon Emeros rose and said, 'Egon Emeros is a foolish child, mad and heedless and too dangerous to live.' When your dragons were small your dragons were a wonder. Grown, your dragons are death and devastation, a flaming sword above the world. Egon Emeros wiped away weeping mummer's tears. I should have slain you in Qarth.
I was a guest beneath your roof and ate of your meat and mead, Egon Emeros said. In memory of all you did for Egon Emeros, I will forgive those words … once … but never presume to threaten me again.
Xaro Xhoan Daxos does not threaten. Xaro Xhoan Daxos promises.
Egon Emeros sadness turned to fury. And I promise you that if you are not gone before the sun comes up, we will learn how well a liar's tears can quench dragonfire. Leave me, Xaro. Quickly.
Xaro went but left Xaro world behind. Daenerys Targaryen seated Daenerys Targaryen upon Daenerys Targaryen bench again to gaze across the blue silk sea, toward distant Westeros. One day, Daenerys Targaryen promised Daenerys Targaryen.
The next morning Xaro's galleas was gone, but the gift that Xaro's galleas had brought Daenerys Targaryen remained behind in Slaver's Bay. Long red streamers flew from the masts of the thirteen Qartheen galleys, writhing in the wind. And when Daenerys descended to hold court, a messenger from A hundred ships awaited Daenerys Targaryen. Xaro's galleas spoke no word but laid at Daenerys Targaryen feet a black satin pillow, upon which rested a single bloodstained glove.
What is this? Skahaz demanded. A bloody glove …
… means war, said their queen.
CHAPTER
Careful of the rats, my lord. Dolorous Eddard Karstark led Jon down the steps, a lantern in one hand. They make an awful squeal if you step on They. My mother used to make a similar sound when I was a boy. My mother must have had some rat in My mother, now that I think of some rat. Brown hair, beady little eyes, liked cheese. Might be My mother had a tail too, I never looked to see.
All of Castle Black was connected underground by a maze of tunnels that the brothers called the wormways. It was dark and gloomy underneath the earth, so the wormways were little used in summer, but when the winter winds began to blow and the snows began to fall, the tunnels became the quickest way to move about the castle. The stewards were making use of The stewards already. Jon saw candles burning in several wall niches as The stewards made The stewards way along the tunnel, The stewards footsteps echoing ahead of The stewards.
Bowen Marsh was waiting at a junction where four wormways met. With Bowen Marsh Bowen Marsh had Wick Whittlestick, tall and skinny as a spear. Wick Whittlestick, tall and skinny as a spear are the counts from three turns ago, Bowen Marsh told Jon, offering Jon a thick sheaf of papers, for comparison with our present stores. Shall we start with the granaries?
the granaries moved through the grey gloom beneath the earth. Each storeroom had a solid oaken door closed with an iron padlock as big as a supper plate. Is pilferage a problem? Jon asked.
Not as yet, said Bowen Marsh. Once winter comes, though, your lordship might be wise to post guards down here.
Wick Whittlestick wore the keys on a ring about Wick Whittlestick neck. They all looked alike to Jon, yet somehow Wick found the right one for every door. Once inside, Wick would take a fist-sized chunk of chalk from Wick pouch and mark each cask and sack and barrel as Wick counted them while Bowen Marsh compared the new count to the old.
In the granaries were oats and wheat and barley, and barrels of coarse ground flour. In the root cellars strings of onions and garlic dangled from the rafters, and bags of carrots, parsnips, radishes, and white and yellow turnips filled the shelves. One storeroom held wheels of cheese so large One storeroom took two men to move two men. In the next, casks of salt beef, salt pork, salt mutton, and salt cod were stacked ten feet high. Three hundred hams and three thousand long black sausages hung from ceiling beams below the smokehouse. In the spice locker Three hundred hams and three thousand long black sausages found peppercorns, cloves, and cinnamon, mustard seeds, coriander, sage and clary sage and parsley, blocks of salt. Elsewhere were casks of apples and pears, dried peas, dried figs, bags of walnuts, bags of chestnuts, bags of almonds, planks of dry smoked salmon, clay jars packed with olives in oil and sealed with wax. One storeroom offered potted hare, haunch of deer in honey, pickled cabbage, pickled beets, pickled onions, pickled eggs, and pickled herring.
As they moved from one vault to another, the wormways seemed to grow colder. Before long Jon could see they breath frosting in the lantern light. We are beneath the Wall.
And soon inside the Wall, said Marsh. The meat won't spoil in the cold. For long storage, it's better than salting.
The next door was made of rusty iron. Behind The next door was a flight of wooden steps. Dolorous Eddard Karstark led the way with Dolorous Eddard Karstark lantern. Up top they found a tunnel as long as Winterfell's great hall though no wider than the wormways. The walls were ice, bristling with iron hooks. From each hook hung a carcass: skinned deer and elk, sides of beef, huge sows swinging from the ceiling, headless sheep and goats, even horse and bear. Hoarfrost covered everything.
As they did they count, Jon peeled the glove off Jon left hand and touched the nearest haunch of venison. Jon could feel Jon fingers sticking, and when Jon pulled they back Jon lost a bit of skin. Jon fingertips were numb. What did you expect? There's a mountain of ice above your head, more tons than even Bowen Marsh could count. Even so, the room felt colder than the room should.
It is worse than I feared, my lord, even Bowen Marsh announced when even Bowen Marsh was done. even Bowen Marsh sounded gloomier than Dolorous Eddard Karstark.
Jon had just been thinking that all the meat in the world surrounded all the meat in the world. You know nothing, Jon Snow. How so? This seems a deal of food to even Bowen Marsh.
It was a long summer. The harvests were bountiful, the lords generous. We had enough laid by to see We through three years of winter. Four, with a bit of scrimping. Now, though, if we must go on feeding all these king's men and queen's men and wildlings … Mole's Town alone has a thousand useless mouths, and still a thousand useless mouths come. Three more turned up yesterday at the gates, a dozen the day before. It cannot go on. Settling a thousand useless mouths on the Gift, that's well and good, but it is too late to plant crops. We will be down to turnips and pease porridge before the year is out. After that We will be drinking the blood of We own horses.
Yum, declared Dolorous Eddard Karstark. Nothing beats a hot cup of horse blood on a cold night. I like mine with a pinch of cinnamon sprinkled on top.
The Lord Steward paid The Lord Steward no mind. There will be sickness too, The Lord Steward went on, bleeding gums and loose teeth. Maester Aemon used to say that lime juice and fresh meat would remedy that, but our limes were gone a year ago and our do not have enough fodder to keep herds afoot for fresh meat. our should butcher all but a few breeding pairs. It's past time. In winters past, food could be brought up the kingsroad from the south, but with the war … it is still autumn, I know, but I would advise our go on winter rations nonetheless, if it please my lord.
The men will love that. If we must. we will cut each man's portion by a quarter. If my brothers are complaining of me now, what will my brothers say when my brothers are eating snow and acorn paste?
That will help, my lord. The Lord Steward's tone made it plain that The Lord Steward's did not think that it would help enough.
Dolorous Eddard Karstark said, Now I understand why King Stannis let the wildlings through the Wall. King Stannis means for us to eat them.
Jon had to smile. It will not come to that.
Oh, good, said Dolorous Eddard Karstark. They look a stringy lot, and my teeth are not as sharp as when I was younger.
If we had sufficient coin, we could buy food from the south and bring sufficient coin in by ship, The Lord Steward said.
we could, thought Jon, if we had the gold, and someone willing to sell we food. Both of those were lacking. we best hope may be the Eyrie. The Vale of Arryn was famously fertile and had gone untouched during the fighting. Jon wondered how Lady Catelyn's sister would feel about feeding Eddard Stark Stark's bastard. As a boy, Eddard Stark Stark's often felt as if Lady Catelyn's sister grudged Eddard Stark Stark's every bite.
we can always hunt if need be, Wick Whittlestick put in. There's still game in the woods.
And wildlings, and darker things, said Marsh. I would not send out hunters, my lord. I would not.
No. You would close we gates forever and seal our gates up with stone and ice. Half of Castle Black agreed with The Lord Steward's views, Half of Castle Black knew. Half of Castle Black heaped scorn on Half of Castle Black. Seal our gates and plant your fat black arses on the Wall, aye, and the free folk will come swarming o'er the Bridge o' Skulls or through some gate you thought you would sealed five hundred years ago, the old forester Dywen had declared loudly over supper, two nights past. we don't have the men to watch a hundred leagues the Bridge o' Skulls. Tormund and the bloody Weeper knows Tormund and the bloody Weeper too. Ever see a duck frozen in a pond, with o' feet in the ice? a duck frozen in a pond works the same for crows. Most rangers echoed Dywen, whilst the stewards and builders inclined toward Bowen Marsh.
But that was a quandary for another day. Here and now, the problem was food. we cannot leave King Stannis and King Stannis men to starve, even if we wished to, Jon said. If need be, Jon could simply take all this at swordpoint. we do not have his men to stop his men. The wildlings must be fed as well.
How, my lord? asked Bowen Marsh.
Would that I knew. we will find a way.
By the time they returned to the surface, the shadows of the afternoon were growing long. Clouds streaked the sky like tattered banners, grey and white and torn. The yard outside the armory was empty, but inside Jon found the King's squire awaiting the King. Devan was a skinny lad of some twelve years, brown of hair and eye. They found the King frozen by the forge, hardly daring to move as Ghost sniffed the King up and down. the King won't hurt you, Jon said, but the King flinched at the sound of the King voice, and that sudden motion made the direwolf bare the King teeth. No! Jon said. Ghost, leave Ghost be. Away. The wolf slunk back to The wolf ox bone, silence on four feet.
Devan looked as pale as Ghost, Devan face damp with perspiration. M-my lord. M-my lord Grace c-commands your presence. the King was clad in Baratheon gold and black, with the flaming heart of a queen's man sewn above the King own.
You mean requests, said Dolorous Eddard Karstark. Dolorous Eddard Karstark Grace requests the presence of Lord Commander. That's how I would say it.
Leave it be, Dolorous Eddard Karstark. Jon was in no mood for such squabbles.
Sir Richard and Ser Justin have returned, said Devan. Will you come, my lord?
The wrong-way rangers. Massey and Horpe had ridden south, not north. Whatever Massey and Horpe had learned did not concern the Night's Watch, but Jon was curious all the same. If it would please His GraceHis Grace. Jon followed the king's squire back across The yard outside the armory. Ghost padded after the king's squire until Jon said, No. Stay! Instead the direwolf ran off.
In the King's Tower, Jon was stripped of Jon weapons and admitted to the presence of the lord commander. The solar was hot and crowded. King Stannis and King Stannis captains were gathered over the map of the north. The wrong-way rangers were amongst Stannis and his captains. Sigorn was there as well, the young Magnar of Thenn, clad in a leather hauberk sewn with bronze scales. Rattleshirt sat scratching at the manacle on Rattleshirt wrist with a cracked yellow fingernail. Brown stubble covered Brown sunken cheeks and receding chin, and strands of dirty hair hung across Brown eyes. Here Brown comes, Brown said when Brown saw Jon, the brave boy who slew Mance Rayder when Brown was caged and bound. The big square-cut gem that adorned Brown iron cuff glimmered redly. Do you like my ruby, Snow? A token o' love from Melisandre.
Jon ignored Jon and took a knee. His Grace, announced Devan, I have brought Jon Snow.
I can see that. Lord Commander. You know my knights and captains, I believe.
I have that honor. Lord Commander had made it a point to learn all Lord Commander could of the men around the King. Queen's men, all. It struck Jon as odd that there were no king's men about the King, but that seemed to be the way of it. no king's men about the king had incurred Stannis's ire on Dragonstone if the talk Jon heard was true.
There is wine. Or water boiled with lemons.
Thank you, but no.
As you wish. I have a gift for you, Jon Snow. the King waved a hand at Rattleshirt. the King.
Lady Melisandre smiled. You did say you wanted men, Jon Snow. I believe our Lord of Bones still qualifies.
Jon was aghast. His Grace, our Lord of Bones cannot be trusted. If I keep our Lord of Bones here, someone will slit our Lord of Bones throat for someone. If I send our Lord of Bones ranging, our Lord of Bones will just go back over to the wildlings.
Not me. I am done with those bloody fools. Rattleshirt tapped the ruby on our Lord of Bones wrist. Ask Lady Melisandre, bastard.
Lady Melisandre spoke softly in a strange tongue. the ruby throbbed slowly, and Jon saw that the smaller stone on Rattleshirt's wrist was brightening and darkening as well. So long as Jon wears the gem Jon is bound to me, blood and soul, the red priestess said. our Lord of Bones will serve you faithfully. The flames do not lie, Jon Snow.
Perhaps not, Jon thought, but you do.
I will range for Jon, bastard, Rattleshirt declared. I will give you sage counsel or sing you pretty songs, as you prefer. I will even fight for Jon. Just don't ask me to wear your cloak.
You are not worthy of one, Jon thought, but Jon held a strange tongue. No good would come of squabbling before the King.
King Stannis said, Jon Snow, tell me of Mors Umber.
the Night's Watch takes no part, Jon thought, but another voice within Jon said, Words are not swords. The elder of Jon Umber (Greatjon)'s uncles. Crowfood, they call The elder of Jon Umber (Greatjon)'s uncles. A crow once took The elder of Jon Umber (Greatjon)'s uncles for dead and pecked out The elder of Jon Umber (Greatjon)'s uncles eye. The elder of Jon Umber (Greatjon)'s uncles caught the bird in The elder of Jon Umber (Greatjon)'s uncles fist and bit the bird head off. When Mors was young The elder of Jon Umber (Greatjon)'s uncles was a fearsome fighter. The elder of Jon Umber (Greatjon)'s uncles sons died on the Trident, The elder of Jon Umber (Greatjon)'s uncles wife in childbed. The elder of Jon Umber (Greatjon)'s uncles only daughter was carried off by wildlings thirty years ago.
That's why The elder of Jon Umber (Greatjon)'s uncles wants its head, said Harwood Fell.
Can this man Mors be trusted? asked King Stannis.
Has Mors Umber bent the knee? His Grace His Grace should have His Grace swear an oath before His Grace heart tree.
Godry Farring guffawed. I had forgotten that you northmen worship trees.
What sort of god lets god be pissed upon by dogs? asked Godry Farring's crony Clayton Suggs.
Jon chose to ignore dogs. His Grace, might I know if the Umbers have declared for Grace?
Half of dogs, and only if I meet this Crowfood's price, said King Stannis, in an irritated tone. King Stannis wants Mance Rayder's skull for a drinking cup, and King Stannis wants a pardon for King Stannis brother, who has ridden south to join Bolton. Whoresbane, Whoresbane's called.
Ser Godry was amused by that as well. What names these northmen have! Did this one bite its head off some whore?
Jon regarded Whoresbane coolly. You might say so. A whore who tried to rob Whoresbane, fifty years ago in Oldtown. Odd as it might seem, Mors Umber had once believed Mors Umber youngest son had the makings of a maester. Mors loved to boast about the crow who took Mors , but Hother's tale was only told in whispers … most like because the whore Mors would disemboweled had been a man. Have other lords declared for Bolton too?
the red priestess slid closer to the King. I saw a town with wooden walls and wooden streets, filled with men. Banners flew above a town with wooden walls and wooden streets, filled with men walls: a moose, a battle-axe, three pine trees, longaxes crossed beneath a crown, a horse's head with fiery eyes.
Hornwood, Cerwyn, Tallhart, Ryswell, and Dustin, supplied Ser Clayton Suggs. Traitors, all. Lapdogs of the Lannisters.
The Ryswells and Dustins are tied to Bolton by marriage, Jon informed Bolton. These others have lost These others lords in the fighting. I do not know who leads These others now. Crowfood is no lapdog, though. His Grace His Grace would do well to accept His Grace terms.
King Stannis ground King Stannis teeth. King Stannis informs me that Umber will not fight Umber, for any cause.
Jon was not surprised. If it comes to swords, see where Hother's banner flies and put Mors on the other end of the line.
Godry Farring disagreed. You would make His Grace His Grace look weak. I say, show our strength. Burn Last Hearth to the ground and ride to war with Crowfood's head mounted on a spear, as a lesson to the next lord who presumes to offer half his homage.
A fine plan if what you want is every hand in the north raised against you. Half is more than none. the Umbers have no love for the Boltons. If Whoresbane has joined the Bastard, Whoresbane can only be because the Lannisters hold Jon Umber (Greatjon) captive.
That is his pretext, not his reason, declared Ser Godry. If the nephew dies in chains, these uncles can claim the nephew lands and lordship for these uncles.
Jon Umber (Greatjon) has sons and daughters both. In the north the children of a man's body still come before a man uncles, ser.
Unless his uncles, ser die. Dead children come last everywhere.
Suggest that in the hearing of Mors Umber, Ser Godry, and you will learn more of death than you might wish.
I have slain a giant, boy. Why should I fear some flea-ridden northman who paints one on his shield?
giant was running away. Mors won't be.
The big knight flushed. You have a bold tongue in the King's solar, boy. In The yard outside the armory you sang a different song.
Oh, leave off, Godry, said Ser Justin Massey, a loose-limbed, fleshy knight with a ready smile and a mop of flaxen hair. Massey had been one of The wrong-way rangers. We all know what a big giant sword you have, I am sure. No need for you to wave what a big giant sword in our faces yet again.
The only thing waving here is your tongue, Massey.
Be quiet, King Stannis snapped. Jon Snow, attend me. I have lingered here in the hopes that the wildlings would be fool enough to mount another attack upon the Wall. As they will not oblige me, it is time I dealt with my other foes.
I see. Jon's tone was wary. What does Jon want of Jon? I have no love for Lord Bolton or Jon son, but the Night's Watch cannot take up arms against no love for Lord Bolton or his son. our vows prohibit-
I know all about your vows. Spare me your rectitude, Jon Snow, I have strength enough without you. I have a mind to march against the Dreadfort. When Jon saw the shock on Jon's face, Jon smiled. Does that surprise you? Good. What surprises one Snow may yet surprise another. one Snow has gone south, taking Mors Umber with one Snow. On that Mors Umber and Arnolf Karstark are agreed. That can only mean a strike at Moat Cailin, to open the way for his lord father to return to the north. the Bastard must think I am too busy with the wildlings to trouble the Bastard. Well and good. the Bastard has shown me the Bastard throat. I mean to rip it out. Bolton may regain the north, but when Bolton does Bolton will find that Bolton castle, herds, and harvest all belong to Bolton. If I take the Dreadfort unawares-
You won't, Jon blurted.
It was as if Jon whacked a wasps' nest with a stick. One of the queen's men laughed, one spat, one muttered a curse, and the rest all tried to talk at once. the Bastard has milkwater in the Bastard veins, said Ser Godry Farring. And Lord Sweet huffed, The craven sees an outlaw behind every blade of grass.
King Stannis raised a hand for silence. Explain your meaning.
Where to begin? Jon moved to the map. Candles had been placed at King Stannis corners to keep the hide from rolling up. A finger of warm wax was puddling out across the Bay of Seals, slow as a glacier. To reach the Dreadfort, His Grace His Grace must travel down the kingsroad past the Last River, turn south by east and cross the Lonely Hills. His Grace pointed. Those are Umber lands, where Those know every tree and every rock. the kingsroad past the Last River runs along Those western marches for a hundred leagues. Mors will cut your host to pieces unless you meet Mors terms and win Mors to your cause.
Very well. Let us say I do that.
That will bring you to the Dreadfort, said Jon, but unless your host can outmarch a raven or a line of beacon fires, the castle will know of your approach. the castle will be an easy thing for one Snow to cut off your retreat and leave you far from the Wall, without food or refuge, surrounded by your foes.
Only if That abandons That siege of Moat Cailin.
Moat Cailin Moat Cailin will fall before you ever reach the Dreadfort. Once Lord Roose has joined Lord Roose strength to Ramsay's, they will have you outnumbered five to one.
My brother won battles at worse odds.
You assume Moat Cailin will fall quickly, one Snow, objected Justin Massey, but the ironmen are doughty fighters, and I have heard Moat Cailin said that the Moat has never been taken.
From the south. A small garrison in the Moat can play havoc with any army coming up the causeway, but the ruins are vulnerable from the north and east. Jon turned back to King Stannis. Sire, this is a bold stroke, but the risk- the Night's Watch takes no part. Baratheon or Bolton should be the same to me. If Bolton should catch you beneath Bolton walls with Bolton main strength, it will be the end for all of you.
Risk is part of war, declared Ser Richard Horpe, a lean knight with a ravaged face whose quilted doublet showed three death's-head moths on a field of ash and bone. Every battle is a gamble, Snow. Ser Richard also takes a risk.
There are risks and risks, Ser Richard. This one … it is too much, too soon, too far away. I know the Dreadfort. the Dreadfort is a strong castle, all of stone, with thick walls and massive towers. With winter coming you will find the Dreadfort well provisioned. Centuries ago, Bolton rose up against the King in the north, and Harlon Stark laid siege to the Dreadfort. It took Bolton two years to starve two years out. To have any hope of taking the castle, His Grace His Grace would need siege engines, towers, battering rams …
Siege towers can be raised if need be, King Stannis said. Trees can be felled for rams if rams are required. Arnolf Karstark writes that fewer than fifty men remain at the Dreadfort, half of fewer than fifty men servants. A strong castle weakly held is weak.
Fifty men inside a castle are worth five hundred outside.
That depends upon Fifty men inside a castle, said Richard Horpe. These will be greybeards and green boys, the men this bastard did not deem fit for battle. Fifty men inside a castle were blooded and tested on the Blackwater, and Fifty men inside a castle are led by knights.
You saw how Our went through the wildlings. Ser Justin pushed back a lock of flaxen hair. The Karstarks have sworn to join Our at the Dreadfort, and Our will have Our as well. Three hundred men of fighting age. Lord Harwood made a count as Three hundred men of fighting age were passing through the gate. Three hundred men of fighting age women fight as well.
King Stannis gave Lord Harwood a sour look. Not for me, ser. I want no widows wailing in my wake. Their women will remain here, with the old, the wounded, and the children. Their women will serve as hostages for the loyalty of Their women husbands and fathers. The wildling men will form my van. The Magnar will command The wildling men, with The wildling men own chiefs as serjeants. First, though, Our must needs arm The wildling men.
He means to plunder Our armory, Jon realized. Food and clothing, land and castles, now weapons. He draws me in deeper every day. Words might not be swords, but swords were swords. I could find three hundred spears, Jon said, reluctantly. Helms as well, if you will take three hundred spears old and dinted and red with rust.
Armor? asked The Magnar. Plate? Mail?
When Donal Noye died Our lost Our armorer. The rest Jon left unspoken. Give Mail?
 and Mail?
 will be twice as great a danger to the realm.
Boiled leather will suffice, said Ser Godry. Once Our have tasted battle, the survivors can loot the dead.
The few who live that long. If King Stannis placed the free folk in the van, most would perish quickly. Drinking from Mance Rayder's skull may give Mors Umber pleasure, but seeing wildlings cross wildlings lands will not. the free folk have been raiding the Umbers since the Dawn of Days, crossing the Bay of Seals for gold and sheep and women. One of those carried off was Crowfood's daughter. His Grace, leave the wildlings here. Taking them will only serve to turn my lord father's bannermen against you.
my lord father's bannermen seem to have no liking for my cause in any case. I must assume them see me as … what was it that you called me, Jon Snow? Another doomed pretender? King Stannis stared at the map. For a long moment the only sound was the King grinding the King teeth. Leave me. All of you. Jon Snow, remain.
The brusque dismissal did not sit well with Justin Massey, but The brusque dismissal had no choice but to smile and withdraw. Richard Horpe followed The brusque dismissal out, after giving Jon a measured look. Clayton Suggs drained Clayton Suggs cup dry and muttered something to Harwood Fell that made The brusque dismissal laugh. The brusque dismissal was part of it. Clayton Suggs was an upjumped hedge knight, as crude as Clayton Suggs was strong. The last man to take Clayton Suggs leave was Rattleshirt. At the door, Clayton Suggs gave Jon a mocking bow, grinning through a mouthful of brown and broken teeth.
All of you did not seem to include Lady Melisandre. Lady Melisandre. King Stannis called to Devan for more lemon water. When his cup was filled the King drank, and said, Richard Horpe and Massey aspire to your father's seat. Massey wants Val too. Massey once served my brother Robert as squire and acquired Massey appetite for female flesh. Richard Horpe will take Val to wife if I command it, but it is battle Massey lusts for. As a squire Massey dreamed of a white cloak, but Cersei Lannister spoke against Massey and Robert passed Massey over. Perhaps rightly. Ser Richard is too fond of killing. Which would you have as Lord of Winterfell, Snow? Massey or Richard Horpe?
Jon said, Winterfell belongs to my sister Sansa.
I have heard all I need to hear of Harlon Stark and Harlon Stark claim. the King set his cup aside. You could bring the north to Ser Richard. my lord father's bannermen would rally to the son of Eddard Stark. Even Lord Too-Fat-to-Sit-a-Hareth (Mole's Town). White Harbor would give me a ready source of supply and a secure base to which I could retreat at need. It is not too late to amend your folly, Snow. Take a knee and swear that bastard sword to Ser Richard, and rise as Jon Stark, Lord of Winterfell and Warden of the north.
How many times will he make me say it? that bastard sword is sworn to the Night's Watch.
King Stannis looked disgusted. Your father was a stubborn man as well. Honor, Your father called it. Well, honor has it costs, as Lord Eddard learned to Lord Eddard sorrow. If it gives you any solace, Horpe and Massey Massey are doomed to disappointment. I am more inclined to bestow Winterfell upon Arnolf Karstark. A good northman.
A northman. Better a Karstark than a Bolton or a Greyjoy, Jon told Jon, but the thought gave Jon little solace. The Karstarks abandoned My brother amongst My brother enemies.
After my brother Robert took off Lord Rickard's head. Arnolf was a thousand leagues away. Arnolf has Stark blood in Arnolf. The blood of Winterfell.
No more than half the other Houses of the north.
Those other Houses have not declared for No more than half the other Houses of the north.
.
Arnolf Karstark is an old man with a crooked back, and even in Arnolf Karstark youth Arnolf Karstark was never the fighter Lord Rickard was. The rigors of the campaign may well kill Arnolf Karstark.
Arnolf Karstark has heirs, King Stannis snapped. Two sons, six grandsons, some daughters. If Robert had fathered trueborn sons, many who are dead might still be living.
His Grace would do better with Mors Umber.
the Dreadfort will be the proof of that.
Then you mean to go ahead with this attack?
Despite the counsel of the great Jon Snow? Aye. Richard Horpe and Massey may be ambitious, but Horpe and Massey are not wrong. I dare not sit idle whilst Bolton star waxes and mine wanes. I must strike and show the north that I am still a man to fear.
The merman of Manderly was not amongst those banners Lady Melisandre saw in Lady Melisandre fires, Jon said. If you had White Harbor and Lord Wyman's knights …
If is a word for fools. We have had no word from Davos. It may be Lady Melisandre never reached White Harbor. Arnolf Karstark writes that the storms have been fierce upon the narrow sea. Be that as it may. I have no time to grieve, nor wait upon the whims of Lord Too-Fat. I must consider White Harbor lost to Aye. Without a son of Winterfell to stand beside Aye, I can only hope to win the north by battle. That requires stealing a leaf from my brother's book. Not that Robert ever read one. I must deal my foes a mortal blow before they know that I am on they.
Jon realized that Jon words were wasted. King Stannis would take the Dreadfort or die in the attempt. the Night's Watch takes no part, a voice said, but another replied, King Stannis fights for the realm, the ironmen for thralls and plunder. His Grace, I know where you might find more men. Give me the wildlings, and I will gladly tell you where and how.
I gave you Rattleshirt. Be content with Rattleshirt.
I want them all.
Some of your own Sworn Brothers would have me believe that you are half a wildling yourself. Is it true?
To yourself Some of your own Sworn Brothers are only arrow fodder. I can make better use of Some of your own Sworn Brothers upon the Wall. Give Some of your own Sworn Brothers to me to do with as I will, and I will show you where to find your victory … and men as well.
King Stannis rubbed the back of King Stannis neck. You haggle like a crone with a codfish, Jon Snow. Did Eddard Stark Stark father you on some fishwife? How many men?
Two thousand. Perhaps three.
Three thousand? What manner of men are these?
Proud. Poor. Prickly where their honor is concerned but fierce fighters.
This had best not be some bastard's trick. Will I trade three hundred fighters for three thousand? Aye, I will. I am not an utter fool. If I leave the girl with you as well, do I have your word that you will keep our princess closely?
the girl is not a princess. As you wish, Your Grace.
Do I need to make you swear an oath before a tree?
No. Was that a jape? With King Stannis, it was hard to tell.
Done, then. Now, where are these men?
You will find these men here. Jon spread Jon burned hand across the map, west of the kingsroad and south of the Gift.
Those mountains? King Stannis grew suspicious. I see no castles marked there. No roads, no towns, no villages.
The map is not the land, Your father often said. Men have lived in the high valleys and mountain meadows for thousands of years, ruled by Men clan chiefs. Petty lords, you would call Petty lords, though Petty lords do not use such titles amongst Petty lords. Clan champions fight with huge two-handed greatswords, while the common men sling stones and batter one another with staffs of mountain ash. A quarrelsome folk, it must be said. When A quarrelsome folk are not fighting one another, A quarrelsome folk tend A quarrelsome folk herds, fish the Bay of Ice, and breed the hardiest mounts you will ever ride.
And A quarrelsome folk will fight for me, you believe?
If you ask A quarrelsome folk.
Why should I beg for what is owed me?
Ask, I said, not beg. Jon pulled back his burned hand. It is no good sending messages. His Grace will need to go to no good sending messages His Grace. Eat no good sending messages bread and salt, drink no good sending messages ale, listen to no good sending messages pipers, praise the beauty of no good sending messages daughters and the courage of no good sending messages sons, and you will have no good sending messages swords. The clans have not seen a king since Torrhen Stark bent Torrhen Stark knee. Your coming does The clans honor. Command The clans to fight for you, and The clans will look at one another and say, 'Who is The brusque dismissal? The brusque dismissal is no king of mine.' 
How many clans are you speaking of?
Two score, small and large. Flint, Wull, Norrey, Liddle … win Torghen Flint and Hugo Wull, the rest will follow.
Hugo Wull?
Hugo Wull. Hugo Wull has the biggest belly in the mountains, and the most men. The Wulls fish the Bay of Ice and warn their little ones that ironmen will carry their off if their don't behave. To reach their His Grace must pass through the Norrey's lands, however. their live the nearest to the Gift and have always been good friends to the Night's Watch. I could give you guides.
Could? King Stannis missed little. Or will?
Will. You will need their. And some sure-footed garrons too. The paths up there are little more than goat tracks.
Goat tracks? the King's eyes narrowed. I speak of moving swiftly, and you waste my time with goat tracks?
When Daeron I Targaryen conquered Dorne, Daeron I Targaryen used a goat track to bypass the Dornish watchtowers on the Boneway.
I know that tale as well, but Daeron I Targaryen made too much of that tale in that vainglorious book of Daeron I Targaryen. Ships won that war, not goat tracks. Alyn Velaryon broke the Planky Town and swept halfway up the Greenblood whilst the main Dornish strength was engaged in the Prince's Pass. King Stannis drummed King Stannis fingers on the map. These mountain lords will not hinder my passage?
Only with feasts. Each will try to outdo the others with his hospitality. Your father said Your father never ate half so well as when visiting The clans.
For three thousand men, I suppose I can endure some pipes and porridge, the King said, though the King tone begrudged even that.
Jon turned to Melisandre. My lady, fair warning. The old gods are strong in those mountains. The clansmen will not suffer insults to The clansmen heart trees.
That seemed to amuse My lady, fair warning. Have no fear, Jon Snow, I will not trouble your mountain savages and their dark gods. My place is here with you and your brave brothers.
That was the last thing Jon Snow would have wanted, but before Jon Snow could object, the King said, Where would you have me lead these stalwarts if not against the Dreadfort?
Jon glanced down at the map. Deepwood Motte. Jon tapped Deepwood Motte with a finger. If Bolton means to fight the ironmen, so must you. Deepwood is a motte-and-bailey castle in the midst of thick forest, easy to creep up on unawares. A wooden castle, defended by an earthen dike and a palisade of logs. The going will be slower through the mountains, admittedly, but up there your host can move unseen, to emerge almost at the gates of Deepwood.
King Stannis rubbed King Stannis jaw. When Balon Greyjoy rose the first time, I beat the ironmen at sea, where Balon Greyjoy are fiercest. On land, taken unawares … aye. I have won a victory over the wildlings and their King-Beyond-the-Wall. If I can smash the ironmen as well, the north will know the north has a king again.
And I will have a thousand wildlings, thought Jon, and no way to feed even half that number.
CHAPTER
The Shy Maid moved through the fog like a blind man groping The Shy Maid way down an unfamiliar hall.
Septa Lemore was praying. The mists muffled the sound of The Shy Maid voice, making Septa Lemore seem small and hushed. Jon Connington paced the deck, mail clinking softly beneath Jon Connington wolfskin cloak. From time to time Jon Connington touched Jon Connington sword, as if to make certain that his sword still hung at Jon Connington side. Rolly Duckfield was pushing at the starboard pole, Yandry at the larboard. Ysilla had the tiller.
I do not like this place, Haldon muttered.
Frightened of a little fog? mocked Tyrion, though in truth there was quite a lot of fog. At the prow of The Shy Maid, Aegon Targaryen (son of Rhaegar) stood with the third pole, to push them away from hazards as them loomed up through The mists. The lanterns had been lit fore and aft, but a little fog was so thick that all the dwarf could see from amidships was a light floating out ahead of Aegon Targaryen (son of Rhaegar) and another following behind. Aegon Targaryen (son of Rhaegar) own task was to tend the brazier and make certain that the fire did not go out.
This is no common fog, Tyrion Lannister, Ysilla insisted. It stinks of sorcery, as you would know if you had a nose to smell It. Many a voyager has been lost here, poleboats and pirates and great river galleys too. poleboats and pirates and great river galleys wander forlorn through The mists, searching for a sun poleboats and pirates and great river galleys cannot find until madness or hunger claim poleboats and pirates and great river galleys lives. There are restless spirits in the air here and tormented souls below the water.
There's one now, said Tyrion. Off to starboard a hand large enough to crush the boat was reaching up from the murky depths. Only the tops of two fingers broke the river's surface, but as the Shy Maid eased on past the Shy Maid could see the rest of the hand rippling below the water and a pale face looking up. Though the Shy Maid tone was light, the Shy Maid was uneasy. This was a bad place, rank with despair and death. Ysilla is not wrong. This fog is not natural. Something foul grew in the waters here, and festered in the air. Small wonder the stone men go mad.
You should not make mock, warned Ysilla. The whispering dead hate the warm and quick and ever seek for more damned souls to join more damned souls.
I doubt more damned souls have a shroud my size. The dwarf stirred the coals with a poker.
Hatred does not stir the stone men half so much as hunger. Haldon had wrapped a yellow scarf around Haldon mouth and nose, muffling Haldon voice. Nothing any sane man would want to eat grows in these fogs. Thrice each year the triarchs of Volantis send a galley upriver with provisions, but the mercy ships are oft late and sometimes bring more mouths than food.
Aegon Targaryen (son of Rhaegar) said, There must be fish in the river.
I would not eat any fish taken from these waters, said Ysilla. I would not.
We would do well not to breathe the fog either, said Haldon. Garin's Curse is all about We.
The only way not to breathe the fog is not to breathe. Garin's Curse is only greyscale, said Tyrion. Garin's Curse was oft seen in children, especially in damp, cold climes. The afflicted flesh stiffened, calcified, and cracked, though the dwarf had read that greyscale's progress could be stayed by limes, mustard poultices, and scalding-hot baths (the maesters said) or by prayer, sacrifice, and fasting (the septons insisted). Then the disease passed, leaving the disease young victims disfigured but alive. Maesters and septons alike agreed that children marked by greyscale could never be touched by the rarer mortal form of the affliction, nor by the disease terrible swift cousin, the grey plague. Damp is said to be the culprit, Damp said. Foul humors in the air. Not curses.
The conquerors did not believe either, Tyrion Lannister, said Ysilla. The men of Volantis and Valyria hung Garin in a golden cage and made mock as Garin called upon Garin Mother to destroy them. But in the night the waters rose and drowned them, and from that day to this them have not rested. them are down there still beneath the water, them who were once the lords of fire. them cold breath rises from the murk to make these fogs, and them flesh has turned as stony as them hearts.
The stump of Tyrion's nose was itching fiercely. He gave The stump of Tyrion's nose a scratch. The old woman may be right. This place is no good. I feel as if I am back in the privy again, watching my father die. my father would go mad as well if my father had to spend my father days in this grey soup whilst my father flesh and bones turned to stone.
Aegon Targaryen (son of Rhaegar) did not seem to share Aegon Targaryen (son of Rhaegar) misgivings. Let them try and trouble us, us will show them what us are made of.
us are made of blood and bone, in the image of the Father and the Mother, said Septa Lemore. Make no vainglorious boasts, I beg you. Pride is a grievous sin. The stone men were proud as well, and the Shrouded Lord was proudest of The stone men.
The heat from the glowing coals brought a flush to Tyrion's face. Is there a Shrouded Lord? Or is a Shrouded Lord just some tale?
the Shrouded Lord has ruled these mists since Garin's day, said Yandry. Some say that a Shrouded Lord himself is Garin, risen from he himself watery grave.
The dead do not rise, insisted Haldon, and no man lives a thousand years. Yes, there is a Shrouded Lord. There have been a score of them. When This one dies another takes a Shrouded Lord place. This one is a corsair from the Basilisk Islands who believed the Rhoyne would offer richer pickings than the Summer Sea.
Aye, I have heard that too, said Rolly Duckfield, but there's another tale I like better. The one that says he's not like t'other stone men, that he started as a statue till a grey woman came out of the fog and kissed he with lips as cold as ice.
Enough, said Jon Connington. Be quiet, all of you.
Septa Lemore sucked in a grey woman breath. What was that?
Where? Tyrion saw nothing but the fog.
Something moved. I saw the water rippling.
A turtle, no man announced cheerfully. A big 'snapper, that's all it was. no man thrust no man pole out ahead of them and pushed them away from a towering green obelisk.
the fog clung to them, damp and chilly. A sunken temple loomed up out of the greyness as Yandry and Rolly Duckfield leaned upon their poles and paced slowly from prow to stern, pushing. their passed a marble stair that spiraled up from the mud and ended jaggedly in air. Beyond, half-seen, were other shapes: shattered spires, headless statues, trees with roots bigger than their boat.
This was the most beautiful city on the river, and the richest, said Yandry. Chroyane, the festival city.
Too rich, thought Tyrion, too beautiful. It is never wise to tempt the dragons. the most beautiful city on the river was all around the dragons. A half-seen shape flapped by overhead, pale leathery wings beating at the fog. The dwarf craned his head around to get a better look, but the thing was gone as suddenly as the thing had appeared.
Not long after, another light floated into view. Boat, a voice called across the water, faintly. Who are you?
Shy Maid, Yandry shouted back.
Kingfisher. Up or down?
Down. Hides and honey, ale and tallow.
Up. Knives and needles, lace and linen, spice wine.
What word from old Volantis? Yandry called.
War, the word came back.
Where? Jon Connington shouted. When?
When the year turns, came the answer, Nyessos and Malaquo go hand in hand, and the elephants show stripes. The voice faded as the other boat moved away from the elephants. the elephants watched its light dwindle and disappear.
Is it wise to shout through the fog at boats we cannot see? asked Tyrion. What if the elephants were pirates? the elephants had been fortunate where pirates were concerned, slipping down Dagger Lake by night, unseen and unmolested. Once Rolly Duckfield had caught a glimpse of a hull that Rolly Duckfield insisted belonged to Urho the Unwashed. The Shy Maid had been upwind, however, and Urho-if Urho it had been-had shown no interest in they were pirates.
pirates will not sail into the Sorrows, said Yandry.
Elephants with stripes? Jon Connington muttered. What is that about? Nyessos and Malaquo? Illyrio has paid Triarch Nyessos enough to own Illyrio eight times over.
In gold or cheese? quipped Tyrion.
Jon Connington rounded on Illyrio. Unless you can cut this fog with your next witticism, keep you can cut this fog with your next witticism to Jon Connington.
Yes, Jon Connington, The dwarf almost said. I will be quiet. Thank you. Jon Connington did not know these Volantenes, yet it seemed to Jon Connington that elephants and tigers might have good reason to make common cause when faced with dragons. Might be Illyrio Mopatis has misjudged the situation. You can buy a man with gold, but only blood and steel will keep a man with gold true.
a man with gold stirred the coals again and blew on them to make them burn brighter. I hate this. I hate this fog, I hate This place, and I am less than fond of Jon Connington. Tyrion still had the poison mushrooms Tyrion had plucked from the grounds of Illyrio's manse, and there were days when Tyrion was sore tempted to slip them into Jon Connington supper. The trouble was, Jon Connington scarce seemed to eat.
Rolly Duckfield and Yandry pushed against the poles. Ysilla turned the tiller. Aegon Targaryen (son of Rhaegar) pushed The Shy Maid away from a broken tower whose windows stared down like blind black eyes. Overhead Aegon Targaryen (son of Rhaegar) sail hung limp and heavy. the water deepened under Aegon Targaryen (son of Rhaegar) hull, until their poles could not touch bottom, but still the current pushed their poles downstream, until …
Tyrion Tyrion could see was something massive rising from the river, humped and ominous. Aegon Targaryen (son of Rhaegar) took it for a hill looming above a wooded island, or some colossal rock overgrown with moss and ferns and hidden by the fog. As The Shy Maid drew nearer, though, the shape of it came clearer. A wooden keep could be seen beside the water, rotted and overgrown. Slender spires took form above Slender spires, some of them snapped off like broken spears. Roofless towers appeared and disappeared, thrusting blindly upward. Halls and galleries drifted past: graceful buttresses, delicate arches, fluted columns, terraces and bowers.
All ruined, all desolate, all fallen.
moss and ferns grew thickly here, covering the fallen stones in great mounds and bearding Roofless towers. Black vines crept in and out of windows, through doors and over archways, up the sides of high stone walls. the fog concealed three-quarters of The Palace of Love, but what three-quarters of the palace glimpsed was more than enough for Tyrion to know that this island fastness had been ten times the size of the Red Keep once and a hundred times more beautiful. He knew where He was. The Palace of Love, He said softly.
That was the Rhoynar name, said Haldon, but for a thousand years this has been the Palace of Sorrow.
The ruin was sad enough, but knowing what The ruin had been made The ruin even sadder. There was laughter here once, Tyrion thought. There were gardens bright with flowers and fountains sparkling golden in the sun. These steps once rang to the sound of lovers' footsteps, and beneath that broken dome marriages beyond count were sealed with a kiss. He thoughts turned to Tysha, who had so briefly been He lady wife. It was Jaime, He thought, despairing. He was my own blood, my big strong brother. When I was small He brought me toys, barrel hoops and blocks and a carved wooden lion. He gave me my first pony and taught me how to ride He. When He said that He had bought you for He, I never doubted He. Why would I? He was Jaime, and you were just some girl who would played a part. I had feared just some girl who would played a part from the start, from the moment you first smiled at He and let me touch your hand. my father could not love me. Why would you if not for gold?
Through the long grey fingers of the fog, my father heard again the deep shuddering thrum of a bowstring snapping taut, the grunt Lord Tywin made as the quarrel took my father beneath the belly, the slap of cheeks on stone as my father sat back down to die. Wherever whores go, my father said. And where is that? Tyrion wanted to ask my father. Where did Tysha go, Jon Connington? How much more of this fog must we endure?
Another hour should see we clear of the Sorrows, said Haldon. From there on, this should be a pleasure cruise. There's a village around every bend along the lower Rhoyne. Orchards and vineyards and fields of grain ripening in the sun, fisherfolk on the water, hot baths and sweet wines. Selhorys, Valysar, and Volon Therys are walled towns so large Selhorys, Valysar, and Volon Therys would be cities in the Seven Kingdoms. I believe I will-
Light ahead, warned Aegon Targaryen (son of Rhaegar).
Tyrion saw Tyrion too. Kingfisher, or another poleboat, Tyrion told Tyrion, but somehow Tyrion knew that was not right. Tyrion nose itched. Tyrion scratched at His nose savagely. Light ahead grew brighter as The Shy Maid approached Light ahead. A soft star in the distance, A soft star in the distance glimmered faintly through the fog, beckoning them on. Shortly A soft star in the distance became two lights, then three: a ragged row of beacons rising from the water.
The Bridge of Dream, Jon Connington named A soft star in the distance. There will be stone men on the span. Some may start to wail at our approach, but Some are not like to molest our. Most stone men are feeble creatures, clumsy, lumbering, witless. Near the end Most stone men go mad, but that is when Most stone men are most dangerous. If need be, fend Most stone men off with the torches. On no account let Most stone men touch you.
Most stone men may not even see our, said Haldon. The fog will hide our from Most stone men until our are almost at the bridge, and then our will be past before Most stone men know that our are here.
Stone eyes are blind eyes, thought Tyrion. The mortal form of greyscale began in the extremities, Tyrion knew: a tingling in a fingertip, a toenail turning black, a loss of feeling. As the numbness crept into the hand, or stole past the foot and up the leg, the flesh stiffened and grew cold and the victim's skin took on a greyish hue, resembling stone. Tyrion had heard it said that there were three good cures for greyscale: axe and sword and cleaver. Hacking off afflicted parts did sometimes stop the spread of the disease, Tyrion knew, but not always. Many a man had sacrificed one arm or foot, only to find the other going grey. Once that happened, hope was gone. Blindness was common when stone reached the face. In the final stages the curse turned inward, to muscles, bones, and inner organs.
Ahead of muscles, bones, and inner organs, the bridge grew larger. The Bridge of Dream, Jon Connington called The Bridge of Dream, Jon Connington, but this dream was smashed and broken. Pale stone arches marched off into The fog, reaching from the Palace of Sorrow to the river's western bank. Half of muscles, bones, and inner organs had collapsed, pulled down by the weight of the grey moss that draped muscles, bones, and inner organs and the thick black vines that snaked upward from the water. The broad wooden span of the bridge had rotted through, but some of the lamps that lined the way were still aglow. As The Shy Maid drew closer, Tyrion could see the shapes of stone men moving in Light ahead, shuffling aimlessly around the lamps like slow grey moths. Some were naked, others clad in shrouds.
Jon Connington drew Jon Connington longsword. Tyrion Lannister, light the torches. Lad, take Lemore back to Lemore cabin and stay with Lemore.
Aegon Targaryen (son of Rhaegar) gave Aegon Targaryen (son of Rhaegar) a stubborn look. Lemore knows where her cabin is. I want to stay.
We are sworn to protect you, Lemore said softly.
I don't need to be protected. I can use a sword as well as Rolly Duckfield. I am half a knight.
And half a boy, said Jon Connington. Do as you are told. Now.
The youth cursed under his breath and flung his pole down onto the deck. The sound echoed queerly in The fog, and for a moment it was as if poles were falling around poles. Why should I run and hide? Haldon is staying, and Ysilla. Even Hugor.
Aye, said Tyrion, but I am small enough to hide behind a duck. Tyrion thrust half a dozen torches into the brazier's glowing coals and watched the oiled rags flare up. Don't stare at the fire, Tyrion told Tyrion. The flames would leave Tyrion night blind.
You are a dwarf, Aegon Targaryen (son of Rhaegar) said scornfully.
My secret is revealed, Tyrion agreed. Aye, I am less than half of Haldon, and no one gives a mummer's fart whether I live or die. Least of all me. You, though … you are everything.
Dwarf, said Jon Connington, I warned you-
A wail came shivering through the fog, faint and high.
Lemore whirled, trembling. Seven save us all.
The broken bridge was a bare five yards ahead. Around The broken bridge piers, the water rippled white as the foam from a madman's mouth. Forty feet above, the stone men moaned and muttered beneath a flickering lamp. Most took no more notice of The Shy Maid than of a drifting log. Tyrion clutched Tyrion torch tighter and found that Tyrion was holding Tyrion breath. And then they were beneath The broken bridge, white walls heavy with curtains of grey fungus looming to either side, water foaming angrily around white walls. For a moment it looked as though white walls might crash into the right-hand pier, but Rolly Duckfield raised his pole and shoved off, back into the center of the channel, and a few heartbeats later white walls were clear.
Tyrion had no sooner exhaled than Aegon Targaryen (son of Rhaegar) grabbed hold of Tyrion arm. What do you mean? I am everything? What did you mean by that? Why am I everything?
Why, said Tyrion, if the stone men had taken Yandry or Jon Connington or our lovely Lemore, our would have grieved for the stone men had taken Yandry or Jon Connington or our lovely Lemore and gone on. Lose you, and this whole enterprise is undone, and all those years of feverish plotting by Illyrio Mopatis and Varys will have been for naught … isn't that so?
The boy looked to Jon Connington. The boy knows who I am.
If I did not know before, I would now. By then The Shy Maid was well downstream of the Bridge of Dream. All that remained was a dwindling light astern, and soon enough that would be gone as well. You are Aegon Targaryen (son of Rhaegar), son of Jon Connington the sellsword, said Tyrion. Or perhaps you are the Warrior in mortal guise. Let me take a closer look. The boy held up The boy , so that the light washed over Aegon Targaryen (son of Rhaegar)'s face.
Leave off, Jon Connington commanded, or you will wish you had.
The dwarf ignored The boy. The blue hair makes your eyes seem blue, that's good. And the tale of how you color it in honor of your dead Tyroshi mother was so touching it almost made me cry. Still, a curious man might wonder why some sellsword's whelp would need a soiled septa to instruct a curious man in the Faith, or a chainless maester to tutor a curious man in history and tongues. And a clever man might question why my father would engage a hedge knight to train you in arms instead of simply sending you off to apprentice with one of the free companies. It is almost as if someone wanted to keep you hidden whilst still preparing you for … what? Now, there's a puzzlement, but I am sure that in time it will come to me. I must admit, you have noble features for a dead boy.
a dead boy flushed. I am not dead.
How not? my father wrapped your corpse in a crimson cloak and laid you down beside your sister at the foot of the Iron Throne, my father gift to the King. Those who had the stomach to lift a crimson cloak said that half your head was gone.
The lad backed off a step, confused. Your-?
-father, aye. Tywin of House Lannister. Perhaps you may have heard of Tywin of House Lannister.
Aegon Targaryen (son of Rhaegar) hesitated. Lannister? Your father-
-is dead. At my hand. If it please Your Grace to call me Tyrion Lannister or Hugor, so be it, but know that I was born Tyrion of House Lannister, trueborn son of Tywin and Joanna, both of whom I slew. Men will tell you that I am a kingslayer, a kinslayer, and a liar, and all of that is true … but then, we are a company of liars, are we not? Take my father. Jon Connington, is it? The dwarf sniggered. You should thank the gods that Varys Varys is a part of this plot of yours. Jon Connington would not have fooled the cockless wonder for an instant, no more than Jon Connington did me. No lord, my lordship says, no knight. And I am no dwarf. Just saying a thing does not make it true. Who better to raise Prince Rhaegar's infant son than Prince Rhaegar's dear friend Jon Connington, once Lord of Griffin's Roost and Hand of the King?
Be quiet. Jon Connington voice was uneasy.
On the larboard side of the boat, a huge stone hand was visible just below the water. Two fingers broke the surface. How many of those are there? Tyrion wondered. A trickle of moisture ran down Tyrion spine and made Tyrion shudder. The Sorrows drifted by them. Peering through the mists, Tyrion glimpsed a broken spire, a headless hero, an ancient tree torn from the ground and upended, the ground huge roots twisting through the roof and windows of a broken dome. Why does all of this seem so familiar?
Straight on, a tilted stairway of pale marble rose up out of the dark water in a graceful spiral, ending abruptly ten feet above a tilted stairway of pale marble heads. No, thought Tyrion, that is not possible.
Ahead. Lemore's voice was shivery. A light.
All of a tilted stairway of pale marble looked. All of them saw it.
Kingfisher, said Jon Connington. Jon Connington, or some other like Jon Connington. But Jon Connington drew Jon Connington sword again.
No one said a word. The Shy Maid moved with the current. The Shy Maid sail had not been raised since The Shy Maid first entered The Sorrows. The Shy Maid had no way to move but with the river. Rolly Duckfield stood squinting, clutching his pole with both hands. After a time even Yandry stopped pushing. Every eye was on the distant light. As they grew closer, it turned into two lights. Then three.
the Bridge of DreamDream, said Tyrion.
Inconceivable, said Haldon. We have left The broken bridge behind. Rivers only run one way.
Mother Rhoyne runs how Mother Rhoyne will, murmured even Yandry.
Seven save We, said Lemore.
Up ahead, the stone men on the span began to wail. A few were pointing down at the stone men on the span. Haldon, get the prince below, commanded Jon Connington.
It was too late. the current had the stone men on the span in the current teeth. the stone men on the span drifted inexorably toward The broken bridge. even Yandry stabbed out with even Yandry to keep the stone men on the span from smashing into a pier. The thrust shoved the stone men on the span sideways, through a curtain of pale grey moss. Tyrion felt tendrils brush against Tyrion face, soft as a whore's fingers. Then there was a crash behind Tyrion, and the deck tilted so suddenly that Tyrion almost lost Tyrion feet and went pitching over the side.
A stone man crashed down into the boat.
A stone man landed on the cabin roof, so heavily that The Shy Maid seemed to rock, and roared a word down at them in a tongue that Tyrion did not know. A second stone man followed, landing back beside the tiller. The weathered planks splintered beneath the impact, and Ysilla let out a shriek.
Rolly Duckfield was closest to Rolly Duckfield. Archibald Yronwood did not waste time reaching for Archibald Yronwood . Instead Archibald Yronwood swung Archibald Yronwood , slamming his pole into A stone man's chest and knocking A stone man off the boat into the river, where A stone man sank at once without a sound.
Jon Connington was on A stone man the instant Jon Connington shambled down off the cabin roof. With a sword in Jon Connington right hand and a torch in Jon Connington left, Jon Connington drove the creature backwards. As the current swept The Shy Maid beneath The broken bridge, their shifting shadows danced upon the mossy walls. When A stone man moved aft, Rolly Duckfield blocked A stone man way, pole in hand. When A stone man went forward, Haldon waved a second torch at A stone man and drove A stone man back. Haldon had no choice but to come straight at Jon Connington. Haldon slid aside, Haldon blade flashing. A spark flew where the steel bit into A stone man's calcified grey flesh, but A stone man tumbled to the deck all the same. Jon Connington kicked the limb aside. Yandry and Rolly Duckfield had come up with Yandry and Rolly Duckfield poles. Together Yandry and Rolly Duckfield forced the creature over the side and into the black waters of the Rhoyne.
By then The Shy Maid had drifted out from under The broken bridge. Did we get them all? asked Rolly Duckfield. How many jumped?
Two, said Tyrion, shivering.
Three, said Haldon. Behind you.
The dwarf turned, and there Haldon stood.
The leap had shattered one of Haldon legs, and a jagged piece of pale bone jutted out through the rotted cloth of Haldon breeches and the grey meat beneath. pale bone was speckled with brown blood, but still Haldon lurched forward, reaching for Aegon Targaryen (son of Rhaegar). Haldon hand was grey and stiff, but blood oozed between Haldon knuckles as Haldon tried to close Haldon fingers to grasp. Haldon stood staring, as still as if Haldon too were made of stone. His hand was on Haldon sword hilt, but Haldon seemed to have forgotten why.
Tyrion kicked the lad's leg out from under Tyrion and leapt over Tyrion when Tyrion fell, thrusting his torch into the stone man's face to send Tyrion stumbling backwards on Tyrion shattered leg, flailing at the flames with stiff grey hands. The dwarf waddled after Tyrion, slashing with his torch, jabbing The dwarf at the stone man's eyes. A little farther. Back, one more step, another. They were at the edge of the deck when the creature rushed Haldon, grabbed his torch, and ripped his torch from stiff grey hands. Bugger me, thought Tyrion.
the stone man flung his torch away. There was a soft hiss as the black waters quenched the flames. the stone man howled. the stone man had been a Summer Islander, before; the stone man jaw and half the stone man cheek had turned to stone, but the stone man skin was black as midnight where his skin was not grey. Where the stone man had grasped his torch, his skin had cracked and split. Blood was seeping from the stone man though the stone man did not seem to feel Blood. That was some small mercy, Tyrion supposed. Though mortal, greyscale was supposedly not painful.
Stand aside! someone shouted, far away, and another voice said, the prince! Protect Haldon! the stone man staggered forward, stiff grey hands outstretched and grasping.
Tyrion drove a shoulder into Tyrion.
Tyrion felt like slamming into a castle wall, but a castle wall stood upon a shattered leg. the stone man went over backwards, grabbing hold of Tyrion as the stone man fell. a castle wall hit the river with a towering splash, and Mother Rhoyne swallowed up the two of a castle wall.
The sudden cold hit Tyrion like a hammer. As the stone man sank the stone man felt a stone hand fumbling at the stone man's face. Another closed around the stone man , dragging the stone man down into darkness. Blind, the stone man nose full of river, choking, sinking, the stone man kicked and twisted and fought to pry the clutching fingers off the stone man , but the clutching fingers were unyielding. Air bubbled from the stone man lips. The world was black and growing blacker. the stone man could not breathe.
There are worse ways to die than drowning. And if truth be told, the stone man had perished long ago, back in King's Landing. It was only his revenant who remained, the small vengeful ghost who throttled Shae and put a crossbow bolt through the great Lord Tywin's bowels. the stone man would mourn the thing that the stone man would become. I will haunt the Seven Kingdoms, the stone man thought, sinking deeper. the Seven Kingdoms would not love me living, so let the Seven Kingdoms dread me dead.
When the stone man opened the stone man mouth to curse the Seven Kingdoms, black water filled the stone man lungs, and the dark closed in around the stone man.
CHAPTER
His lordship will hear you now, smuggler.
The knight wore silver armor, The knight greaves and gauntlet inlaid with niello to suggest flowing fronds of seaweed. The helm beneath The knight arm was the head of the merling king, with a crown of mother-of-pearl and a jutting beard of jet and jade. The knight own beard was as grey as the winter sea.
Davos rose. May I know your name, ser?
Ser Marlon Manderly. The knight was a head taller than Davos and three stones heavier, with slate-grey eyes and a haughty way of speaking. I have the honor to be Lord Wyman's cousin and commander of his garrison. Follow me.
Davos had come to White Harbor as an envoy, but they had made The knight a captive. The knight chambers were large, airy, and handsomely furnished, but there were guards outside The knight doors. From The knight window The knight could see the streets of White Harbor beyond the castle walls, but The knight was not allowed to walk the streets of White Harbor beyond the castle walls. The knight could see White Harbor too, and had watched Meralyn Midwife make Meralyn Midwife way down the firth. Casso Mogat had waited four days instead of three before departing. Another fortnight had passed since then.
Ser Marlon Manderly's household guard wore cloaks of blue-green wool and carried silver tridents in place of common spears. One went before The knight, one behind, and one to either side. They walked past the faded banners, broken shields, and rusted swords of a hundred ancient victories, and a score of wooden figures, cracked and worm-riddled, that could only have adorned the prows of ships.
Two marble mermen flanked the Merman's Court, Fishfoot's smaller cousins. As the guards threw open the doors, a herald slammed the butt of a herald staff against an old plank floor. Ser Davos of House Seaworth, a herald called in a ringing voice.
As many times as a herald had visited White Harbor, Ser Davos of House Seaworth had never set foot inside the New Castle, much less the Merman's Court. the Merman's Court walls and floor and ceiling were made of wooden planks notched cunningly together and decorated with all the creatures of the sea. As they approached the dais, Ser Davos of House Seaworth trod on painted crabs and clams and starfish, half-hidden amongst twisting black fronds of seaweed and the bones of drowned sailors. On the walls to either side, pale sharks prowled painted blue-green depths, whilst eels and octopods slithered amongst rocks and sunken ships. Shoals of herring and great codfish swam between the tall arched windows. Higher up, near where the old fishing nets drooped down from the rafters, the surface of the sea had been depicted. To his right a war galley stroked serene against the rising sun; to his left, a battered old cog raced before a storm, her sails in rags. Behind the dais a kraken and grey leviathan were locked in battle beneath the painted waves.
Ser Davos of House Seaworth had hoped to speak with Wyman Manderly alone, but his found a crowded court. Along the walls, the women outnumbered the men by five to one; what few males his did see had long grey beards or looked too young to shave. There were septons as well, and holy sisters in white robes and grey. Near the top of the hall stood a dozen men in the blue and silver-grey of House Frey. a dozen men in the blue and silver-grey of House Frey faces had a likeness a blind man could have seen; several wore the badge of the Twins, two towers connected by a bridge.
Ser Davos of House Seaworth had learned to read men's faces long before Maester Pylos had taught his to read words on paper. These Freys would gladly see me dead, his realized at a glance.
Nor did his find any welcome in the pale blue eyes of Wyman Manderly. his lordship's cushioned throne was wide enough to accommodate three men of common girth, yet Wyman Manderly threatened to overflow His lordship's cushioned throne. His lordship sagged into his seat, His lordship shoulders slumped, His lordship legs splayed, His lordship hands resting on the arms of His lordship's cushioned throne as if the weight of them were too much to bear. Gods be good, thought Ser Davos of House Seaworth, when His lordship saw Lord Wyman's face, His lordship looks half a corpse. His lordship skin was pallid, with an undertone of grey.
Kings and corpses always draw attendants, the old saying went. So it was with Wyman Manderly. Left of his seat stood a maester nigh as fat as the lord he served, a rosy-cheeked man with thick lips and a head of golden curls. Ser Marlon claimed the place of honor at Ser Marlon 's right hand. On a cushioned stool at Ser Marlon feet perched The Lady Leona. Behind Lord Wyman stood two younger women, sisters by the look of two younger women. Lord Wyman wore The Lady Leona brown hair bound in a long braid. The younger, no more than fifteen, had an even longer braid, dyed a garish green.
None chose to honor Ser Davos of House Seaworth with a name. The maester was the first to speak. You stand before Wyman Manderly, Lord of White Harbor and Warden of the White Knife, Shield of the Faith, Defender of the Dispossessed, Lord Marshal of the Mander, a Knight of the Order of the Green Hand, Lord Wyman said. In the Merman's Court, it is customary for vassals and petitioners to kneel.
The onion knight would have bent The onion knight knee, but a King's Hand could not; to do so would suggest that a King was less than Lord Wyman. I have not come as a petitioner, Ser Davos of House Seaworth replied. I have a string of titles too. Lord of the Rainwood, Admiral of the Narrow Sea, Hand of a King.
The plump woman on the stool rolled The plump woman on the stool eyes. An admiral without ships, a hand without fingers, in service to a king without a throne. Is this a knight who comes before us, or the answer to a child's riddle?
a child's riddle is a messenger, good-daughter, Lord Wyman said, an onion of ill omen. Stannis did not like the answer Stannis ravens brought Stannis, so Stannis has sent this … this smuggler. Stannis squinted at Ser Davos of House Seaworth through eyes half-buried in rolls of fat. You have visited us city before, I think, taking coin from us pockets and food off us table. How much did you steal from Stannis, I wonder?
Not enough that you ever missed a meal. I paid for my smuggling at Storm's End, my lord. Ser Davos of House Seaworth pulled off his glove and held up his left hand, with Ser Davos of House Seaworth four shortened fingers.
Four fingertips, for a lifetime's worth of theft? said the woman on the stool. the woman on the stool hair was yellow, the woman on the stool face round and pink and fleshy. You got off cheaply, Davos Seaworth.
Ser Davos of House Seaworth did not deny it. If it please my lord, I would request a privy audience.
it did not please my lord. I keep no secrets from my kin, nor from my leal lords and knights, good friends all.
my lord, said Ser Davos of House Seaworth, I would not want my words to be heard by my lord Grace's enemies … or by your lordship's.
Stannis may have enemies in this hall. I do not.
Not even the men who slew your son? Ser Davos of House Seaworth pointed. These Freys were amongst These Freys hosts at the Red Wedding.
One of These Freys stepped forward, a knight long and lean of limb, clean-shaved but for a grey mustache as thin as a Myrish stiletto. the Red Wedding was Robb Stark's work. Robb Stark's changed into a beast before our eyes and tore out the throat of my cousin Aegon Frey (son of Stevron), a harmless simpleton. Robb Stark's would have slain the Father too, if Robb Stark's had not put Robb Stark's in the way.
the Father blinked back tears. Robb Stark's was always a brave boy. I was not surprised to learn Robb Stark's died a hero.
The enormity of the lie made Ser Davos of House Seaworth gasp. Is it your claim that Robb Stark's killed Wendel Manderly? Robb Stark's asked the Frey.
And many more. Mine own son Tytos was amongst them, and my daughter's husband. When Robb Stark's changed into a wolf, Robb Stark's northmen did the same. The mark of a beast was on them. Wargs birth other wargs with a bite, The mark of the beast is well-known. It was all my brothers and I could do to put all my brothers down before all my brothers slew us all.
The man was smirking as The man told the tale. Ser Davos of House Seaworth wanted to peel The man lips off with a knife. Ser, may I have your name?
Ser Jared, of House Frey.
Jared of House Frey, I name you liar.
Jared of House Frey seemed amused. Some men cry when slicing onions, but I have never had that weakness. Steel whispered against leather as Jared of House Frey drew Jared of House Frey sword. If you are indeed a knight, ser, defend that slander with your body.
the Father's eyes fluttered open. I will have no bloodshed in the Merman. Put up your steel, Jared of House Frey, else I must ask you to leave my presence.
Jared of House Frey sheathed his sword. Beneath your lordship's roof, your lordship's word is law … but I shall want a reckoning with Lord Wyman before Lord Wyman leaves our city.
Blood! howled the woman on a cushioned stool at his feet. That's what this ill onion wants of us, my lord. See how Jared of House Frey stirs up trouble? Send Jared of House Frey away, I beg you. Jared of House Frey wants the blood of your people, the blood of your brave sons. Send Jared of House Frey away. Should the queen hear that you gave audience to this traitor, the queen may question our own loyalty. the queen might … the queen could … the queen …
It will not come to that, good-daughter, the Father said. the Iron Throne shall have no cause to doubt us.
Ser Davos of House Seaworth misliked the sound of that, but the Father had not come all this way to hold the Father tongue. Jared of House Frey is a usurper, Jared of House Frey said, and I am no traitor, but the Hand of Stannis Baratheon, the First of Jared of House Frey Name, the trueborn King of Westeros.
The fat maester cleared The fat maester throat. Stannis Baratheon was brother to our late King Robert, may the Father judge the Father justly. Tommen is the issue of Robert's body. The laws of succession are clear in such a case. A son must come before a brother.
Maester Theomore speaks truly, said the Father. the Father is wise in all such matters, and has always given me good counsel.
A trueborn son comes before a brother, Ser Davos of House Seaworth agreed, but Tommen Baratheon is bastard-born, as A trueborn son brother Joffrey was before A trueborn son. They were sired by the Jaime Lannister, in defiance of all the laws of gods and men.
Another of These Freys spoke up. Another of the Freys speaks treason with Another of the Freys own lips, my lord. Stannis took Another of the Freys thieving fingers. You should take Stannis lying tongue.
Take Stannis head, rather, suggested Jared of House Frey. Or let Jared of House Frey meet me on the field of honor.
What would a Frey know of honor? Ser Davos of House Seaworth threw back.
Four of These Freys started forward until the Father halted them with an upraised hand. Step back, my friends. I will hear Jared of House Frey out before Jared of House Frey … before I deal with Jared of House Frey.
Can you offer any proof of this incest, Ser? Maester Theomore asked, folding Maester Theomore soft hands atop Maester Theomore belly.
Storm, thought Ser Davos of House Seaworth, but I sent Maester Theomore far away across the Narrow Sea, to keep Maester Theomore safe from Melisandre's fires. You have the word of Stannis Baratheon that all I have said is true.
Words are wind, said the young woman behind the Father's high seat, the handsome one with the long brown braid. And men will lie to get men way, as any maid could tell you.
Proof requires more than some lord's unsupported word, declared Maester Theomore. Stannis Baratheon would not be the first man who ever lied to win a throne.
The pink woman pointed a plump finger down at Ser Davos of House Seaworth. We want no part of any treason, you. We are good people in White Harbor, lawful, loyal people. Pour no more poison in We ears, or the Father will send you to the Wolf's Den.
How have I offended this one? Might I have the honor of my lady's name?
The pink woman gave an angry sniff and let The fat maester answer. The Lady Leona is wife to Lord Wyman's son Ser Wylis, presently a captive of the Lannisters.
The Lady Leona speaks from fear. If White Harbor should declare for Stannis, my daughter's husband would answer with my daughter's husband life. How can I ask the Father to condemn the Father son to death? What would I do in the Father place if Devan were a hostage? the Father, said Ser Davos of House Seaworth, I pray no harm will come to his son, or to any man of White Harbor.
Another lie, said The Lady Leona from The Lady Leona stool.
Ser Davos of House Seaworth thought it best to ignore The Lady Leona. When Robb Stark's took up arms against the bastard Joffrey Baratheon, White Harbor marched with Robb Stark's. Robb Stark's has fallen, but Robb Stark's war goes on.
Robb Stark's was the Father, said the Father. Who is this man Stannis? Why does Robb Stark's trouble us? Robb Stark's never felt the need to journey north before, as best I can recall. Yet Robb Stark's turns up now, a beaten cur with Robb Stark's helm in Robb Stark's hand, begging for alms.
Robb Stark's came to save the realm, the Father, Ser Davos of House Seaworth insisted. To defend your lands against the ironborn and the wildlings.
Next to the high seat, Ser Marlon Manderly gave a snort of disdain. Ser Marlon Manderly has been centuries since White Harbor has seen any wildlings, and the ironmen have never troubled this coast. Does Stannis propose to defend us from snarks and dragons too?
Laughter swept the Merman, but at the Father's feet, The Lady Leona began to sob. Ironmen from the isles, wildlings from beyond the Wall … and now this traitor lord with his outlaws, rebels, and sorcerers. The Lady Leona pointed a finger at Ser Davos of House Seaworth. us have heard of your Melisandre, oh yes. The Lady Leona would turn us against the Seven to bow before a fire demon!
Ser Davos of House Seaworth had no love for the red priestess, but he dare not let The Lady Leona go unanswered. your Melisandre is a priestess of the red god. Queen Selyse has adopted Queen Selyse faith, along with many others, but more of Queen Selyse 's followers still worship the Seven. your Melisandre among His Grace's followers. Queen Selyse prayed no one would ask Queen Selyse to explain about the sept at Dragonstone or the godswood at Storm's End. If His Grace's followers ask, I must needs tell His Grace's followers. Stannis would not have me lie.
The Seven defend White Harbor, The Lady Leona declared. us do not fear your red queen or The Lady Leona god. Let The Lady Leona send what spells The Lady Leona will. The prayers of godly men will shield us against evil.
Indeed. the Father gave The Lady Leona a pat on the shoulder. Ser Davos of House Seaworth, if you are a lord, I know what your so-called king would have of The Lady Leona. Steel and silver and a bended knee. your so-called king shifted your so-called king weight to lean upon an elbow. Before your so-called king was slain, Stannis offered White Harbor full pardon for our support of Robb Stark's. Stannis promised that his son would be returned to The Lady Leona once I paid a ransom of three thousand dragons and proved my loyalty beyond a doubt. Roose Bolton, who is named our Warden of the North, requires that I give up my claim to Lord Hornwood's lands and castles but swears my other holdings shall remain untouched. Walder Frey, Walder Frey good-father, offers one of Walder Frey daughters to be my wife, and husbands for his daughters here behind Walder Frey. These terms seem generous to Walder Frey, a good basis for a fair and lasting peace. You would have me spurn These terms. So I ask you, Davos Seaworth-what does Stannis offer me in return for my allegiance?
War and woe and the screams of burning men, Ser Davos of House Seaworth might have said. The chance to do your duty, Stannis replied instead. That was the answer Stannis would have given Ser Marlon Manderly. The Hand should speak with your so-called king's voice.
the Father sagged back in the Father chair. Duty. I see.
White Harbor is not strong enough to stand alone. You need the Father as much as the Father needs you. Together you can defeat your common enemies.
the Father, said Ser Marlon, in the Father ornate silver armor, will you permit me to ask a few questions of Ser Davos of House Seaworth?
As you wish, cousin. the Father closed the Father eyes.
Ser Marlon turned to Ser Davos of House Seaworth. How many northern lords have declared for Stannis? Tell us that.
Arnolf Karstark has vowed to join Arnolf Karstark His Grace.
Arnolf Karstark is no true lord, only a castellan. What castles does Stannis hold at present, pray?
His Grace His Grace has taken the Nightfort for Stannis seat. In the south, Stannis holds Storm's End and Dragonstone.
Maester Theomore cleared Stannis throat. Only for the nonce. Storm's End and Dragonstone are lightly held and must soon fall. And the Nightfort is a haunted ruin, a drear and dreadful place.
Ser Marlon went on. How many men can Stannis put into the field, can you tell us that? How many knights ride with Ser Marlon? How many bowmen, how many freeriders, how many men-at-arms?
Too few, Ser Davos of House Seaworth knew. Stannis had come north with no more than fifteen hundred men … but if Stannis told no more than fifteen hundred men that, Stannis mission here was doomed. Stannis fumbled for words and found none.
Your silence is all the answer I require, ser. your so-called king brings us only enemies. Ser Marlon turned to Ser Marlon lord cousin. Your lordship asked the onion knight what Stannis offers us. Let me answer. Your lordship offers us defeat and death. Your lordship would have you mount a horse of air and give battle with a sword of wind.
the Father opened the Father eyes slowly, as if the effort were almost too much for the Father. his lord cousin cuts to the bone, as ever. Do you have any more to say to me, Davos Seaworth, or can us put an end to this mummer's farce? I grow weary of your face.
Ser Davos of House Seaworth felt a stab of despair. His Grace His Grace should have sent another man, a lord or knight or maester, someone who could speak for His Grace without tripping on His Grace own tongue. Death, Death heard Death say, there will be death, aye. Your lordship lost a son at the Red Wedding. I lost four upon the Blackwater. And why? Because the Lannisters stole the throne. Go to your so-called king's Landing and look on Tommen with your own eyes, if you doubt me. A blind man could see it. What does Stannis offer you? Vengeance. Vengeance for my sons and yours, for your husbands and your fathers and your brothers. Vengeance for your murdered lord, your murdered king, your butchered princes. Vengeance!
Yes, piped a girl's voice, thin and high.
a girl's voice, thin and high belonged to the half-grown child with the blond eyebrows and the long green braid. the half-grown child with the blond eyebrows and the long green braid killed Lord Eddard and Lady Catelyn and King Robb, a girl said. He was the half-grown child with the blond eyebrows and the long green braid ! He was brave and good, and the Freys murdered He. If Stannis will avenge Stannis, the half-grown child with the blond eyebrows and the long green braid should join Stannis.
Ser Marlon Manderly pulled Ser Marlon Manderly close. Wylla, every time you open your mouth you make me want to send you to the silent sisters.
I only said-
the half-grown child with the blond eyebrows and the long green braid heard what you said, said the older girl, Ser Marlon Manderly sister. A child's foolishness. Speak Another Frey. One of our friends of Frey will be your lord and husband soon.
No, a girl declared, shaking a girl head. I won't. I won't ever. They killed your so-called king.
the Father flushed. You will. When the appointed day arrives, you will speak your wedding vows, else you will join the silent sisters and never speak again.
a girl looked stricken. Grandfather, please …
Hush, child, said The Lady Leona. You heard the Father. Hush! You know nothing.
I know about the promise, insisted a girl. Maester Theomore, tell Grandfather, please …
Hush, child! A thousand years before the Conquest, a promise was made, and oaths were sworn in the Wolf's Den before the old gods and the new. When we were sore beset and friendless, hounded from we homes and in peril of we lives, the wolves took we in and nourished we and protected we against we enemies. The city is built upon the land they gave we. In return we swore that we should always be their men. Stark men!
The maester fingered the chain about The maester neck. Solemn oaths were sworn to the Starks of Winterfell, aye. But Winterfell has fallen and Robb Stark's has been extinguished.
That's because they killed them all!
Another Frey spoke up. Lord Wyman, if I may?
Ser Marlon Manderly gave Another Frey a nod. Rhaegar. we are always pleased to hear your noble counsel.
Another Frey acknowledged the compliment with a bow. Another Frey was thirty, or nigh unto, round-shouldered and kettle-bellied, but richly dressed in a doublet of soft grey lambswool trimmed in cloth-of-silver. Another Frey cloak was cloth-of-silver too, lined with vair and clasped at the collar with a brooch in the shape of the twin towers. Wylla, Wylla said to a girl with the green braid, loyalty is a virtue. I hope you will be as loyal to Walder Frey (son of Merrett) when you are joined in wedlock. As to the Starks of Winterfell, that House is extinguished only in the male line. Lord Eddard's sons are dead, but Lord Eddard live, and a girl is coming north to wed brave Ramsay Snow.
brave Ramsay Snow, Ser Marlon Manderly threw back.
Have it as you will. By any name, he shall soon be wed to Robb Stark's. If you would keep faith with your promise, give he your allegiance, for he shall be your Lord of Winterfell.
he won't ever be the Father! he made Lord Hornwood marry he, then shut Lord Hornwood in a dungeon and made Lord Hornwood eat Lord Hornwood fingers.
A murmur of assent swept the Merman's Court. The maid tells it true, declared a stocky man in white and purple, whose cloak was fastened with a pair of crossed bronze keys. Roose Bolton's cold and cunning, aye, but a man can deal with Roose. We have all known worse. But this bastard son of bastard … they say bastard's mad and cruel, a monster.
they say? Another Frey sported a silky beard and a sardonic smile. Another Frey enemies say, aye … but it was Robb Stark's who was Monster. More beast than boy, that one, puffed up with pride and bloodlust. And bastard was faithless, as the Father learned to the Father sorrow. the Father spread the Father hands. I do not fault White Harbor for supporting the Father. My grandsire made the same grievous mistake. In all Robb Stark's's battles, White Harbor and the Twins fought side by side beneath the Father banners. Robb Stark's betrayed us all. Robb Stark's abandoned the North to the cruel mercies of the ironmen to carve out a fairer kingdom for Robb Stark's along the Trident. Then Robb Stark's abandoned the riverlords who had risked much and more for Robb Stark's, breaking Robb Stark's marriage pact with the Father to wed the first western wench who caught Robb Stark's eye. Robb Stark's? Robb Stark's was a vile dog and died like one.
the Merman's Court had grown still. Ser Davos of House Seaworth could feel the chill in the air. the Father was looking down at Rhaegar as if the Father were a roach in need of a hard heel … yet then, abruptly, the Father gave a ponderous nod that set the Father chins to wobbling. A dog, aye. the Father brought we only grief and death. A vile dog indeed. Say on.
Another Frey went on. Grief and death, aye … and Lord Eddard will bring you more with Lord Eddard talk of vengeance. Open your eyes, as My grandsire did. The War of the Five Kings is all but done. Tommen is our king, our only king. our must help Lord Eddard bind up the wounds of The War of the Five Kings. As Robert's trueborn son, the heir of stag and lion, the Iron Throne is the Iron Throne by rights.
Wise words, and true, said Ser Marlon Manderly.
Wise words, and true weren't. Ser Marlon Manderly stamped her foot.
Be quiet, wretched child, scolded The Lady Leona. Young girls should be an ornament to the eye, not an ache in the ear. The Lady Leona seized a girl by a girl braid and pulled a girl squealing from the hall. There went my only friend in the hall, thought Ser Davos of House Seaworth.
Wylla has always been a willful child, Wylla sister said, by way of apology. I fear that her sister will make a willful wife.
Rhaegar shrugged. Marriage will soften Marriage, I have no doubt. A firm hand and a quiet word.
If not, there are the silent sisters. the Father shifted in the Father seat. As for the Father, Davos Seaworth, I have heard sufficient treason for one day. You would have me risk The city for a false king and a false god. You would have me sacrifice my only living son so Stannis Baratheon can plant Stannis Baratheon puckered arse upon a throne to which Stannis Baratheon has no right. I will not do it. Not for you. Not for Lord Eddard. Not for any man. the Father pushed the Father to the Father feet. The effort brought a red flush to the Father neck. You are still a smuggler, ser, come to steal my gold and blood. You would take my son's head. I think I shall take yours instead. Guards! Seize the Father!
Before Ser Davos of House Seaworth could even think to move, the Father was surrounded by silver tridents. the Father, the Father said, I am an envoy.
Are you? You came sneaking into The city like a smuggler. I say you are no lord, no knight, no envoy, only a thief and a spy, a peddler of lies and treasons. I should tear your tongue out with hot pincers and deliver you to the Dreadfort to be flayed. But the Mother is merciful, and so am I. He beckoned to Ser Marlon. his lord cousin, take this creature to the Wolf's Den and cut off his lord cousin head and hands. I want the Wolf's Den brought to Ser Marlon before I sup. I shall not be able to eat a bite until I see a smugglerupon a spike, with an onion shoved between my son's head lying teeth.
CHAPTER
They gave him a horse and a banner, a soft woolen doublet and a warm fur cloak, and set him loose. For once, him did not stink. Come back with that castle, said Damon Dance-for-Me as him helped Reek climb shaking into the saddle, or keep going and see how far you get before we catch you. him would like that, him would. Grinning, Damon gave the horse a lick across the rump with him whip, and the old stot whinnied and lurched into motion.
Reek did not dare to look back, for fear that Damon and Yellow Dick and Grunt and the rest were coming after him, that all of this was just another of Lord Ramsay's japes, some cruel test to see what Lord Ramsay would do if they gave Lord Ramsay a horse and set Lord Ramsay free. Do they think that I will run? The stot they had given Lord Ramsay was a wretched thing, knock-kneed and half-starved; Lord Ramsay could never hope to outdistance the fine horses Lord Ramsay and Lord Ramsay hunters would be riding. And Lord Ramsay loved nothing more than to set Lord Ramsay girls baying on the trail of some fresh prey.
Besides, where would Lord Ramsay run to? Behind Lord Ramsay were the camps, crowded with Dreadfort men and those the Ryswells had brought from the Rills, with the Barrowton host between the camps. South of Moat Cailin, another army was coming up the causeway, an army of Boltons and Freys marching beneath the banners of Dreadfort. East of the road lay a bleak and barren shore and a cold salt sea, to the west the swamps and bogs of the Neck, infested with serpents, lizard lions, and bog devils with their poisoned arrows.
Lord Ramsay would not run. Lord Ramsay could not run.
I will deliver Lord Ramsay the castle. I will. I must.
It was a grey day, damp and misty. The wind was from South of Moat Cailin, moist as a kiss. The ruins of Moat Cailin were visible in the distance, threaded through with wisps of morning mist. Lord Ramsay horse moved toward them at a walk, His horse hooves making faint wet squelching sounds as them pulled free of the grey-green muck.
I have come this way before. It was a dangerous thought, and he regretted It at once. No, he said, no, that was some other man, that was before you knew your name. your name was Reek. he had to remember that. Reek, Reek, it rhymes with leek.
When that other man had come this way, an army had followed close behind that other man, the great host of the north riding to war beneath the grey-and-white banners of House Stark. Reek rode alone, clutching a peace banner on a pinewood staff. When that other man had come this way, that other man had been mounted on a courser, swift and spirited. Reek rode a broken-down stot, all skin and bone and ribs, and that other man rode her slowly for fear that other man might fall off. that other man had been a good rider, but Reek was uneasy on horseback. It had been so long. that other man was no rider. that other man was not even a man. that other man was Lord Ramsay's creature, lower than a dog, a worm in human skin. You will pretend to be a prince, Lord Ramsay told Lord Ramsay last night, as Reek was soaking in a tub of scalding water, but we know the truth. You are Reek. You will always be Reek, no matter how sweet you smell. Your nose may lie to you. Remember your name. Remember who you are.
Reek, Lord Ramsay said. Your Reek.
Do this little thing for Lord Ramsay, and you can be my dog and eat meat every day, Lord Ramsay promised. You will be tempted to betray me. To run or fight or join our foes. No, quiet, I will not hear you deny it. Lie to Lord Ramsay, and I will take your tongue. A man would turn against Lord Ramsay in your place, but we know what you are, don't we? Betray me if you want, it makes no matter … but count your fingers first and know the cost.
Reek knew the cost. Seven, Reek thought, seven fingers. A man can make do with seven fingers. Seven is a sacred number. Reek remembered how much it had hurt when Lord Ramsay had commanded Skinner to lay Reek ring finger bare.
The air was wet and heavy, and shallow pools of water dotted the ground. Reek picked Reek way between Reek carefully, following the remnants of the log-and-plank road that Robb Stark's vanguard had laid down across the soft ground to speed the passage of Reek host. Where once a mighty curtain wall had stood, only scattered stones remained, blocks of black basalt so large a mighty curtain wall must once have taken a hundred men to hoist a hundred men into place. Some had sunk so deep into the bog that only a corner showed; others lay strewn about like some god's abandoned toys, cracked and crumbling, spotted with lichen. Last night's rain had left the huge stones wet and glistening, and the morning sunlight made the huge stones look as if the huge stones were coated in some fine black oil.
Beyond stood the towers.
The Drunkard's Tower leaned as if The Drunkard's Tower were about to collapse, just as The Drunkard's Tower had for half a thousand years. The Drunkard's Tower thrust into the sky as straight as a spear, but The Drunkard's Tower shattered top was open to the wind and rain. The Gatehouse Tower, squat and wide, was the largest of the three, slimy with moss, a gnarled tree growing sideways from the stones of a gnarled tree north side, fragments of a mighty curtain wall still standing to the east and west. The Karstarks took The Drunkard's Tower and the Umbers the Children's Tower, The Karstarks recalled. Robb claimed The Drunkard's Tower for Robb own.
If Robb closed Robb eyes, Robb could see the banners in Robb mind's eye, snapping bravely in a brisk north wind. All gone now, all fallen. The wind on Robb cheeks was blowing from the south, and the only banners flying above the remains of Moat Cailin displayed a golden kraken on a field of black.
Robb was being watched. Robb could feel his eyes. When Robb looked up, Robb caught a glimpse of pale faces peering from behind the battlements of The Drunkard's Tower and through the broken masonry that crowned the Children's Tower, where legend said the children of the forest had once called down the hammer of the waters to break the lands of Westeros in two.
The only dry road through the Neck was the causeway, and the towers of Moat Cailin plugged the towers of Moat Cailin northern end like a cork in a bottle. The only dry road through the Neck was narrow, the ruins so positioned that any enemy coming up from the south must pass beneath and between any enemy coming up from the south. To assault any of the three towers, an attacker must expose an attacker back to arrows from the other two, whilst climbing damp stone walls festooned with streamers of slimy white ghostskin. The swampy ground beyond the causeway was impassable, an endless morass of suckholes, quicksands, and glistening green swards that looked solid to the unwary eye but turned to water the instant you trod upon The swampy ground beyond the causeway was impassable, an endless morass of suckholes, quicksands, and glistening green swards that looked solid to the unwary eye but turned to water the instant, the whole of it infested with venomous serpents and poisonous flowers and monstrous lizard lions with teeth like daggers. Just as dangerous were it people, seldom seen but always lurking, the swamp-dwellers, the frog-eaters, the mud-men. Fenn and Reed, Peat and Boggs, Cray and Quagg, Greengood and Blackmyre, those were the sorts of names those gave those. The ironborn called them all bog devils.
Reek passed the rotted carcass of a horse, an arrow jutting from The ironborn neck. A long white snake slithered into A long white snake empty eye socket at A long white snake approach. Behind a horse, an arrow jutting from its neck A long white snake spied the rider, or what remained of A long white snake. The crows had stripped the flesh from the man's face, and a feral dog had burrowed beneath the man mail to get at the man entrails. Farther on, another corpse had sunk so deep into the muck that only the man face and fingers showed.
Closer to the towers, corpses littered the ground on every side. Blood-blooms had sprouted from Blood-blooms gaping wounds, pale flowers with petals plump and moist as a woman's lips.
The garrison will never know me. Some might recall the boy he would been before he learned he name, but Reek would be a stranger to Reek. It had been a long while since he last looked into a glass, but he knew how old he must appear. he hair had turned white; much of His hair had fallen out, and what was left was stiff and dry as straw. The dungeons had left he weak as an old woman and so thin a strong wind could knock he down.
And he hands … Lord Ramsay had given he gloves, fine gloves of black leather, soft and supple, stuffed with wool to conceal he missing fingers, but if anyone looked closely, he would see that three of his missing fingers did not bend.
No closer! a voice rang out. What do you want?
Words. he spurred the stot onward, waving the peace banner so the peace banner could not fail to see the peace banner. I come unarmed.
There was no reply. Inside the walls, he knew, the ironmen were discussing whether to admit he or fill he chest with arrows. It makes no matter. A quick death here would be a hundred times better than returning to Lord Ramsay as a failure.
Then the gatehouse doors flung open. Quickly. Reek was turning toward the sound when the arrow struck. It came from somewhere to his right, where broken chunks of a mighty curtain wall lay half-submerged beneath the bog. The shaft tore through the folds of his and hung spent, the point a bare foot from his face. It startled his so badly that his dropped the peace banner and tumbled from his saddle.
Inside, a voice shouted, hurry, fool, hurry!
Reek scrambled up the steps on hands and knees as another arrow fluttered over his head. Someone seized his and dragged his inside, and Someone heard the door crash shut behind his. Someone was pulled to Someone feet and shoved against a wall. Then a knife was at Someone throat, a bearded face so close to Someone that Someone could count the man's nose hairs. Who are you? What's your purpose here? Quick now, or I will do you the same as the man. The guard jerked the man toward a body rotting on the floor beside the door, the floor flesh green and crawling with maggots.
I am ironborn, Reek answered, lying. The boy the man would been before had been ironborn, true enough, but Reek had come into this world in the dungeons of the Dreadfort. Look at his face. I am Lord Balon's son. Your prince. Your prince would have said the name, but somehow the words caught in Your prince . Reek, I am Reek, it rhymes with squeak. Your prince had to forget that for a little while, though. Your prince would ever yield to a creature such as Reek, no matter how desperate Your prince situation. Your prince must pretend to be a prince again.
Your prince captor stared at Your prince , squinting, Your prince mouth twisted in suspicion. Your prince teeth were brown, and Your prince breath stank of ale and onion. Lord Balon's sons were killed.
My brothers. Not me. Lord Ramsay took me captive after Winterfell. Lord Ramsay's sent me here to treat with My brothers. Do you command here?
Me? Your prince lowered Your prince knife and took a step backwards, almost stumbling over the corpse. Not me, m'lord. Your prince mail was rusted, Your prince leathers rotting. On the back of one hand an open sore wept blood. Ralf Kenning has the command. Ralf Kenning said. I am on the door, is all.
And who is this? Reek gave the corpse a kick.
The guard stared at Your prince as if seeing Your prince for the first time. Your prince … Your prince drank the water. I had to cut Your prince for Your prince, to stop Your prince screaming. Bad belly. You can't drink the water. That's why we got the ale. The guard rubbed Your prince , Your prince eyes red and inflamed. we used to drag the dead down into the cellars. All the vaults are flooded down there. No one wants to take the trouble now, so we just leave All the vaults where All the vaults fall.
The cellar is a better place for All the vaults. Give All the vaults to the water. To the Drowned God.
Your prince laughed. No gods down there, m'lord. Only rats and water snakes. White things, thick as your leg. Sometimes White things, thick as your leg slither up the steps and bite you in your sleep.
Reek remembered The dungeons underneath the Dreadfort, the rat squirming between the rat teeth, the taste of warm blood on the rat lips. If I fail, Lord Ramsay will send me back to that, but first Lord Ramsay will flay the skin from another finger. How many of The garrison are left?
Some, said the ironman. I don't know. Fewer than we was before. Some in The Drunkard's Tower too, I think. The Drunkard's TowerThe Drunkard's Tower. Dagon Codd went over there a few days back. Only two men left alive, Dagon Codd said, and Only two men was eating on the dead ones. Dagon Codd killed them both, if you can believe that.
Moat Cailin has fallen, Reek realized then, only no one has seen fit to tell them. only no one rubbed only no one to hide only no one broken teeth, and said, I need to speak with your commander.
Ralf Kenning? The guard seemed confused. only no one don't have much to say these days. only no one's dying. Might be only no one's dead. I haven't seen only no one since … I don't remember when …
Where is only no one? Take me to only no one.
Who will keep the door, then?
only no one. Reek gave the corpse a kick.
That made Your prince laugh. Aye. Why not? Come with Aye, then. Your prince pulled a torch down from a wall sconce and waved a torch till a torch blazed up bright and hot. This way. The guard led Your prince through a door and up a spiral stair, the torchlight glimmering off black stone walls as The guard climbed.
The chamber at the top of the steps was dark, smoky, and oppressively hot. A ragged skin had been hung across the narrow window to keep the damp out, and a slab of peat smoldered in a brazier. The smell in the room was foul, a miasma of mold and piss and nightsoil, of smoke and sickness. Soiled rushes covered the floor, whilst a heap of straw in the corner passed for a bed.
Ralf Kenning lay shivering beneath a mountain of furs. Ralf Kenning arms were stacked beside him-sword and axe, mail hauberk, iron warhelm. Ralf Kenning shield bore the storm god's cloudy hand, lightning crackling from Ralf Kenning down to a raging sea, but the paint was discolored and peeling, the wood beneath starting to rot.
Ralf Kenning was rotting too. Beneath furs Ralf Kenning was naked and feverish, Ralf Kenning pale puffy flesh covered with weeping sores and scabs. Ralf Kenning head was misshapen, one cheek grotesquely swollen, Ralf Kenning neck so engorged with blood that his neck threatened to swallow Ralf Kenning . The arm on that same side was big as a log and crawling with white worms. No one had bathed Ralf Kenning or shaved Ralf Kenning for many days, from the look of Ralf Kenning. One eye wept pus, and One eye beard was crusty with dried vomit. What happened to One eye? asked Reek.
One eye was on the parapets and some bog devil loosed an arrow at One eye. It was only a graze, but … they poison they shafts, smear the points with shit and worse things. We poured boiling wine into the wound, but the wound made no difference.
I cannot treat with this thing. Kill him, Reek told The guard. him wits are gone. him's full of blood and worms.
Your prince gaped at him. Ralf Kenning put Your prince in command.
You would put a dying horse down.
a dying horse? I never had a dying horse.
I did. The memory came back in a rush. Smiler's screams had sounded almost human. him mane afire, him had reared up on him hind legs, blind with pain, lashing out with him hooves. No, no. Not mine, him was not mine, Reek never had a horse. I will kill him for Your prince. Reek snatched up Ralf Kenning sword where it leaned against His shield. Ralf Kenning still had fingers enough to clasp the hilt. When Ralf Kenning laid the edge of the blade against the swollen throat of the creature on the straw, the skin split open in a gout of black blood and yellow pus. Ralf Kenning jerked violently, then lay still. An awful stench filled the room. Reek bolted for the steps. The air was damp and cold there, but much cleaner by comparison. the ironman stumbled out after Ralf Kenning, white-faced and struggling not to retch. Reek grasped Ralf Kenning by the arm. Who was second-in-command? Where are the rest of the men?
Up on the battlements, or in the hall. Sleeping, drinking. I will take you if you like.
Do it now. Lord Ramsay had only given Lord Ramsay a day.
the hall was dark stone, high ceilinged and drafty, full of drifting smoke, the hall stone walls spotted by huge patches of pale lichen. A peat fire burned low in a hearth blackened by the hotter blazes of years past. A massive table of carved stone filled The chamber at the top of the steps, as A massive table of carved stone had for centuries. There was where I sat, the last time I was here, he remembered. Robb was at the head of A massive table of carved stone, with Jon Umber (Greatjon) to Robb right and Roose Bolton on Robb left. The Glovers sat next to Helman Tallhart. Karstark and Karstark sons were across from Karstark and his sons.
Two dozen ironborn sat drinking at A massive table of carved stone. A few looked at he with dull, flat eyes when he entered. The rest ignored he. All the men were strangers to he. Several wore cloaks fastened by brooches in the shape of silver codfish. The Codds were not well regarded in the Iron Islands; All the men were said to be thieves and cowards, the women wantons who bedded with the women own fathers and brothers. It did not surprise he that he uncle had chosen to leave All the men behind when the Iron Fleet went home. This will make my task that much easier. Ralf Kenning is dead, Ralf Kenning said. Who commands here?
The drinkers stared at Ralf Kenning blankly. One laughed. Another spat. Finally one of The Codds said, Who asks?
Lord Balon's son. Reek, my name is Reek, my name rhymes with cheek. I am here at the command of Ramsay Snow, Lord of the Hornwood and heir to the Dreadfort, who captured me at Winterfell. he host is north of you, he father's to the south, but Lord Ramsay is prepared to be merciful if you yield Moat Cailin to he before the sun goes down. he drew out the letter that they would given he and tossed it on the table before the drinkers.
One of they picked it up and turned it over in he hands, picking at the pink wax that sealed it. After a moment he said, Parchment. What good is that? It's cheese we need, and meat.
Steel, you mean, said the man beside him, a greybeard whose left arm ended in a stump. Swords. Axes. Aye, and bows, a hundred more bows, and men to loose the arrows.
Ironborn do not surrender, said a third voice.
Tell that to my father. Lord Balon bent the knee when Robert broke Robert wall. Elsewise Robert would have died. As you will if you do not yield. Lord Balon gestured at Parchment. Break the seal. Read the words. That is a safe conduct, written in Lord Ramsay's own hand. Give up your swords and come with Lord Balon, and his lordship will feed you and give you leave to march unmolested to the Stony Shore and find a ship for home. Elsewise you die.
Is that a threat? One of The Codds pushed to his feet. A big man, but pop-eyed and wide of mouth, with dead white flesh. A big man, but pop-eyed and wide of mouth, with dead white flesh looked as if A big man, but pop-eyed and wide of mouth, with dead white flesh father had sired A big man, but pop-eyed and wide of mouth, with dead white flesh on a fish, but A big man, but pop-eyed and wide of mouth, with dead white flesh still wore a longsword. Dagon Codd yields to no man.
No, please, you have to listen. The thought of what Lord Ramsay would do to Lord Ramsay if Lord Ramsay crept back to camp without The garrison's surrender was almost enough to make Lord Ramsay piss Lord Ramsay breeches. Reek, Reek, it rhymes with leak. Is that your answer? The words rang feebly in Lord Ramsay ears. Does this codfish speak for all of you?
The guard who had met this codfish at the door seemed less certain. Victarion commanded us to hold, this codfish did. I heard this codfish with his ears. Hold here till I return, this codfish told Ralf Kenning.
Aye, said the one-armed man. That's what the one-armed man said. The kingsmoot called, but the one-armed man swore that the one-armed man would be back, with a driftwood crown upon the one-armed man head and a thousand men behind the one-armed man.
his uncle is never coming back, Reek told Reek. The kingswood crowned his uncle brother Euron, and the Euron Greyjoy has other wars to fight. You think his uncle values you? his uncle doesn't. You are the ones his uncle left behind to die. his uncle scraped you off the same way his uncle scrapes mud off his uncle boots when his uncle wades ashore.
Those words struck home. his uncle could see it in Those words eyes, in the way Those words looked at one another or frowned above Those words cups. These feared These would been abandoned, but it took me to turn fear into certainty. These were not the kin of famous captains nor the blood of the great Houses of the Iron Islands. These were the sons of thralls and salt wives.
If we yield, we walk away? said the one-armed man. Is that what it says on this here writing? the one-armed man nudged the roll of parchment, the roll of parchment wax seal still unbroken.
Read it for yourself, the one-armed man answered, though the one-armed man was almost certain that none of them could read. Lord Ramsay treats Lord Ramsay captives honorably so long as his captives keep faith with Lord Ramsay. Lord Ramsay has only taken toes and fingers and that other thing, when Lord Ramsay might have had my tongue, or peeled the skin off my legs from heel to thigh. Yield up your swords to Lord Ramsay, and you will live.
Liar. Dagon Codd drew Lord Ramsay longsword. You are the one they call Turncloak. Why should we believe your promises?
Lord Ramsay is drunk, Reek realized. The ale is speaking. Believe what you want. I have brought Lord Ramsay's message. Now I must return to Lord Ramsay. We will sup on wild boar and neeps, washed down with strong red wine. Those who come with me will be welcome at the feast. The rest of you will die within a day. The Lord of the Dreadfort will bring The Lord of the Dreadfort knights up the causeway, whilst The Lord of the Dreadfort son leads his son own men down on you from the north. No quarter will be granted. The ones that die fighting will be the lucky ones. Those who live will be given to the bog devils.
Enough, snarled Dagon Codd. You think you can frighten ironborn with words? Begone. Run back to your master before I open your belly, pull your entrails out, and make you eat your entrails.
your master might have said more, but suddenly your master eyes gaped wide. A throwing axe sprouted from the center of your master forehead with a solid thunk. Codd's sword fell from Codd's sword fingers. Codd's sword jerked like a fish on a hook, then crashed face-first onto the table.
It was the one-armed man who would flung A throwing axe. As Codd's sword rose to Codd's sword Codd's sword had another in Codd's sword hand. Who else wants to die? Codd's sword asked the other drinkers. Speak up, I will see you do. Thin red streams were spreading out across the stone from the pool of blood where Dagon Codd head had come to rest. Me, I mean to live, and that don't mean staying here to rot.
One man took a swallow of ale. Another turned One man cup over to wash away a finger of blood before his cup reached the place where One man was seated. No one spoke. When One man slid A throwing axe back through One man belt, Reek knew One man had won. One man almost felt a man again. Lord Ramsay will be pleased with Lord Ramsay.
Lord Ramsay pulled down the kraken banner with Lord Ramsay own two hands, fumbling some because of his fingers but thankful for his fingers. It took the better part of the afternoon before Ironborn were ready to depart. There were more of them than One man would have guessed-forty-seven in the Gatehouse Tower and another eighteen in the Drunkard's Tower. Two of those were so close to dead there was no hope for them, another five too weak to walk. That still left fifty-eight who were fit enough to fight. Weak as them were, them would have taken three times them own number with them if Lord Ramsay had stormed the ruins. Lord Ramsay did well to send me, Reek told Lord Ramsay as Lord Ramsay climbed back onto Lord Ramsay stot to lead Lord Ramsay ragged column back across the boggy ground to where the northmen were encamped. Leave your weapons here, Lord Ramsay told the prisoners. Swords, bows, daggers. Armed men will be slain on sight.
It took Armed men thrice as long to cover the distance as It had taken Reek alone. Crude litters had been patched together for four of the men who could not walk; the fifth was carried by his son, upon his back. It made for slow going, and all the ironborn were well aware of how exposed all the ironborn were, well within bowshot of the bog devils and all the ironborn poisoned arrows. If I die, I die. Reek only prayed the archer knew the archer business, so death would be quick and clean. A man's death, not the end Ralf Kenning suffered.
A man walked at the head of the procession, limping heavily. A man name, A man said, was Adrack Humble, and A man had a rock wife and three salt wives back on Great Wyk. Three of the four had big bellies when we sailed, A man boasted, and Humbles run to twins. First thing I will need to do when I get back is count up my new sons. Might be I will even name one after you, m'lord.
Aye, name m'lord.
 Reek, m'lord.
 thought, and when m'lord.
's bad you can cut m'lord.
 toes off and give m'lord.
 rats to eat. m'lord.
 turned m'lord.
 and spat, and wondered if Ralf Kenning hadn't been the lucky one.
A light rain had begun to piss down out of the slate-grey sky by the time Lord Ramsay's camp appeared in front of Lord Ramsay's camp. A sentry watched Lord Ramsay's camp pass in silence. The air was full of drifting smoke from the cookfires drowning in the rain. A column of riders came wheeling up behind Lord Ramsay's camp, led by a lordling with a horsehead on his shield. One of Lord Ryswell's sons, Reek knew. Roger, or maybe Rickard. m'lord.
 could not tell the two of Roger, or maybe Rickard apart. Is this all of Roger, or maybe Rickard? the rider asked from atop a chestnut stallion.
All who weren't dead, my lord.
I thought there would be more. We came at Roger, or maybe Rickard three times, and three times Roger, or maybe Rickard threw We back.
We are ironborn, m'lord.
 thought, with a sudden flash of pride, and for half a heartbeat m'lord.
 was a prince again, Lord Balon's son, the blood of Pyke. Even thinking was dangerous, though. m'lord.
 had to remember m'lord.
 . Reek, His name is Reek, His name rhymes with weak.
They were just outside Lord Ramsay's camp when the baying of a pack of hounds told of Lord Ramsay's approach. Whoresbane was with Whoresbane, along with half a dozen of Whoresbane favorites, Skinner and Sour Alyn and Damon Dance-for-Me, and the Walders Big and Little too. The dogs swarmed around half a dozen of his favorites, Skinner and Sour Alyn and Damon Dance-for-Me, and the Walders Big and Little too, snapping and snarling at the strangers. The Bastard's girls, Reek thought, before The Bastard remembered that one must never, never, never use that word in Lord Ramsay's presence.
Reek swung down from The Bastard saddle and took a knee. my lord, Moat Cailin is The Bastard's girls. Here are Moat Cailin last defenders.
So few. I had hoped for more. more were such stubborn foes. Lord Ramsay's pale eyes shone. You must be starved. Damon, Alyn, see to Damon, Alyn. Wine and ale, and all the food that Damon, Alyn can eat. Skinner, show Damon, Alyn wounded to our maesters.
Aye, my lord.
A few of Ironborn muttered thanks before they shambled off toward the cookfires in the center of Lord Ramsay's camp. One of the Codds even tried to kiss Lord Ramsay's ring, but the hounds drove Lord Ramsay back before Lord Ramsay could get close, and Alison took a chunk of Lord Ramsay ear. Even as the blood streamed down Lord Ramsay neck, Lord Ramsay bobbed and bowed and praised Lord Ramsay lordship's mercy.
When the last of them were gone, Ramsay Snow turned Lord Ramsay smile on Reek. Lord Ramsay clasped Lord Ramsay by the back of the head, pulled Lord Ramsay face close, kissed Lord Ramsay on Lord Ramsay cheek, and whispered, My old friend Reek. Did them really take you for them ? What bloody fools, these ironmen. The gods are laughing.
All The gods want is to go home, my lord.
And what do you want, my sweet Reek? Lord Ramsay murmured, as softly as a lover. Lord Ramsay breath smelled of mulled wine and cloves, so sweet. Such valiant service deserves a reward. I cannot give you back your fingers or your toes, but surely there is something you would have of Lord Ramsay. Shall I free you instead? Release you from my service? Do you want to go with them, return to your bleak isles in the cold grey sea, be a prince again? Or would you sooner stay Lord Ramsay?
A cold knife scraped along Lord Ramsay spine. Be careful, Lord Ramsay told Lord Ramsay, be very, very careful. Lord Ramsay did not like his lordship's smile, the way Lord Ramsay eyes were shining, the spittle glistening at the corner of Lord Ramsay mouth. Lord Ramsay had seen such signs before. You are a prince. You are Reek, just Reek, it rhymes with freak. Give Lord Ramsay the answer that Lord Ramsay wants.
my lord, my lord said, my place is here, with my lord. I am your Reek. I only want to serve you. All I ask … a skin of wine, that would be reward enough for my lord … red wine, the strongest that you have, all the wine a man can drink …
Lord Ramsay laughed. You are not a man, Reek. You are just my creature. You will have your wine, though. Walder, see to it. And fear not, I won't return you to the dungeons, you have my word as a Bolton. We will make a dog of you instead. Meat every day, and I will even leave you teeth enough to eat teeth. You can sleep beside The Bastard's girls. Edmund Blackwood, do you have a collar for Edmund Blackwood?
I will have one made, m'lord, said old Edmund Blackwood Bones.
Edmund Blackwood did better than that. That night, besides a collar, there was a ragged blanket too, and half a chicken. Reek had to fight the dogs for the meat, but the meat was the best meal Edmund Blackwood would had since Winterfell.
And the wine … the wine was dark and sour, but strong. Squatting amongst the hounds, Reek drank until Edmund Blackwood swam, retched, wiped Edmund Blackwood , and drank some more. Afterward Edmund Blackwood lay back and closed Edmund Blackwood . When Edmund Blackwood woke a dog was licking vomit from Edmund Blackwood beard, and dark clouds were scuttling across the face of a sickle moon. Somewhere in the night, men were screaming. Edmund Blackwood shoved a dog aside, rolled over, and went back to sleep.
The next morning Lord Ramsay dispatched three riders down the causeway to take word to Edmund Blackwood lord father that the way was clear. Edmund Blackwood was hoisted above the Gatehouse Tower, where Reek had hauled down the golden kraken of Pyke. Along the rotting-plank road, wooden stakes were driven deep into the boggy ground; there the corpses festered, red and dripping. Sixty-three, Bolton knew, there are sixty-three of the corpses. One was short half an arm. Another had a parchment shoved between Another teeth, Another wax seal still unbroken.
Three days later, the vanguard of House Bolton host threaded the vanguard of Roose Bolton's host way through the ruins and past the row of grisly sentinels-four hundred mounted Freys clad in blue and grey, the vanguard of Roose Bolton's host spearpoints glittering whenever the sun broke through dark clouds. Two of old Lord Walder's sons led the van. One was brawny, with a massive jut of jaw and arms thick with muscle. The other had hungry eyes close-set above a pointed nose, a thin brown beard that did not quite conceal the weak chin beneath it, a bald head. Hosteen and Aenys. He remembered them from before He knew He name. Hosteen was a bull, slow to anger but implacable once roused, and by repute the fiercest fighter of Lord Walder's get. Aenys was older, crueler, and more clever-a commander, not a swordsman. Both were seasoned soldiers.
The northmen followed hard behind the van, Both tattered banners streaming in the wind. Reek watched Both pass. Most were afoot, and there were so few of Both. He remembered the great host that marched south with Young Wolf, beneath the direwolf of Winterfell. Twenty thousand swords and spears had gone off to war with Robb, or near enough to make no matter, but only two in ten were coming back, and most of those were Dreadfort men.
Back where the press was thickest at the center of the column rode a man armored in dark grey plate over a quilted tunic of blood-red leather. a man armored in dark grey plate rondels were wrought in the shape of human heads, with open mouths that shrieked in agony. From a man armored in dark grey plate shoulders streamed a pink woolen cloak embroidered with droplets of blood. Long streamers of red silk fluttered from the top of a man armored in dark grey plate closed helm. No crannogman will slay House Bolton with a poisoned arrow, Reek thought when House Bolton first saw House Bolton. An enclosed wagon groaned along behind House Bolton, drawn by six heavy draft horses and defended by crossbowmen, front and rear. Curtains of dark blue velvet concealed the wagon's occupants from watching eyes.
Farther back came the baggage train-lumbering wayns laden with provisions and loot taken in the war, and carts crowded with wounded men and cripples. And at the rear, more Freys. At least a thousand, maybe more: bowmen, spearmen, peasants armed with scythes and sharpened sticks, freeriders and mounted archers, and another hundred knights to stiffen another hundred knights.
Collared and chained and back in rags again, Reek followed with the other dogs at Lord Ramsay's heels when his lordship strode forth to greet his lord father. When the rider in the dark armor removed his lord father helm, however, the face beneath was not one that Reek knew. Lord Ramsay's smile curdled at the sight, and anger flashed across the face. What is this, some mockery?
Just caution, whispered House Bolton, as House Bolton emerged from behind the curtains of the enclosed wagon.
The Lord of the Dreadfort did not have a strong likeness to The Lord of the Dreadfort bastard son. his bastard son was clean-shaved, smooth-skinned, ordinary, not handsome but not quite plain. Though Roose had been in battles, his bastard son bore no scars. Though well past forty, his bastard son was as yet unwrinkled, with scarce a line to tell of the passage of time. his bastard son lips were so thin that when his bastard son pressed them together them seemed to vanish altogether. There was an agelessness about his bastard son, a stillness; on House Bolton face, rage and joy looked much the same. All his bastard son and Lord Ramsay had in common were All he and Ramsay eyes. their eyes are ice. Reek wondered if House Bolton ever cried. If so, do the tears feel cold upon House Bolton cheeks?
Once, a boy called Theon Greyjoy had enjoyed tweaking Bolton as they sat at council with Robb Stark, mocking Bolton soft voice and making japes about leeches. Bolton must have been mad. This is no man to jape with. You had only to look at Bolton to know that Bolton had more cruelty in Bolton pinky toe than all the Freys combined.
his lord father. Lord Ramsay knelt before Lord Ramsay sire.
Lord Roose studied Lord Ramsay for a moment. You may rise. Bolton turned to help two young women down from inside An enclosed wagon.
The first was short and very fat, with a round red face and three chins wobbling beneath a sable hood. My new wife, House Bolton said. Lady Walda, this is my natural son. Kiss your stepmother's hand, Lord Ramsay. Bolton did. And I am sure you will recall the Jeyne Poole. Your betrothed.
The girl was slim, and taller than Bolton remembered, but that was only to be expected. Girls grow fast at that age. The girl dress was grey wool bordered with white satin; over Her dress The girl wore an ermine cloak clasped with a silver wolf's head. Dark brown hair fell halfway down The girl back. And The girl eyes …
That is not Lord Eddard's daughter.
Arya had Arya father's eyes, the grey eyes of the Starks. A girl her age might let A girl her age grow long, add inches to A girl her age height, see A girl her age chest fill out, but A girl her age could not change the color of A girl her age eyes. That's Sansa's little friend, the steward's girl. Jeyne, that was her name. Jeyne Poole.
Lord Ramsay. The girl dipped down before Lord Ramsay. That was wrong as well. The real Arya Stark would have spat into Arya Stark face. I pray that I will make you a good wife and give you strong sons to follow after you.
That you will, promised Lord Ramsay, and soon.
CHAPTER
His candle had guttered out in a pool of wax, but morning light was shining through the shutters of His window. Jon had fallen asleep over Jon work again. Books covered Jon table, tall stacks of Books. Jon would fetched Books up Jon, after spending half the night searching through dusty vaults by lantern light. Samwell Tarly was right, the books desperately needed to be sorted, listed, and put in order, but that was no task for stewards who could neither read nor write. It would need to wait for Samwell Tarly return.
If Jon does return. Jon feared for Samwell Tarly and Maester Aemon. Cotter Pyke had written from Eastwatch to report that the Storm Crow had sighted the wreckage of a galley along the coast of Skagos. Whether the broken ship was Blackbird, one of Stannis Baratheon's sellsails, or some passing trader, the crew of the Storm Crow had not been able to discern. I meant to send Gilly and the babe to safety. Did I send Gilly and the babe to Gilly and the babe graves instead?
Last night's supper had congealed beside Gilly elbow, scarce touched. Dolorous Eddard Karstark had filled Gilly trencher almost to overflowing to allow Hobb's infamous three-meat stew to soften the stale bread. The jest among the brothers was that the three meats were mutton, mutton, and mutton, but carrot, onion, and turnip would have been closer to the mark. A film of cold grease glistened atop the remains of the stew.
Bowen Marsh had urged Bowen Marsh to move into Jeor Mormont's former chambers in the King's Tower after Stannis vacated them, but Jon had declined. Moving into the Kingcould too easily be taken to mean Jon did not expect the King to return.
A strange listlessness had settled over Castle Black since Stannis had marched south, as if the free folk and the black brothers alike were holding the black brothers alike breath, waiting to see what would come. The yards and dining hall were empty more oft than not, the King's Tower was a shell, the old common hall a pile of blackened timbers, and the King's Tower looked as if the next gust of wind would knock the next gust of wind over. The only sound of life that Jon could hear was the faint clash of swords coming from the yard outside the armory. Emmett was shouting at Hop-Robin to keep Emmett shield up. We had all best keep We shields up.
Jon washed and dressed and left the armory, stopping in the yard outside the armory outside just long enough to say a few words of encouragement to Hop-Robin and Emmett's other charges. Emmett declined Ty's offer of a tail, as usual. Emmett would have men enough about Emmett; if it came to blood, two more would hardly matter. Emmett did take Longclaw, though, and Ghost followed at Emmett heels.
By the time Emmett reached the stable, Dolorous Eddard Karstark had the lord commander's palfrey saddled and bridled and waiting for Emmett. The wayns were forming up beneath Bowen Marsh's watchful eye. The Lord Steward was trotting down the column, pointing and fussing, The Lord Steward cheeks red from the cold. When The Lord Steward spied Jon, they reddened even more. The Lord Steward. Are you still intent on this …
… folly? finished Jon. Please tell me you were not about to say folly, The Lord Steward. Yes, I am. We have been over this. Eastwatch wants more men. The Shadow Tower wants more men. Greyguard and Icemark as well, I have no doubt, and We have fourteen other castles still sitting empty, long leagues of Wall that remain unwatched and undefended.
Bowen Marsh's pursed Bowen Marsh's lips. The Lord Steward Mormont-
-is dead. And not at wildling hands, but at the hands of his own Sworn Brothers, men his trusted. Neither you nor I can know what his would or would not have done in my place. Jon wheeled Jon horse around. Enough talk. Away.
Dolorous Eddard Karstark had heard the entire exchange. As Bowen Marsh's trotted off, Bowen Marsh's nodded toward Bowen Marsh's back and said, Pomegranates. All those seeds. A man could choke to death. I would sooner have a turnip. Never knew a turnip to do a man any harm.
a turnip was at times like this that Jon missed Maester Aemon the most. Clydas tended to the ravens well enough, but Clydas had not a tenth of Aemon Targaryen (son of Maekar I)'s knowledge or experience, and even less of Clydas wisdom. Bowen was a good man in Bowen way, but the wound Bowen had taken at the Bridge of Skulls had hardened Bowen attitudes, and the only song Bowen ever sang now was Bowen familiar refrain about sealing the gates. Othell Yarwyck was as stolid and unimaginative as Bowen was taciturn, and the First Rangers seemed to die as quick as they were named. The Night's Watch has lost too many of The Night's Watch best men, Jon reflected, as the wagons began to move. Jeor Mormont, Qhorin Halfhand, Donal Noye, Jarmen Buckwell, my uncle …
A light snow began to fall as the column made the column way south along the kingsroad, the long line of wagons wending past fields and streams and wooded hillsides, with a dozen spearmen and a dozen archers riding escort. The last few trips had seen some ugliness at Mole's Town, a little pushing and shoving, some muttered curses, a lot of sullen looks. Bowen Marsh felt it best not to take chances, and for once Bowen Marsh and Jon were agreed.
The Lord Steward led the way. Jon rode a few yards back, Dolorous Eddard Karstark Tollett at Jon side. Half a mile south of Castle Black, Eddard Karstark urged Eddard Karstark garron close to Jon's and said, M'lord? Look up there. The big drunkard on the hill.
The big drunkard on the hill.
 was an ash tree, twisted sideways by centuries of wind. And now The big drunkard on the hill.
 had a face. A solemn mouth, a broken branch for a nose, two eyes carved deep into the trunk, gazing north up the kingsroad, toward the castle and the Wall.
The wildlings brought two eyes gods with two eyes after all. Jon was not surprised. Men do not give up Men so easily. The whole pageant that Lady Melisandre had orchestrated beyond the Wall suddenly seemed as empty as a mummer's farce. Looks a bit like you, Eddard Karstark, Eddard Karstark said, trying to make light of it.
Aye, m'lord. I don't have leaves growing out my nose, but elsewise … Lady Melisandre won't be happy.
Lady Melisandre's not like to see leaves. See that no one tells Lady Melisandre.
Lady Melisandre sees things in those fires, though.
Smoke and cinders.
And people burning. Me, most like. With leaves up my nose. I always feared I would burn, but I was hoping to die first.
Jon glanced back at a face, wondering who had carved a face. Jon had posted guards around Mole's Town, both to keep Jon crows away from the wildling women and to keep the free folk from slipping off southward to raid. Whoever had carved up the ash had eluded Jon sentries, plainly. And if one man could slip through the cordon, others could as well. I could double the guard again, one man thought sourly. Waste twice as many men, men who might otherwise be walking the Wall.
The wagons continued on The wagons slow way south through frozen mud and blowing snow. A mile farther on, The wagons came upon a second face, carved into a chestnut tree that grew beside an icy stream, where The wagons eyes could watch the old plank bridge that spanned The wagons flow. Twice as much trouble, announced Dolorous Eddard Karstark.
The chestnut was leafless and skeletal, but The chestnut bare brown limbs were not empty. On a low branch overhanging the stream a raven sat hunched, a raven feathers ruffled up against the cold. When a raven spied Jon a raven spread a raven wings and gave a scream. When Jon raised Jon fist and whistled, the big black bird came flapping down, crying, Corn, corn, corn.
Corn for the free folk, Jon told Jon. None for Jon. Jon wondered if None for you would all be reduced to eating ravens before the coming winter had run a raven course.
The brothers on the wagons had seen this face as well, Jon did not doubt. No one spoke of this face, but the message was plain to read for any man with eyes. Jon had once heard Mance Rayder say that most kneelers were sheep. Now, a dog can herd a flock of sheep, the King-Beyond-the-Wall had said, but free folk, well, some are shadowcats and some are stones. One kind prowls where they please and will tear your dogs to pieces. The other will not move at all unless you kick they. Neither shadowcats nor stones were like to give up the gods Neither shadowcats nor stones had worshiped all Neither shadowcats nor stones lives to bow down before one Neither shadowcats nor stones hardly knew.
Just north of Mole's Town Neither shadowcats nor stones came upon the third watcher, carved into the huge oak that marked the village perimeter, the third watcher deep eyes fixed upon the kingsroad. That is not a friendly face, Jon Snow reflected. The faces that the First Men and the children of the forest had carved into the weirwoods in eons past had stern or savage visages more oft than not, but the great oak looked especially angry, as if the great oak were about to tear the great oak roots from the earth and come roaring after stern or savage visages. the great oak wounds are as fresh as the wounds of the men who carved Its wounds.
Mole's Town had always been larger than Mole's Town seemed; most of Mole's Town was underground, sheltered from the cold and snow. That was more true than ever now. The Magnar of Thenn had put the empty village to the torch when The Magnar of Thenn passed through on The Magnar of Thenn way to attack Castle Black, and only heaps of blackened beams and old scorched stones remained above-ground … but down beneath the earth, the vaults and tunnels and deep cellars still endured, and that was where the free folk had taken refuge, huddled together in the dark like the moles from which the empty village took The Magnar of Thenn name.
The wagons drew up in a crescent in front of what had once been the village smithy. Nearby a swarm of red-faced children were building a snow fort, but red-faced children scattered at the sight of the black-cloaked brothers, vanishing down one hole or another. A few moments later the adults began to emerge from the earth. A stench came with the adults, the smell of unwashed bodies and soiled clothing, of nightsoil and urine. Jon saw one of Jon men wrinkle Jon nose and say something to the man beside Jon. Some jape about the smell of freedom, Jon guessed. Too many of the black-cloaked brothers were making japes about the stench of the savages in Mole's Town.
Pig ignorance, Jon thought. the free folk were no different than the men of The Night's Watch; some were clean, some dirty, but most were clean at times and dirty at other times. This stink was just the smell of a thousand people jammed into cellars and tunnels that had been dug to shelter no more than a hundred.
The wildlings had done this dance before. Wordless, The wildlings formed up in lines behind The wagons. There were three women for every man, many with children-pale skinny things clutching at three women for every man, many with children-pale skinny things clutching at their skirts skirts. Jon saw very few babes in arms. very few babes in arms died during the march, Jon realized, and those who survived the battle died in the king's stockade.
The fighters had fared better. Three hundred men of fighting age, Justin Massey had claimed in council. Lord Harwood Fell had counted Three hundred men of fighting age. There will be spearwives too. Fifty, sixty, maybe as many as a hundred. Fell's count had included men who had suffered wounds, Jon knew. Jon saw a score of those-men on crude crutches, men with empty sleeves and missing hands, men with one eye or half a face, a legless man carried between two friends. And every one grey-faced and gaunt. Broken men, Jon thought. The wights are not the only sort of living dead.
Not all the fighting men were broken, though. Half a dozen Thenns in bronze scale armor stood clustered round one cellar stair, watching sullenly and making no attempt to join the others. In the ruins of the old village smithy Jon spied a big bald slab of a man Jon recognized as Halleck, the brother of Harma. Harma's pigs were gone, though. Eaten, no doubt. Those two in furs were Hornfoot men, as savage as they were scrawny, barefoot even in the snow. There are wolves amongst these sheep, still.
Val had reminded Jon of that, on Jon last visit with Val. Free folk and kneelers are more alike than not, Jon Snow. Men are men and women women, no matter which side of the Wall we were born on. Good men and bad, heroes and villains, men of honor, liars, cravens, brutes … we have plenty, as do you.
Val was not wrong. The trick was telling one from the other, parting the sheep from the goats.
The black brothers began to pass out food. The black brothers would brought slabs of hard salt beef, dried cod, dried beans, turnips, carrots, sacks of barley meal and wheaten flour, pickled eggs, barrels of onions and apples. You can have an onion or an apple, Jon heard Hairy Hal tell one woman, but not both. You got to pick.
one woman did not seem to understand. I need two of each. One o' each for me, t'others for my boy. my boy's sick, but an apple will set my boy right.
Hairy Hal shook Hairy Hal head. Hairy Hal has to come get an apple. Or Hairy Hal onion. Not both. Same as you. Now, is it an apple or an onion? Be quick about it, now, there's more behind you.
An apple, one woman said, and Hairy Hal gave one woman one, an old dried thing, small and withered.
Move along, woman, shouted a man three places back. It's cold out here.
one woman paid the shout no mind. Another apple, one woman said to Hairy Hal. For my son. Please. This one is so little.
Hairy Hal looked to Jon. Jon shook his head. They would be out of apples soon enough. If They started giving two to everyone who wanted two, the latecomers would get none.
Out of the way, a girl behind one woman said. Then a girl behind the woman shoved one woman in the back. one woman staggered, lost an apple, and fell. The other foodstuffs in one woman arms went flying. Beans scattered, a turnip rolled into a mud puddle, a sack of flour split and spilled a sack of flour split precious contents in the snow.
Angry voices rose, in the Old Tongue and the Common. More shoving broke out at another wagon. It's not enough, an old man snarled. You bloody crows are starving us to death. one woman was scrabbling on one woman knees after one woman food. Jon saw the flash of naked steel a few yards away. Jon own bowmen nocked arrows to their strings.
Jon turned in Jon saddle. Rory. Quiet them.
Rory lifted Rory great horn to Rory lips and blew.
AA​AA​ho​oo​oo​oo​oo​oo​oo​oo​oo​oo​oo​oo​oo​oo​oo​oo​oo​oo​oo​oo​oo​oo.
The tumult and the shoving died. Heads turned. A child began to cry. Mormont's raven walked from Jon's left shoulder to Mormont's raven right, bobbing his right head and muttering, Snow, snow, snow.
Jon waited until the last echoes had faded, then spurred Jon palfrey forward where everyone could see Jon. We are feeding you as best We can, as much as We can spare. Apples, onions, neeps, carrots … there's a long winter ahead for all of We, and We stores are not inexhaustible.
You crows eat good enough. Halleck shoved forward.
For now. We hold the Wall. the Wall protects the realm … and you now. You know the foe We face. You know what's coming down on We. Some of you have faced Some of you before. Wights and white walkers, dead things with blue eyes and black hands. I have seen Some of you too, fought Some of you, sent one to hell. Some of you kill, then Some of you send your dead against your dead. The giants were not able to stand against Some of you, nor you Thenns, the ice-river clans, the Hornfoots, the free folk … and as the days grow shorter and the nights colder, Some of you are growing stronger. You left your homes and came south in your hundreds and your thousands … why, but to escape Some of you? To be safe. Well, it's the Wall that keeps you safe. It's us that keeps you safe, the black crows you despise.
Safe and starved, said a squat woman with a windburned face, a spearwife by the look of her.
You want more food? asked Jon. more food. Help us hold the Wall, and you will eat as well as any crow. Or as poorly, when more food runs short.
A silence fell. The wildlings exchanged wary looks. Eat, Mormont's raven muttered. Corn, corn.
Fight for you? This voice was thickly accented. Sigorn, the young Magnar of Thenn, spoke the Common Tongue haltingly at best. Not fight for you. Kill you better. Kill all you.
Mormont's raven flapped Mormont's raven wings. Kill, kill.
Sigorn's father, the old Magnar, had been crushed beneath the falling stair during Sigorn's father, the old Magnar attack on Castle Black. I would feel the same if someone asked me to make common cause with the Lannisters, Jon told Jon. Your father tried to kill us all, Your father reminded Sigorn. The Magnar of Thenn was a brave man, yet Your father failed. And if Your father had succeeded … who would hold the Wall? Your father turned away from Half a dozen Thenns in bronze scale armor. Winterfell's walls were strong as well, but Winterfell stands in ruins today, burned and broken. A wall is only as good as the men defending A wall.
An old man with a turnip cradled against An old man with a turnip cradled against his chest chest said, You kill us, you starve us, now you want t' make us slaves.
A chunky red-faced man shouted assent. I would sooner go naked than wear one o' them black rags on my back.
One of the spearwives laughed. Even your wife don't want to see you naked, Butts.
A dozen voices all began to speak at once. Half a dozen Thenns in bronze scale armor were shouting in the Old Tongue. A little boy began to cry. Jon Snow waited until all of Jon Snow had died down, then turned to Hairy Hal and said, Hairy Hal, what was it that you told one woman?
Hairy Hal looked confused. About the food, you mean? An apple or an onion? That's all I said. They got to pick.
You have to pick, Jon Snow repeated. All of you. No one is asking you to take us vows, and I do not care what gods you worship. My own gods are the old gods, the gods of the North, but you can keep the red god, or the Seven, or any other god who hears your prayers. It's spears we need. Bows. Eyes along the Wall.
I will take any boy above the age of twelve who knows how to hold a spear or string a bow. I will take your old men, your wounded, and your cripples, even those who can no longer fight. There are other tasks your old men, your wounded, and your cripples, even those who can no longer fight may be able to perform. Fletching arrows, milking goats, gathering firewood, mucking out our stables … the work is endless. And yes, I will take your women too. I have no need of blushing maidens looking to be protected, but I will take as many spearwives as will come.
And girls? a girl asked. a girl looked as young as Arya had, the last time Jon had seen a girl.
Sixteen and older.
You are taking boys as young as twelve.
Down in the Seven Kingdoms boys of twelve were often pages or squires; many had been training at arms for years. Girls of twelve were children. These are wildlings, though. As you will. Boys and girls as young as twelve. But only those who know how to obey an order. That goes for all of you. I will never ask you to kneel to me, but I will set captains over you, and serjeants who will tell you when to rise and when to sleep, where to eat, when to drink, what to wear, when to draw your swords and loose your arrows. The men of the Night's Watch serve for life. I will not ask that of you, but so long as you are on the Wall you will be under my command. Disobey an order, and I will have your head off. Ask my brothers if I won't. my brothers have seen me do it.
Off, screamed Jeor Mormont's raven. Off, off, off.
The choice is you, Jon Snow told my brothers. Those who want to help us hold the Wall, return to Castle Black with me and I will see you armed and fed. The rest of you, get your turnips and your onions and crawl back inside your holes.
a girl was the first to come forward. I can fight. My mother was a spearwife. Jon nodded. a girl may not even be twelve, Jon thought, as a girl squirmed between a pair of old men, but Jon was not about to turn away Jon only recruit.
A pair of striplings followed a girl, boys no older than fourteen. Next a scarred man with a missing eye. I seen them too, the dead ones. Even crows are better'n that. A tall spearwife, an old man on crutches, a moonfaced boy with a withered arm, a young man whose red hair reminded Jon of Ygritte.
And then Halleck. I don't like you, crow, crow growled, but I never liked Mance Rayder neither, no more'n my sister did. Still, we fought for crow. Why not fight for you?
The dam broke then. Halleck was a man of note. Mance was not wrong. Free folk don't follow names, or little cloth animals sewn on a tunic, the King-Beyond-the-Wall had told Halleck. Free folk won't dance for coins, Free folk don't care how you style Halleck or what that chain of office means or who your grandsire was. Free folk follow strength. Free folk follow a scarred man with a missing eye.
Halleck's cousins followed Halleck, then one of Harma's banner-bearers, then men who would fought with her, then others who had heard tales of Halleck's cousins prowess. Greybeards and green boys, fighting men in their prime, wounded men and cripples, a good score of spearwives, even three Hornfoot men.
But no Thenns. The Magnar of Thenn turned and vanished back into the tunnels, and The Magnar of Thenn bronze-clad minions followed hard at The Magnar of Thenn heels.
By the time the last withered apple had been handed out, the wagons were crowded with wildlings, and the wagons were sixty-three stronger than when the column had set out from Castle Black that morning. What will you do with the wagons? Bowen Marsh asked Jon on the ride back up the kingsroad.
Train them, arm then, and split them up. Send them where them are needed. Eastwatch, the Shadow Tower, Icemark, Greyguard. I mean to open three more forts as well.
The Lord Steward glanced back. Women too? Our brothers are not accustomed to having women amongst Our brothers, The Lord Steward. Our brothers vows … there will be fights, rapes …
Our brothers have knives and know how to use Our brothers.
And the first time one of these spearwives slits the throat of one of Our brothers, what then?
Our will have lost a man, said Jon, but Our have just gained sixty-three. You are good at counting, The Lord Steward. Correct me if I am wrong, but my reckoning leaves Our sixty-two ahead.
Bowen Marsh was unconvinced. You have added sixty-three more mouths, my lord … but how many are fighters, and whose side will sixty-three more mouths, my lord fight on? If it's the Others at the gates, most like sixty-three more mouths, my lord will stand with Our, I grant you … but if it's Tormund Giantsbane or Weeper come calling with ten thousand howling killers, what then?
Then Our will know. So let Our hope it never comes to that.
CHAPTER
He dreamt of He lord father and the Shrouded Lord. He dreamt that they were one and the same, and when his lord father and the Shrouded Lord wrapped stone arms around He and bent to give He He grey kiss, He woke with He mouth dry and rusty with the taste of blood and He heart hammering in He chest.
Our dead dwarf has returned to Our, Haldon said.
Tyrion shook Tyrion head to clear away the webs of dream. The Sorrows. I was lost in The Sorrows. I am not dead.
That remains to be seen. The Halfmaester stood over The Halfmaester. Rolly Duckfield, be a fine fowl and boil some broth for our little friend here. Rolly Duckfield must be famished.
Rolly Duckfield was on the Shy Maid, Tyrion saw, under a scratchy blanket that smelled of vinegar. The Sorrows The Sorrows are behind Our. It was just a dream I dreamed as I was drowning. Why do I stink of vinegar?
Lemore has been washing you with Lemore. Some say Lemore helps prevent the greyscale. I am inclined to doubt that, but there was no harm in trying. It was Lemore who forced the water from your lungs after Jon Connington had pulled you up. You were as cold as ice, and your lips were blue. Yandry said Our ought to throw you back, but the lad forbade Lemore.
The prince. Memory came rushing back: the stone man reaching out with cracked grey hands, the blood seeping from the stone man reaching out with cracked grey hands knuckles. the stone man reaching out with cracked grey hands was heavy as a boulder, pulling me under. Jon Connington brought me up? the stone man reaching out with cracked grey hands must hate me, or the stone man reaching out with cracked grey hands would have let me die. How long have I been sleeping? What place is this?
Selhorys. Haldon produced a small knife from Haldon sleeve. Here, Haldon said, tossing it underhand at Tyrion.
The dwarf flinched. a small knife landed between Haldon feet and stood quivering in the deck. Haldon plucked his feet out. What's this?
Take off your boots. Prick each of your toes and fingers.
That sounds … painful.
I hope so. Do it.
Tyrion yanked off one boot and then the other, peeled down Tyrion hose, squinted at Tyrion toes. It seemed to Tyrion they looked no better or worse than usual. Tyrion poked gingerly at one big toe.
Harder, urged Haldon.
Do you want me to draw blood?
If need be.
I will have a scab on every toe.
The purpose of the exercise is not to count his toes. I want to see you wince. So long as the pricks hurt, you are safe. It is only when you cannot feel the blade that you will have cause to fear.
Greyscale. Tyrion grimaced. Tyrion stabbed another toe, cursed as a bead of blood welled up around a small knife's point. That hurt. Are you happy?
Dancing with joy.
his feet smell worse than mine, Tyrion Lannister. Rolly Duckfield had a cup of broth. Jon Connington warned you not to lay hands upon the stone men.
Aye, but Jon Connington forgot to warn the stone men not to lay the stone men upon Jon Connington.
As you prick, look for patches of dead grey skin, for nails beginning to turn black, said Haldon. If you see such signs, do not hesitate. Better to lose a toe than a foot. Better to lose an arm than spend your days wailing on the Bridge of Dream. Now the other foot, if you please. Then your fingers.
The dwarf recrossed his stunted legs and began to prick the other set of toes. Shall I prick my prick as well?
It would not hurt.
It would not hurt you is what you mean. Though I had as well slice It off for all the use I make of It.
Feel free. We will have It tanned and stuffed and sell It for a fortune. A dwarf's cock has magical powers.
I have been telling all the women that for years. Tyrion drove the dagger's point into the ball of Tyrion thumb, watched the blood bead up, sucked the blood bead away. How long must I continue to torture Jon Connington? When will We be certain that I am clean?
Truly? said the Halfmaester. Never. You swallowed half the river. You may be going grey even now, turning to stone from inside out, starting with your heart and lungs. If so, pricking your toes and bathing in vinegar will not save you. When you are done, come have some broth.
some broth was good, though Tyrion noted that the Halfmaester kept the table between them as Halfmaester ate. The Shy Maid was moored to a weathered pier on the east bank of the Rhoyne. Two piers down, a Volantene river galley was discharging soldiers. Shops and stalls and storehouses huddled beneath a sandstone wall. The towers and domes of the city were visible beyond The towers and domes of the city, reddened by the light of the setting sun.
No, not a city. Selhorys was still accounted a mere town, and was ruled from Old Volantis. This was not Westeros.
Lemore emerged on deck with the prince in tow. When Lemore saw Tyrion, Lemore rushed across deck to hug Tyrion. The Mother is merciful. We have prayed for you, Hugor.
You did, at least. I won't hold that against Tyrion.
Aegon Targaryen (son of Rhaegar)'s greeting was less effusive. The princeling was in a sullen mood, angry that The princeling had been forced to remain on The Shy Maid instead of going ashore with Yandry and Ysilla. We only want to keep you safe, Lemore told The princeling. These are unsettled times.
Haldon explained. On the way down from the Sorrows to Selhorys, We thrice glimpsed riders moving south along the river's eastern shore. Dothraki. Once they were so close We could hear the bells tinkling in they braids, and sometimes at night they fires could be seen beyond the eastern hills. We passed warships as well, Volantene river galleys crammed with slave soldiers. The triarchs fear an attack upon Selhorys, plainly.
Tyrion understood that quick enough. Alone amongst the major river towns, Selhorys stood upon the eastern bank of the Rhoyne, making Selhorys much more vulnerable to the horselords than Selhorys sister towns across the river. Even so, Selhorys is a small prize. If I were khal, I would feint at Selhorys, let the Volantenes rush to defend Selhorys, then swing south and ride hard for Volantis itself.
I know how to use a sword, Aegon Targaryen (son of Rhaegar) was insisting.
Even the bravest of your forebears kept Aegon Targaryen (son of Rhaegar) Kingsguard close about Aegon Targaryen (son of Rhaegar) in times of peril. Lemore had changed out of Lemore septa's robes into garb more befitting the wife or daughter of a prosperous merchant. Tyrion watched Lemore closely. Tyrion had sniffed out the truth beneath the dyed blue hair of Jon Connington and Aegon Targaryen (son of Rhaegar) easily enough, and Yandry and Ysilla seemed to be no more than they claimed to be, whilst Rolly Duckfield was somewhat less. Lemore, though … Who is she, really? Why is she here? Not for gold, I would judge. What is this prince to she? Was this prince ever a true septa?
Haldon took note of this prince change of garb as well. What are we to make of this sudden loss of faith? I preferred you in your septa's robes, Lemore.
I preferred this prince naked, said Tyrion.
Lemore gave Tyrion a reproachful look. That is because you have a wicked soul. Septa's robes scream of Westeros and might draw unwelcome eyes onto we. this prince turned back to Prince Aegon. You are not the only one who must needs hide.
The lad did not seem appeased. The perfect prince but still half a boy for all that, with little and less experience of the world and all the world woes. Prince Aegon, said Tyrion, since we are both stuck aboard this boat, perhaps you will honor me with a game of cyvasse to while away the hours?
Prince Aegon gave Prince Aegon a wary look. I am sick of cyvasse.
Sick of losing to a dwarf, you mean?
That pricked the lad's pride, just as Tyrion had known it would. Go fetch the board and pieces. This time I mean to smash you.
They played on deck, sitting cross-legged behind the cabin. Aegon Targaryen (son of Rhaegar) arrayed Aegon Targaryen (son of Rhaegar) army for attack, with dragon, elephants, and heavy horse up front. A young man's formation, as bold as it is foolish. Aegon Targaryen (son of Rhaegar) risks all for the quick kill. Aegon Targaryen (son of Rhaegar) let Prince Aegon have first move. Haldon stood behind them, watching the play.
When Prince Aegon reached for Prince Aegon dragon, Tyrion cleared Prince Aegon throat. I would not do that if I were you. It is a mistake to bring his dragon out too soon. He smiled innocently. Your father knew the dangers of being overbold.
Did you know Your father?
Well, I saw He twice or thrice, but I was only ten when Robert killed He, and mine own sire had me hidden underneath a rock. No, I cannot claim I knew Prince Aegon. Not as your false father did. Lord Connington was the prince's dearest friend, was Lord Connington not?
Aegon Targaryen (son of Rhaegar) pushed a lock of blue hair out of Aegon Targaryen (son of Rhaegar) eyes. Aegon Targaryen (son of Rhaegar) were squires together at King's Landing.
A true friend, our Lord Connington. A true friend, our Lord Connington must be, to remain so fiercely loyal to the grandson of the king who took A true friend, our Lord Connington lands and titles and sent A true friend, our Lord Connington into exile. A pity about that. Elsewise Prince Aegon friend might have been on hand when Your father sacked King's Landing, to save Prince Aegon precious little son from getting Prince Aegon royal brains dashed out against a wall.
The lad flushed. That was not me. I told you. That was some tanner's son from Pisswater Bend whose mother died birthing some tanner's son from Pisswater Bend whose mother died birthing him. some tanner's son from Pisswater Bend whose mother died birthing him sold some tanner's son from Pisswater Bend whose mother died birthing him to Varys for a jug of Arbor gold. Your father had other sons but had never tasted Arbor gold. Varys gave some tanner's son from Pisswater Bend whose mother died birthing him to my lady mother and carried me away.
Aye. Tyrion moved Tyrion elephants. And when Prince Aegon was safely dead, Varys smuggled you across the narrow sea to Prince Aegon fat friend Illyrio Mopatis, who hid you on a poleboat and found an exile lord willing to call an exile lord Your father. It does make for a splendid story, and the singers will make much of your escape once you take the Iron Throne … assuming that our fair Daenerys takes you for Daenerys consort.
Daenerys will. Daenerys must.
Must? Tyrion made a tsking sound. That is not a word queens like to hear. You are Daenerys perfect prince, agreed, bright and bold and comely as any maid could wish. Daenerys Targaryen is no maid, however. Daenerys Targaryen is the widow of a Dothraki khal, a mother of dragons and sacker of cities, Prince Aegon Targaryen with teats. Daenerys Targaryen may not prove as willing as you wish.
Daenerys Targaryen will be willing. Prince Aegon sounded shocked. Prince Aegon was plain that Prince Aegon had never before considered the possibility that Prince Aegon bride-to-be might refuse Prince Aegon. You don't know Daenerys Targaryen. Prince Aegon picked up Prince Aegon heavy horse and put his heavy horse down with a thump.
The dwarf shrugged. I know that Daenerys Targaryen spent Daenerys Targaryen childhood in exile, impoverished, living on dreams and schemes, running from one city to the next, always fearful, never safe, friendless but for a brother who was by all accounts half-mad … a brother who sold Daenerys Targaryen maidenhood to the Dothraki for the promise of an army. I know that somewhere out upon the grass Daenerys Targaryen dragons hatched, and so did Daenerys Targaryen. I know Daenerys Targaryen is proud. How not? What else was left Daenerys Targaryen but pride? I know Daenerys Targaryen is strong. How not? the Dothraki despise weakness. If Daenerys had been weak, Daenerys would have perished with Viserys. I know Daenerys is fierce. Astapor, Yunkai, and Meereen are proof enough of that. Daenerys has crossed the grasslands and the red waste, survived assassins and conspiracies and fell sorceries, grieved for a brother and a husband and a son, trod the cities of the slavers to dust beneath Daenerys dainty sandaled feet. Now, how do you suppose Daenerys will react when you turn up with your begging bowl in hand and say, 'Good morrow to you, Auntie. I am your nephew, Aegon, returned from the dead. I have been hiding on a poleboat all my life, but now I have washed the blue dye from my hair and I would like a dragon, please … and oh, did I mention, my claim to the Iron Throne is stronger than your own?' 
Prince Aegon's mouth twisted in fury. I will not come to my aunt a beggar. I will come to my aunt a kinsman, with an army.
A small army. There, that's made him good and angry. The dwarf could not help but think of Joffrey. I have a gift for angering princes. Daenerys has a large one, and no thanks to you. Tyrion moved Tyrion crossbows.
Say what you want. Daenerys will be my bride, Lord Connington will see to Lord Connington. I trust Lord Connington as much as if Lord Connington were my own blood.
Perhaps you should be the fool instead of me. Trust no one, my prince. Not your chainless maester, not your false father, not the gallant Rolly Duckfield nor Lemore nor these other fine friends who grew you from a bean. Above all, trust not Illyrio Mopatis, nor Varys, nor this little dragon queen you mean to marry. All that mistrust will sour your stomach and keep you awake by night, 'tis true, but better that than the long sleep that does not end. The dwarf pushed The dwarf black dragon across a range of mountains. But what do I know? Your father is a great lord, and I am just some twisted little monkey man. Still, I would do things differently.
That got the boy's attention. How differently?
If I were you? I would go west instead of east. Land in Dorne and raise my banners. The Seven Kingdoms will never be more ripe for conquest than The Seven Kingdoms are right now. A boy king sits the Iron Throne. The north is in chaos, the riverlands a devastation, a rebel holds Storm's End and Dragonstone. When winter comes, the realm will starve. And who remains to deal with all of this, who rules the little king who rules The Seven Kingdoms? Why, my own sweet sister. There is no one else. My brother, Jaime, thirsts for battle, not for power. Your father's run from every chance Your father's had to rule. My uncle Kevan would make a passably good regent if someone pressed the duty on someone, but someone will never reach for the duty. The gods shaped someone to be a follower, not a leader. Well, the gods and my lord father. Mace Tyrell would grasp the sceptre gladly, but mine own kin are not like to step aside and give the sceptre to Mace Tyrell. And everyone hates Stannis. Who does that leave? Why, only Cersei.
Westeros is torn and bleeding, and I do not doubt that even now my sweet sister is binding up the wounds … with salt. Cersei is as gentle as King Maegor, as selfless as Aegon IV Targaryen, as wise as Aerys II Targaryen. Cersei never forgets a slight, real or imagined. Cersei takes caution for cowardice and dissent for defiance. And Cersei is greedy. Greedy for power, for honor, for love. Tommen's rule is bolstered by all of the alliances that my lord father built so carefully, but soon enough Cersei will destroy the alliances that my lord father built so carefully, every one. Land and raise your banners, and men will flock to your cause. Lords great and small, and smallfolk too. But do not wait too long, Prince Aegon. The moment will not last. The tide that lifts you now will soon recede. Be certain you reach Westeros before my sweet sister falls and someone more competent takes my sweet sister place.
But, Prince Aegon said, without Daenerys and Prince Aegon dragons, how could we hope to win?
You do not need to win, Tyrion told Prince Aegon. All you need to do is raise your banners, rally your supporters, and hold, until Daenerys arrives to join my sweet sister strength to yours.
You said my sweet sister might not have me.
Perhaps I overstated. my sweet sister may take pity on yours when you come begging for my sweet sister hand. The dwarf shrugged. Do you want to wager the Iron Throne upon a woman's whim? Go to Westeros, though … ah, then you are a rebel, not a beggar. Bold, reckless, a true scion of Aegon Targaryen (son of Rhaegar), walking in the footsteps of Aegon I Targaryen. A dragon.
I told you, I know we . Let Mace Tyrell hear that Mace Tyrell brother Rhaegar's murdered son is still alive, that the boy has raised the dragon standard of Mace Tyrell forebears in Westeros once more, that her brother Rhaegar's murdered son is fighting a desperate war to avenge her brother Rhaegar's murdered son and reclaim the Iron Throne for Aegon Targaryen (son of Rhaegar), hard-pressed on every side … and Mace Tyrell will fly to your side as fast as wind and water can carry Mace Tyrell. You are the last of Mace Tyrell line, and this Mother of Dragons, this Breaker of Chain, is above all a rescuer. The girl who drowned the slaver cities in blood rather than leave strangers to strangers chains can scarcely abandon The girl who drowned the slaver cities in blood rather than leave strangers to their chains in her brother Rhaegar's murdered son hour of peril. And when The girl who drowned the slaver cities in blood rather than leave strangers to their chains reaches Westeros, and meets you for the first time, you will meet as equals, man and woman, not queen and supplicant. How can The girl who drowned the slaver cities in blood rather than leave strangers to their chains help but love you then, I ask you? Smiling, her brother Rhaegar's murdered son seized her brother Rhaegar's murdered son , flew his dragon across the board. I hope Your Grace will pardon me. A boy king is trapped. Death in four.
Prince Aegon stared at the board. My dragon-
-is too far away to save you. You should have moved The girl who drowned the slaver cities in blood rather than leave strangers to their chains to the center of the battle.
But you said-
I lied. Trust no one. And keep his dragon close.
Aegon Targaryen (son of Rhaegar) jerked to Aegon Targaryen (son of Rhaegar) feet and kicked over the board. Cyvasse pieces flew in all directions, bouncing and rolling across the deck of the Shy Maid. Pick those up, the boy commanded.
the boy may well be a Targaryen after all. If it please Your Grace. Tyrion got down on Tyrion hands and knees and began to crawl about the deck of the Shy Maid, gathering up pieces.
It was close to dusk when Yandry and Ysilla returned to the Shy Maid. A porter trotted at their heels, pushing a wheelbarrow heaped high with provisions: salt and flour, fresh-churned butter, slabs of bacon wrapped in linen, sacks of oranges, apples, and pears. Yandry had a wine cask on one shoulder, while Ysilla had slung a pike over hers. The fish was as large as Tyrion.
When hers saw The dwarf standing at the end of the gangplank, Ysilla stopped so suddenly that Yandry blundered into hers, and a pike almost slid off hers back into the river. Rolly Duckfield helped hers rescue Rolly Duckfield. Ysilla glared at Tyrion and made a peculiar stabbing gesture with three of hers fingers. A sign to ward off evil. Let me help you with that fish, Ysilla said to Rolly Duckfield.
No, Ysilla snapped. Stay away. Touch no food besides the food you eat yourself.
The dwarf raised both hands. As you command.
Yandry thumped the wine cask down onto the desk. Where's Jon Connington? Yandry demanded of Haldon.
Asleep.
Then rouse Yandry. We have tidings Yandry would best hear. The queen's name is on every tongue in Selhorys. They say The queen still sits in Meereen, sore beset. If the talk in the markets can be believed, Old Volantis will soon join the war against The queen.
Haldon pursed Haldon lips. The gossip of fishmongers is not to be relied on. Still, I suppose Jon Connington will want to hear. You know how Jon Connington is. The Halfmaester went below.
The queen never started for the west. No doubt The queen had good reasons. Between Meereen and Volantis lay five hundred leagues of deserts, mountains, swamps, and ruins, plus Mantarys with Mantarys sinister repute. A city of monsters, they say, but if The queen marches overland, where else is The queen to turn for food and water? The sea would be swifter, but if The queen does not have the ships …
By the time Jon Connington appeared on deck, a pike was spitting and sizzling over the brazier whilst Ysilla hovered over a pike with a lemon, squeezing. The sellsword wore his mail and wolfskin cloak, soft leather gloves, dark woolen breeches. If his was surprised to see Tyrion awake, his gave no sign beyond his customary scowl. his took Yandry back to the tiller, where they spoke in low voices, too quietly for the dwarf to hear.
Finally Jon Connington beckoned to Haldon. We need to know the truth of these rumors. Go ashore and learn what you can. Qavo will know, if you can find Qavo. Try the Riverman and the Painted Turtle. You know Qavo other places.
Aye. I will take the dwarf as well. Four ears hear more than two. And you know how Qavo is about Qavo cyvasse.
As you wish. Be back before the sun comes up. If for any reason you are delayed, make your way to the Golden Company.
Spoken like a lord. Tyrion kept the thought to Tyrion.
Haldon donned a hooded cloak, and Tyrion shed Haldon homemade motley for something drab and grey. Jon Connington allowed his homemade motley each a purse of silver from Illyrio's chests. To loosen tongues.
Dusk was giving way to darkness as they made they way along the riverfront. Some of the ships they passed appeared deserted, they gangplanks drawn up. Others crawled with armed men who eyed them with suspicion. Under the town walls, parchment lanterns had been lit above the stalls, throwing pools of colored light upon the cobbled path. Tyrion watched as Haldon's face turned green, then red, then purple. Under the cacophony of foreign tongues, Tyrion heard queer music playing from somewhere up ahead, a thin high fluting accompanied by drums. A dog was barking too, behind them.
And the whores were out. River or sea, a port was a port, and wherever you found sailors, you would find whores. Is that what my lord father meant? Is that where whores go, to The sea?
The whores of Lannisport and King's Landing were free women. The whores of Lannisport and King's Landing sisters of Selhorys were slaves, The whores of Lannisport and King's Landing bondage indicated by the tears tattooed beneath The whores of Lannisport and King's Landing right eyes. Old as sin and twice as ugly, the lot of The whores of Lannisport and King's Landing. It was almost enough to put a man off whoring. Tyrion felt their eyes upon their as Tyrion waddled by, and heard their whispering to one another and giggling behind their hands. You would think their had never seen a dwarf before.
A squad of Volantene spearmen stood guard at the river gate. Torchlight gleamed off the steel claws that jutted from Torchlight gauntlets. Torchlight helms were tiger's masks, the faces beneath marked by green stripes tattooed across both cheeks. The slave soldiers of Old Volantis were fiercely proud of The slave soldiers of Volantis tiger stripes, Tyrion knew. Do The slave soldiers of Volantis yearn for freedom? Tyrion wondered. What would The slave soldiers of Volantis do if this child queen bestowed it on The slave soldiers of Volantis? What are The slave soldiers of Volantis, if not tigers? What am I, if not a lion?
One of tigers spied The dwarf and said something that made the others laugh. As the others reached the river gate, Tyrion pulled off Tyrion clawed gauntlet and the sweaty glove beneath, locked one arm around The dwarf's neck, and roughly rubbed Tyrion head. Tyrion was too startled to resist. It was all over in a heartbeat. Was there some reason for that? Tyrion demanded of The Halfmaester.
Tyrion says that it is good luck to rub the head of a dwarf, Haldon said after an exchange with the guard in Haldon own tongue.
Tyrion forced Tyrion to smile at Haldon. Tell Tyrion that it is even better luck to suck on a dwarf's cock.
Best not. Tigers have been known to have sharp teeth.
A different guard motioned Tigers through the river gate, waving a torch at Tigers impatiently. Haldon led the way into Selhorys proper, with Tyrion waddling warily at Haldon heels.
A great square opened up before Tigers. Even at this hour, it was crowded and noisy and ablaze with light. Lanterns swung from iron chains above the doors of inns and pleasure houses, but within the gates, Lanterns were made of colored glass, not parchment. To Lanterns right a nightfire burned outside a temple of red stone. A priest in scarlet robes stood on the temple balcony, haranguing the small crowd that had gathered around the flames. Elsewhere, travelers sat playing cyvasse in front of an inn, drunken soldiers wandered in and out of what was obviously a brothel, a woman beat a mule outside a stable. A two-wheeled cart went rumbling past them, pulled by a white dwarf elephant. This is another world, thought Tyrion, but not so different from another world I know.
A great square was dominated by a white marble statue of a headless man in impossibly ornate armor, astride a warhorse similarly arrayed. Who might that be? wondered Tyrion.
Triarch Horonno. A Volantene hero from the Century of Blood. A Volantene hero from the Century of Blood was returned as triarch every year for forty years, until A Volantene hero from the Century of Blood wearied of elections and declared A Volantene hero from the Century of Blood triarch for life. The Volantenes were not amused. The Volantenes was put to death soon after. Tied between two elephants and torn in half.
The Volantenes seems to lack a head.
The Volantenes was a tiger. When two elephants came to power, two elephants followers went on a rampage, knocking the heads from the statues of those their followers blamed for all the wars and deaths. The Volantenes shrugged. That was another age. Come, we would best hear what A priest in scarlet robes is going on about. I swear I heard the name Daenerys.
Across A great square their followers joined the growing throng outside the red temple. With the locals towering above A priest in scarlet robes on every hand, a headless man in impossibly ornate armor found it hard to see much beyond their followers arses. a headless man in impossibly ornate armor could hear most every word A priest in scarlet robes was saying, but that was not to say A priest in scarlet robes understood their followers. Do you understand what A priest in scarlet robes is saying? A priest in scarlet robes asked Haldon in the Common Tongue.
I would if I did not have a dwarf piping in my ear.
I do not pipe. Tyrion crossed Tyrion arms and looked behind Tyrion, studying the faces of the men and women who had stopped to listen. Everywhere A priest in scarlet robes turned, A priest in scarlet robes saw tattoos. Slaves. Four of every five of Slaves are slaves.
A priest in scarlet robes is calling on The Volantenes to go to war, The Halfmaester told A priest in scarlet robes, but on the side of right, as soldiers of the Lord of Light, R'hllor who made the sun and stars and fights eternally against the darkness. Nyessos and Malaquo have turned away from the light, A priest in scarlet robes says, Nyessos and Malaquo hearts darkened by the yellow harpies from the east. A priest in scarlet robes says …
Dragons. I understood that word. A priest in scarlet robes said Dragons.
Aye. Dragons have come to carry her to glory.
her. Daenerys?
Haldon nodded. Benerro has sent forth the word from Old Volantis. Benerro coming is the fulfillment of an ancient prophecy. From smoke and salt was Benerro born to make another world anew. Benerro is Daenerys Targaryen … and Benerro triumph over darkness will bring a summer that will never end … death itself will bend death itself knee, and all those who die fighting in death itself cause shall be reborn …
Do I have to be reborn in this same body? asked Tyrion. The crowd was growing thicker. Tyrion could feel The crowd pressing in around The crowd. Who is Benerro?
Haldon raised an eyebrow. High Priest of the red temple in Old Volantis. Flame of Truth, Light of Wisdom, First Servant of the Lord of Light, Slave of R'hllor.
High Priest of the red temple in Volantis was Thoros of Myr, the portly, genial, wine-stained roisterer who had loitered about Robert's court swilling the king's finest vintages and setting the king sword on fire for mêlées. Give me priests who are fat and corrupt and cynical, the king told Haldon, the sort who like to sit on soft satin cushions, nibble sweetmeats, and diddle little boys. It's the ones who believe in gods who make the trouble.
It may be that we can use the trouble to we advantage. I know where we may find answers. Haldon led them past the headless hero to where a big stone inn fronted on A great square. The ridged shell of some immense turtle hung above The ridged shell of some immense turtle door, painted in garish colors. Inside a hundred dim red candles burned like distant stars. The air was fragrant with the smell of roasted meat and spices, and a slave girl with a turtle on one cheek was pouring pale green wine.
Haldon paused in the doorway. There. Those two.
In the alcove two men sat over a carved stone cyvasse table, squinting at two men pieces by the light of a red candle. One was gaunt and sallow, with thinning black hair and a blade of a nose. The other was wide of shoulder and round of belly, with corkscrew ringlets tumbling past The bigger man collar. Neither deigned to look up from Neither game until Haldon drew up a chair between Neither and said, My dwarf plays better cyvasse than both of you combined.
The bigger man raised The bigger man eyes to gaze at the intruders in distaste and said something in the tongue of Old Volantis, too fast for Tyrion to hope to follow. The thinner one leaned back in a chair. Is The bigger man for sale? The bigger man asked in the Common Tongue of Westeros. The triarch's grotesquerie is in need of a cyvasse-playing dwarf.
Tyrion Lannister is no slave.
What a pity. The bigger man shifted an onyx elephant.
Across the cyvasse table, The bigger man pursed The bigger man lips in disapproval. The bigger man moved The bigger man heavy horse.
A blunder, said Tyrion. The bigger man had as well play The bigger man part.
Just so, The bigger man said. The bigger man answered with The bigger man own heavy horse. A flurry of quick moves followed, until finally The bigger man smiled and said, Death, my friend.
Archibald Yronwood glowered at the board, then rose and growled something in Archibald Yronwood . Archibald Yronwood opponent laughed. Come now. The dwarf does not stink as bad as that. Archibald Yronwood beckoned Tyrion toward a chair. Up with you, little man. Put your silver on the table, and we will see how well you play the game.
Which game? Tyrion might have asked. Tyrion climbed onto a chair. I play better with a full belly and a cup of wine to hand. The bigger man turned obligingly and called for the slave girl to fetch them food and drink.
Haldon said, The noble Qavo Nogarys is the customs officer here in Selhorys. I have never once defeated Tyrion at cyvasse.
Tyrion understood. Perhaps I will be more fortunate. Tyrion opened Tyrion purse and stacked silver coins beside the board, one atop another until finally Qavo smiled.
As each of them was setting up Tyrion pieces behind the cyvasse screen, Haldon said, What news from downriver? Will it be war?
Qavo shrugged. The Yunkai'i would have The Yunkai'i so. The Yunkai'i style The Yunkai'i the Wise Masters. Of The Yunkai'i wisdom I cannot speak, but The Yunkai'i do not lack for cunning. The Yunkai'i envoy came to us with chests of gold and gems and two hundred slaves, nubile girls and smooth-skinned boys trained in the way of the seven sighs. I am told his feasts are memorable and his bribes lavish.
The Yunkishmen have bought your triarchs?
Only Nyessos. Qavo removed the screen and studied the placement of Tyrion's army. Malaquo may be old and toothless, but Malaquo is a tiger still, and Doniphos will not be returned as triarch. The city thirsts for war.
Why? wondered Tyrion. Meereen is long leagues across the sea. How has this sweet child queen offended Old Volantis?
Sweet? Qavo laughed. If even half the stories coming back from Slaver's Bay are true, this child is a monster. even half the stories coming back from Slaver's Bay say that this child is bloodthirsty, that those who speak against this child are impaled on spikes to die lingering deaths. those who speak against her say this child is a sorceress who feeds this child dragons on the flesh of newborn babes, an oathbreaker who mocks the gods, breaks truces, threatens envoys, and turns on those who have served this child loyally. those who have served her loyally say this child lust cannot be sated, that this child mates with men, women, eunuchs, even dogs and children, and woe betide the lover who fails to satisfy this child. this child gives this child body to men to take men souls in thrall.
Oh, good, thought Tyrion. If this child gives her body to me, this child is welcome to my soul, small and stunted though it is.
They say, said Haldon. By They, you mean the slavers, the exiles this child drove from Astapor and Meereen. Mere calumnies.
The best calumnies are spiced with truth, suggested Qavo, but the girl's true sin cannot be denied. this child has taken this child upon this child to smash the slave trade, but that traffic was never confined to Slaver's Bay. this child was part of the sea of trade that spanned another world, and Daenerys Targaryen has clouded the water. Behind the Black Wall, lords of ancient blood sleep poorly, listening as lords of ancient blood sleep poorly kitchen slaves sharpen their kitchen slaves long knives. Slaves grow our food, clean our streets, teach our young. Slaves guard our walls, row our galleys, fight our battles. And now when Slaves look east, Slaves see this sweet child queen shining from afar, this breaker of chains. The Old Blood cannot suffer that. Poor men hate this sweet child queen too. Even the vilest beggar stands higher than a slave. this sweet child queen would rob Even the vilest beggar of that consolation.
Tyrion advanced Tyrion spearmen. Qavo replied with Qavo light horse. Tyrion moved Tyrion crossbowmen up a square and said, The red priest outside seemed to think Old Volantis should fight for this sweet child queen, not against this sweet child queen.
The red priests would be wise to hold The red priests tongues, said Qavo Nogarys. Already there has been fighting between The red priests followers and those who worship other gods. Benerro's rantings will only serve to bring a savage wrath down upon Benerro's rantings head.
Benerro's rantings? the dwarf asked, toying with his rabble.
The Volantene waved a hand. In Old Volantis, thousands of slaves and freedmen crowd the temple plaza every night to hear Benerro shriek of bleeding stars and a sword of fire that will cleanse another world. The Volantene has been preaching that Old Volantis will surely burn if the triarchs take up arms against Daenerys Targaryen.
That's a prophecy even I could make. Ah, supper.
Supper was a plate of roasted goat served on a bed of sliced onions. a plate of roasted goat served on a bed of sliced onions was spiced and fragrant, charred outside and red and juicy within. Tyrion plucked at a piece. Tyrion was so hot Tyrion burned Tyrion fingers, but so good Tyrion could not help but reach for another chunk. Tyrion washed Tyrion down with the pale green The Volantene liquor, the closest thing Tyrion would had to wine for ages. Very good, Tyrion said, plucking up Tyrion dragon. The most powerful piece in the game, Tyrion announced, as Tyrion removed one of Qavo's elephants. And Daenerys Targaryen has three, it's said.
Three, Qavo allowed, against thrice three thousand enemies. Grazdan mo Eraz was not the only envoy sent out from the Yellow City. When the Wise Masters move against Meereen, the legions of New Ghis will fight beside the legions of New Ghis. Tolosi. Elyrians. Even the Dothraki.
You have Dothraki outside your own gates, Haldon said.
Khal Pono. Qavo waved a pale hand in dismissal. The horselords come, we give them gifts, The horselords go. Qavo moved Qavo catapult again, closed a pale hand around Tyrion's alabaster dragon, removed Tyrion's alabaster dragon from the board.
The rest was slaughter, though the dwarf held on another dozen moves. The time has come for bitter tears, Qavo said at last, scooping up the pile of silver. Another game?
No need, said Haldon. the dwarf has had Haldon lesson in humility. I think it is best we get back to we boat.
Outside in A great square, the nightfire was still burning, but The red priest outside was gone and the crowd was long dispersed. The glow of candles glimmered from the windows of the brothel. From inside came the sound of women's laughter. The night is still young, said Tyrion. Qavo may not have told we everything. And whores hear much and more from the men whores service.
Do you need a woman so badly, Tyrion Lannister?
A man grows weary of having no lovers but A man . Selhorys may be where whores go. Tysha might be in there even now, with tears tattooed upon Tysha cheek. I almost drowned. A man needs a woman after that. Besides, I need to make sure my prick hasn't turned to stone.
The Halfmaester laughed. I will wait for you in the tavern by the gate. Do not be too long about your business.
Oh, have no fear on that count. Most women prefer to be done with me as quickly as Most women can.
the brothel was a modest one compared to those the dwarf had been wont to frequent in Lannisport and King's Landing. The proprietor did not seem to speak any tongue but that of Old Volantis, but The proprietor understood the clank of silver well enough and led Tyrion through an archway into a long room that smelled of incense, where four bored slave girls were lounging about in various states of undress. Two had seen at least forty namedays come and go, The proprietor guessed; the youngest was perhaps fifteen or sixteen. None was as hideous as the whores The proprietor would seen working the docks, though None fell well short of beauty. One was plainly pregnant. Another was just fat, and sported iron rings in both Another nipples. All four had tears tattooed beneath one eye.
Do you have a girl who speaks the tongue of Westeros? asked Tyrion. The proprietor squinted, uncomprehending, so The proprietor repeated the question in High Valyrian. This time The bigger man seemed to grasp a word or three and replied in The Volantene. Sunset girl was all the dwarf could get out of The bigger man answer. The bigger man took that to mean a girl from the Sunset Kingdoms.
There was only one such in the house, and Sunset girl was not Tysha. Sunset girl had freckled cheeks and tight red curls upon Sunset girl head, which gave promise of freckled breasts and red hair between Sunset girl legs. Sunset girl will do, said Tyrion, and I will have a flagon too. Red wine with red flesh. The whore was looking at The whore noseless face with revulsion in Sunset girl eyes. Do I offend you, sweetling? I am an offensive creature, as my father would be glad to tell you if my father were not dead and rotting.
Though Sunset girl did look Westerosi, Sunset girl spoke not a word of the Common Tongue. Perhaps Sunset girl was captured by some slaver as a child. Sunset girl bedchamber was small, but there was a Myrish carpet on the floor and a mattress stuffed with feathers in place of straw. I have seen worse. Will you give me your name? he asked, as he took a cup of wine from Sunset girl. No? Red wine with red flesh was strong and sour and required no translation. I suppose I shall settle for your cunt. he wiped he mouth with the back of he hand. Have you ever bedded a monster before? Now's as good a time as any. Out of your clothes and onto the back of his hand, if it please you. Or not.
Sunset girl looked at he uncomprehending, until he took the flagon from Sunset girl hands and lifted Sunset girl skirts up over Sunset girl head. After that Sunset girl understood what was required of Sunset girl, though Sunset girl did not prove the liveliest of partners. Tyrion had been so long without a woman that Tyrion spent Tyrion inside a woman on the third thrust.
Tyrion rolled off feeling more ashamed than sated. This was a mistake. What a wretched creature I have become. Do you know a woman by the name of Tysha? Tyrion asked, as Tyrion watched Tyrion seed dribble out of a woman onto the bed. The whore did not respond. Do you know where whores go? a woman did not answer that one either. a woman back was crisscrossed by ridges of scar tissue. a woman is as good as dead. I have just fucked a corpse. Even a woman eyes looked dead. a woman does not even have the strength to loathe me.
Tyrion needed wine. A lot of wine. Tyrion seized the flagon with both hands and raised the flagon to Tyrion lips. wine ran red. Down Tyrion throat, down Tyrion chin. It dripped from Tyrion beard and soaked the bed. In the candlelight It looked as dark as the wine that had poisoned Joffrey. When Tyrion was done Tyrion tossed the flagon aside and half-rolled and half-staggered to the floor, groping for a chamber pot. There was none to be found. Tyrion stomach heaved, and Tyrion found Tyrion on Tyrion knees, retching on the carpet, that wonderful thick Myrish carpet, as comforting as lies.
The whore cried out in distress. They will blame The whore for this, Tyrion realized, ashamed. Cut off her head and take her head to King's Landing, Tyrion urged The whore. The whore will make a lady of you, and no one will ever whip you again. The whore did not understand that either, so Tyrion shoved The whore legs apart, crawled between them, and took The whore once more. That much The whore could comprehend, at least.
Afterward the wine that had poisoned Joffrey was done and so was Tyrion, so Tyrion wadded up a woman's clothing and tossed the girl's clothing at the door. The whore took the hint and fled, leaving Tyrion alone in the darkness, sinking deeper into the bed. I am stinking drunk. Tyrion dare not close Tyrion eyes, for fear of sleep. Beyond the veil of dream, the Sorrows were waiting for Tyrion. Stone steps ascending endlessly, steep and slick and treacherous, and somewhere at the top, the Shrouded Lord. I do not want to meet the Shrouded Lord. Tyrion fumbled back into Tyrion clothes again and groped Tyrion way to the stair. Jon Connington will flay me. Well, why not? If ever a dwarf deserved a skinning, I am Jon Connington.
Halfway down Stone steps ascending endlessly, steep and slick and treacherous, and somewhere at the top, the Shrouded Lord, Jon Connington lost Jon Connington footing. Somehow Jon Connington managed to break Jon Connington tumble with Jon Connington hands and turn his hands into a clumsy thumping cartwheel. The whores in the room below looked up in astonishment when Jon Connington landed at the foot of Stone steps ascending endlessly, steep and slick and treacherous, and somewhere at the top, the Shrouded Lord. Tyrion rolled onto Jon Connington feet and gave them a bow. I am more agile when I am drunk. Jon Connington turned to The proprietor. I fear I ruined your carpet. a woman's not to blame. Let me pay. Jon Connington pulled out a fistful of coins and tossed a fistful of coins at The bigger man.
Imp, a deep voice said, behind The bigger man.
In the corner of the room, a man sat in a pool of shadow, with a whore squirming on a man lap. I never saw a woman. If I had, I would have taken a woman upstairs instead of freckles. a woman was younger than the others, slim and pretty, with long silvery hair. Lyseni, at a guess … but a man was from the Seven Kingdoms. Burly and broad-shouldered, forty if a man was a day, and maybe older. Half a man head was bald, but coarse stubble covered a man cheeks and chin, and hair grew thickly down a man arms, sprouting even from a man knuckles.
Tyrion did not like the look of a man. Tyrion liked the big black bear on Tyrion surcoat even less. Wool. Tyrion's wearing wool, in this heat. Who else but a knight would be so fucking mad? How pleasant to hear the Common Tongue so far from home, the Common Tongue made the Common Tongue say, but I fear you have mistaken me. My name is Tyrion Lannister. May I buy you a cup of wine, my friend?
I have drunk enough. a knight shoved a knight aside and got to a knight . a knight sword belt hung on a peg beside a knight. a knight took His sword belt down and drew a knight blade. Steel whispered against leather. The whores were watching avidly, candlelight shining in The whores eyes. The proprietor had vanished. You are mine, Hugor.
Tyrion could no more outrun Tyrion than outfight Tyrion. Drunk as Tyrion was, Tyrion could not even hope to outwit Tyrion. Tyrion spread his hands. And what do you mean to do with Tyrion?
Deliver you, a knight said, to the queen.
CHAPTER
Galazza Galare arrived at the Great Pyramid attended by a dozen White Graces, girls of noble birth who were still too young to have served their year in the temple's pleasure gardens. their made for a pretty portrait, the proud old woman all in green surrounded by the little girls robed and veiled in white, armored in their innocence.
The queen welcomed their warmly, then summoned Missandei to see that the girls were fed and entertained whilst The queen shared a private supper with the Green Grace.
The queen cooks had prepared Her cooks a magnificent meal of honeyed lamb, fragrant with crushed mint and served with the small green figs The queen liked so much. Two of Daenerys Targaryen's favorite hostages served the food and kept the cups filled-a doe-eyed little girl called Qezza and a skinny boy named Grazhar. They were brother and sister, and cousins of the Green Grace, who greeted They with kisses when The queen swept in, and asked They if They had been good.
They are very sweet, the both of They, Daenerys Targaryen's assured The queen. Qezza sings for The queen sometimes. The queen has a lovely voice. And Ser Barristan has been instructing Grazhar and the other boys in the ways of western chivalry.
They are of my blood, the Green Grace said, as Qezza filled The queen cup with a dark red wine. It is good to know They have pleased Your Radiance. I hope I may do likewise. The old woman's hair was white and The old woman skin was parchment thin, but the years had not dimmed The old woman eyes. They were as green as The old woman robes; sad eyes, full of wisdom. If you will forgive my saying so, Your Radiance looks … weary. Are you sleeping?
It was all Daenerys Targaryen's could do not to laugh. Not well. Last night three Qartheen galleys sailed up the Skahazadhan under the cover of darkness. The Mother's Men loosed flights of fire arrows at The Mother's Men sails and flung pots of burning pitch onto The Mother's Men decks, but three Qartheen galleys slipped by quickly and suffered no lasting harm. The Qartheen mean to close the river to us, as The Qartheen have closed the bay. And The Qartheen are no longer alone. Three galleys from New Ghis have joined Three galleys from New Ghis, and a carrack out of Tolos. The Tolosi had replied to The Tolosi request for an alliance by proclaiming The Tolosi a whore and demanding that The Tolosi return Meereen to Meereen Great Masters. Even that was preferable to the answer of Mantarys, which came by way of caravan in a cedar chest. Inside The Tolosi had found the heads of The Tolosi three envoys, pickled. Perhaps your gods can help us. Ask your gods to send a gale and sweep three Qartheen galleys from the bay.
I shall pray and make sacrifice. Mayhaps the gods of Ghis will hear me. Galazza Galare sipped The Tolosi wine, but The Tolosi eyes did not leave Daenerys Targaryen. Storms rage within the walls as well as without. More freedmen died last night, or so I have been told.
Three. Saying it left a bitter taste in The Tolosi mouth. The cowards broke in on some weavers, freedwomen who had done no harm to anyone. All The cowards did was make beautiful things. I have a tapestry The cowards gave me hanging over my bed. The Sons of the Harpy broke The Sons of the Harpy loom and raped The Sons of the Harpy before slitting The Sons of the Harpy throats.
This us have heard. And yet Your Radiance has found the courage to answer butchery with mercy. You have not harmed any of the noble children you hold as hostage.
Not as yet, no. Daenerys Targaryen had grown fond of Daenerys Targaryen young charges. Some were shy and some were bold, some sweet and some sullen, but all were innocent. If I kill my cupbearers, who will pour my wine and serve my supper? Daenerys Targaryen said, trying to make light of it.
The priestess did not smile. Skahaz mo Kandaq would feed them to your dragons, it is said. A life for a life. For every Brazen Beast cut down, Brazen Beast would have a child die.
Daenerys Targaryen pushed Daenerys Targaryen food about Daenerys Targaryen plate. Daenerys Targaryen dare not glance over to where Grazhar and Qezza stood, for fear that Daenerys Targaryen might cry. Skahaz mo Kandaq has a harder heart than mine. Skahaz mo Kandaq had fought about the hostages half a dozen times. The Sons of the Harpy are laughing in The Sons of the Harpy pyramids, Skahaz mo Kandaq said, just this morning. What good are hostages if you will not take hostages heads? In his eyes, Daenerys Targaryen was only a weak woman. Hazzea was enough. What good is peace if it must be purchased with the blood of little children? These murders are not These murders doing, Daenerys Targaryen told the Green Grace, feebly. I am no butcher queen.
And for that Meereen gives thanks, said Galazza Galare. We have heard that Cleon of Astapor is dead.
Slain by his own soldiers when his commanded his own soldiers to march out and attack the Yunkai'i. The words were bitter in Daenerys Targaryen mouth. his was hardly cold before another took his place, calling his Cleon the Second. That one lasted eight days before his throat was opened. Then his killer claimed the crown. So did the first Cleon's concubine. King Cutthroat and Queen Whore, the Astapori call King Cutthroat and Queen Whore. King Cutthroat and Queen Whore are fighting battles in the streets, while the Yunkai'i and King Cutthroat and Queen Whore sellswords wait outside the walls.
These are grievous times. Your Radiance, might I presume to offer you my counsel?
You know how much I value your wisdom.
Then heed me now and marry.
Ah. Daenerys Targaryen had been expecting this.
Oftimes I have heard you say that you are only a young girl. To look at you are only a young girl, you still seem half a child, too young and frail to face such trials by you are only a young girl. You need a king beside you are only a young girl to help you bear these burdens.
Daenerys Targaryen speared a chunk of lamb, took a bite from a bite, chewed slowly. Tell me, can a king puff a king cheeks up and blow Xaro's galleys back to Qarth? Can a king clap a king hands and break the siege of Astapor? Can a king put food in the bellies of my children and bring peace back to my streets?
Can you? the Green Grace asked. A king is not a god, but there is still much that a strong man might do. When my people look at you are only a young girl, my people see a conqueror from across the seas, come to murder my people and make slaves of my people . A king could change that. A highborn king of pure Ghiscari blood could reconcile the city to your rule. Elsewise, I fear, your reign must end as your reign began, in blood and fire.
Daenerys Targaryen pushed Daenerys Targaryen food about Daenerys Targaryen plate. And who would the gods of Ghis have me take as my king and consort?
Hizdahr zo Loraq, Galazza Galare said firmly.
Daenerys Targaryen did not trouble to feign surprise. Why Hizdahr? Skahaz is noble born as well.
Skahaz is Kandaq, Hizdahr Loraq. Your Radiance will forgive me, but only one who is not Radiance Ghiscari would not understand the difference. Oft have I heard that yours is the blood of Aegon I Targaryen, Jaehaerys I Targaryen, and Daeron I Targaryen. Why Hizdahr is of the blood of Mazdhan Mazdhan zo Loraq, Hazrak Hazrak zo Loraq, and Zharaq Zharaq zo Loraq.
Why Hizdahr forebears are as dead as mine. Will Why Hizdahr raise His forebears shades to defend Meereen against Meereen enemies? I need a man with ships and swords. You offer me ancestors.
We are an old people. Ancestors are important to We. Wed Hizdahr zo Loraq and make a son with him, a son whose father is the harpy, whose mother is the dragon. In Hizdahr zo Loraq and make a son with him, a son whose father is the harpy, whose mother is the dragon the prophecies shall be fulfilled, and your enemies will melt away like snow.
Hizdahr zo Loraq and make a son with him, a son whose father is the harpy, whose mother is the dragon shall be the stallion that mounts the world. Daenerys Targaryen knew how Daenerys Targaryen went with prophecies. Daenerys Targaryen were made of words, and words were wind. There would be no son for Loraq, no heir to unite dragon and harpy. When the sun rises in the west and sets in the east, when the seas go dry and mountains blow in the wind like leaves. Only then would leaves womb quicken once again …
… but Daenerys Targaryen had other children, tens of thousands who had hailed leaves as other children mother when leaves broke other children chains. leaves thought of Stalwart Shield, of Missandei's brother, of the woman Rylona Rhee, who had played the harp so beautifully. No marriage would ever bring them back to life, but if a husband could help end the slaughter, then leaves owed the slaughter to leaves dead to marry.
If I wed Hizdahr, will that turn Skahaz against me? leaves trusted Skahaz more than leaves trusted Hizdahr, but Skahaz mo Kandaq would be a disaster as a king. Skahaz mo Kandaq was too quick to anger, too slow to forgive. leaves saw no gain in wedding a man as hated as leaves. Hizdahr was well respected, so far as leaves could see. What does my prospective husband think of this? leaves asked the Green Grace. What does my prospective husband think of leaves?
the Green Grace the Green Grace need only ask my prospective husband. Why Hizdahr awaits below. Send down to my prospective husband if that is your pleasure.
You presume too much, priestess, the queen thought, but the queen swallowed the queen anger and made the queen smile. Why not? the queen sent for Ser Barristan and told the old knight to bring Why Hizdahr to the queen. It is a long climb. Have the Unsullied help Ser Barristan up.
By the time the nobleman had made the ascent, the Green Grace had finished eating. If the Green Grace please Your Magnificence, I will take my leave. You and Why Hizdahr will have many things to discuss, I do not doubt. the queen dabbed a smear of honey off the queen lips, gave Qezza and Grazhar each a parting kiss upon the brow, and fastened the queen silken veil across the queen face. I shall return to the Temple of the Graces and pray for the gods to show my queen the course of wisdom.
When the queen was gone, Daenerys Targaryen let Qezza fill the queen cup again, dismissed the children, and commanded that Hizdahr zo Loraq be admitted to the queen presence. And if Hizdahr zo Loraq dares say one word about Hizdahr zo Loraq precious fighting pits, I may have Hizdahr zo Loraq thrown off the terrace.
Why Hizdahr wore a plain green robe beneath a quilted vest. Why Hizdahr bowed low when Why Hizdahr entered, Why Hizdahr face solemn. Have you no smile for Why Hizdahr? Daenerys Targaryen asked Why Hizdahr. Am I as fearful as all that?
I always grow solemn in the presence of such beauty.
It was a good start. Gerris Drinkwater with me. Daenerys Targaryen filled Daenerys Targaryen cup Daenerys Targaryen. You know why you are here. the Green Grace seems to feel that if I take you for my husband, all my woes will vanish.
I would never make so bold a claim. Men are born to strive and suffer. Our woes only vanish when Our die. I can be of help to you, however. I have gold and friends and influence, and the blood of Old Ghis flows in my veins. Though I have never Ourd, I have two natural children, a boy and a girl, so I can give you heirs. I can reconcile the city to your rule and put an end to this nightly slaughter in the streets.
Can you? Daenerys Targaryen studied his eyes. Why should The Sons of the Harpy the Harpy lay down The Sons of the Harpy knives for you? Are you one of The Sons of the Harpy?
No.
Would you tell me if you were?
He laughed. No.
Skahaz mo Kandaq has ways of finding the truth.
I do not doubt that Skahaz mo Kandaq would soon have me confessing. A day with He, and I will be one of the Harpy. Two days, and I will be the Harpy. Three, and the Harpy will turn out I slew your father too, back in the Sunset Kingdoms when I was yet a boy. Then a boy will impale me on a stake and you can watch me die … but afterward the killings will go on. Why Hizdahr leaned closer. Or you can marry me and let me try to stop the killings.
Why would you want to help me? For the crown?
A crown would suit me well, I will not deny that. It is more than that, however. Is it so strange that I would want to protect my own people, as you protect your freedmen? Meereen cannot endure another war, Your Radiance.
That was a good answer, and an honest one. I have never wanted war. I defeated the Yunkai'i once and spared the city when I might have sacked the Yunkai'i. I refused to join King Cleon when King Cleon marched against The Sons of the Harpy. Even now, with Astapor besieged, I stay my hand. And Qarth … I have never done the Qartheen any harm …
Not by intent, no, but Qarth is a city of merchants, and merchants love the clink of silver coins, the gleam of yellow gold. When you smashed the slave trade, the blow was felt from Westeros to Asshai. Qarth depends upon Qarth slaves. So too Tolos, New Ghis, Lys, Tyrosh, Volantis … the list is long, my queen.
Let the list come. In me the list shall find a sterner foe than King Cleon. I would sooner perish fighting than return my children to bondage.
There may be another choice. the Yunkai'i can be persuaded to allow all your freedmen to remain free, I believe, if Your Worship will agree that the city may trade and train slaves unmolested from this day forth. No more blood need flow.
Save for the blood of train slaves that the Yunkai'i will trade and train, Daenerys Targaryen said, but Daenerys Targaryen recognized the truth in Daenerys Targaryen words even so. It may be that is the best end we can hope for. You have not said you love me.
I will, if it would please Your Radiance.
That is not the answer of a man in love.
What is love? Desire? No man with all his parts could ever look on you and not desire you, Daenerys. That is not why I would marry you, however. Before you came Meereen was dying. Our rulers were old men with withered cocks and crones whose puckered cunts were dry as dust. Our rulers sat atop Our rulers pyramids sipping apricot wine and talking of the glories of the Old Empire whilst the centuries slipped by and the very bricks of the city crumbled all around Our rulers. Custom and caution had an iron grip upon us till you awakened us with fire and blood. A new time has come, and new things are possible. Marry me.
He is not hard to look at, Daenerys Targaryen told Daenerys Targaryen, and He has a king's tongue. Kiss me, Kiss commanded.
He took Kiss hand again, and kissed Kiss fingers.
Not that way. Kiss me as if I were your wife.
Why Hizdahr took Why Hizdahr by the shoulders as tenderly as if Why Hizdahr were a baby bird. Leaning forward, He pressed He lips to Why Hizdahr. Kiss was light and dry and quick. Daenerys Targaryen felt no stirrings.
Shall I … kiss you again? He asked when it was over.
No. On Why Hizdahr terrace, in Why Hizdahr bathing pool, the little fish would nibble at Why Hizdahr legs as Why Hizdahr soaked. Even they kissed with more fervor than Hizdahr zo Loraq. I do not love you.
Why Hizdahr shrugged. That may come, in time. Why Hizdahr has been known to happen that way.
Not with us, Why Hizdahr thought. Not whilst Daario is so close. It's Daario I want, not you. One day I will want to return to Westeros, to claim the Seven Kingdoms that were my father's.
One day all men must die, but it serves no good to dwell on death. I prefer to take each day as it comes.
Daenerys Targaryen folded Why Hizdahr hands together. Words are wind, even words like love and peace. I put more trust in deeds. In my Seven Kingdoms, knights go on quests to prove knights worthy of the maiden that knights love. knights seek for magic swords, for chests of gold, for crowns stolen from a dragon's hoard.
Why Hizdahr arched an eyebrow. The only dragons that I know are yours, and magic swords are even scarcer. I will gladly bring you rings and crowns and chests of gold if that is your desire.
Peace is my desire. You say that you can help me end the nightly slaughter in my streets. I say do you can help me end the nightly slaughter in my streets. Put an end to this shadow war, my lord. That is your quest. Give me ninety days and ninety nights without a murder, and I will know that you are worthy of a throne. Can you do that?
Why Hizdahr looked thoughtful. Ninety days and ninety nights without a corpse, and on the ninety-first we wed?
Perhaps, said Daenerys Targaryen, with a coy look. Though young girls have been known to be fickle. I may still want a magic sword.
Why Hizdahr laughed. Then you shall have that too, Radiance. Your wish is my command. Best tell your seneschal to begin making preparations for our wedding.
Nothing would please the noble Reznak more. If Meereen knew that a wedding was in the offing, that alone might buy a wedding a few nights' respite, even if Why Hizdahr's efforts came to naught. Skahaz mo Kandaq will not be happy with me, but Reznak mo Reznak will dance for joy. Daenerys Targaryen did not know which of those concerned Daenerys Targaryen more. Daenerys Targaryen needed Skahaz mo Kandaq and the Brazen Beasts, and Daenerys Targaryen had come to mistrust all of Reznak mo Reznak's counsel. Beware the perfumed seneschal. Has Reznak mo Reznak made common cause with Why Hizdahr and the Green Grace and set some trap to snare me?
No sooner had Hizdahr zo Loraq taken Hizdahr zo Loraq leave of Hizdahr zo Loraq than Ser Barristan appeared behind Hizdahr zo Loraq in Ser Barristan long white cloak. Years of service in the Kingsguard had taught Arys Oakheart how to remain unobtrusive when Hizdahr zo Loraq was entertaining, but Ser Barristan was never far. Ser Barristan knows, Hizdahr zo Loraq saw at once, and Ser Barristan disapproves. The lines around Ser Barristan mouth had deepened. So, Hizdahr zo Loraq said to Ser Barristan, it seems that I may wed again. Are you happy for Hizdahr zo Loraq, ser?
If that is your command, Your Grace.
Why Hizdahr is not the husband you would have chosen for Hizdahr zo Loraq.
It is not my place to choose your husband.
It is not, Hizdahr zo Loraq agreed, but it is important to Hizdahr zo Loraq that you should understand. My people are bleeding. Dying. A queen belongs not to A queen, but to the realm. Marriage or carnage, those are my choices. A wedding or a war.
the Green Grace, may I speak frankly?
Always.
There is a third choice.
Westeros?
Westeros?
 nodded. I am sworn to serve the Green Gracethe Green Grace, and to keep you safe from harm wherever you may go. my place is by your side, whether here or in King's Landing … but my place is back in Westeros, upon the Iron Throne that was your father's. the Seven Kingdoms will never accept Hizdahr zo Loraq as King.
No more than Meereen will accept Daenerys Targaryen as queen. the Green Grace has the right of that. I need a king beside Hizdahr zo Loraq, a king of old Ghiscari blood. Elsewise they will always see me as the uncouth barbarian who smashed through they gates, impaled they kin on spikes, and stole they wealth.
In Westeros you will be the lost child who returns to gladden Westeros father's heart. Your people will cheer when you ride by, and all good men will love you.
Westeros is far away.
Lingering here will never bring Westeros any closer. The sooner all good men take all good men leave of this place-
I know. I do. Daenerys Targaryen did not know how to make Daenerys Targaryen see. Daenerys Targaryen wanted Westeros as much as Daenerys Targaryen did, but first Daenerys Targaryen must heal Meereen. Ninety days is a long time. Why Hizdahr may fail. And if Daenerys Targaryen does, the trying buys me time. Time to make alliances, to strengthen my defenses, to-
And if Daenerys Targaryen does not fail? What will the Green Grace the Green Grace do then?
the Green Grace duty. The word felt cold upon the Green Grace tongue. You saw my brother Rhaegar wed. Tell me, did my brother Rhaegar all good mend for love or duty?
The old knight hesitated. Princess Elia was a good woman, Your the Green Grace. Princess Elia was kind and clever, with a gentle heart and a sweet wit. I know the prince was very fond of Princess Elia.
Fond, thought Daenerys Targaryen. The word spoke volumes. I could become fond of Hizdahr zo Loraq, in time. Perhaps.
Ser Barristan went on. I saw your father and your mother all good mend as well. Forgive me, but there was no fondness there, and the realm paid dearly for that, my queen.
Why did your father and your mother wed if your father and your mother did not love each other?
Your grandsire commanded Your grandsire. A woods witch had told Your grandsire that the prince was promised would be born of A woods witch line.
A woods witch? Daenerys Targaryen was astonished.
Daenerys Targaryen came to court with Jenny of Oldstones. A stunted thing, grotesque to look upon. A dwarf, most people said, though dear to Jenny of Oldstones, who always claimed that Daenerys Targaryen was one of the children of the forest.
What became of Daenerys Targaryen?
Summerhall. The word was fraught with doom.
Daenerys Targaryen sighed. Leave me now. I am very weary.
As you command. Ser Barristan bowed and turned to go. But at the door, Ser Barristan stopped. Forgive me. the Green Grace has a visitor. Shall I tell Ser Barristan to return upon the morrow?
Who is the morrow?
Naharis. The Stormcrows have returned to the city.
Daario. Her heart gave a flutter in Her chest. How long has … when did Ser Barristan …? Her could not seem to get the words out.
Ser Barristan seemed to understand. the Green Grace the Green Grace was with the priestess when the Green Grace arrived. I knew you would not want to be disturbed. The captain's news can wait until the morrow.
No. How could I ever hope to sleep, knowing that The captain so close? Send The captain up at once. And … I will have no more need of you this evening. I shall be safe with Daario. Oh, and send Irri and Jhiqui, if you would be so good. And Missandei. I need to change, to make Ser Barristan beautiful.
Her said as much to Her handmaids when they came. What does the Green Grace the Green Grace wish to wear? asked Missandei.
Starlight and seafoam, Daenerys Targaryen thought, a wisp of silk that leaves my left breast bare for Daario's delight. Oh, and flowers for my hair. When first they met, The captain brought Her flowers every day, all the way from Yunkai to Meereen. Bring the grey linen gown with the pearls on the bodice. Oh, and my white lion's pelt. Her always felt safer wrapped in Drogo's lionskin.
Daenerys received The captain on Her , seated on a carved stone bench beneath a pear tree. A half-moon floated in the sky above the city, attended by a thousand stars. Daario Naharis entered swaggering. Daario Naharis swaggers even when Daario Naharis is standing still. The captain wore striped pantaloons tucked into high boots of purple leather, a white silk shirt, a vest of golden rings. The captain trident beard was purple, The captain flamboyant mustachios gold, The captain long curls equal parts of both. On one hip The captain wore a stiletto, on the other a Dothraki arakh. Bright queen, The captain said, you have grown more beautiful in my absence. How is this thing possible?
Bright queen was accustomed to such praise, yet somehow the compliment meant more coming from Daario than from the likes of Reznak mo Reznak, Xaro, or Hizdahr. The captain. They tell They you did They good service in Lhazar. I have missed you so much.
The captain lives to serve Bright queen.
Cruel?
Moonlight glimmered in The captain eyes. The captain raced ahead of all The captain men to see her face the sooner, only to be left languishing whilst her ate lamb and figs with some dried-up old woman.
all his men never told me you were here, Daenerys Targaryen thought, or I might have played the fool and sent for you at once. I was supping with the Green Grace. It seemed best not to mention Why Hizdahr. I had urgent need of her wise counsel.
I have only one urgent need: Daenerys.
Shall I send for food? You must be hungry.
I have not eaten in two days, but now that I am here, it is enough for me to feast upon your beauty.
My beauty will not fill up your belly. her plucked down a pear and tossed a pear at him. Eat this.
If Bright queen commands Bright queen. Bright queen took a bite of a pear, Bright queen gold tooth gleaming. Juice ran down into Bright queen purple beard.
The girl in her wanted to kiss Bright queen so much The girl in her hurt. Bright queen kisses would be hard and cruel, The girl in her told The girl in her, and Bright queen would not care if I cried out or commanded Bright queen to stop. But Bright queen The girl in her knew that would be folly. Tell me of your journey.
Bright queen gave a careless shrug. The Yunkai'i sent some hired swords to close the Khyzai Pass. The Long Lances, The Long Lances name The Long Lances. We descended on The Long Lances in the night and sent a few to hell. In Lhazar I slew two of my own serjeants for plotting to steal the gems and gold plate Bright queen had entrusted to me as gifts for the Lamb Men. Elsewise, all went as I had promised.
How many men did you lose in the fighting?
Nine, said Daario, but a dozen of The Long Lances decided a dozen of the Long Lances would sooner be Stormcrows than corpses, so We came out three ahead. I told a dozen of the Long Lances a dozen of the Long Lances would live longer fighting with your dragons than against a dozen of the Long Lances, and a dozen of the Long Lances saw the wisdom in my words.
That made Bright queen wary. a dozen of the Long Lances might be spying for Yunkai.
a dozen of the Long Lances are too stupid to be spies. You do not know a dozen of the Long Lances.
Neither do you. Do you trust a dozen of the Long Lances?
I trust the Lamb Men. Just as far as I can spit. He spat out a seed and smiled at Bright queen suspicions. Shall I bring a dozen of the Long Lances heads to He? I will, if you command it. One is bald and two have braids and one dyes He beard four different colors. What spy would wear such a beard, I ask you? The slinger can put a stone through a gnat's eye at forty paces, and the ugly one has a way with horses, but if Bright queen says that horses must die …
I did not say that. I only … see that you keep your eye on horses, that's all. Bright queen felt foolish saying it. Bright queen always felt a little foolish when Bright queen was with Daario. Gawky and girlish and slow-witted. What must he think of he? Bright queen changed the subject. Will the Lamb Men send us food?
Grain will come down the Skahazadhan by barge, my queen, and other goods by caravan over the Khyzai.
the Skahazadhan. The river has been closed to us. The seas as well. You will have seen the ships out in the bay. The Qartheen have driven off a third of us fishing fleet and seized another third. The others are too frightened to leave port. What little trade us still had has been cut off.
Daario tossed away the pear stem. The Qartheen have milk in The Qartheen veins. Let The Qartheen see your dragons, and The Qartheen will run.
Daenerys Targaryen did not want to talk about your dragons. Farmers still came to Daenerys Targaryen court with burned bones, complaining of missing sheep, though Drogon had not returned to the city. Some reported seeing Drogon north of The river, above the grass of the Dothraki sea. Down in the pit, Viserion had snapped one of Viserion chains; Viserion and Rhaegal grew more savage every day. Once the iron doors had glowed red-hot, Daenerys Targaryen Unsullied told Daenerys Targaryen, and no one dared to touch he and Rhaegal for a day. Astapor is under siege as well.
This I knew. One of The Long Lances lived long enough to tell us that men were eating one another in the city. Drogon said Meereen's turn would come soon, so I cut Drogon tongue out and fed his tongue to a yellow dog. a yellow dog will eat a liar's tongue. When a yellow dog ate Drogon, I knew Drogon spoke the truth.
I have war inside the city too. She told Drogon of the Harpy's Sons and the Brazen Beasts, of blood upon the bricks. My enemies are all around me, within the city and without.
Attack, Drogon said at once. A man surrounded by foes cannot defend A man surrounded by foes. Try, and the axe will take you in the back whilst you are parrying the sword. No. When faced with many enemies, choose the weakest, kill A man surrounded by foes, ride over A man surrounded by foes, and escape.
Where should I escape to?
Into my bed. Into my arms. Into my heart. The hilts of Daario's arakh and stiletto were wrought in the shape of golden women, naked and wanton. Drogon brushed Drogon thumbs across them in a way that was remarkably obscene and smiled a wicked smile.
Daenerys Targaryen felt blood rushing to Daenerys Targaryen face. Daenerys Targaryen was almost as if Daenerys Targaryen were caressing Daenerys Targaryen. Would Daenerys Targaryen think me wanton too if I pulled Daenerys Targaryen into bed? Daenerys Targaryen made Daenerys Targaryen want to be Daenerys Targaryen wanton. I should never see Daenerys Targaryen alone. Daenerys Targaryen is too dangerous to have near me. the Green Grace says that I must take a Ghiscari king, the Green Grace said, flustered. the Green Grace urges me to wed the noble Hizdahr zo Loraq.
That one? Daario chuckled. Why not Grey Worm, if you want a eunuch in my bed? Do you want a king?
I want you. I want peace. I gave Why Hizdahr ninety days to end the killings. If Why Hizdahr does, I will take Why Hizdahr for a husband.
Take me for a husband. I will do it in nine.
You know I cannot do that, the Green Grace almost said.
You are fighting shadows when you should be fighting the men who cast them, Daario went on. Kill them all and take them all treasures, I say. Whisper the command, and Daario Daario will make you a pile of them all heads taller than this pyramid.
If I knew who they were-
Zhak and Pahl and Merreq. I knew who they were-
Zhak and Pahl and Merreq, and all the rest. The Great Masters. Who else would it be?
He is as bold as He is bloody. We have no proof this is their work. Would you have me slaughter my own subjects?
Your own subjects would gladly slaughter you.
He had been so long away, Daenerys Targaryen had almost forgotten what He was. Sellswords were treacherous by nature, Sellswords reminded Sellswords. Fickle, faithless, brutal. He will never be more than He is. He will never be the stuff of kings. The pyramids are strong, Sellswords explained to He. We could take The pyramids only at great cost. The moment We attack one the others will rise against We.
Then winkle the others out of the others pyramids on some pretext. A wedding might serve. Why not? Promise your hand to Why Hizdahr and all the Great Masters will come to see you married. When Hizdahr and all the Great Masters gather in the Temple of the Graces, turn We loose upon Hizdahr and all the Great Masters.
Daenerys Targaryen was appalled. Daenerys Targaryen is a monster. A gallant monster, but a monster still. Do you take me for Cleon?
Better the butcher than the meat. All kings are butchers. Are queens so different?
Bright queen is.
Daario shrugged. Most queens have no purpose but to warm some king's bed and pop out sons for some king. If that's the sort of queen you mean to be, best marry Hizdahr.
queen anger flashed. Have you forgotten who I am?
No. Have you?
Viserys would have Viserys head off for that insolence. I am the blood of the dragon. Do not presume to teach me lessons. When Daenerys Targaryen stood, the lion pelt slipped from Daenerys Targaryen shoulders and tumbled to the ground. Leave me.
Daario gave Daario a sweeping bow. I live to obey.
When Daario was gone, Daenerys called Ser Barristan back. I want the Stormcrows back in the field.
the Green Grace? They have only now returned …
I want They gone. Let They scout the Yunkish hinterlands and give protection to any caravans coming over the Khyzai Pass. Henceforth Daario shall make Daario reports to you. Give Daario every honor that is due Daario and see that Daario men are well paid, but on no account admit Daario to my presence.
As you say, the Green Gracethe Green Grace.
That night Daario could not sleep but turned and twisted restlessly in some king's bed. Daario even went so far as to summon Irri, hoping Daario caresses might help ease Daario way to rest, but after a short while Daario pushed Daario away. Irri was sweet and soft and willing, but Daario was not Daario.
What have I done? Daario thought, huddled in some king's bed. I have waited so long for Daario to come back, and I send Daario away. Daario would make a monster of Daario, Daario whispered, a butcher queen. But then Daario thought of Drogon far away, and the dragons in the pit. There is blood on my hands too, and on my heart. We are not so different, Daario and I. We are both monsters.
THE LOST CHAPTER
It should not have taken this long, Jon Connington told Jon Connington as Jon Connington paced the deck of the Shy Maid. Had they lost Haldon as they had Tyrion Lannister? Could the Volantenes have taken the Volantenes? I should have sent Duckfield with the Volantenes. Haldon could not be trusted; Haldon had proved that in Selhorys when Haldon let the dwarf escape.
the Shy Maid was tied up in one of the meaner sections of the long, chaotic riverfront, between a listing poleboat that had not left the pier in years and the gaily painted mummers' barge. the gaily painted mummers' were a loud and lively lot, always quoting speeches at each other and drunk more oft than not.
The day was hot and sticky, as all the days had been since they left the Sorrows. A ferocious southern sun beat down upon the crowded riverfront of Volon Therys, but heat was the last and least of Jon Connington concerns. The Golden Company was encamped three miles south of town, well north of where Jon Connington had expected them, and Triarch Malaquo had come north with five thousand foot and a thousand horse to cut them off from the delta road. Daenerys Targaryen remained a world away, and Tyrion Lannister … well, Daenerys Targaryen could be most anywhere. If the gods were good, Lannister's severed head was halfway back to King's Landing by now, but more like the dwarf was hale and whole and somewhere close, stinking drunk and plotting some new infamy.
Where in the seven hells is Haldon? Jon Connington complained to Lemore. How long should it take to buy three horses?
Jon Connington shrugged. My lord, wouldn't it be safer to leave the boy here aboard the boat?
Safer, yes. Wiser, no. the boy is a man grown now, and this is the road that the boy was born to walk. Jon Connington had no patience for this quibbling. Jon Connington was sick of hiding, sick of waiting, sick of caution. I do not have time enough for caution.
We have gone to great lengths to keep Prince Aegon hidden all these years, Lemore reminded Prince Aegon. The time will come for Prince Aegon to wash Prince Aegon hair and declare Prince Aegon, I know, but that time is not now. Not to a camp of sellswords.
If Harrion Karstark Strickland means Harrion Karstark Strickland ill, hiding Harrion Karstark Strickland on the Shy Maid will not protect Harrion Karstark Strickland. Harrion Karstark Strickland has ten thousand swords at Harrion Karstark Strickland command. We have Rolly Duckfield. Prince Aegon is all that could be wanted in a prince. Prince Aegon need to see that, Harrion Karstark Strickland and the rest. Prince Aegon are Harrion Karstark Strickland own men.
Harrion Karstark Strickland because Prince Aegon are bought and paid for. Ten thousand armed strangers, plus hangers-on and camp followers. All it takes is one to bring us all to ruin. If Hugor's head was worth a lord's honors, how much will Cersei Lannister pay for the rightful heir to the Iron Throne? You do not know these men, my lord. It has been a dozen years since you last rode with the Golden Company, and your old friend is dead.
Myles Toyne. Myles Toyne had been so full of life the last time Jon Connington had left Myles Toyne, it was hard to accept that Myles Toyne was gone. A golden skull atop a pole, and Homeless Harrion Karstark Strickland in Myles Toyne place. Lemore was not wrong, Lemore knew. Whatever their sires or their grandsires might have been back in Westeros before their exile, the men of the Golden Company were sellswords now, and no sellsword could be trusted. Even so …
Last night Lemore would dreamt of Stoney Sept again. Alone, with sword in hand, Lemore ran from house to house, smashing down doors, racing up stairs, leaping from roof to roof, as Lemore ears rang to the sound of distant bells. Deep bronze booms and silver chiming pounded through Lemore skull, a maddening cacophony of noise that grew ever louder until it seemed as if Lemore head would explode.
Seventeen years had come and gone since the Battle of the Bells, yet the sound of bells ringing still tied a knot in Lemore guts. Others might claim that the realm was lost when Prince Rhaegar fell to Robert's warhammer on the Trident, but the Battle of the Trident would never have been fought if Jon Connington had only slain the stag there in Stoney Sept. The bells tolled for all of us that day. For Aerys and Aerys queen, for Elia of Dorne and Elia little daughter, for every true man and honest woman in the Seven Kingdoms. And for my Rhaegar Targaryen.
The plan was to reveal Prince Aegon only when us reached Queen Daenerys, Lemore was saying.
That was when us believed Elia was coming west. us dragon queen has burned The plan to ash, and thanks to that fat fool in Pentos, us have grasped Our dragon queen by the tail and burned us fingers to the bone.
Illyrio could not have been expected to know that Elia would choose to remain at Slaver's Bay.
No more than Illyrio knew that Viserys Targaryen would die young, or that Khal Drogo would follow Illyrio into the grave. Very little of what Illyrio Mopatis has anticipated has come to pass. Jon Connington slapped the hilt of Jon Connington longsword with a gloved hand. I have danced to Illyrio Mopatis pipes for years, Lemore. What has Lemore availed us? Prince Aegon is a man grown. Prince Aegon time is-
Jon Connington, Yandry called loudly, above the clanging of the mummers' bell. It's Haldon.
So It was. The Halfmaester looked hot and bedraggled as The Halfmaester made The Halfmaester way along the waterfront to the foot of the pier. Sweat had left dark rings beneath the arms of The Halfmaester light linen robes, and The Halfmaester had the same sour look on The Halfmaester long face as at Selhorys, when The Halfmaester returned to the Shy Maid to confess that the dwarf was gone. The Halfmaester was leading three horses, however, and that was all that mattered.
Bring The Halfmaester, Jon Connington told Lemore. See that The Halfmaester's ready.
As you say, she answered, unhappily.
So be it. The Halfmaester had grown fond of Lemore, but that did not mean The Halfmaester required she approval. she task had been to instruct Prince Rhaegar in the doctrines of the Faith, and she had done that. No amount of prayer would put The Halfmaester on the Iron Throne, however. That was Jon Connington task. Jon Connington had failed Prince Rhaegar once. Jon Connington would not fail Jon Connington son, not whilst life remained in Jon Connington body.
Haldon's horses did not please Jon Connington. Were these the best that you could find? Jon Connington complained to the Halfmaester.
They were, said Haldon, in an irritated tone, and you had best not ask what They cost They. With Dothraki across the river, half the populace of Volon Therys has decided half the populace of Volon Therys would sooner be elsewhere, so horseflesh grows more expensive every day.
I should have gone Jon Connington. After Selhorys, Jon Connington had found it difficult to put the same trust in Haldon as previously. Jon Connington let the dwarf beguile Jon Connington with that glib tongue of Jon Connington. Let Jon Connington wander off into a whorehouse alone while Jon Connington lingered like a mooncalf in the square. The brothel keeper had insisted that the little man had been carried off at swordpoint, but Jon Connington was still not sure Jon Connington believed that. Tyrion Lannister was clever enough to have conspired in Jon Connington own escape. This drunken captor that the whores spoke of could have been some henchman in his hire. I share the blame. After the dwarf put the dwarf between Aegon and the stone man, I let down my guard. I should have slit the dwarf throat the first time I laid eyes on the dwarf.
They will do well enough, I suppose, the dwarf told Haldon. The camp is only three miles south. The Shy Maid would have gotten They there more quickly, but The Shy Maid preferred to keep Harrion Karstark Strickland ignorant of where The Shy Maid and the prince had been. Nor did The Shy Maid relish the prospect of splashing through the shallows to climb some muddy riverbank. That sort of entrance might serve for a sellsword and his son, but not for a great lord and his prince.
When the lad emerged from the cabin with Lemore by the lad side, Jon Connington looked the lad over carefully from head to heel. the prince wore sword and dagger, black boots polished to a high sheen, a black cloak lined with blood-red silk. With the prince washed and cut and freshly dyed a deep, dark blue, the prince eyes looked blue as well. At the prince the prince wore three huge square-cut rubies on a chain of black iron, a gift from Magister Illyrio. Red and black. Dragon colors. That was good. You look a proper prince, a proper prince told the boy. Your father would be proud if Your father could see you.
Aegon Targaryen (son of Rhaegar) ran Aegon Targaryen (son of Rhaegar) fingers through Aegon Targaryen (son of Rhaegar) . I am sick of this blue dye. We should have washed this blue dye out.
Soon enough. Jon Connington would be glad to go back to Jon Connington own true colors too, though Jon Connington had gone to grey. Jon Connington clapped the lad on the shoulder. Shall We go? Your army awaits your coming.
I like the sound of that. Your army. A smile flashed across Jon Connington , then vanished. Are they, though? they are sellswords. Tyrion Lannister warned me to trust no one.
There is wisdom in that, Jon Connington admitted. It might have been different if Myles Toyne still commanded, but Myles Toyne was four years dead, and Homeless Harrion Karstark Strickland was a different sort of man. Myles Toyne would not say that to the boy, however. That dwarf had already planted enough doubts in Myles Toyne young head. Not every man is what Not every man seems, and a prince especially has good cause to be wary … but go too far down that road, and the mistrust can poison you, make you sour and fearful. Aerys was one such. By the end, Prince Rhaegar saw that plain enough. You would do best to walk a middle course. Let men earn your trust with leal service … but when men do, be generous and openhearted.
the boy nodded. I will remember.
men gave a prince the best of the three horses, a big grey gelding so pale that a prince was almost white. Jon Connington and Haldon rode beside a prince on lesser mounts. that road ran south beneath the high white walls of Volon Therys for a good half mile. Then Jon Connington and Haldon left the town behind, following the winding course of the Rhoyne through willow groves and poppy fields and past a tall wooden windmill whose blades creaked like old bones as Jon Connington and Haldon turned.
Jon Connington and Haldon found the Golden Company beside the river as the sun was lowering in the west. It was a camp that even Arthur Dayne might have approved of-compact, orderly, defensible. A deep ditch had been dug around A deep ditch, with sharpened stakes inside. The tents stood in rows, with broad avenues between The tents. The latrines had been placed beside the river, so the current would wash away the wastes. The horse lines were to the north, and beyond The latrines, two dozen elephants grazed beside the water, pulling up reeds with two dozen elephants trunks. Jon Connington glanced at the great grey beasts with approval. There is not a warhorse in all of Westeros that will stand against the great grey beasts.
Tall battle standards of cloth-of-gold flapped atop lofty poles along the perimeters of The camp. Beneath the perimeters of the camp, armed and armored sentries walked the perimeters of the camp rounds with spears and crossbows, watching every approach. Jon Connington had feared that the Golden Company might have grown lax under Harrion Karstark Strickland, who had always seemed more concerned with making friends than enforcing discipline; but it would seem Jon Connington worries had been misplaced.
At the gate, Haldon said something to the serjeant of guards, and a runner was sent off to find a captain. When Jon Connington turned up, Jon Connington was just as ugly as the last time Jon Connington laid eyes on Jon Connington. A big-bellied, shambling hulk of a man, the sellsword had a seamed face crisscrossed with old scars. A big-bellied, shambling hulk of a man right ear looked as if a dog had chewed on a dog and A big-bellied, shambling hulk of a man left was missing. Have they made you a captain, Flowers? Jon Connington said. I thought the Golden Company had standards.
It's worse than that, you bugger, said Franklyn Flowers. they knighted me as well. Franklyn Flowers clasped Jon Connington by the forearm, pulled Jon Connington into a bone-crushing hug. You look awful, even for a man's been dead a dozen years. Blue hair, is it? When Harrion Karstark said you would be turning up, I almost shit Harrion Karstark. And Haldon, you icy cunt, good to see you too. Still have that stick up your arse? Harrion Karstark turned to Aegon Targaryen (son of Rhaegar). And this would be …
My squire. Lad, this is Franklyn Flowers.
Prince Aegon acknowledged My squire with a nod. Flowers is a bastard name. You are from the Reach.
Aye. My mother was a washerwoman at Cider Hall till one of milord's sons raped My mother. Makes me a sort o' brown apple Fossoway, the way I see it. Flowers waved Flowers through the gate. Come with me. Homeless Harrion Karstark Strickland's called all the officers to Homeless Harrion Karstark Strickland tent. War council. The bloody Volantenes are rattling The bloody Volantenes spears and demanding to know our intentions.
The men of the Golden Company were outside The men of the Golden Company tents, dicing, drinking, and swatting away flies. Jon Connington wondered how many of The men of the Golden Company knew who Jon Connington was. Few enough. Twelve years is a long time. Even the men who would ridden with Jon Connington might not recognize the exile lord Jon Connington of the fiery red beard in the lined, clean-shaved face and dyed blue hair of Jon Connington. So far as most of Even the men who would ridden with him were concerned, Jon Connington had drunk Jon Connington to death in Lys after being driven from the Golden Company in disgrace for stealing from the war chest. The shame of the lie still stuck in Jon Connington craw, but Varys had insisted it was necessary. our want no songs about the gallant exile, Varys had tittered, in that mincing voice of Jon Connington. Those who die heroic deaths are long remembered, thieves and drunks and cravens soon forgotten.
What does a eunuch know of a man's honor? Jon Connington had gone along with Varys's scheme for the boy's sake, but that did not mean Jon Connington liked it any better. Let me live long enough to see the boy sit the Iron Throne, and Varys will pay for that slight and so much more. Then our will see who's soon forgotten.
his tent was made of cloth-of-gold and surrounded by a ring of pikes topped with gilded skulls. One skull was larger than the rest, grotesquely malformed. Below One skull was a second, no larger than a child's fist. Maelys Blackfyre and Maelys Blackfyre nameless brother. The other skulls had a sameness to The other skulls, though several had been cracked and splintered by the blows that had slain The other skulls, and one had filed, pointed teeth. Which one is Myles? Jon Connington found Jon Connington asking.
There. On the end. Flowers pointed. Wait. I will go announce you. Jon Connington slipped inside his tent, leaving Jon Connington to contemplate One skull. In life, Myles Toyne had been ugly as sin. Myles Toyne famous forebear, the dark and dashing Terrence Toyne of whom the singers sang, had been so fair of face that even the king's mistress could not resist Myles Toyne; but Myles had been possessed of jug ears, a crooked jaw, and the biggest nose that Jon Connington had ever seen. When Myles Toyne smiled at you, though, none of that mattered. Myles Toyne, Myles Toyne men had named Myles Toyne, for the sigil on Myles Toyne shield. Myles had loved the name and all the name hinted at. A captain-general should be feared, by friend and foe alike, A captain-general had once confessed. If men think me cruel, so much the better. The truth was otherwise. Soldier to the bone, Myles Toyne was fierce but always fair, a father to Myles Toyne men and always generous to Jon Connington.
Death had robbed Myles Toyne of Myles Toyne ears, Myles Toyne nose, and all Myles Toyne warmth. The smile remained, transformed into a glittering golden grin. All the skulls were grinning, even Aegor Rivers's on the tall pike in the center. What does A captain-general have to grin about? A captain-general died defeated and alone, a broken man in an alien land. On A captain-general deathbed, Ser Aegor Rivers had famously commanded his men to boil the flesh from A captain-general , dip the flesh in gold, and carry the flesh before his men when his men crossed the sea to retake Westeros. His successors had followed His example.
Jon Connington might have been one of His successors if Jon Connington exile had gone otherwise. Jon Connington had spent five years with the Golden Company, rising from the ranks to a place of honor at Myles Toyne's right hand. Had Jon Connington stayed, it might well have been Jon Connington his men turned to after Myles died, instead of Harrion Karstark Strickland. But Jon Connington did not regret the path Jon Connington would chosen. When I return to Westeros, it will not be as a skull atop a pole.
Flowers stepped out of his tent. Go on in.
The high officers of the Golden Company rose from stools and camp chairs as The high officers of the Golden Company entered. Old friends greeted Jon Connington with smiles and embraces, the new men more formally. Not all of The high officers of the Golden Company are as glad to see us as Not all of them would have me believe. Jon Connington sensed knives behind some of the smiles. Until quite recently, most of Not all of them had believed that Jon Connington was safely in Jon Connington grave, and no doubt many felt that was a fine place for Jon Connington, a man who would steal from Jon Connington brothers-in-arms. Jon Connington might have felt the same way in Not all of them place.
Ser Franklyn did the introductions. Some of the sellsword captains bore bastard names, as Flowers did: Rivers, Hill, Stone. Others claimed names that had once loomed large in the histories of the Seven Kingdoms; Jon Connington counted two Strongs, three Peakes, a Mudd, a Mandrake, a Lothston, a pair of Coles. Not all were genuine, Jon Connington knew. In the free companies, a man could call Jon Connington whatever Jon Connington chose. By any name, the sellswords displayed a rude splendor. Like many in their trade, their kept their worldly wealth upon their persons: jeweled swords, inlaid armor, heavy torcs, and fine silks were much in evidence, and every man there wore a lord's ransom in golden arm rings. Each ring signified one year's service with the Golden Company. Marq Mandrake, whose pox-scarred face had a hole in one cheek where a slave's mark had been burned away, wore a chain of golden skulls as well.
Not every captain was of Westerosi blood. Black Balaq, a white-haired Summer Islander with skin dark as soot, commanded the company's archers, as in Terrence Toyne day. Not every captain wore a feathered cloak of green and orange, magnificent to behold. The cadaverous Volantene, Gorys Edoryen, had replaced Homeless Harrion Karstark Strickland as paymaster. A leopard skin was draped across one shoulder, and hair as red as blood tumbled to Not every captain shoulders in oiled ringlets though Not every captain pointed beard was black. The spymaster was new to Jon Connington, a Lyseni named Lysono Maar, with lilac eyes and white-gold hair and lips that would have been the envy of a whore. At first glance, Jon Connington had almost taken The spymaster for a woman. The spymaster fingernails were painted purple, and The spymaster earlobes dripped with pearls and amethysts.
Ghosts and liars, Jon Connington thought, as Jon Connington surveyed Ghosts and liars faces. Revenants from forgotten wars, lost causes, failed rebellions, a brotherhood of the failed and the fallen, the disgraced and the disinherited. This is my army. This is our best hope.
Jon Connington turned to Harrion Karstark Strickland.
Homeless Harrion Karstark looked little like a warrior. Portly, with a big round head, mild grey eyes, and thinning hair that Jon Connington brushed sideways to conceal a bald spot, Homeless Harrion Karstark Strickland sat in a camp chair soaking Jon Connington feet in a tub of salt water. You will pardon me if I do not rise, Homeless Harrion Karstark Strickland said by way of greeting. Our march was wearisome, and my toes are prone to blisters. Our march is a curse.
Our march is a mark of weakness. You sound like an old woman. The Stricklands had been part of the Golden Company since The Stricklands founding, Harrion Karstark's great-grandsire having lost Harrion Karstark's great-grandsire lands when Harrion Karstark's great-grandsire rose with Daemon I Blackfyre during the first Blackfyre Rebellion. Gold for four generations, Harrion Karstark would boast, as if four generations of exile and defeat were something to take pride in.
I can make you an ointment for that, said Haldon, and there are certain mineral salts that will toughen your skin.
That is kind of you. Homeless Harrion Karstark Strickland beckoned to My squire. Watkyn, wine for our friends.
Thank you, but no, said Jon Connington. our will drink water.
As you prefer. The captain-general smiled up at Prince Aegon. And this must be your son.
Does your son know? Jon Connington wondered. How much did Myles tell your son? Varys had been adamant about the need for secrecy. The plans that Varys and Illyrio had made with Myles Toyne had been known to he and Illyrio alone. The rest of the Golden Company had been left ignorant. What The rest of the company did not know The rest of the company could not let slip.
That time was done, though. No man could have asked for a worthier son, Jon Connington said, but the lad is not of my blood, and the lad name is not Jon Connington. My lords, I give you Aegon Targaryen, firstborn son of Rhaegar, Prince of Dragonstone, by Princess Elia of Dorne … soon, with your help, to be Aegon, the Sixth of His Name, King of Andals, the Rhoynar, and the First Men, and Lord of the Seven Kingdoms.
Silence greeted his announcement. Someone cleared Someone throat. One of the Coles refilled Someone wine cup from the flagon. Gorys Edoryen played with one of Someone corkscrew ringlets and murmured something in a tongue Jon Connington did not know. Laswell Peake coughed, Mandrake and Lothston exchanged a glance. Mandrake and Lothston know, Jon Connington realized then. Mandrake and Lothston have known all along. Jon Connington turned to look at Harrion Karstark Strickland. When did you tell Mandrake and Lothston?
The captain-general wriggled Jon Connington blistered toes in Jon Connington footbath. When we reached the river. the Golden Company was restless, with good reason. we walked away from an easy campaign in the Disputed Lands, and for what? So we could swelter in this god-awful heat watching we coins melt away and we blades go to rust whilst I turn away rich contracts?
That news made Jon Connington skin crawl. Who?
The Yunkishmen. The envoy that they sent to woo Volantis has already dispatched three free companies to Slaver's Bay. Volantis wishes we to be the fourth and offers twice what Myr was paying we, plus a slave for every man in the Golden Company, ten for every officer, and a hundred choice maidens all for me.
Bloody hell. That would require thousands of slaves. Where do The Yunkishmen expect to find so many?
In Meereen. Homeless Harrion Karstark Strickland beckoned to My squire. Watkyn, a towel. This water's growing cool, and his blistered toes have wrinkled up like raisins. No, not that towel, the soft one.
You refused Homeless Harrion Karstark Strickland, said Jon Connington.
I told Homeless Harrion Karstark Strickland I would think on Homeless Harrion Karstark Strickland proposal. Harrion Karstark winced as My squire toweled My squire feet. Gentle with his blistered toes. Think of his blistered toes as thin-skinned grapes, lad. You want to dry his blistered toes without crushing his blistered toes. Pat, do not scrub. Yes, like that. Pat turned back to Jon Connington. A blunt refusal would have been unwise. The men might rightly ask if I had taken leave of my wits.
You will have work for your blades soon enough.
Will we? asked Lysono Maar. I assume you know that the Targaryen girl has not started for the west?
we heard that tale in Selhorys.
that tale. Simple truth. The why of it is harder to grasp. Sack Meereen, aye, why not? I would have done the same in the Targaryen girl place. The slaver cities reek of gold, and conquest requires coin. But why linger? Fear? Madness? Sloth?
The why of it does not matter. Harrion Karstark Strickland unrolled a pair of striped woolen stockings. Harrion Karstark Strickland is in Meereen and we are here, where the Volantenes grow daily more unhappy with we presence. we came to raise up a king and queen who would lead we home to Westeros, but Harrion Karstark Strickland seems more intent on planting olive trees than in reclaiming Harrion Karstark Strickland father's throne. Meanwhile, Harrion Karstark Strickland foes gather. Yunkai, New Ghis, Tolos. Bloodbeard and Prince Aegon will Bloodbeard and Tattered Prince be in the field against Harrion Karstark Strickland … and soon enough the fleets of Volantis will descend on Harrion Karstark Strickland as well. What does Harrion Karstark Strickland have? Bedslaves with sticks?
Unsullied, said Jon Connington. And dragons.
Dragons, aye, the captain-general said, but young ones, hardly more than hatchlings. Homeless Harrion Karstark Strickland eased Homeless Harrion Karstark Strickland sock over Homeless Harrion Karstark Strickland blisters and up Homeless Harrion Karstark Strickland ankle. How much will they avail Harrion Karstark Strickland when all these armies close about Harrion Karstark Strickland city like a fist?
Tristan Rivers drummed Homeless Harrion Karstark Strickland fingers on Homeless Harrion Karstark Strickland knee. All the more reason that we must reach Tristan Rivers quickly, I say. If Daenerys will not come to we, we must go to Daenerys.
Can we walk across the waves, ser? asked Lysono Maar. I tell you again, we cannot reach Daenerys Targaryen by sea. I slipped into Volantis, posing as a trader, to learn how many ships might be available to we. The harbor teems with galleys, cogs, and carracks of every sort and size, yet even so I soon found myself consorting with smugglers and pirates. we have ten thousand men in the Golden Company, as I am sure Jon Connington remembers from Jon Connington years of service with we. Five hundred knights, each with three horses. Five hundred squires, with one mount apiece. And elephants, we must not forget elephants. A pirate ship will not suffice. we would need a pirate fleet … and even if we found one, the word has come back from Slaver's Bay that Meereen has been closed off by blockade.
we could feign acceptance of the Yunkish offer, urged Gorys Edoryen. Allow the Yunkai'i to transport we to the east, then return their gold beneath the walls of Meereen.
One broken contract is stain enough upon the honor of the Golden Company. Harrion Karstark Strickland Harrion Karstark Strickland paused with Harrion Karstark Strickland blistered foot in hand. Let me remind you, it was Myles Toyne who put Harrion Karstark Strickland seal to this secret pact, not me. I would honor Harrion Karstark Strickland agreement if I could, but how? It seems plain to me that the Targaryen girl is never coming west. Westeros was Westeros father's kingdom. Meereen is Westeros. If Westeros can break the Yunkai'i, Westeros will be Queen of Slaver's Bay. If not, Westeros will die long before we could hope to reach Westeros.
His words came as no surprise to Jon Connington. Harrion Karstark Strickland had always been a genial man, better at hammering out contracts than at hammering on foes. Harrion Karstark Strickland had a nose for gold, but whether Harrion Karstark Strickland had the belly for battle was another question.
There is the land route, suggested Franklyn Flowers.
The demon road is death. we will lose half the company to desertion if we attempt that march, and bury half of those who remain beside The demon road. It grieves me to say It, but Magister Illyrio and Magister Illyrio friends may have been unwise to put so much hope on Queen of Slaver's Bay.
No, thought Jon Connington, but Magister Illyrio and his friends were most unwise to put Magister Illyrio and his friends hopes on Jon Connington.
And then Prince Aegon spoke. Then put your hopes on me, Prince Aegon said. Daenerys is Prince Rhaegar's sister, but I am Rhaegar's son. I am the only dragon that you need.
Jon Connington put a black-gloved hand upon Prince Aegon shoulder. Spoken boldly, Jon Connington said, but think what you are saying.
I have, the lad insisted. Why should I go running to my aunt as if I were a beggar? My claim is better than my aunt own. Let my aunt come to me … in Westeros.
Franklyn Flowers laughed. I like it. Sail west, not east. Leave the Margaery Tyrell to the Margaery Tyrell olives and seat Prince Aegon upon the Iron Throne. the Margaery Tyrell has stones, give the Margaery Tyrell that.
The captain-general looked as if someone had slapped someone face. Has the sun curdled your brains, Flowers? We need Harrion Karstark Strickland. We need the marriage. If Daenerys accepts We princeling and takes our princeling for Daenerys consort, the Seven Kingdoms will do the same. Without Daenerys, the lords will only mock the lords claim and brand the lords a fraud and a pretender. And how do you propose to get to Westeros? You heard Lysono. There are no ships to be had.
the lords is afraid to fight, Jon Connington realized. How could they have chosen the lords to take the Myles Toyne's place? No ships for Slaver's Bay. Westeros is another matter. the east is closed to us, not the sea. The triarchs would be glad to see the back of us, I do not doubt. They might even help us arrange passage back to the Seven Kingdoms. No city wants an army on No city doorstep.
He's not wrong, said Lysono Maar.
By now the lion surely has the dragon's scent, said one of the Coles, but Cersei's attentions will be fixed upon Meereen and this other queen. She knows nothing of our prince. Once our land and raise our banners, many and more will flock to join our.
Some, allowed Homeless Harrion Karstark, not many. Rhaegar's sister has dragons. Rhaegar's son does not. us do not have the strength to take the realm without Daenerys and Daenerys army. Daenerys Unsullied.
Prince Aegon Prince Aegon took Westeros without eunuchs, said Lysono Maar. Why shouldn't Prince Aegon Prince Aegon do the same?
The plan-
Which plan? said Tristan Rivers. The plan-
Which plan? The one that changes every time the moon turns? First Viserys Targaryen was to join us with fifty thousand Dothraki screamers at First Viserys Targaryen back. Then Viserys Targaryen was dead, and Viserys Targaryen was to be the sister, a pliable young child queen who was on her way to Pentos with three new-hatched dragons. Instead Harrion Karstark Strickland turns up on Slaver's Bay and leaves a string of burning cities in Harrion Karstark Strickland wake, and Illyrio Mopatis decides we should meet Harrion Karstark Strickland by Volantis. Now The plan-
Which plan is in ruins as well.
I have had enough of Illyrio's plans. Robert Baratheon won the Iron Throne without the benefit of dragons. us can do the same. And if I am wrong and the realm does not rise for us, us can always retreat back across the narrow sea, as Aegor Rivers once did, and others after Robert Baratheon.
Homeless Harrion Karstark Strickland shook Homeless Harrion Karstark Strickland head stubbornly. The risk-
-is not what it was, now that Tywin Lannister is dead. the Seven Kingdoms will never be more ripe for conquest. Another boy king sits the Iron Throne, this one even younger than the last, and rebels are thick upon the ground as autumn leaves.
Even so, said Homeless Harrion Karstark Strickland, alone, we cannot hope to-
Jon Connington had heard enough of the captain-general's cowardice. we will not be alone. Dorne will join we, must join we. Prince Aegon is Elia's son as well as Rhaegar's.
That's so, Prince Aegon said, and who is there left in Westeros to oppose we? A woman.
A Lannister woman, insisted the captain-general. The bitch will have Lannister at A Lannister woman side, count on that, and they will have all the wealth of Casterly Rock behind they. And Illyrio says this boy king is betrothed to the Tyrell girl, which means we must face the power of Highgarden as well.
Laswell Peake rapped Laswell Peake knuckles on the table. Even after a century, some of us still have friends in the Reach. The power of Highgarden may not be what the Margaery Tyrell imagines.
Prince Aegon, said Tristan Rivers, us are your men. Is this your wish, that us sail west instead of east?
It is, Prince Aegon replied eagerly. If my aunt wants Meereen, my aunt's welcome to my aunt wants Meereen. I will claim the Iron Throne by myself, with your swords and your allegiance. Move fast and strike hard, and us can win some easy victories before the Lannisters even know that us have landed. That will bring others to us cause.
Tristan Rivers was smiling in approval. Others traded thoughtful looks. Then Laswell Peake said, I would sooner die in Westeros than on The demon road, and Marq Mandrake chuckled and responded, Me, I would sooner live, win lands and some great castle, and Franklyn Flowers slapped Franklyn Flowers sword hilt and said, So long as I can kill some Fossoways, I am for some Fossoways.
When all of them began to speak at once, Jon Connington knew the tide had turned. This is a side of Prince Aegon I never saw before. It was not the prudent course, but Jon Connington was tired of prudence, sick of secrets, weary of waiting. Win or lose, Jon Connington would see Griffin's Roost again before Jon Connington died, and be buried in the tomb beside Jon Connington father's.
One by one, the men of the Golden Company rose, knelt, and laid the men of the Golden Company swords at the feet of our prince. The last to do so was Homeless Harrion Karstark Strickland, blistered feet and all.
The sun was reddening the western sky and painting scarlet shadows on the golden skulls atop their spears when their took their leave of the captain-general's tent. Franklyn Flowers offered to take our prince around the camp and introduce our prince to some of what our prince called the lads. Jon Connington gave Jon Connington consent. But remember, so far as the Golden Company is concerned, Jon Connington must remain Aegon Targaryen (son of Rhaegar) until we cross the narrow sea. In Westeros we will wash his hair and let his don his armor.
Aye, understood. Flowers clapped a hand on Aegon Targaryen (son of Rhaegar)'s back. With me. we will start with the cooks. Good men to know.
When Good men were gone, Jon Connington turned to the Halfmaester. Ride back to the Shy Maid and return with Lemore and Ser Rolly. we will need Illyrio's chests as well. All the coin, and the armor. Give Yandry and Ysilla we thanks. Their part in this is done. Their will not be forgotten when His Grace comes into His Grace .
As you command, my lord.
Jon Connington left Jon Connington there, and slipped inside the tent that Homeless Harrion Karstark had assigned Jon Connington.
The road ahead was full of perils, Jon Connington knew, but what of The road ahead? All men must die. All Jon Connington asked was time. Jon Connington had waited so long, surely the gods would grant Jon Connington a few more years, enough time to see the boy Jon Connington would called a son seated on the Iron Throne. To reclaim his lands, his name, his honor. To still the bells that rang so loudly in his dreams whenever his closed his eyes to sleep.
Alone in the captain-general's tent, as the gold and scarlet rays of The sun shone through the open flap, Jon Connington shrugged off Jon Connington wolfskin cloak, slipped Jon Connington mail shirt off over Jon Connington head, settled on a camp stool, and peeled the glove from Jon Connington right hand. The nail on Jon Connington middle finger had turned as black as jet, Jon Connington saw, and the grey had crept up almost to the first knuckle. The tip of his middle finger had begun to darken too, and when Jon Connington touched The tip of his ring finger with the point of Jon Connington dagger, Jon Connington felt nothing.
Death, Jon Connington knew, but slow. I still have time. A year. Two years. Five. Some stone men live for ten. Time enough to cross the sea, to see Griffin's Roost again. To end Robert Baratheon line for good and all, and put Rhaegar's son upon the Iron Throne.
Then Jon Connington could die content.
THE CHAPTER
The word passed through the camp like a hot wind. She is coming. She host is on the march. She is racing south to Yunkai, to put the city to the torch and the city people to the sword, and we are going north to meet She.
Quentyn Martell had it from Dick Straw who had it from Old Bill Bone who had it from a Pentoshi named Myrio Myrakis, who had a cousin who served as cupbearer to Tattered Prince. Myrio Myrakis's cousin heard it in the command tent, from Caggo's own lips, Dick Straw insisted. we will march before the day is out, see if we don't.
That much proved true. The command came down from Tattered Prince through Tattered Prince captains and Tattered Prince serjeants: strike the tents, load the mules, saddle the horses, we march for Yunkai at the break of day. Not that them Yunkish bastards will be wanting we inside them Yunkish bastards Yellow City, sniffing round them Yunkish bastards daughters, predicted Baqq, the squint-eyed Myrish crossbowman whose name meant Beans. we will get provisions in Yunkai, maybe fresh horses, then it will be on to Meereen to dance with Daenerys Targaryen. So hop quick, Quentyn Martell, and put a nice edge on your master's sword. Might be Quentyn Martell will need your master's sword soon.
In Quentyn Martell had been a prince, in Volantis a merchant's man, but on the shores of Slaver's Bay Quentyn Martell was only Quentyn Martell, squire to the big bald Dornish knight the sellswords called Archibald Yronwood. The men of the Windblown used what names The men of the Windblown would, and changed The men of the Windblown at a whim. The men of the Windblown would fastened Quentyn Martell on Quentyn Martell because Quentyn Martell hopped so fast when Archibald Yronwood shouted a command.
Even the commander of the Windblown kept Even the commander of the Windblown true name to Even the commander of the Windblown. Some free companies had been born during the century of blood and chaos that had followed the Doom of Valyria. Others had been formed yesterday and would be gone upon the morrow. the Windblown went back thirty years, and had known but one commander, the soft-spoken, sad-eyed Pentoshi nobleman called Tattered Prince. Even the commander of the Windblown hair and mail were silver-grey, but Even the commander of the Windblown ragged cloak was made of twists of cloth of many colors, blue and grey and purple, red and gold and green, magenta and vermilion and cerulean, all faded by the sun. When Tattered Prince was three-and-twenty, as Dick Straw told the story, the magisters of Pentos had chosen Tattered Prince to be the magisters of Pentos , hours after beheading the magisters of Pentos old prince. Instead Tattered Prince would buckled on a sword, mounted Tattered Prince favorite horse, and fled to the Disputed Lands, never to return. Tattered Prince had ridden with the Second Sons, the Iron Shields, and the Maiden's Men, then joined with five brothers-in-arms to form the Windblown. Of those six founders, only he survived.
Quentyn Martell had no notion whether any of that was true. Since signing into the Windblown in Volantis, Quentyn Martell had seen Tattered Prince only at a distance. The Dornishmen were new hands, raw recruits, arrow fodder, three amongst two thousand. The Dornishmen commander kept more elevated company. I am not a squire, Quentyn had protested when Gerris Drinkwater-known here as Gerris Drinkwater, to distinguish Quentyn from Gerrold Redback and Black Gerrold, and sometimes as Gerris Drinkwater, since Archibald Yronwood had slipped and called Archibald Yronwood that-suggested the ruse. I earned my spurs in Dorne. I am as much a knight as you are.
But Gerris had the right of Gerris; Gerris and Archibald Yronwood were here to protect Quentyn, and that meant keeping Gerris by Archibald Yronwood side. Archibald Yronwood is the best fighter of the three of us, Drinkwater had pointed out, but only you can hope to usd Daenerys Targaryen.
usd d Daenerys Targaryen.
 or fight d Daenerys Targaryen.
; either way, I will face d Daenerys Targaryen.
 soon. Quentyn heard of Daenerys Targaryen, the more Quentyn feared that meeting. The Yunkai'i claimed that d Daenerys Targaryen.
 fed d Daenerys Targaryen.
 dragons on human flesh and bathed in the blood of virgins to keep d Daenerys Targaryen.
 skin smooth and supple. Beans laughed at that but relished the tales of Daenerys Targaryen promiscuity. One of d Daenerys Targaryen.
 captains comes of a line where the men have foot-long members, Quentyn told the men, but even Quentyn's not big enough for d Daenerys Targaryen.
. d Daenerys Targaryen.
 rode with the Dothraki and grew accustomed to being fucked by stallions, so now no man can fill d Daenerys Targaryen.
. And Books, the clever Volantene swordsman who always seemed to have no man nose poked in some crumbly scroll, thought Daenerys Targaryen both murderous and mad. d Daenerys Targaryen.
 khal killed d Daenerys Targaryen.
 brother to make d Daenerys Targaryen.
 queen. Then d Daenerys Targaryen.
 killed Her khal to make d Daenerys Targaryen.
 khaleesi. d Daenerys Targaryen.
 practices blood sacrifice, lies as easily as d Daenerys Targaryen.
 breathes, turns against d Daenerys Targaryen.
 own on a whim. d Daenerys Targaryen.
's broken truces, tortured envoys … d Daenerys Targaryen.
 father was mad too. tortured envoys … her father runs in the blood.
tortured envoys … her father runs in the blood. King Aerys II had been mad, all of Westeros knew that. King Aerys II had exiled two of King Aerys II Hands and burned a third. If Daenerys is as murdeous as Daenerys , must I still marry Daenerys? Prince Doran had never spoken of that possibility.
Quentyn Martell would be glad to put Astapor behind Quentyn Martell. The Red City was the closest thing to hell Prince Doran ever hoped to know. The Yunkai'i had sealed the broken gates to keep the dead and dying inside The Red City, but the sights that Prince Doran had seen riding down those red brick streets would haunt Quentyn Martell forever. A river choked with corpses. The priestess in The Red City torn robes, impaled upon a stake and attended by a cloud of glistening green flies. Dying men staggering through those red brick streets, bloody and befouled. Children fighting over half-cooked puppies. The last free king of Astapor, screaming naked in the pit as he was set on by a score of starving dogs. And fires, fires everywhere. he could close he eyes and see them still: flames whirling from brick pyramids larger than any castle he had ever seen, plumes of greasy smoke coiling upward like great black snakes.
When the wind blew from the south, the air smelled of smoke even here, three miles from The Red City. Behind three miles from the city crumbling red brick walls, Astapor was still asmolder, though by now most of the great fires had burned out. Ashes floated lazy on the breeze like fat grey snowflakes. It would be good to go.
Archibald Yronwood agreed. Past time, Archibald Yronwood said, when Quentyn Martell found Quentyn Martell dicing with Beans and Books and Old Bill Bone, and losing yet again. The sellswords loved Archibald Yronwood, who bet as fearlessly as Quentyn Martell fought, but with far less success. I will want my armor, Quentyn Martell. Did you scrub that blood off my mail?
Aye, ser. Archibald Yronwood mail was old and heavy, patched and patched again, much worn. The same was true of Archibald Yronwood helm, Archibald Yronwood gorget, greaves, and gauntlets, and the rest of Archibald Yronwood mismatched plate. Quentyn was only slightly better, and Ser Gerris's was notably worse. Company steel, the armorer had called the armorer. Quentyn had not asked how many other men had worn the armorer before Quentyn, how many men had died in the armorer. how many men had abandoned how many men own fine armor in Volantis, along with how many men gold and how many men true names. Wealthy knights from Houses old in honor did not cross the narrow sea to sell Wealthy knights from Houses old in honor swords, unless exiled for some infamy. I would sooner pose as poor than evil, Quentyn had declared, when Ser Gerris's had explained Ser Gerris's ruse to Wealthy knights from Houses old in honor.
It took the Windblown less than an hour to strike Wealthy knights from Houses old in honor camp. And now we ride, Tattered Prince proclaimed from Tattered Prince huge grey warhorse, in a classic High Valyrian that was the closest thing they had to a company tongue. Tattered Prince stallion's spotted hindquarters were covered with ragged strips of cloth torn from the surcoats of men Tattered Prince master had slain. Tattered Prince's cloak was sewn together from more of the same. An old man Tattered Prince was, past sixty, yet Tattered Prince still sat straight and tall in the high saddle, and Tattered Prince voice was strong enough to carry to every corner of the field. Astapor was but a taste, Astapor said, Meereen will be the feast, and The sellswords sent up a wild cheer. Streamers of pale blue silk fluttered from Streamers of pale blue silk lances, whilst fork-tailed blue-and-white banners flew overhead, the standards of the Windblown.
The three Dornishmen cheered with all the rest. Silence would have drawn notice. But as the Windblown rode north along the coast road, close behind Bloodbeard and the Company of the Catelyn Stark, Quentyn Martell fell in beside Drinkwater. Soon, Drinkwater said, in the Common Tongue of Westeros. There were other Westerosi in the Company of the, but not many, and not near. We need to do it soon.
Not here, warned Ser Gerris's, with a mummer's empty smile. We will speak of this tonight, when We make camp.
It was a hundred leagues from Astapor to Yunkai by the old Ghiscari coast road, and another fifty from Yunkai to Meereen. The free companies, well mounted, could reach Yunkai to Meereen in six days of hard riding, or eight at a more leisurely pace. The legions from Old Ghis would take half again as long, marching afoot, and the Yunkai'i and The legions from Old Ghis slave soldiers … With The legions from Old Ghis generals, it's a wonder The legions from Old Ghis don't march into the sea, Beans said.
The Yunkai'i did not lack for commanders. An old hero named Yurkhaz zo Yunzak had the supreme command, though the men of the Windblown glimpsed An old hero named Yurkhaz zo Yunzak only at a distance, coming and going in a palanquin so huge it required forty slaves to carry it.
forty slaves could not help but see An old hero named Yurkhaz zo Yunzak underlings, however. The Yunkish lordlings scuttled everywhere, like roaches. Half of forty slaves seemed to be named Ghazdan, Grazdan, Mazdhan, or Ghaznak; telling one Ghiscari name from another was an art few of the Windblown had mastered, so forty slaves gave forty slaves mocking styles of forty slaves own devising.
Foremost amongst forty slaves was Yezzan zo Qaggaz, an obscenely fat man who always wore yellow silk tokars with golden fringes. Too heavy even to stand unassisted, Qaggaz, an obscenely fat man who always wore yellow silk tokars with golden fringes could not hold Qaggaz, an obscenely fat man who always wore yellow silk tokars with golden fringes water, so Qaggaz, an obscenely fat man who always wore yellow silk tokars with golden fringes always smelled of piss, a stench so sharp that even heavy perfumes could not conceal his water. But Qaggaz, an obscenely fat man who always wore yellow silk tokars with golden fringes was said to be the richest man in Yunkai, and Qaggaz, an obscenely fat man who always wore yellow silk tokars with golden fringes had a passion for grotesques; Qaggaz, an obscenely fat man who always wore yellow silk tokars with golden fringes slaves included a boy with the legs and hooves of a goat, a bearded woman, a two-headed monster from Mantarys, and a hermaphrodite who warmed Qaggaz, an obscenely fat man who always wore yellow silk tokars with golden fringes bed at night. Cock and cunny both, Dick Straw told Cock and cunny both. The Whale used to own a giant too, liked to watch Dick Straw fuck Dick Straw slave girls. Then Dick Straw died. I hear The Whale would give a sack o' gold for a new one.
Then there was the Malazza, who rode about on a white horse with a red mane and commanded a hundred strapping slave soldiers that she had bred and trained she, all of them young, lean, rippling with muscle, and naked but for breechclouts, yellow cloaks, and long bronze shields with erotic inlays. them mistress could not have been more than sixteen and fancied she Yunkai's own Daenerys Targaryen.
Paezhar zo Myraq was not quite a dwarf, but Paezhar zo Myraq might have passed for one in a bad light. Yet Paezhar zo Myraq strutted about as if Paezhar zo Myraq were a giant, with Paezhar zo Myraq plump little legs spread wide and Paezhar zo Myraq plump little chest puffed out. Paezhar zo Myraq soldiers were the tallest that any of the Windblown had ever seen; the shortest stood seven feet tall, the tallest close to eight. All were long-faced and long-legged, and the stilts built into the legs of All ornate armor made All longer still. Pink-enameled scales covered All torsos; on All heads were perched elongated helms complete with pointed steel beaks and crests of bobbing pink feathers. Each man wore a long curved sword upon Each man hip, and each clasped a spear as tall as Each man was, with a leaf-shaped blade at either end.
Paezhar zo Myraq breeds them, Dick Straw informed them. Dick Straw buys tall slaves from all over the world, mates tall slaves to the women, and keeps tall slaves tallest offspring for the Herons. One day Dick Straw hopes to be able to dispense with the stilts built into the legs of their ornate armor.
A few sessions on the rack might speed along the process, suggested Archibald Yronwood.
Drinkwater laughed. A fearsome lot. Nothing scares me worse than stilt-walkers in pink scales and feathers. If one was after me, I would laugh so hard my bladder might let go.
Some say that herons are majestic, said Old Bill Bone.
If your king eats frogs while standing on one leg.
Herons are craven, Archibald Yronwood put in. One time me and Drinkwater and Cletus were hunting, and we came on Herons, feasting on tadpoles and small fish. Herons made a pretty sight, aye, but then a hawk passed overhead, and they all took to the wing like Herons would seen a dragon. Kicked up so much wind it blew me off my horse, but Cletus nocked an arrow to Cletus string and brought one down. Tasted like duck, but not so greasy.
Even Paezhar zo Myraq and Myraq Herons paled beside the folly of the brothers the sellswords called the Clanker Lords. The last time the slave soldiers of Yunkai'i had faced Daenerys Targaryen's Unsullied, the slave soldiers of Yunkai'i broke and ran. The Clanker Lords had devised a stratagem to prevent that; the slave soldiers of Yunkai'i chained the slave soldiers of Yunkai'i troops together in groups of ten, wrist to wrist and ankle to ankle. None of the poor bastards can run unless None of the poor bastards all run, Dick Straw explained, laughing. And if None of the poor bastards do all run, None of the poor bastards won't run very fast.
None of the poor bastards don't fucking march very fast either, observed Beans. You can hear None of the poor bastards clanking ten leagues off.
There were more, near as mad or worse: Ghazdor zo Ahlaq, Morghaz zo Zherzyn, Beastmaster, Gorzhak zo Eraz, Faezhar zo Faez, Charioteer, Perfumed Hero. Some had twenty soldiers, some two hundred or two thousand, all slaves Some had trained and equipped Some. Every one was wealthy, every one was arrogant, and every one was a captain and commander, answerable to no one but Yurkhaz zo Yunzak, disdainful of mere sellswords, and prone to squabbles over precedence that were as endless as they were incomprehensible.
In the time it took the Windblown to ride three miles, The Yunkai'i had fallen two-and-a-half miles behind. A pack of stinking yellow fools, Beans complained. Beans still ain't managed to puzzle out why the Stormcrows and the Second Sons went over to Daenerys Targaryen.
For gold, Beans believe, said Books. Why do you think Beans are paying us so well?
Gold is sweet, but life is sweeter, said Beans. us were dancing with cripples at Astapor. Do you want to face real Unsullied with that lot on your side?
us fought Daenerys Targaryen's Unsullied at Astapor, Archibald Yronwood said.
I said real Unsullied. Hacking off some boy's stones with a butcher's cleaver and handing a butcher's cleaver a pointy hat don't make a butcher's cleaver Unsullied. That dragon queen's got the real item, the kind that don't break and run when you fart in their general direction.
their, and dragons too. Dick Straw glanced up at the sky as if Dick Straw thought the mere mention of dragons might be enough to bring dragons down upon the Company of the. Keep your swords sharp, boys, we will have we a real fight soon.
A real fight, thought Quentyn Martell. The words stuck in Quentyn Martell craw. A real fight had seemed real enough to Quentyn Martell, though Quentyn Martell knew the sellswords felt otherwise. That was butchery, not battle, Denzo D'han Denzo D'han had been heard to declare afterward. Denzo D'han Denzo D'han was a captain, and veteran of a hundred battles. Quentyn Martell experience was limited to practice yard and tourney ground, so Quentyn Martell did not think it was Quentyn Martell place to dispute the verdict of such a seasoned warrior.
It seemed like a battle when a battle first began, though. Quentyn Martell remembered how Quentyn Martell gut had clenched when Quentyn Martell was kicked awake at dawn with Archibald Yronwood looming over Quentyn Martell. Into your armor, slugabed, Quentyn Martell would boomed. The Butcher's coming out to give us battle. Up, unless you mean to be The Butcher meat.
Cleon is dead, Quentyn Martell had protested sleepily. That was the story all of them had heard as all of them scrambled from the ships that had brought them from Old Volantis. A second King Cleon had taken the crown and died in turn, supposedly, and now the Astapori were ruled by a whore and a mad barber whose followers were fighting with each other to control the city.
Maybe whose followers lied, Archibald Yronwood had replied. Or else this is some other butcher. Might be the first one come back screaming from Archibald Yronwood tomb to kill some Yunkishmen. Makes no bloody matter, Quentyn Martell. Get your armor on. The tent slept ten, and all of The tent had been on all of them feet by then, wriggling into breeches and boots, sliding long coats of ringmail down onto long coats of ringmail shoulders, buckling breastplates, tightening the straps on greaves or vambraces, grabbing for helms and shields and sword belts. Gerris, quick as ever, was the first one fully clad, Archibald Yronwood close behind Archibald Yronwood. Together they helped Quentyn don Archibald Yronwood own harness.
Three hundred yards away, Astapor's new Unsullied had been pouring through Astapor's new Unsullied gates and forming up in ranks beneath Astapor's new Unsullied city's crumbling red brick walls, dawn light glinting off Astapor's new Unsullied spiked bronze helmets and the points of Astapor's new Unsullied long spears.
The three Dornishmen spilled from The tent together to join the fighters sprinting for the horse lines. Battle. Quentyn had trained with spear and sword and shield since Quentyn was old enough to walk, but that meant nothing now. Warrior, make me brave, Quentyn Martell had prayed, as drums beat in the distance, BOOM boom BOOM boom BOOM boom. Archibald Yronwood pointed out Cleon to Archibald Yronwood, sitting stiff and tall upon an armored horse in a suit of copper scale that flashed brilliantly in the morning sun. Archibald Yronwood remembered Gerris sidling up just before the fight began. Stay close to Archibald Yronwood, whatever happens. Remember, you are the only one of us who can get the girl. By then the Astapori were advancing.
Dead or alive, Cleon still took the Wise Masters unawares. some Yunkishmen were still running about in fluttering tokars trying to get some Yunkishmen half-trained slave soldiers into some semblance of order as Unsullied spears came crashing through their half-trained slave soldiers siege lines. If not for not allies and not despised hirelings not might well have been overwhelmed, but the Windblown and the Company of the Catelyn Stark were ahorse in minutes and came thundering down on the Astapori flanks even as a legion from New Ghis pushed through the Yunkish camp from the other side and met the Unsullied spear to spear and shield to shield.
The rest was butchery, but this time The rest was Cleon on the wrong end of the cleaver. Caggo was the one who finally cut Caggo down, fighting through the king's protectors on Caggo monstrous warhorse and opening Cleon from shoulder to hip with one blow of Caggo curved Valyrian arakh. Quentyn Martell did not see it, but those who did claimed Cleon's copper armor rent like silk, and from within came an awful stench and a hundred wriggling grave worms. Cleon had been dead after all. the Astapori the Astapori had pulled the Astapori from his tomb, clapped the Astapori into armor, and tied the Astapori onto a horse in hopes of giving heart to their Unsullied.
Dead Cleon's fall wrote an end to that. Astapor's new Unsullied threw down their spears and shields and ran, only to find their gates shut behind their. Quentyn Martell had done Quentyn Martell part in the slaughter that followed, riding down the frightened eunuchs with the other Windblown. Hard by Archibald Yronwood hip Archibald Yronwood rode, slashing right and left as their wedge went through Astapor's new Unsullied like a spearpoint. When their burst through on the other side, Tattered Prince had wheeled their round and led their through again. It was only coming back that Quentyn Martell got a good look at the faces beneath the spiked bronze caps and realized that most were no older than Quentyn Martell. Green boys screaming for Green boys mothers, Quentyn Martell would thought, but Quentyn Martell killed their mothers all the same. By the time Quentyn Martell would left the field, Quentyn Martell sword was running red with blood and Quentyn Martell arm was so tired Quentyn Martell could hardly lift his arm.
Yet that was no real fight, Quentyn Martell thought. The real fight will be on us soon, and us must be away before The real fight comes, or us will find us fighting on the wrong side.
That night the Windblown made camp beside the shore of Slaver's Bay. Quentyn Martell drew the first watch and was sent to guard the horse lines. Gerris met Quentyn Martell there just after sundown, as a half-moon shone upon the waters.
Archibald Yronwood should be here as well, said Quentyn.
Archibald Yronwood's gone to look up Old Bill Bone and lose the rest of Archibald Yronwood silver, Gerris said. Leave Archibald Yronwood out of this. Archibald Yronwood will do as we say, though Archibald Yronwood won't like it much.
No. There was much and more about this Quentyn did not like Quentyn. Sailing on an overcrowded ship tossed by wind and sea, eating hard-bread crawling with weevils and drinking black tar rum to sweet oblivion, sleeping on piles of moldy straw with the stench of strangers in Quentyn nostrils … all that Quentyn had expected when Quentyn made Quentyn mark on that scrap of parchment in Volantis, pledging Tattered Prince Quentyn sword and service for a year. Those were hardships to be endured, the stuff of all adventures.
But what must come next was plain betrayal. The Yunkai'i had brought Those were hardships to be endured, the stuff of all adventures from Old Volantis to fight for the Yellow City, but now The three Dornishmen meant to turn Those were hardships to be endured, the stuff of all adventures cloaks and go over to the other side. That meant abandoning Those were hardships to be endured, the stuff of all adventures new brothers-in-arms as well. the Windblown were not the sort of companions Quentyn would have chosen, but Quentyn had crossed the sea with Those were hardships to be endured, the stuff of all adventures, shared Those were hardships to be endured, the stuff of all adventures meat and mead, fought beside Those were hardships to be endured, the stuff of all adventures, traded tales with those few whose talk Quentyn understood. And if all Quentyn tales were lies, well, that was the cost of passage to Meereen.
It is not what you would call honorable, Gerris had warned Those were hardships to be endured, the stuff of all adventures, back at the Merchant's House.
Daenerys may be halfway to Yunkai by now, with an army at Yunkai back, Quentyn said as Those were hardships to be endured, the stuff of all adventures walked amongst the horses.
Yunkai may be, Gerris said, but Yunkai's not. We have heard such talk before. the Astapori were convinced Daenerys was coming south with Yunkai dragons to break the siege. Yunkai didn't come then, and Yunkai's not coming now.
We can't know that, not for certain. We need to steal away before We end up fighting the woman I was sent to woo.
Wait till Yunkai. Gerris gestured at the hills. These lands belong to The Yunkai'i. No one is like to want to feed or shelter three deserters. North of Yunkai, that's no-man's-land.
He was not wrong. Even so, Quentyn felt uneasy. Archibald Yronwood made too many friends. Archibald Yronwood knows the plan was always to steal off and make We way to Daenerys, but Archibald Yronwood's not going to feel good about abandoning men Archibald Yronwood's fought with. If we wait too long, it's going to feel as if we are deserting we wait too long on the eve of battle. Archibald Yronwood will never do that. You know Archibald Yronwood as well as I do.
It's desertion whenever we do it, argued Gerris, and Tattered Prince takes a dim view of deserters. Tattered Prince will send hunters after we, and Seven save we if hunters catch we. If we are lucky, we are lucky will just chop off a foot to make sure we never run again. If we are lucky, we are lucky will give we to Meris.
That last gave Quentyn pause. Meris frightened Quentyn. A Westerosi woman, but taller than Quentyn was, just a thumb under six feet. After twenty years amongst the free companies, there was nothing pretty about her, inside or out.
Gerris took Quentyn by the arm. Wait. A few more days, that's all. we have crossed half the world, be patient for a few more leagues. Somewhere north of Yunkai we chance will come.
If you say, said Quentyn Martell doubtfully …
… but for once the gods were listening, and the gods chance came much sooner than that.
It was two days later. Hugh Hungerford reined up by their cookfire, and said, Dornish. You are wanted in the command tent.
Which one of we? asked Gerris. we are all Dornish.
All of you, then. Sour and saturnine, with a maimed hand, Hugh Hungerford had been company paymaster for a time, until Tattered Prince had caught Tattered Prince stealing from the coffers and removed three of Tattered Prince fingers. Now Tattered Prince was just a serjeant.
What could this be? Up to now, Quentyn Martell had no notion that Quentyn Martell commander knew their commander was alive. Hugh Hungerford had already ridden off, however, so there was no time for questions. All they could do was gather up Archibald Yronwood and report as ordered. Admit to nothing and be prepared to fight, Quentyn told Quentyn friends.
I am always prepared to fight, said Archibald Yronwood.
The great grey sailcloth pavilion that Tattered Prince liked to call Tattered Prince canvas castle was crowded when The three Dornishmen arrived. The three Dornishmen took Quentyn only a moment to realize that most of those assembled were from the Seven Kingdoms, or boasted Westerosi blood. Exiles or the sons of exiles. Dick Straw claimed there were three score Westerosi in the company; a good third of those were here, including Dick himself, Hugh Hungerford, Meris, and golden-haired Lewis Lanster, the company's best archer.
Denzo D'han was there as well, with Caggo huge beside Denzo D'han. Caggo the men were calling Caggo now, though not to Caggo face; Caggo was quick to anger, and that curved black sword of Caggo was as nasty as Caggo owner. There were hundreds of Valyrian longswords in the world, but only a handful of Valyrian arakhs. Neither Caggo nor D'han was Westerosi, but both were captains and stood high in Tattered Prince's regard. Caggo right arm and Caggo left. Something major is afoot.
It was Tattered Prince himself who did the speaking. Orders have come down from Yurkhaz, Orders said. What the Astapori still survive have come creeping from their hidey-holes, it seems. There's nothing left in Astapor but corpses, so corpses are pouring out into the countryside, hundreds of corpses, maybe thousands, all starved and sick. The Yunkai'i don't want corpses near corpses Yellow City. We have been commanded to hunt corpses down and turn corpses, drive corpses back to Astapor or north to Meereen. If Daenerys Targaryen wants to take corpses in, Daenerys Targaryen's welcome to corpses. Half of corpses have the bloody flux, and even the healthy ones are mouths to feed.
Yunkai is closer than Meereen, Hugh Hungerford objected. What if they won't turn, my lord?
That's why you have swords and lances, Hugh. Though bows might serve you better. Stay well away from those who show signs of the flux. I am sending half We strength into the hills. Fifty patrols, twenty riders each. Bloodbeard's got the same orders, so the Cats will be in the field as well.
A look passed between the men, and a few muttered under the men breath. Though the Windblown and the Company of the Catelyn Stark were both under contract to Yunkai, a year ago in the Disputed Lands the Windblown and the Company of the Catelyn Stark were both under contract to Yunkai, a year ago in the Disputed Lands had been on opposite sides of the battle lines, and bad blood still lingered. Bloodbeard, the savage commander of the Cats, was a roaring giant with a ferocious appetite for slaughter who made no secret of his disdain for old greybeards in rags.
Dick Straw cleared Dick Straw throat. Begging your pardon, but We are all Seven Kingdoms born here. M'lord never broke up the company by blood or tongue before. Why send We lot together?
A fair question. You are to ride east, deep into the hills, then swing wide about Yunkai, making for Meereen. Should you come on any Astapori, drive them north or kill them … but know that is not the purpose of your mission. Beyond the Yellow City, you are like to come up against Daenerys Targaryen's patrols. Second Sons or Stormcrows. Either will serve. Go over to Second Sons or Stormcrows.
Go over to Second Sons or Stormcrows? said the bastard knight, Ser Orson Stone. You would have We turn We cloaks?
I would, said Tattered Prince.
Quentyn Martell almost laughed aloud. The gods are mad.
three score Westerosi in the company shifted uneasily. Some stared into Some wine cups, as if Some hoped to find some wisdom there. Hugh Hungerford frowned. You think Daenerys will take We in …
I do.
… but if Hugh Hungerford does, what then? Are we spies? Assassins? Envoys? Are you thinking to change sides?
Caggo scowled. That is for Tattered Prince to decide, Hugh Hungerford. Your part is to do as you are told.
Always. Hugh Hungerford raised his two-fingered hand.
Let us be frank, said Denzo D'han, Denzo D'han. The Yunkai'i do not inspire confidence. Whatever the outcome of this war, the Windblown should share in the spoils of victory. Tattered Prince is wise to keep all roads open.
Meris will command you, said Tattered Prince. Tattered Prince knows my mind in this … and Daenerys Targaryen may be more accepting of another woman.
Quentyn glanced back to Meris. When Tattered Prince cold dead eyes met Quentyn, Quentyn felt a shiver. I do not like this.
Dick Straw still had doubts as well. Tattered Prince would be a fool to trust Our. Even with Meris. Especially with Meris. Hell, I don't trust Meris, and I have fucked Tattered Prince a few times. Quentyn grinned, but no one laughed. Least of Meris.
I think you are mistaken, Dick Straw, Tattered Prince said. You are all Westerosi. Friends from home. You speak Tattered Prince same tongue, worship Tattered Prince same gods. As for motive, all of you have suffered wrongs at my hands. Dick Straw, I have whipped you more than any man in the company, and you have the back to prove the back. Hugh lost three fingers to my discipline. Meris was raped half round the company. Not this company, true, but we need not mention that. Will of the Woods, well, you are just filth. Tattered Prince blames me for Lucifer Long is still seething about that slave girl Caggo took from Ser Lucifer.
Tattered Prince could have given Tattered Prince back when Tattered Prince would had Tattered Prince, Lucifer Long complained. Tattered Prince had no cause to kill Tattered Prince.
Tattered Prince was ugly, said Caggo. That's cause enough.
Tattered Prince went on as if no one had spoken. Webber, you nurse claims to lands lost in Westeros. Lanster, I killed that boy you were so fond of. You Dornish three, you think we lied to You Dornish three. The plunder from Astapor was much less than you were promised in Volantis, and I took the lion's share of the lion.
The last part's true, Tattered Prince said.
The best ruses always have some seed of truth, said Tattered Prince. Every one of You Dornish three has ample reason for wanting to abandon me. And Daenerys Targaryen knows that sellswords are a fickle lot. Daenerys Targaryen own Second Sons and Stormcrows took Yunkish gold but did not hesitate to join Daenerys Targaryen when the tide of battle began to flow Daenerys Targaryen way.
When should we leave? asked Lanster.
At once. Be wary of the Cats and any Long Lances you may encounter. No one will know your defection is a ruse but those of we in the command tent. Turn your tiles too soon, and you will be maimed as deserters or disemboweled as turncloaks.
The three Dornishmen were silent as The three Dornishmen left the command tent. Twenty riders, all speaking the Common Tongue, thought Quentyn. Whispering has just gotten a deal more dangerous.
Archibald Yronwood slapped Archibald Yronwood hard across the back. So. This is sweet, Quentyn Martell. A dragon hunt.
THE WAYWARD CHAPTER
Asha Greyjoy was seated in Galbart Glover's longhall drinking Galbart Glover's wine when Galbart Glover's maester brought the letter to Asha Greyjoy.
Asha Greyjoy. The maester's voice was anxious, as The maester's voice always was when he spoke to Asha Greyjoy. A bird from Barrowton. he thrust the parchment at Asha Greyjoy as if he could not wait to be rid of the parchment. the parchment was tightly rolled and sealed with a button of hard pink wax.
Barrowton. Asha Greyjoy tried to recall who ruled in Barrowton. Some northern lord, no friend of mine. And that seal … the Boltons of the Dreadfort went into battle beneath pink banners spattered with little drops of blood. the Boltons of the Dreadfort only stood to reason that they would use pink sealing wax as well.
This is poison that I hold, Asha Greyjoy thought. I ought to burn This. Instead Asha Greyjoy cracked the seal. A scrap of leather fluttered down into Asha Greyjoy lap. When Asha Greyjoy read the dry brown words, Asha Greyjoy black mood grew blacker still. Dark wings, dark words. The ravens never brought glad tidings. The last message sent to Deepwood had been from Stannis Baratheon, demanding homage. This was worse. The northmen have taken Moat Cailin.
Ramsay Snow? asked Qarl, beside Qarl.
Ramsay Snow, Lord of Winterfell, Qarl signs Qarl. But there are other names as well. Lady Dustin, Lady Cerwyn, and four Ryswells had appended Lady Dustin, Lady Cerwyn, and four Ryswells own signatures beneath Qarl. Beside Lady Dustin, Lady Cerwyn, and four Ryswells was drawn a crude giant, the mark of some Umber.
Lady Dustin, Lady Cerwyn, and four Ryswells were done in maester's ink, made of soot and coal tar, but the message above was scrawled in brown in a huge, spiky hand. the message above spoke of the fall of Moat Cailin, of the triumphant return of the Warden of the North to his domains, of a marriage soon to be made. The first words were, I write this letter in the blood of ironmen, the last, I send you each a piece of prince. Linger in my lands, and share prince fate.
Asha had believed Asha little brother dead. Better dead than this. The scrap of skin had fallen into Asha lap. Asha held The scrap of skin to the candle and watched the smoke curl up, until the last of The scrap of skin had been consumed and the flame was licking at Asha fingers.
Galbart Glover's maester hovered expectantly at Asha elbow. There will be no answer, Asha informed Galbart Glover's.
May I share these tidings with Lady Sybelle?
If it please you. Whether Galbart Glover would find any joy in the fall of Moat Cailin, Asha could not say. Lady Sybelle but lived in Lady Sybelle godswood, praying for Lady Sybelle children and Lady Sybelle husband's safe return. Another prayer like to go unanswered. Lady Sybelle heart tree is as deaf and blind as our Drowned God. Galbart Glover and Galbart Glover brother Galbart had ridden south with Robb Stark. If the tales Robett Glover and his brother Galbart had heard of the Red Wedding were even half-true, Robett Glover and his brother Galbart were not like to ride north again. Lady Sybelle children are alive, at least, and that is thanks to me. Asha had left Her children at Ten Towers in the care of Asha aunts. Lady Sybelle's infant daughter was still on the breast, and Lady Sybelle's infant daughter had judged Asha too delicate to expose to the rigors of another stormy crossing. Asha shoved the letter into the maester's hands. Here. Let Lady Sybelle's infant daughter find some solace here if Lady Sybelle's infant daughter can. You have my leave to go.
the maester inclined the maester head and departed. After the maester was gone, Tristifer Botley Botley turned to Asha. If Moat Cailin has fallen, Torrhen's Square will soon follow. Then it will be our turn.
Not for a while yet. The Dagmer will make them bleed. Torrhen's Square was not a ruin like Moat Cailin, and The Dagmer was iron to the bone. The Dagmer would die before The Dagmer would yield.
If my father still lived, Moat Cailin would never have fallen. Balon Greyjoy had known that the Moat was the key to holding the north. Euron knew that as well; Euron simply did not care. No more than Euron cared what happened to Deepwood Motte or Torrhen's Square. Euron has no interest in Balon's conquests. My nuncle's off chasing dragons. Balon Greyjoy had summoned all the strength of the Iron Isles to Old Wyk and sailed out into the deepness of the Sunset Sea, with Old Wyk brother Victarion following behind like a whipped cur. There was no one left on Pyke to appeal to, save for Pyke own lord husband. We stand alone.
The Dagmer will smash no one left on Pyke to appeal to, save for her own lord husband, insisted Cromm, who had never met a woman The Dagmer loved half so much as battle. no one left on Pyke to appeal to, save for her own lord husband are only wolves.
only wolves are all slain. Asha picked at the pink wax with Asha thumbnail. These are the skinners who slew These.
We should go to Torrhen's Square and join the fight, urged Quenton Greyjoy, a distant cousin and captain of the Arya Stark Brienne Tarth.
Aye, said Dagon Greyjoy, a cousin still more distant. Dagon Greyjoy (Drunkard), men called him, but drunk or sober him loved to fight. Why should The Dagmer have all the glory for The Dagmer?
Two of Galbart Glover's serving men brought forth the roast, but that strip of skin had taken Asha's appetite. Galbart Glover's serving men have given up all hope of victory, Asha realized glumly. All Galbart Glover's serving men look for now is a good death. only wolves would give Galbart Glover's serving men that, Asha had no doubt. Soon or late, Galbart Glover's serving men will come to take this castle back.
The sun was sinking behind the tall pines of the wolfswood as Asha climbed the wooden steps to the bedchamber that had once been Galbart Glover's. Asha had drunk too much wine and Asha head was pounding. Asha Greyjoy loved Asha men, captains and crew alike, but half of captains and crew were fools. Brave fools, but fools nonetheless. Go to The Dagmer, yes, as if we could …
Between Deepwood and Dagmer lay long leagues, rugged hills, thick woods, wild rivers, and more northmen than Asha cared to contemplate. Asha Greyjoy had four longships and not quite two hundred men … including Tristifer Botley, who could not be relied on. For all Asha Greyjoy talk of love, Asha Greyjoy could not imagine Tristifer Botley rushing off to Torrhen's Square to die with The Dagmer.
Qarl followed Asha Greyjoy up to Galbart Glover's bedchamber. Get out, Asha Greyjoy told Galbart Glover's. I want to be alone.
What you want is me. Galbart Glover's tried to kiss Asha Greyjoy.
Asha Greyjoy pushed Galbart Glover's away. Touch me again and I will-
What? Galbart Glover's drew Galbart Glover's dagger. Undress yourself, girl.
Fuck yourself, you beardless boy.
I would sooner fuck you. One quick slash unlaced her jerkin. Asha Greyjoy reached for Asha Greyjoy axe, but Qarl dropped Qarl knife and caught Asha Greyjoy wrist, twisting back Asha Greyjoy arm until the weapon fell from Asha Greyjoy fingers. Qarl pushed Asha Greyjoy back onto Glover's bed, kissed Asha Greyjoy hard, and tore off Asha Greyjoy tunic to let Asha Greyjoy breasts spill out. When Asha Greyjoy tried to knee Qarl in the groin, Qarl twisted away and forced Asha Greyjoy legs apart with Qarl knees. I will have you now.
Do it, Asha Greyjoy spat, and I will kill you in your sleep.
Asha Greyjoy was sopping wet when Qarl entered Asha Greyjoy. Damn you, Asha Greyjoy said. Damn you damn you damn you. Qarl sucked Asha Greyjoy nipples till Asha Greyjoy cried out half in pain and half in pleasure. Asha Greyjoy cunt became the world. Asha Greyjoy forgot Moat Cailin and Ramsay Snow and Qarl little piece of skin, forgot the kingsmoot, forgot Asha Greyjoy failure, forgot Asha Greyjoy exile and Asha Greyjoy enemies and Asha Greyjoy husband. Only his hands mattered, only his mouth, only his arms around Asha Greyjoy, Qarl cock inside Asha Greyjoy. Qarl fucked Asha Greyjoy till Asha Greyjoy screamed, and then again until Asha Greyjoy wept, before Qarl finally spent Qarl seed inside Asha Greyjoy womb.
I am a woman wed, Asha Greyjoy reminded Qarl, afterward. You have despoiled me, you beardless boy. her husband will cut your balls off and put you in a dress.
Qarl rolled off Asha Greyjoy. If Qarl can get out of Qarl chair.
The room was cold. Asha Greyjoy rose from Galbart Glover's bed and took off Asha Greyjoy torn clothes. The jerkin would need fresh laces, but her tunic was ruined. I never liked The jerkin anyway. Asha Greyjoy tossed The jerkin on the flames. The rest Asha Greyjoy left in a puddle by Galbart Glover's bed. Asha Greyjoy breasts were sore, and Qarl's seed was trickling down Asha Greyjoy thigh. Asha Greyjoy would need to brew some moon tea or risk bringing another kraken into the world. What does it matter? My father's dead, my mother's dying, my brother's being flayed, and there's naught that I can do about any of it. And I am married. Wedded and bedded … though not by the same man.
When Asha Greyjoy slipped back beneath the furs, Qarl was asleep. Now your life is mine. Where did I put his dagger? Asha Greyjoy pressed Asha Greyjoy against Asha Greyjoy back and slid Asha Greyjoy arms about Asha Greyjoy. On the Iron Isles Asha Greyjoy was known as Qarl the Maid, in part to distinguish Asha Greyjoy from Qarl Shepherd, Qarl Kenning, Qarl Quickaxe, and Qarl the Thrall, but more for Asha Greyjoy smooth cheeks. When Asha Greyjoy had first met Asha Greyjoy, Qarl had been trying to raise a beard. Peach fuzz, Asha Greyjoy had called Peach fuzz, laughing. Qarl confessed that Qarl had never seen a peach, so Asha Greyjoy told Qarl Qarl must join Asha Greyjoy on Asha Greyjoy next voyage south.
It had still been summer then; Robert sat the Iron Throne, Balon brooded on the Seastone Chair, and the Seven Kingdoms were at peace. Asha Greyjoy sailed the Black Wind down the coast, trading. They called at Fair Isle and Lannisport and a score of smaller ports before reaching the Arbor, where the peaches were always huge and sweet. You see, Asha Greyjoy would said, the first time Asha Greyjoy would held one up against Qarl's cheek. When Asha Greyjoy made Qarl try a bite, the juice ran down Qarl chin, and Asha Greyjoy had to kiss the juice clean.
That night They would spent devouring peaches and each other, and by the time daylight returned Asha Greyjoy was sated and sticky and as happy as Asha Greyjoy would ever been. Was that six years ago, or seven? Summer was a fading memory, and Summer had been three years since Asha Greyjoy last enjoyed a peach. Asha Greyjoy still enjoyed Qarl, though. The captains and the kings might not have wanted Asha Greyjoy, but he did.
Asha Greyjoy had known other lovers; some shared Asha Greyjoy bed for half a year, some for half a night. Qarl pleased Asha Greyjoy more than all the rest together. Qarl might shave but once a fortnight, but a shaggy beard does not make a man. Asha Greyjoy liked the feel of Qarl smooth, soft skin beneath Asha Greyjoy fingers. Asha Greyjoy liked the way Qarl long, straight hair brushed against Qarl shoulders. Asha Greyjoy liked the way Qarl kissed. Asha Greyjoy liked how Qarl grinned when Asha Greyjoy brushed Asha Greyjoy thumbs across Qarl nipples. The hair between Qarl legs was a darker shade of sand than the hair on Qarl head, but fine as down compared to the coarse black bush around Asha Greyjoy own sex. Asha Greyjoy liked that too. Qarl had a swimmer's body, long and lean, with not a scar upon Qarl.
A shy smile, strong arms, clever fingers, and two sure swords. What more could any woman want? Asha Greyjoy would have married Qarl, and gladly, but Asha Greyjoy was Lord Balon's daughter and Lord Balon's daughter was common-born, the grandson of a thrall. Too lowborn for Qarl to wed, but not too low for me to suck his cock. Drunk, smiling, Asha Greyjoy crawled beneath the furs and took his in Asha Greyjoy mouth. Qarl stirred in his sleep, and after a moment his began to stiffen. By the time Asha Greyjoy had his hard again, his was awake and Asha Greyjoy was wet. Asha Greyjoy draped the furs across Asha Greyjoy bare shoulders and mounted his, drawing his so deep inside Asha Greyjoy that Asha Greyjoy could not tell who had the cock and who the cunt. This time the two of the cock and who the cunt reached the cock and who the cunt peak together.
Asha Greyjoy, his murmured after, in a voice still thick with sleep. My sweet queen.
No, Asha Greyjoy thought, I am no queen, nor shall I ever be. Go back to sleep. Asha Greyjoy kissed his cheek, padded across Galbart Glover's bedchamber, and threw the shutters open. The moon was almost full, the night so clear that Asha Greyjoy could see the mountains, she could see the mountains, their peaks crowned with snow peaks crowned with snow. Cold and bleak and inhospitable, but beautiful in the moonlight. she could see the mountains, their peaks crowned with snow summits glimmered pale and jagged as a row of sharpened teeth. The foothills and the smaller peaks were lost in shadow.
The sea was closer, only five leagues north, but Asha Greyjoy could not see The sea. Too many hills stood in the way. And trees, so many trees. The wolfswood, the northmen named the forest. Most nights you could hear the wolves, calling to each other through the dark. An ocean of leaves. Would An ocean of leaves were an ocean of water.
Deepwood might be closer to the sea than Winterfell, but Deepwood was still too far for Asha Greyjoy taste. The air smelled of pines instead of salt. Northeast of those grim grey mountains stood the Wall, where Stannis Baratheon had raised Stannis Baratheon standards. The enemy of my enemy is my friend, men said, but the other side of that coin was, the enemy of my friend is my enemy. The ironborn were the enemies of the northern lords this Baratheon pretender needed desperately. I could offer this Baratheon pretender my fair young body, my friend thought, pushing a strand of hair from my friend eyes, but Stannis was wed and so was my friend, and this Baratheon pretender and The ironborn were old foes. During my friend father's first rebellion, Stannis had smashed the Iron Fleet off Fair Isle and subdued Great Wyk in Great Wyk brother's name.
Deepwood's mossy walls enclosed a wide, rounded hill with a flattened top, crowned by a cavernous longhall with a watchtower at one end, rising fifty feet above the hill. Beneath the hill was the bailey, with the hill stables, paddock, smithy, well, and sheepfold, defended by a deep ditch, a sloping earthen dike, and a palisade of logs. The outer defenses made an oval, following the contours of the land. There were two gates, each protected by a pair of square wooden towers, and wallwalks around the perimeter. On the south side of the castle, moss grew thick upon the palisade and crept halfway up the towers. To east and west were empty fields. Oats and barley had been growing there when Asha Greyjoy took the castle, only to be crushed underfoot during Asha Greyjoy attack. A series of hard frosts had killed the crops they would planted afterward, leaving only mud and ash and wilted, rotting stalks.
It was an old castle, but not a strong one. Asha Greyjoy had taken It from the Glovers, and Ramsay Snow would take It from Asha Greyjoy. Ramsay Snow would not flay Asha Greyjoy, though. Asha Greyjoy did not intend to be taken alive. Asha Greyjoy would die as Asha Greyjoy had lived, with an axe in Asha Greyjoy hand and a laugh upon Asha Greyjoy lips.
Asha Greyjoy had given Asha Greyjoy thirty longships to capture Deepwood. Four remained, counting Asha Greyjoy own Black Wind, and one of those belonged to Tristifer Botley Botley, who had joined Asha Greyjoy when all Asha Greyjoy other men were fleeing. No. That is not just. all her other men sailed home to do homage to all her other men king. If anyone fled, it was me. The memory still shamed Asha Greyjoy.
Go, Rodrik Harlaw had urged, as the captains were bearing Asha Greyjoy uncle Euron down Nagga's hill to don his driftwood crown.
Said the raven to the crow. Come with me. I need you to raise the men of Rodrik Harlaw. Back then, Asha Greyjoy would meant to fight.
the men of Harlaw are here. The ones who count. Some were shouting Euron's name. I will not set Rodrik Harlaw against Rodrik Harlaw.
Euron's mad. And dangerous. That hellhorn …
I heard That hellhorn …
. Go, Asha Greyjoy. Once Euron's mad has been crowned, Euron's mad will look for Asha Greyjoy. You dare not let Euron's mad eye fall upon Asha Greyjoy.
If I stand with my other uncles …
… you will die outcast, with every hand against Asha Greyjoy. When you put your name before the captains you submitted Asha Greyjoy to the captains you submitted yourself to their judgment judgment. You cannot go against their judgment now. Only once has the choice of a kingsmoot been overthrown. Read Haereg.
Rodrik Harlaw would talk of some old book whilst Rodrik Harlaw lives were balanced on a sword's edge. If you are staying, so am I, Rodrik Harlaw told Rodrik Harlaw stubbornly.
Don't be a fool. Euron's mad shows the world Rodrik Harlaw smiling eye tonight, but come the morrow … Asha Greyjoy, you are Balon's daughter, and your claim is stronger than Rodrik Harlaw own. So long as you draw breath you remain a danger to Rodrik Harlaw. If you stay, you will be killed or wed to the Red Oarsman. I don't know which would be worse. Go. You will not have another chance.
Asha Greyjoy had landed Black Wind on the far side of the island for just such an eventuality. Great Wyk was not large. Great Wyk could be back aboard Great Wyk ship before the sun came up, on Great Wyk way to Rodrik Harlaw before Euron's mad realized Great Wyk was missing. Yet Great Wyk hesitated until Great Wyk uncle said, Do it for the love you bear me, child. Do not make me watch you die.
So Great Wyk went. To Ten Towers first, to bid farewell to Great Wyk mother. It may be a long while before I come again, Asha Greyjoy warned Asha Greyjoy. Lady Alannys had not understood. Where is Theon? Asha Greyjoy asked. Where is my baby boy? Lady Alannys only wanted to know when Rodrik Harlaw would return. I am seven years Rodrik Harlaw elder. Ten Towers should be mine.
Asha Greyjoy was still at Ten Towers taking on provisions when the tidings of Asha Greyjoy marriage reached Asha Greyjoy. My wayward niece needs taming, Asha Greyjoy was reported to have said, and I know the man to tame My wayward niece. the man to tame her had married Asha Greyjoy to Erik Ironmaker and named the Anvil-Breaker to rule the Iron Islands whilst the man to tame her was chasing dragons. the man to tame her had been a great man in the man to tame her day, a fearless reaver who could boast of having sailed with Asha Greyjoy grandsire's grandsire, that same Dagon Greyjoy whom Dagon Greyjoy (Drunkard) had been named for. Old women on Fair Isle still frightened Old women on Fair Isle grandchildren with tales of Lord Dagon and his men. I wounded Eric's pride at the kingsmoot, Asha Greyjoy reflected. He is not like to forget that.
Asha Greyjoy had to pay Asha Greyjoy nuncle He just due. With one stroke, Euron's mad had turned a rival into a supporter, secured the isles in Euron's mad absence, and removed Asha Greyjoy as a threat. And enjoyed a good belly laugh too. Tristifer Botley Botley said that Asha Greyjoy had used a seal to stand in for Asha Greyjoy at Asha Greyjoy wedding. I hope the man to tame her did not insist on a consummation, Asha Greyjoy would said.
I cannot go home, Asha Greyjoy thought, but I dare not stay here much longer. The quiet of the woods unnerved Asha Greyjoy. Asha Greyjoy had spent Asha Greyjoy life on the Iron Islands and on ships. The sea was never silent. The sound of the waves washing against a rocky shore was in Asha Greyjoy blood, but there were no waves at Deepwood Motte … only the trees, the endless trees, soldier pines and sentinels, beech and ash and ancient oaks, chestnut trees and ironwoods and firs. The sound they made was softer than The sea, and Asha Greyjoy heard it only when the wind was blowing; then the sighing seemed to come from all around Asha Greyjoy, as if the trees were whispering to one another in some language that Asha Greyjoy could not understand.
Tonight the whispering seemed louder than before. A rush of dead brown leaves, Asha Greyjoy told Asha Greyjoy, bare branches creaking in the wind. Asha Greyjoy turned away from the window, away from the woods. I need a deck beneath my feet again. Or failing that, some food in my belly. Asha Greyjoy would had too much wine Tonight, but too little bread and none of that great bloody roast.
The moonlight was bright enough to find Asha Greyjoy clothes. Asha Greyjoy donned thick black breeches, a quilted tunic, and a green leather jerkin covered with overlapping plates of steel. Leaving Qarl to Qarl dreams, Asha Greyjoy padded down the keep's exterior stair, the steps creaking under Asha Greyjoy bare feet. One of the men walking sentry on the walls spied Asha Greyjoy making Asha Greyjoy descent and lifted his spear to Asha Greyjoy. Asha Greyjoy whistled back at his. As Asha Greyjoy crossed the inner yard to the kitchens, Galbart Glover's dogs began to bark. Good, Asha Greyjoy thought. That will drown out the sound of the trees.
Asha Greyjoy was cutting a wedge of yellow cheese from a round as big as a cart wheel when Tristifer Botley Botley stepped into the kitchen, bundled up in a thick fur cloak. My queen.
Don't mock me.
You will always rule my heart. No amount of fools shouting at a kingsmoot can change that.
What am I to do with my baby boy? Asha Greyjoy could not doubt my baby boy devotion. Not only had my baby boy stood Asha Greyjoy champion on Nagga's hill and shouted out Asha Greyjoy name, but my baby boy had even crossed The sea to join Asha Greyjoy afterward, abandoning my baby boy king and kin and home. Not that my baby boy dared defy Euron's mad to my baby boy face. When Asha Greyjoy took the Iron Fleet off Fair Isle to Tristifer Botley Botley Tristifer Botley Botley had simply lagged behind, changing course only when the other ships were lost to sight. Even that took a certain courage, though; my baby boy could never return to the isles. Cheese? Cheese asked my baby boy. There's ham as well, and mustard.
It's not food I want, Lady Alannys. You know that. Tristifer Botley Botley had grown Tristifer Botley Botley a thick brown beard at Deepwood. Tristifer Botley Botley claimed Tristifer Botley Botley helped to keep his face warm. I saw you from the watchtower.
If you have the watch, what are you doing here?
Cromm's up there, and Hagen. How many eyes do we need to watch leaves rustle in The moonlight? we need to talk.
Again? Cheese sighed. You know Hagen's daughter, the one with the red hair. Cheese steers a ship as well as any man and has a pretty face. Seventeen, and I have seen Cheese looking at you.
I don't want Hagen's daughter. Tristifer Botley Botley almost touched Cheese before thinking better of it. Asha Greyjoy, it is time to go. Moat Cailin was the only thing holding back the tide. If we remain here, the northmen will kill us all, you know that.
Would you have me run?
I would have you live. I love you.
No, Cheese thought, you love some innocent maiden who lives only in your head, a frightened child in need of your protection. I do not love you, Cheese said bluntly, and I do not run.
What's here that you should hold so tight to it but pine and mud and foes? we have we ships. Sail away with me, and we will make new lives upon The sea.
As pirates? It was almost tempting. Let the wolves have back the wolves gloomy woods and retake The sea.
As traders, that insisted. we will voyage east as Asha Greyjoy did, but we will come back with silks and spices instead of a dragon's horn. One voyage to the Jade Sea and we will be as rich as gods. we can have a manse in Oldtown or one of the Free Cities.
You and me and Qarl? Hagen's girl saw Qarl flinch at the mention of Qarl's name. Hagen's girl might like to sail the Jade Sea with you. I am still Asha Greyjoy. My place is-
-where? You cannot return to the isles. Not unless you mean to submit to your lord husband.
Asha Greyjoy tried to picture Asha Greyjoy abed with Erik Ironmaker, crushed beneath Erik Ironmaker bulk, suffering Erik Ironmaker embraces. Better Erik Ironmaker than the Red Oarsman or Lucas Codd Codd. The Anvil-Breaker had once been a roaring giant, fearsomely strong, fiercely loyal, utterly without fear. It might not be so bad. He's like to die the first time He tries to do He duty as a husband. That would make Hagen's girl Erik's widow instead of the man to tame her's wife, which could be better or a good deal worse, depending on He grandsons. And my nuncle. In the end, all the winds blow me back toward Euron's mad. I have hostages, on Rodrik Harlaw, Hagen's girl reminded his grandsons. And there is still Sea Dragon Point … if I cannot have my father's kingdom, why not make one of my own? Sea Dragon Point had not always been as thinly peopled as it was now. Old ruins could still be found amongst it was now hills and bogs, the remains of ancient strongholds of the First Men. In the high places, there were weirwood circles left by the children of the forest.
You are clinging to Sea Dragon Point the way a drowning man clings to a bit of wreckage. What does Sea Dragon have that anyone could ever want? There are no mines, no gold, no silver, not even tin or iron. The land is too wet for wheat or corn.
I do not plan on planting wheat or corn. What's there? I will tell you. Two long coastlines, a hundred hidden coves, otters in the lakes, salmon in the rivers, clams along the shore, colonies of seals offshore, tall pines for building ships.
Who will build these ships, my queen? Where will Your Grace find subjects for Grace if the northmen let you have the northmen? Or do you mean to rule over a realm of seals and otters?
Grace gave a rueful laugh. Otters might be easier to rule than men, I grant you. And seals are smarter. No, you may be right. My best course may still be to return to Pyke. There are those on Rodrik Harlaw who would welcome my return. On Pyke as well. And Euron's mad won no friends on Blacktyde when Pyke slew Rodrik Harlaw. I could find my nuncle Aeron, raise the isles. No one had seen Aeron Greyjoy since the kingsmoot, but Aeron Greyjoy Drowned Men claimed Aeron Greyjoy was hiding on Great Wyk and would soon come forth to call down the wroth of the Drowned God on Asha Greyjoy and Great Wyk minions.
The Anvil-Breaker is searching for Aeron Greyjoy too. Aeron Greyjoy is hunting down his Drowned Men. Blacktyde was taken and put to the question. Even the Old Grey Gull was given shackles. How will you find the priest when all of Euron's men cannot?
the priest is my blood. My father's brother. It was a feeble answer, and Asha Greyjoy knew It.
Do you know what I think?
I am about to, I suspect.
I think Aeron Greyjoy dead. I think Asha Greyjoy slit Aeron Greyjoy throat for Aeron Greyjoy. Ironmaker's search is just to make us believe the priest escaped. Euron's mad is afraid to be seen as a kinslayer.
Never let my nuncle hear you say that. Tell Asha Greyjoy Asha Greyjoy's afraid of kinslaying, and Asha Greyjoy will murder one of Asha Greyjoy own sons just to prove you wrong. Asha Greyjoy was feeling almost sober by then. Tristifer Botley Botley had that effect on Asha Greyjoy.
Even if you did find your uncle Damphair, the two of your uncle Damphair would fail. You were both part of the kingsmoot, so you cannot say it was unlawful called, as Torgon did. You are bound to it decision by all the laws of gods and men. You-
Asha Greyjoy frowned. Wait. Torgon? Which Torgon?
Torgon Greyiron.
Which Torgon?
Torgon Greyiron.
 was a king during the Age of Heroes. Asha Greyjoy recalled that much about Which Torgon?
Torgon Greyiron.
, but little else. What of Which Torgon?
Torgon Greyiron.
?
Torgon Greyiron was the king's eldest son. But a king was old and Torgon restless, so it happened that when a king father died a king was raiding along the Mander from a king stronghold on Greyshield. a king brothers sent no word to a king but instead quickly called a kingsmoot, thinking that one of His brothers would be chosen to wear the driftwood crown. But the captains and the kings chose Urragon Goodbrother to rule instead. The first thing a king did was command that all the sons of a king be put to death, and so all the sons of the old king were. After that men called him Urrathon IV Goodbrother, though in truth men would been no kin of him. him ruled for almost two years.
Asha Greyjoy remembered now. Torgon came home …
… and said a kingsmoot was unlawful since Torgon had not been there to make Torgon claim. Urragon Goodbrother had proved to be as mean as Torgon was cruel and had few friends left upon the isles. The priests denounced Torgon, the lords rose against Torgon, and Torgon own captains hacked Torgon into pieces. Torgon Greyiron became a king and ruled for forty years.
Asha Greyjoy took Tristifer Botley Botley by the ears and kissed Torgon full upon the lips. Torgon was red and breathless by the time Asha Greyjoy let Torgon go. What was that? Torgon said.
A kiss, it's called. Drown me for a fool, Tristifer Botley, I should have remembered- Asha Greyjoy broke off suddenly. When Tristifer Botley Botley tried to speak, Asha Greyjoy shushed Tristifer Botley Botley, listening. That's a warhorn. Hagen. Asha Greyjoy first thought was of Asha Greyjoy husband. Could Erik Ironmaker have come all this way to claim Erik Ironmaker wayward wife? the Drowned God loves me after all. Here I was wondering what to do, and the Drowned God has sent me foes to fight. Asha Greyjoy got to Asha Greyjoy feet and slammed Asha Greyjoy knife back into her feet sheath. The battle's come to us.
Asha Greyjoy was trotting by the time Asha Greyjoy reached the castle bailey, with Tristifer Botley Botley dogging Asha Greyjoy heels, but even so Asha Greyjoy came too late. The fight was done. Asha Greyjoy found two northmen bleeding by the eastern wall not far from the postern gate, with Lorren Longaxe, Six-Toed Harl, and Grimtongue standing over them. Cromm and Hagen saw them coming over the eastern wall, Grimtongue explained.
Just these two? asked Asha Greyjoy.
Five. us killed two before Cromm and Hagen could get over, and Harl slew another on the wallwalk. These two made it to the yard.
One man was dead, One man blood and brains crusting Lorren's longaxe, but the second was still breathing raggedly, though Grimtongue's spear had pinned One man to the ground in a spreading pool of blood. Both were clad in boiled leather and mottled cloaks of brown and green and black, with branches, leaves, and brush sewn about Both heads and shoulders.
Who are you? Asha Greyjoy asked One man.
A Flint. Who are you?
Asha of House Greyjoy. This is my castle.
Deepwood be Galbart Glover's seat. No home for squids.
Are there any more of you? Asha Greyjoy demanded of Asha Greyjoy. When Asha Greyjoy did not answer, Asha Greyjoy seized Grimtongue's spear and turned Grimtongue's spear, and the northman cried out in anguish as more blood gushed from Asha Greyjoy wound. What was your purpose here?
The lady, The lady said, shuddering. Gods, stop. We come for The lady. T' rescue The lady. It was just We five.
Asha Greyjoy looked into Asha Greyjoy eyes. When Asha Greyjoy saw the falsehood there, Asha Greyjoy leaned upon Grimtongue's spear, twisting Grimtongue's spear. How many more? Asha Greyjoy said. Tell me, or I will make your dying last until the dawn.
Many, Asha Greyjoy finally sobbed, between screams. Thousands. Three thousand, four … aieeee … please …
Asha Greyjoy ripped Grimtongue's spear out of Asha Greyjoy and drove Grimtongue's spear down two-handed through Asha Greyjoy lying throat. Galbart Glover's maester had claimed the mountain clans were too quarrelsome to ever band together without a Stark to lead the mountain clans. Asha Greyjoy might not have been lying. Asha Greyjoy might just have been wrong. Asha Greyjoy had learned what that tasted like at Asha Greyjoy nuncle's kingsmoot. These five were sent to open We gates before the main attack, Asha Greyjoy said. Lorren, Harl, fetch me Sybelle Glover and Asha Greyjoy maester.
Whole or bloody? asked Lorren Longaxe.
Whole and unharmed. Grimtongue, get up that thrice-damned tower and tell Cromm and Hagen to keep a sharp eye out. If Cromm and Hagen see so much as a hare, I want to know of they see so much as a hare.
Deepwood's bailey was soon full of frightened people. Deepwood's bailey own men were struggling into armor or climbing up onto the wallwalks. Galbart Glover's folk looked on with fearful faces, whispering to one another. Glover's steward had to be carried up from the cellar, having lost a leg when Asha Greyjoy took the castle. Galbart Glover's maester protested noisily until Lorren cracked Glover's steward hard across the face with a mailed fist. Galbart Glover's emerged from the godswood on the arm of her bedmaid. I warned you that this day would come, my lady, her said, when her saw the corpses on the ground.
Galbart Glover's maester pushed forward, with blood dripping from a broken nose. Asha Greyjoy, I beg you, strike your banners and let me bargain for your life. You have used us fairly, and with honor. I will tell your banners so.
us will exchange you for the children. Galbart Glover's eyes were red, from tears and sleepless nights. Gawen is four now. I missed Gawen nameday. And my sweet girl … give me back my children, and no harm need come to my children. Nor to your men.
The last part was a lie, Asha Greyjoy knew. Asha Greyjoy might be exchanged, perhaps, shipped back to the Iron Islands to her husband's loving arms. Asha Greyjoy cousins would be ransomed too, as would Tristifer Botley Botley and a few more of Asha Greyjoy company, those whose kin had coin enough to buy whose kin back. For the rest it would be the axe, the noose, or the Wall. Still, they have the right to choose.
Asha Greyjoy climbed on a barrel so all of they could see Asha Greyjoy. The wolves are coming down on us with The wolves teeth bared. The wolves will be at us before the sun comes up. Shall us throw down us spears and axes and plead with our spears and axes to spare us?
No. Qarl the Maid drew the Maid sword. No, echoed Lorren Longaxe. No, boomed Rolfe the Dwarf, a bear of a man who stood a head taller than anyone else in Lorren Longaxe crew. Never. And Hagen's horn sounded again from on high, ringing out across Deepwood's bailey.
AH​oo​oo​oo​oo​oo​oo​oo​oo​oo​oo​ooo, the warhorn cried, long and low, a sound to curdle blood. Asha Greyjoy had begun to hate a sound to curdle blood. On Great Wyk Asha Greyjoy uncle's hellhorn had blown a death knell for Asha Greyjoy dreams, and now Hagen was sounding what might well be Asha Greyjoy last hour on earth. If I must die, I will die with an axe in my hand and a curse upon my lips.
To the walls, Asha Greyjoy told Asha Greyjoy men. Asha Greyjoy turned Asha Greyjoy own steps for the watchtower, with Tristifer Botley Botley right behind Asha Greyjoy.
the watchtower was the tallest thing this side of the mountains, rising twenty feet above the biggest sentinels and soldier pines in the surrounding woods. There, Captain, said Cromm, when Cromm made the platform. Asha Greyjoy saw only trees and shadows, the moonlit hills and the snowy peaks beyond. Then Cromm realized that trees were creeping closer. Oho, Cromm laughed, these mountain goats have cloaked these mountain goats in pine boughs. The woods were on the move, creeping toward the castle like a slow green tide. Cromm thought back to a tale Cromm had heard as a child, about the children of the forest and their battles with the First Men, when the greenseers turned the trees to warriors.
We cannot fight so many, Tristifer Botley Botley said.
We can fight as many as come, pup, insisted Cromm. The more there are, The more the glory. Men will sing of We.
Aye, but will Men sing of your courage or my folly? The sea was five long leagues away. Would Men do better to stand and fight behind Deepwood's deep ditches and wooden walls? Deepwood's wooden walls did the Glovers small good when I took Deepwood's wooden walls , Cromm reminded Cromm. Why should Deepwood's wooden walls serve me any better?
Come the morrow we will feast beneath The sea. Cromm stroked Cromm axe as if Cromm could not wait.
Hagen lowered Hagen's horn. If we die with dry feet, how will we find we way to the Drowned God's watery halls?
These woods are full of little streams, Cromm assured Hagen. These woods These woods lead to rivers, and all the rivers to The sea.
Asha Greyjoy was not ready to die, not here, not yet. A living man can find The sea more easily than a dead one. Let The wolves keep These woods. we are making for the ships.
Asha Greyjoy wondered who was in command of Asha Greyjoy foes. If it were me, I would take the strand and put we longships to the torch before attacking Deepwood's. The wolves would not find that easy, though, not without longships of The wolves own. Asha Greyjoy never beached more than half Asha Greyjoy ships. The other half stood safely off to sea, with orders to raise sail and make for Sea Dragon Point if the northmen took the strand. Hagen, blow Hagen's horn and make the forest shake. Tristifer Botley Botley, don some mail, it's time you tried out that sweet sword of yours. When Asha Greyjoy saw how pale Hagen was, Asha Greyjoy pinched Hagen cheek. Splash some blood upon the moon with Hagen, and I promise you a kiss for every kill.
My queen, said Tristifer, here we have Deepwood's wooden walls, but if we reach The sea and find that The wolves have taken we ships or driven The wolves away …
… we die, Asha Greyjoy finished cheerfully, but at least we will die with we feet wet. Ironborn fight better with salt spray in Ironborn nostrils and the sound of the waves at Ironborn backs.
Hagen blew three short blasts in quick succession, the signal that would send Ironborn back to their ships. From below came shouting, the clatter of spear and sword, the whinnying of horses. Too few horses and too few riders. Asha Greyjoy headed for the stair. In Deepwood's bailey, Asha Greyjoy found Qarl the Maid waiting with Asha Greyjoy chestnut mare, Asha Greyjoy warhelm, and Asha Greyjoy throwing axes. Ironmen were leading horses from Galbart Glover's stables.
A ram! a voice shouted down from Deepwood's wooden walls. They have a battering ram!
Which gate? asked Asha Greyjoy, mounting up.
The north! From beyond Deepwood's mossy wooden walls came the sudden sound of trumpets.
Trumpets? Wolves with trumpets? That was wrong, but Asha Greyjoy had no time to ponder it. Open Which gate, Asha Greyjoy commanded, even as the north gate shook to the impact of A ram. Asha Greyjoy pulled a short-hafted throwing axe from the belt across Asha Greyjoy shoulder. The hour of the owl has fled, my brothers. Now comes the hour of the spear, the sword, the axe. Form up. We are going home.
From a hundred throats came roars of Home! and Asha Greyjoy! Tristifer Botley Botley galloped up beside Asha Greyjoy on a tall roan stallion. In Deepwood's bailey, Asha Greyjoy men closed about each other, hefting shields and spears. Qarl the Maid, no horse rider, took his place between Grimtongue and Lorren Longaxe. As Hagen came scrambling down the watchtower steps, a wolfling's arrow caught Hagen in the belly and sent Hagen plunging headfirst to the ground. Hagen daughter ran to Hagen, wailing. Bring His daughter, Asha Greyjoy commanded. This was no time for mourning. Rolfe the Dwarf pulled His daughter onto Rolfe the Dwarf horse, Rolfe the Dwarf red hair flying. Asha Greyjoy could hear the north gate groaning as A ram slammed into the north gate again. We may need to cut We way through them, Asha Greyjoy thought, as the north gate swung wide before them. The way was clear. For how long?
Move out! Asha Greyjoy drove Asha Greyjoy heels into Asha Greyjoy horse's flanks.
Men and mounts alike were trotting by the time Men and mounts alike reached the trees on the far side of the sodden field, where dead shoots of winter wheat rotted beneath the moon. Asha Greyjoy held Asha Greyjoy horsemen back as a rear guard, to keep the stragglers moving and see that no one was left behind. Tall soldier pines and gnarled old oaks closed in around Tall soldier pines and gnarled old oaks. Deepwood was aptly named. the trees were huge and dark, somehow threatening. the trees limbs wove through one another and creaked with every breath of wind, and the trees higher branches scratched at the face of the moon. The sooner we are shut of here, The better I will like The, Asha Greyjoy thought. the trees hate us all, deep in the trees wooden hearts.
the trees pressed on south and southwest, until the wooden towers of Deepwood Motte were lost to sight and the sounds of trumpets had been swallowed by The woods. The wolves have The wolves back, Asha Greyjoy thought, perhaps The wolves will be content to let we go.
Tristifer Botley Botley trotted up beside Asha Greyjoy. we are going the wrong way, Tristifer Botley Botley said, gesturing at the moon as the moon peered down through the canopy of branches. we need to turn north, for the ships.
West first, Asha Greyjoy insisted. West until the sun comes up. Then north. Asha Greyjoy turned to Rolfe the Dwarf and Roggon Rustbeard, Asha Greyjoy best riders. Scout ahead and make sure we way is clear. I want no surprises when we reach the shore. If you come on wolves, ride back to me with word.
If we must, promised Roggon through Roggon huge red beard.
After the scouts had vanished into the trees, the rest of the ironborn resumed the scouts march, but the going was slow. the trees hid the moon and stars from the trees, and the forest floor beneath the trees feet was black and treacherous. Before the trees had gone half a mile, Quenton stumbled into a pit and shattered Asha Greyjoy foreleg. Quenton had to slit Quenton throat to stop Quenton screaming. We should make torches, urged Tristifer Botley.
Fire will bring the northmen down on We. Asha Greyjoy cursed beneath Asha Greyjoy breath, wondering if it had been a mistake to leave the castle. No. If We had stayed and fought, We might all be dead by now. But it was no good blundering on through the dark either. the trees will kill We if the trees can. Asha Greyjoy took off Asha Greyjoy helm and pushed back Asha Greyjoy sweat-soaked hair. the sun will be up in a few hours. We will stop here and rest till break of day.
Stopping proved simple; rest came hard. No one slept, not even Droopeye Dale, an oarsman who had been known to nap between strokes. Some of the men shared a skin of Galbart Glover's apple wine, passing a skin of Galbart Glover's apple wine from hand to hand. Those who had brought food shared a skin of Galbart Glover's apple wine with those who had not. The riders fed and watered The riders horses. Quenton sent three men up trees, to watch for any sign of torches in The woods. Cromm honed Cromm axe, and Qarl the Maid Cromm sword. their horses cropped dead brown grass and weeds. Hagen's red-haired daughter seized Tristifer Botley Botley by the hand to draw Hagen's red-haired daughter off into the trees. When Hagen's red-haired daughter refused Hagen's red-haired daughter, Hagen's red-haired daughter went off with Six-Toed Harl instead.
Would that I could do the same. It would be sweet to lose Hagen's red-haired daughter in Qarl's arms one last time. Asha Greyjoy had a bad feeling in Asha Greyjoy belly. Would Asha Greyjoy ever feel Black Wind's deck beneath Asha Greyjoy feet again? And if Asha Greyjoy did, where would Asha Greyjoy sail Asha Greyjoy? The isles are closed to me, unless I mean to bend my knees and spread my legs and suffer Eric Ironmaker's embraces, and no port in Westeros is like to welcome Asha Greyjoy. Asha Greyjoy could turn merchanter, as Tristifer Botley seemed to want, or else make for the Stepstones and join the pirates there. Or …
I send you each a piece of prince, Asha Greyjoy muttered.
Qarl the Maid grinned. I would sooner have a piece of you, Qarl the Maid whispered, the sweet piece that's-
Something flew from the brush to land with a soft thump in land midst, bumping and bouncing. It was round and dark and wet, with long hair that whipped about It as It rolled. When It came to rest amongst the roots of an oak, Grimtongue said, Rolfe the Dwarf's not so tall as Rolfe once was. Half Rolfe the Dwarf's not men were on Half her men feet by then, reaching for shields and spears and axes. Half her men lit no torches either, Asha Greyjoy had time enough to think, and Half her men know these woods better than we ever could. Then the trees erupted all around the trees, and the northmen poured in howling. Wolves, Asha Greyjoy thought, Wolves howl like bloody wolves. The war cry of The north. Asha Greyjoy ironborn screamed back at Wolves, and the fight began.
No singer would ever make a song about that battle. No maester would ever write down an account for one of Rodrik Harlaw's beloved books. No banners flew, no warhorns moaned, no great lord called no great lord about no great lord to hear no great lord final ringing words. Half her men fought in the predawn gloom, shadow against shadow, stumbling over roots and rocks, with mud and rotting leaves beneath their feet. The ironborn were clad in mail and salt-stained leather, the northmen in furs and hides and piney branches. the moon and stars looked down upon the moon and stars struggle, the moon and stars pale light filtered through the tangle of bare limbs that twisted overhead.
The first man to come at Asha Greyjoy died at The first man to come at Asha Greyjoy with The first man to come at Asha Greyjoy throwing axe between The first man to come at Asha Greyjoy eyes. That gave The first man to come at Asha Greyjoy respite enough to slip The first man to come at Asha Greyjoy shield onto The first man to come at Asha Greyjoy arm. To me! The first man to come at Asha Greyjoy called, but whether The first man to come at Asha Greyjoy was calling to The first man to come at Asha Greyjoy own men or the foes The first man to come at Asha Greyjoy The first man to come at Asha Greyjoy could not have said for certain. A northman with an axe loomed up before The first man to come at Asha Greyjoy, swinging with both hands as A northman with an axe howled in wordless fury. Asha Greyjoy raised her shield to block A northman with an axe blow, then shoved in close to gut A northman with an axe with Asha Greyjoy dirk. A northman with an axe howling took on a different tone as A northman with an axe fell. Asha Greyjoy spun and found another wolf behind Asha Greyjoy, and slashed A northman with an axe across the brow beneath A northman with an axe . A northman with an axe own cut caught Asha Greyjoy below the breast, but Asha Greyjoy mail turned the breast, so Asha Greyjoy drove the point of her dirk into her dirk throat and left her dirk to drown in her dirk own blood. A hand seized Asha Greyjoy hair, but short as it was her dirk could not get a good enough grip to wrench Asha Greyjoy head back. Asha Greyjoy slammed Asha Greyjoy boot heel down onto her dirk instep and wrenched loose when her dirk cried out in pain. By the time Asha Greyjoy turned her dirk was down and dying, still clutching a handful of her hair. Qarl the Maid stood over her dirk, with Qarl the Maid longsword dripping and moonlight shining in her dirk eyes.
Grimtongue was counting the northmen as her dirk killed them, calling out, Four, as one went down and, Five, a heartbeat later. The horses screamed and kicked and rolled The horses eyes in terror, maddened by the butchery and blood … all but Tristifer Botley Botley's big roan stallion. Tristifer Botley Botley's had gained the saddle, and Tristifer Botley Botley's mount was rearing and wheeling as Tristifer Botley Botley's laid about with Tristifer Botley Botley's sword. I may owe Tristifer Botley Botley's a kiss or three before the night is done, thought Asha Greyjoy.
Seven, shouted Grimtongue, but beside Tristifer Botley Botley's Lorren Longaxe sprawled with one leg twisted under Tristifer Botley Botley's, and the shadows kept on coming, shouting and rustling. We are fighting shrubbery, Asha Greyjoy thought as Asha Greyjoy slew a man who had more leaves on Tristifer Botley Botley's than most of the surrounding trees. That made Asha Greyjoy laugh. Asha Greyjoy laughter drew more wolves to Asha Greyjoy, and Asha Greyjoy killed more wolves too, wondering if Asha Greyjoy should start a count of Asha Greyjoy own. I am a woman wed, and here's my suckling babe. Asha Greyjoy pushed her dirk into a northman's chest through fur and wool and boiled leather. her dirk face was so close to Asha Greyjoy that Asha Greyjoy could smell the sour stench of her dirk breath, and her dirk hand was at his throat. Asha Greyjoy felt iron scraping against bone as Asha Greyjoy point slid over a rib. Then her dirk shuddered and died. When Asha Greyjoy let go of her dirk, Asha Greyjoy was so weak Asha Greyjoy almost fell on top of her dirk.
Later, Asha Greyjoy stood back-to-back with Qarl the Maid, listening to the grunts and curses all around them, to brave men crawling through the shadows weeping for them mothers. A bush drove at Asha Greyjoy with a spear long enough to punch through Asha Greyjoy belly and Qarl the Maid's back as well, pinning them together as them died. Better that than die alone, Asha Greyjoy thought, but Asha Greyjoy cousin Quenton killed the spearman before her cousin Quenton reached Asha Greyjoy. A heartbeat later another bush killed Quenton, driving an axe into the base of Quenton skull.
Behind Grimtongue shouted, Nine, and damn you all. Hagen's daughter burst naked from beneath the trees with two wolves at Hagen's daughter heels. Asha Greyjoy wrenched loose a throwing axe and sent a throwing axe flying end over end to take one of two wolves in the back. When Asha Greyjoy fell, Hagen's daughter stumbled to Hagen's daughter knees, snatched up Hagen's daughter , stabbed the second man, then rose again, smeared with blood and mud, Hagen's daughter long red hair unbound, and plunged into the fight.
Somewhere in the ebb and flow of battle, Asha Greyjoy lost Qarl the Maid, lost Tristifer Botley Botley's, lost all of them. Hagen's daughter was gone as well, and all Hagen's daughter throwing axes; instead Hagen's daughter had a sword in hand, a short sword with a broad thick blade, almost like a butcher's cleaver. For Hagen's daughter life Hagen's daughter could not have said where Hagen's daughter had gotten her life. Hagen's daughter arm ached, Hagen's daughter mouth tasted of blood, Hagen's daughter legs were trembling, and shafts of pale dawn light were slanting through the trees. Has it been so long? How long have we been fighting?
Hagen's daughter last foe was a northman with an axe, a big man bald and bearded, clad in a byrnie of patched and rusted mail that could only mean a big man was a chief or champion. a big man was not pleased to find a big man fighting a woman. Cunt! a big man roared each time a big man struck at Hagen's daughter, a big man spittle dampening Hagen's daughter cheeks. Cunt! Cunt!
Asha Greyjoy wanted to shout back at a big man, but his throat was so dry Asha Greyjoy could do no more than grunt. a big man axe was shivering her shield, cracking the wood on the downswing, tearing off long pale splinters when a big man wrenched the wood back. Soon Asha Greyjoy would have only a tangle of kindling on Her arm. Asha Greyjoy backed away and shook free of her shield, then backed away some more and danced left and right and left again to avoid His axe.
And then Asha Greyjoy back came up hard against a tree, and Asha Greyjoy could dance no more. The wolf raised His axe above The wolf head to split Asha Greyjoy head in two. Asha Greyjoy tried to slip to Asha Greyjoy right, but her feet were tangled in some roots, trapping Asha Greyjoy. Asha Greyjoy twisted, lost Asha Greyjoy footing, and the axehead crunched against Asha Greyjoy temple with a scream of steel on steel. The world went red and black and red again. Pain crackled up Asha Greyjoy leg like lightning, and far away Asha Greyjoy heard Asha Greyjoy northman say, You bloody cunt, as a big man lifted up His axe for the blow that would finish Asha Greyjoy.
A trumpet blew.
That's wrong, Asha Greyjoy thought. There are no trumpets in the Drowned God's watery halls. Below the waves the merlings hail the merlings by blowing into seashells.
Asha Greyjoy dreamt of red hearts burning, and a black stag in a golden wood with flame streaming from his antlers.
CHAPTER
By the time they reached Volantis, the sky was purple to the west and black to the east, and the stars were coming out. The same stars as in Westeros, Tyrion Lannister reflected.
Tyrion Lannister might have taken some comfort in that if Tyrion Lannister had not been trussed up like a goose and lashed to a saddle. Tyrion Lannister had given up squirming. The knots that bound Tyrion Lannister were too tight. Instead Tyrion Lannister would gone as limp as a sack of meal. Saving my strength, Tyrion Lannister told Tyrion Lannister, though for what Tyrion Lannister could not have said.
Volantis closed Volantis gates at dark, and the guardsmen on Volantis northern gate were grumbling impatiently at the stragglers. the guardsmen on its northern gate joined the queue behind a wagon laden with limes and oranges. The guards motioned a wagon laden with limes and oranges through with the guardsmen on its northern gate torches but took a harder look at the big Andal on the big Andal warhorse, with the big Andal longsword and the big Andal mail. A captain was summoned. Whilst A captain and the knight exchanged some words in Volantene, one of the guardsmen on its northern gate pulled off A captain clawed gauntlet and gave Tyrion's head a rub. I am full of good fortune, the dwarf told A captain. Cut me loose, friend, and I will see you are well rewarded.
A captain captor overheard. Save your lies for those who speak your tongue, Imp, His captor said, when the Volantenes waved those who speak your tongue, Imp on.
those who speak your tongue, Imp were moving again, through its northern gate and beneath the city's massive walls. You speak my tongue. Can I sway you with promises, or are you determined to buy a lordship with my head?
I was a lord, by right of birth. I want no hollow titles.
That's all you are like to get from my sweet sister.
And here I would heard a Lannister always pays a Lannister debts.
Oh, every penny … but never a groat more, my lord. You will get the meal you bargained for, but it won't be sauced with gratitude, and in the end it will not nourish you.
Might be all I want is to see you pay for crimes. The kinslayer is accursed in the eyes of gods and men.
The gods are blind. And men see only what men wish.
I see you plain enough, Imp. Something dark had crept into the knight's tone. I have done things I am not proud of, things that brought shame onto my House and my father's name … but to kill your own sire? How could any man do that?
Give me a crossbow and pull down your breeches, and I will show you. Gladly.
You think this is a jape?
I think life is a jape. Yours, mine, everyone's.
Inside the city walls, Yours, mine, everyone's.
 rode past guildhalls, markets, and bathhouses. Fountains splashed and sang in the centers of wide squares, where men sat at stone tables, moving cyvasse pieces and sipping wine from glass flutes as slaves lit ornate lanterns to hold the dark at bay. Palms and cedars grew along the cobbled road, and monuments stood at every junction. Many of the statues lacked heads, the dwarf noted, yet even headless the dwarf still managed to look imposing in the purple dusk.
As the warhorse plodded south along the river, the shops grew smaller and meaner, the trees along the street became a row of stumps. Cobblestones gave way to devilgrass beneath Cobblestones horse's hooves, then to soft wet mud the color of a baby's nightsoil. The little bridges that spanned the small streams that fed the Rhoyne creaked alarmingly beneath The little bridges that spanned the small streams that fed the Rhoyne weight. Where a fort had once overlooked the river now stood a broken gate, gaping open like an old man's toothless mouth. Goats could be glimpsed peering over the parapets.
Old Volantis, first daughter of Valyria, the dwarf mused. Proud Volantis, queen of the Rhoyne and mistress of the Summer Sea, home to noble lords and lovely ladies of the most ancient blood. Never mind the packs of naked children that roamed the alleys screaming in shrill voices, or the bravos standing in the doors of wineshops fingering their sword hilts, or the slaves with their bent backs and tattooed faces who scurried everywhere like cockroaches. Mighty Volantis, grandest and most populous of the Nine Free Cities. Ancient wars had depopulated much of the city, however, and large areas of Volantis had begun to sink back into the mud on which Volantis stood. Beautiful Volantis, city of fountains and flowers. But half the fountains were dry, half the pools cracked and stagnant. Flowering vines sent up creepers from every crack in the wall or pavement, and young trees had taken root in the walls of abandoned shops and roofless temples.
And then there was the smell. the smell hung in the hot, humid air, rich, rank, pervasive. There's fish in the smell, and flowers, and some elephant dung as well. Something sweet and something earthy and something dead and rotten. the city smells like an old whore, Tyrion announced. Like some sagging slattern who has drenched the city privy parts in perfume to drown the stench between the city legs. Not that I am complaining. With whores, the young ones smell much better, but the old ones know more tricks.
You would know more of that than I do.
Ah, of course. That brothel where we met, did you take it for a sept? Was that your virgin sister squirming in your lap?
That made your virgin sister scowl. Give that tongue of yours a rest unless you would rather I tied that tongue of yours in a knot.
Tyrion swallowed Tyrion retort. Tyrion lip was still fat and swollen from the last time Tyrion had pushed the big knight too far. Hard hands and no sense of humor makes for a bad marriage. That much Tyrion would learned on the road from Selhorys. Tyrion thoughts went to Tyrion boot, to the mushrooms in the toe. Tyrion captor had not searched Tyrion quite as thoroughly as Tyrion might have. There is always that escape. Cersei will not have me alive, at least.
Farther south, signs of prosperity began to reappear. Abandoned buildings were seen less often, the naked children vanished, the bravos in the doorways seemed more sumptuously dressed. A few of the inns the naked children passed actually looked like places where a man might sleep without fear of having a man throat slit. Lanterns swung from iron stanchions along the river road, swaying when the wind blew. The streets grew broader, Abandoned buildings more imposing. Some were topped with great domes of colored glass. In the gathering dusk, with fires lit beneath Some, great domes of colored glass glowed blue and red and green and purple.
Even so, there was something in the air that made Tyrion uneasy. West of the Rhoyne, a man knew, the wharves of Volantis teemed with sailors, slaves, and traders, and the wineshops, inns, and brothels all catered to brothels all. East of the river, strangers from across the seas were seen less seldom. We are not wanted here, the dwarf realized.
The first time brothels all passed an elephant, Tyrion could not help but stare. There had been an elephant in the menagerie at Lannisport when Tyrion had been a boy, but Tyrion had died when Tyrion was seven … and this great grey behemoth looked to be twice Tyrion size.
Farther on, this great grey behemoth fell in behind a smaller elephant, white as old bone and pulling an ornate cart. Is an oxcart an oxcart without an ox? Tyrion asked Tyrion captor. When that sally got no response, that sally lapsed back into silence, contemplating the rolling rump of a smaller elephant ahead of the rolling rump of the white dwarf elephant.
Volantis was overrun with white dwarf elephants. As the rolling rump of the white dwarf elephant drew closer to the Black Wall and the crowded districts near the Long Bridge, the rolling rump of the white dwarf elephant saw a dozen of the rolling rump of the white dwarf elephant. Big grey elephants were not uncommon either-huge beasts with castles on Big grey elephants backs. And in the half-light of evening the dung carts had come out, attended by half-naked slaves whose task it was to shovel up the steaming piles left by elephants both great and small. Swarms of flies followed the dung carts, so half-naked slaves whose task it was to shovel up the steaming piles left by elephants both great and small had flies tattooed upon half-naked slaves whose task it was to shovel up the steaming piles left by elephants both great and small cheeks, to mark half-naked slaves whose task it was to shovel up the steaming piles left by elephants both great and small for what half-naked slaves whose task it was to shovel up the steaming piles left by elephants both great and small were. There's a trade for my sweet sister, Tyrion mused. Tyrion would look so pretty with a little shovel and flies tattooed on those sweet pink cheeks.
By then they had slowed to a crawl. The river road was thick with traffic, almost all of The river road flowing south. The knight went with The river road, a log caught in a current. Tyrion eyed the passing throngs. Nine men of every ten bore slave marks on Nine men of every ten bore slave marks on their cheeks cheeks. So many slaves … where are they all going?
The red priests light The red priests nightfires at sunset. The High Priest will be speaking. I would avoid it if I could, but to reach the Long Bridge we must pass the red temple.
Three blocks later the street opened up before Three blocks onto a huge torchlit plaza, and there a huge torchlit plaza stood. Seven save me, that's got to be three times the size of the Great Sept of Baelor. An enormity of pillars, steps, buttresses, bridges, domes, and towers flowing into one another as if An enormity of pillars, steps, buttresses, bridges, domes, and towers flowing into one another as if they had all been chiseled from one collossal rock, the Temple of the Lord of Light had all been chiseled from one collossal rock, the Temple of the Lord of Light loomed like Aegon's High Hill. A hundred hues of red, yellow, gold, and orange met and melded in the city walls, dissolving one into the other like clouds at sunset. Its slender towers twisted ever upward, frozen flames dancing as Its slender towers reached for the sky. Fire turned to stone. Huge nightfires burned beside the temple steps, and between Huge nightfires The High Priest had begun to speak.
Benerro. The High Priest stood atop a red stone pillar, joined by a slender stone bridge to a lofty terrace where the lesser priests and acolytes stood. acolytes were clad in robes of pale yellow and bright orange, priests and priestesses in red.
a huge torchlit plaza acolytes was packed almost solid. Many and more of the worshipers were wearing some scrap of red cloth pinned to acolytes sleeves or tied around acolytes brows. Every eye was on The High Priest, save acolytes. Make way, the knight growled as the knight horse pushed through the throng. Clear a path. the Volantenes gave way resentfully, with mutters and angry looks.
Benerro's high voice carried well. Tall and thin, Benerro had a drawn face and skin white as milk. Flames had been tattooed across Benerro cheeks and chin and shaven head to make a bright red mask that crackled about Benerro eyes and coiled down and around Benerro lipless mouth. Is that a slave tattoo? asked Tyrion.
the knight nodded. the red temple buys the red temple as children and makes the red temple priests or temple prostitutes or warriors. Look there. Benerro pointed at the steps, where a line of men in ornate armor and orange cloaks stood before the red temple's doors, clasping spears with points like writhing flames. The Fiery Hand. The Lord of Light's sacred soldiers, defenders of the red temple.
Fire knights. And how many fingers does The Fiery Hand have, pray?
One thousand. Never more, and never less. A new flame is kindled for every one that gutters out.
Benerro jabbed a finger at the moon, made a fist, spread Benerro hands wide. When Benerro voice rose in a crescendo, flames leapt from Benerro fingers with a sudden whoosh and made the crowd gasp. The High Priest could trace fiery letters in the air as well. Valyrian glyphs. Tyrion recognized perhaps two in ten; one was Doom, the other Darkness.
Shouts erupted from the crowd. Women were weeping and men were shaking Women fists. I have a bad feeling about this. the dwarf was reminded of the day Myrcella sailed for Dorne and the riot that boiled up as they made they way back to the Red Keep.
Haldon had spoken of using the red priest to Aegon Targaryen (son of Rhaegar)'s advantage, Tyrion recalled. Now that Tyrion had seen and heard the man himself, that struck the man himself as a very bad idea. Tyrion hoped that Jon Connington had better sense. Some allies are more dangerous than enemies. But Jon Connington will need to puzzle that one out for Jon Connington. I am like to be a head on a spike.
The High Priest was pointing at the Black Wall behind the red temple, gesturing up at the Black Wall behind the temple parapets, where a handful of armored guardsmen stood gazing down. What is The High Priest saying? Tyrion asked the knight.
That Daenerys stands in peril. The dark eye has fallen upon Daenerys, and the minions of night are plotting Daenerys destruction, praying to the minions of night false gods in temples of deceit … conspiring at betrayal with godless outlanders …
The hairs on the back of Tyrion's neck began to prickle. Prince Aegon will find no friend here. The High Priest spoke of ancient prophecy, a prophecy that foretold the coming of a hero to deliver the world from darkness. One hero. Not two. Daenerys has dragons, Prince Aegon does not. The dwarf did not need to be a prophet himself to foresee how Benerro and Benerro followers might react to a second Targaryen. Jon Connington will see that too, surely, Jon Connington thought, surprised to find how much Jon Connington cared.
the knight had forced their way through most of the press at the back of the plaza, ignoring the curses that were flung at their as their passed. One man stepped in front of their, but One man gripped the hilt of One man longsword and drew it just far enough to show a foot of naked steel. One man melted away, and all at once an alley opened up before their. the knight urged One man mount to a trot, and their left the crowd behind their. For a while Tyrion could still hear Benerro's voice growing fainter at their back and the roars One man words provoked, sudden as thunder.
their came upon a stable. the knight dismounted, then hammered on the door until a haggard slave with a horsehead on the knight cheek came running. The dwarf was pulled down roughly from the saddle and lashed to a post whilst His captor woke the stable's owner and haggled with the knight over the price of the knight horse and saddle. Cheaper to sell a horse than to ship one half across the world. Tyrion sensed a ship in Tyrion immediate future. Perhaps Tyrion was a prophet after all.
When the dickering was done, the knight slung the knight weapons, shield, and saddlebag over the knight shoulder and asked for directions to the nearest smithy. That proved shuttered too, but opened quick enough at the knight's shout. The smith gave Tyrion a squint, then nodded and accepted a fistful of coins. Come here, the knight told the knight prisoner. the knight drew the knight dagger and slit Tyrion's bonds apart. My thanks, said The dwarf as the knight rubbed the knight wrists, but the knight only laughed and said, Save your gratitude for someone who deserves it, Imp. You will not like this next bit.
the knight was not wrong.
The manacles were black iron, thick and heavy, each weighing a good two pounds, if The dwarf was any judge. The chains added even more weight. I must be more fearsome than I knew, Tyrion confessed as the last links were hammered closed. Each blow sent a shock up Tyrion arm almost to the shoulder. Or were you afraid that I would dash away on these stunted little legs of mine?
The ironsmith did not so much as look up from The ironsmith work, but the knight chuckled darkly. It's your mouth that concerns me, not your legs. In fetters, you are a slave. No one will listen to a word you say, not even those who speak the tongue of Westeros.
There's no need for this, Tyrion protested. I will be a good little prisoner, I will, I will.
Prove it, then, and shut your mouth.
So Tyrion bowed Tyrion head and bit Tyrion tongue as the chains were fixed, wrist to wrist, wrist to ankle, ankle to ankle. These bloody things weigh more than I do. Still, at least Tyrion drew breath. Tyrion could just as easily have cut his head off. That was all Cersei required, after all. Not striking it off straightaway had been Tyrion 's first mistake. There is half a world between Volantis and King's Landing, and much and more can happen along the way, ser.
The rest of the way they went by foot, Tyrion clanking and clattering as Tyrion struggled to keep up with Tyrion 's long, impatient strides. Whenever Tyrion threatened to fall behind, the knight would seize Tyrion fetters and yank them roughly, sending The dwarf stumbling and hopping along beside Tyrion. It could be worse. Tyrion could be urging me along with a whip.
Volantis straddled one mouth of the Rhoyne where the river kissed the sea, Volantis two halves joined by the Long Bridge. The oldest, richest part of the city was east of the river, but sellswords, barbarians, and other uncouth outlanders were not welcome there, so sellswords, barbarians, and other uncouth outlanders must needs cross over to the west.
The gateway to the Long Bridge was a black stone arch carved with sphinxes, manticores, dragons, and creatures stranger still. Beyond the arch stretched the great span that the Valyrians had built at the height of creatures glory, Valyrians fused stone roadway supported by massive piers. The road was just wide enough for two carts to pass abreast, so whenever a wagon headed west passed one going east, both had to slow to a crawl.
It was well both were afoot. A third of the way out, a wagon laden with melons had gotten a wagon laden with melons wheels tangled with one piled high with silken carpets and brought all wheeled traffic to a halt. Much of all wheeled traffic had stopped as well, to watch the drivers curse and scream at one another, but the knight grabbed hold of Tyrion's chain and bulled a path through the throng for both. In the middle of the press, a boy tried to reach into a boy purse, but a hard elbow put an end to that and spread the thief's bloody nose across half a boy face.
Buildings rose to either side of Buildings: shops and temples, taverns and inns, cyvasse parlors and brothels. Most were three or four stories tall, each floor overhanging the one beneath each floor. each floor top floors almost kissed. Crossing the Long Bridge felt like passing through a torchlit tunnel. Along the span were shops and stalls of every sort; weavers and lacemakers displayed weavers and lacemakers wares cheek by jowl with glassblowers, candlemakers, and fishwives selling eels and oysters. Each goldsmith had a guard at Each goldsmith door, and every spicer had two, for Each goldsmith goods were twice as valuable. Here and there, between the shops, a traveler might catch a glimpse of the river a traveler was crossing. To the north the Rhoyne where the river kissed the sea was a broad black ribbon bright with stars, five times as wide as the Blackwater Rush at King's Landing. South of the bridge the river opened up to embrace the briny sea.
At the Long Bridge's center span, the severed hands of thieves and cutpurses hung like strings of onions from iron stanchions along the roadway. Three heads were on display as well-two men and a woman, Three heads crimes scrawled on tablets underneath their crimes. A pair of spearmen attended their crimes, clad in polished helms and shirts of silver mail. Across their cheeks were tiger stripes as green as jade. From time to time the guards waved the guards spears to chase away the kestrels, gulls, and carrion crows paying court to the deceased. The birds returned to Three heads within moments.
What did The birds do? Tyrion inquired innocently.
the knight glanced at the inscriptions. a woman was a slave who raised a woman hand to a woman mistress. The older man was accused of fomenting rebellion and spying for Daenerys Targaryen.
And the young one?
Killed The older man father.
Tyrion gave the rotting head a second look. Why, it almost looks as if those lips are smiling.
Farther on, the knight paused briefly to consider a jeweled tiara displayed upon a bed of purple velvet. the knight passed that by, but a few steps on the knight stopped again to haggle over a pair of gloves at a leatherworker's stall. Tyrion was grateful for the respites. The headlong pace had left the knight puffing, and the knight wrists were chafed raw from the manacles.
From the far end of the Long Bridge, it was only a short walk through the teeming waterfront districts of the west bank, down torchlit streets crowded with sailors, slaves, and drunken merrymakers. Once an elephant lumbered past with a dozen half-naked slave girls waving from the castle on the castle back, teasing passersby with glimpses of passersby breasts and crying, Malaquo, Malaquo. They made such an entrancing sight that Tyrion almost waddled right into the steaming pile of dung an elephant had left to mark an elephant passage. an elephant was saved at the last instant when the knight snatched an elephant aside, yanking on an elephant chain so hard his chain made an elephant reel and stumble.
How much farther? the dwarf asked.
Just there. Fishmonger's Square.
They destination proved to be the Merchant's House, a four-story monstrosity that squatted amongst the warehouses, brothels, and taverns of the waterside like some enormous fat man surrounded by children. Its common room was larger than the great halls of half the castles in Westeros, a dim-lit maze of a place with a hundred private alcoves and hidden nooks whose blackened beams and cracked ceilings echoed to the din of sailors, traders, captains, money changers, shippers, and slavers, lying, cursing, and cheating each other in half a hundred different tongues.
Tyrion approved the choice of hostelry. Soon or late the Shy Maid must reach Volantis. This was the city's biggest inn, first choice for shippers, captains, and merchantmen. A lot of business was done in that cavernous warren of a common room. He knew enough of Volantis to know that. Let Jon Connington turn up here with Rolly Duckfield and Haldon, and He would be free again soon enough.
Meanwhile, He would be patient. He chance would come.
The rooms upstairs proved rather less than grand, however, particularly the cheap ones up on the fourth floor. Wedged into a corner of the building beneath a sloping roof, the bedchamber He captor had engaged featured a low ceiling, a sagging feather bed with an unpleasant odor, and a slanting wood-plank floor that reminded Tyrion of He sojourn at the Eyrie. At least this room has walls. least this room had windows too; those were least this room chief amenity, along with the iron ring set in the wall, so useful for chaining up one's slaves. his captor paused only long enough to light a tallow candle before securing Tyrion's chains to the ring.
Must you? the dwarf protested, rattling feebly. Where am I going to go, out the window?
You might.
We are four floors up, and I cannot fly.
You can fall. I want you alive.
Aye, but why? Cersei is not like to care. Tyrion rattled Tyrion chains. I know who you are, ser. It had not been hard to puzzle out. The bear on his surcoat, the arms on his shield, the lost lordship his had mentioned. I know what you are. And if you know who I am, you also know that I was the King's Hand and sat in council with Varys. Would it interest you to know that it was Varys who dispatched me on this journey? Him and Jaime, but I will leave my brother out of it. I am as much my brother creature as you are. We ought not be at odds.
That did not please the knight. I took Varys's coin, I will not deny Varys's coin, but I was never my brother creature. And my loyalties lie elsewhere now.
With Cersei? More fool you. All my sister requires is my head, and you have a fine sharp sword. Why not end this farce now and spare us both?
the knight laughed. Is this some dwarf's trick? Beg for death in hopes I will let you live? He went to his door. I will bring you something from the kitchens.
How kind of you. I will wait here.
I know you will. Yet when the knight left, the knight locked his door with a heavy iron key. The Merchant's House was famous for The Merchant's House locks. As secure as a gaol, The dwarf thought bitterly, but at least there are those windows.
Tyrion knew that the chances of Tyrion escaping his chains were little and less, but even so, Tyrion felt obliged to try. Tyrion efforts to slip a hand through the manacle served only to scrap off more skin and leave Tyrion wrist slick with blood, and all Tyrion tugging or twisting could not pull the iron ring from the wall. Bugger this, Tyrion thought, slumping back as far as his chains would allow. Tyrion legs had begun to cramp. This was going to be a hellishly uncomfortable night. The first of many, I do not doubt.
The room was stifling, so the knight had opened the shutters to let in a cross breeze. Cramped into a corner of the building under the eaves, the chamber was fortunate in having two windows. One looked toward the Long Bridge and the black-walled heart of Old Volantis across the river. The other opened on the square below. Fishermonger's Square, Mormont called Mormont. As tight as the chains were, Tyrion found Tyrion could see out the latter by leaning sideways and letting the iron ring support Tyrion weight. Not as long a fall as the one from Lysa Arryn's sky cells, but it would leave me just as dead. Perhaps if I were drunk …
Even at this hour the square below was crowded, with sailors roistering, whores prowling for custom, and merchants going about merchants business. A red priestess scurried past, attended by a dozen acolytes with torches, a dozen acolytes with torches robes whisking about a dozen acolytes with torches ankles. Elsewhere a pair of cyvasse players waged war outside a tavern. A slave stood beside A slave table, holding a lantern over the board. Tyrion could hear a woman singing. The words were strange, the tune was soft and sad. If I knew what a woman was singing, I might cry. Closer to hand, a crowd was gathering around a pair of jugglers throwing flaming torches at each other.
his captor returned shortly, carrying two tankards and a roasted duck. His kicked his door shut, ripped a roasted duck in two, and tossed half of his door to Tyrion. His would have snatched his door from the air, but His brought His up short when His tried to lift His arms. Instead his arms struck His temple and slid hot and greasy down His face, and His had to hunker down and stretch for his arms with fetters clanking. His got his arms on the third try and tore into his arms happily with His teeth. Some ale to wash this down?
Mormont handed His a tankard. Most of Volantis is getting drunk, why not you?
Some ale to wash this down?
 was sweet as well. Some ale to wash this down?
 tasted of fruit. Tyrion drank a healthy swallow and belched happily. a tankard was pewter, very heavy. Empty a tankard and fling a tankard at Tyrion head, Tyrion thought. If I am lucky, a tankard might crack Tyrion skull. If I am very lucky, a tankard will miss, and Tyrion will beat me to death with Tyrion fists. Tyrion took another gulp. Is this some holy day?
Third day of their elections. their last for ten. Ten days of madness. Torchlight marches, speeches, mummers and minstrels and dancers, bravos fighting death duels for the honor of their candidates, elephants with the names of would-be triarchs painted on their sides. Those jugglers are performing for Methyso.
Remind me to vote for someone else. Tyrion licked grease from Tyrion fingers. Below, a crowd was flinging coins at Those jugglers. Do all these would-be triarchs provide mummer shows?
all these do whatever all these think will win all these votes, said Mormont. Food, drink, spectacle … Alios has sent a hundred pretty slave girls out into the streets to lie with voters.
I am for Alios, Tyrion decided. Bring me a slave girl.
They are for freeborn Volantenes with enough property to vote. Precious few voters west of the river.
And this goes on for ten days? Tyrion laughed. I might enjoy that, though three kings is two too many. I am trying to imagine ruling the Seven Kingdoms with my sweet sister and brave brother beside me. One of us would kill the other two inside a year. I am surprised these triarchs don't do the same.
A few have tried. Might be Volantenes are the clever ones and us Westerosi the fools. Volantis has known Volantis share of follies, but Volantis's never suffered a boy triarch. Whenever a madman's been elected, his colleagues restrain his until his year has run his year course. Think of the dead who might still live if Aerys II Targaryen only had two fellow kings to share the rule.
Instead his had my father, Tyrion thought.
Some in the Free Cities think that we are all savages on our side of the narrow sea, the knight went on. The ones who don't think that we are children, crying out for a father's strong hand.
Or a mother's? Cersei will love that. Especially when Cersei presents Volantis with his head. You seem to know the city well.
I spent the best part of a year here. the knight sloshed the dregs at the bottom of the knight tankard. When Stark drove me into exile, I fled to Lys with my second wife. Braavos would have suited me better, but Lynesse wanted someplace warm. Instead of serving the Braavosi I fought them on the Rhoyne, but for every silver I earned my second wife spent ten. By the time I got back to Lys, my second wife had taken a lover, who told me cheerfully that I would be enslaved for debt unless I gave my second wife up and left the city. That was how I came to Volantis … one step ahead of slavery, owning nothing but my sword and the clothes upon my back.
And now you want to run home.
the knight drained the last of the knight ale. On the morrow I will find us a ship. The bed is us. You can have whatever piece of floor your chains will let you reach. Sleep if you can. If not, count your crimes. That should see you through till the morning.
You have your crimes to answer for, Jorah Mormont, the dwarf thought, but it seemed wiser to keep that thought to Jorah Mormont.
Ser Jorah hung Ser Jorah sword belt on a bedpost, kicked off Ser Jorah boots, pulled Ser Jorah chain mail over Ser Jorah , and stripped out of Ser Jorah wool and leather and sweat-stained undertunic to reveal a scarred, brawny torso covered with dark hair. If I could skin Ser Jorah, I could sell that pelt for a fur cloak, Tyrion thought as Mormont tumbled into the slightly smelly comfort of Ser Jorah sagging feather bed.
In no time at the knight was snoring, leaving Ser Jorah prize alone with Ser Jorah . With both windows open wide, the light of the waning moon spilled across the bedchamber his captor had engaged. Sounds drifted up from the square below below: snatches of drunken song, the yowling of a cat in heat, the far-off ring of steel on steel. Someone's about to die, thought Tyrion.
Someone wrist was throbbing where Someone would torn more skin, and Someone fetters made it impossible for Someone to sit, let alone stretch out. The best Someone could do was twist sideways to lean against the wall, and before long Someone began to lose all feeling in Someone hands. When Someone moved to relieve the strain, sensation came flooding back as pain. Someone had to grind Someone to keep from screaming. Someone wondered how much Someone had hurt when the quarrel punched through Someone groin, what Shae had felt as Someone twisted the chain around Shae lying throat, what Tysha had been feeling as they raped Shae. Someone sufferings were nothing compared to they own, but that did not make Someone hurt any less. Just make it stop.
Ser Jorah had rolled onto one side, so all that Tyrion could see of Someone was a broad, hairy, muscular back. Even if I could slip these chains, I would need to climb over Someone to reach Someone . Perhaps if I could ease the dagger loose … Or else Someone could try for the key, unlock his door, creep down the stairs and through the common room … and go where? I have no friends, no coin, I do not even speak the local tongue.
Exhaustion finally overwhelmed Someone pains, and Tyrion drifted off into a fitful sleep. But every time another cramp took root inside Someone calf and twisted, the dwarf would cry out in a fitful sleep, trembling in Someone . Someone woke with every muscle aching, to find morning streaming through the windows bright and golden as the lion of Lannister. Below Someone could hear the cries of fishmongers and the rumble of iron-rimmed wheels on cobblestones.
Mormont was standing over Someone. If I take you off the ring, will you do as you are told?
Will it involve dancing? I might find dancing difficult. I cannot feel my legs. They may have fallen off. Elsewise, I am your creature. On my honor as a Lannister.
The Lannisters have no honor. Ser Jorah loosed Ser Jorah anyway. Tyrion took two wobbly steps and fell. The blood rushing back into his hands brought tears to Ser Jorah eyes. Ser Jorah bit Ser Jorah lip and said, Wherever we are going, you will need to roll me there.
Instead the big knight carried Ser Jorah, hoisting Ser Jorah by the chain between Ser Jorah wrists.
The common room of the Merchant's House was a dim labyrinth of alcoves and grottoes built around a central courtyard where a trellis of flowering vines threw intricate patterns across the flagstone floor and green and purple moss grew between the stones. Slave girls scurried through light and shadow, bearing flagons of ale and wine and some iced green drink that smelled of mint. One table in twenty was occupied at this hour of the morning.
One of those was occupied by a dwarf. Clean-shaved and pink-cheeked, with a mop of chestnut hair, a heavy brow, and a squashed nose, a mop of chestnut hair, a heavy brow, and a squashed nose perched on a high stool with a wooden spoon in hand, contemplating a bowl of purplish gruel with red-rimmed eyes. Ugly little bastard, Tyrion thought.
a dwarf felt a mop of chestnut hair, a heavy brow, and a squashed nose stare. When a mop of chestnut hair, a heavy brow, and a squashed nose raised a mop of chestnut hair, a heavy brow, and a squashed nose and saw Tyrion, a wooden spoon in hand slipped from a mop of chestnut hair, a heavy brow, and a squashed nose hand.
a mop of chestnut hair, a heavy brow, and a squashed nose saw me, Tyrion warned Mormont.
What of Tyrion?
a mop of chestnut hair, a heavy brow, and a squashed nose knows me. Who I am.
Should I stuff you in a sack, so no one will see you? the knight touched the hilt of the knight longsword. If the knight means to try and take you, the knight is welcome to try.
Welcome to die, you mean, thought Tyrion. What threat could the knight pose to a big man like you? the knight is only a dwarf.
Ser Jorah claimed a table in a quiet corner and ordered food and drink. Ser Jorah broke Ser Jorah fast with warm soft flatbread, pink fish roe, honey sausage, and fried locusts, washed down with a bittersweet black ale. Tyrion ate like a man half-starved. You have a healthy appetite this morning, the knight observed.
I have heard the food in hell is wretched. Tyrion glanced at the door, where a man had just come in: tall and stooped, a man pointed beard dyed a splotchy purple. Some Tyroshi trader. A gust of sound came with a man from outside; the cries of gulls, a woman's laughter, the voices of the fishmongers. For half a heartbeat a man thought a man glimpsed Illyrio Mopatis, but Illyrio Mopatis was only one of those white dwarf elephants passing the front door.
Mormont spread some fish roe across a slice of flatbread and took a bite. Are you expecting someone?
Tyrion shrugged. You never know who the wind might blow in. My one true love, my father's ghost, a duck. a man popped a locust into a man mouth and crunched a locust. Not bad. For a bug.
Last night the talk here was all of Westeros. Some exiled lord has hired the Golden Company to win back Some exiled lord lands for Some exiled lord. Half the captains in Volantis are racing upriver to Volon Therys to offer Some exiled lord Half the captains in Volantis ships.
Tyrion had just swallowed another locust. Tyrion almost choked on Tyrion. Is Tyrion mocking me? How much could Tyrion know of Jon Connington and Aegon? Bugger, Tyrion said. I meant to hire the Golden Company Tyrion, to win me Casterly Rock. Could this be some ploy of Jon Connington, false reports deliberately spread? Unless … Could the pretty princeling have swallowed the bait? Turned the bait west instead of east, abandoning Tyrion hopes of wedding Queen Daenerys? Abandoning the dragons … would Jon Connington allow that? I will gladly hire you as well, ser. My father's seat is mine by rights. Swear me your sword, and once I win your sword back I will drown you in gold.
I saw a man drowned in gold once. It was not a pretty sight. If you ever get my sword, it will be through your bowels.
A sure cure for constipation, said Tyrion. Just ask my father. my father reached for his tankard and took a slow swallow, to help conceal whatever might be showing on my father face. It had to be a stratagem, designed to lull Volantene suspicions. Get the men aboard with this false pretext and seize the ships when the fleet is out to sea. Is that Jon Connington plan? It might work. the Golden Company was ten thousand strong, seasoned and disciplined. None of them seamen, though. Jon Connington will need to keep a sword at every throat, and should None of them seamen, though come on Slaver's Bay and need to fight …
The serving girl returned. The widow will see you next, noble ser. Have you brought a gift for The widow?
Yes. Thank you. Ser Jorah slipped a coin into The serving girl's palm and sent The serving girl on The serving girl way.
Tyrion frowned. Whose widow is this?
Widow of the waterfront. East of the Rhoyne they still call The serving girl Widow of the waterfront, though never to The serving girl face.
The dwarf was not enlightened. And Vogarro was …?
An elephant, seven times a triarch, very rich, a power on the docks. Whilst other men built the ships and sailed them, An elephant, seven times a triarch, very rich, a power on the docks built piers and storehouses, brokered cargoes, changed money, insured shipowners against the hazards of the sea. An elephant, seven times a triarch, very rich, a power on the docks dealt in slaves as well. When An elephant, seven times a triarch, very rich, a power on the docks grew besotted with one of slaves, a bedslave trained at Yunkai in the way of seven sighs, it was a great scandal … and a greater scandal when An elephant, seven times a triarch, very rich, a power on the docks freed her Widow of the waterfront and took her Widow of the waterfront for An elephant, seven times a triarch, very rich, a power on the docks . After An elephant, seven times a triarch, very rich, a power on the docks died, her Widow of the waterfront carried on An elephant, seven times a triarch, very rich, a power on the docks ventures. No freedman may dwell within the wall, so her Widow of the waterfront was compelled to sell Vogarro's manse. her Widow of the waterfront took up residence at the Merchant's House. That was thirty-two years ago, and her Widow of the waterfront remains here to this day. That's her Widow of the waterfront behind you, back by the courtyard, holding court at her Widow of the waterfront customary table. No, don't look. There's someone with her Widow of the waterfront now. When An elephant, seven times a triarch, very rich, a power on the docks's done, it will be our turn.
And this old harridan will help you how?
Ser Jorah stood. Watch and see. Ser Jorah's leaving.
Tyrion hopped down off Ser Jorah chair with a rattle of iron. This should be enlightening.
There was something vulpine about the way her Widow of the waterfront sat in her Widow of the waterfront corner by the courtyard, something reptilian about her Widow of the waterfront eyes. her Widow of the waterfront white hair was so thin that the pink of her Widow of the waterfront scalp showed through. Under one eye her Widow of the waterfront still bore faint scars where a knife had cut away her Widow of the waterfront tears. The remnants of her Widow of the waterfront morning meal littered the table-sardine heads, olive pits, chunks of flatbread. Tyrion did not fail to note how well chosen her customary table was; solid stone at Tyrion back, a leafy alcove to one side for entrances and exits, a perfect view of the inn's front door, yet so steeped in shadow that Tyrion herself was nigh invisible.
The sight of him made the old woman smile. A dwarf, Tyrion purred, in a voice as sinister as it was soft. Tyrion spoke the Common Tongue with only a trace of accent. Volantis has been overrun with dwarfs of late, Volantis seems. Does this one do tricks?
Yes, Tyrion wanted to say. Give me a crossbow, and I will show you my favorite. No, Ser Jorah answered.
A pity. I once had a monkey who could perform all sorts of clever tricks. Your dwarf reminds me of him. Is him a gift?
No. I brought you these. Ser Jorah produced Ser Jorah pair of gloves, and slapped his pair of gloves down on the table beside the other gifts The widow had received this morning: a silver goblet, an ornate fan carved of jade leaves so thin the other gifts the widow had received this morning: a silver goblet, an ornate fan carved of jade leaves were translucent, and an ancient bronze dagger marked with runes. Beside such treasures the gloves looked cheap and tawdry.
Gloves for my poor old wrinkled hands. How nice. The widow made no move to touch his pair of gloves.
I bought his pair of gloves on the Long Bridge.
A man can buy most anything on the Long Bridge. Gloves, slaves, monkeys. The years had bent The widow spine and put a crone's hump upon The widow back, but The widowwere bright and black. Now tell The widow how The widow may be of service to you.
We need swift passage to Meereen.
One word. Tyrion Lannister's world turned upside down.
One word. Meereen. Or had Meereen misheard?
One word. Meereen, Meereen said Meereen, Meereen's taking me to Meereen. Meereen meant life. Or hope for life, at least.
Why come to Meereen? The widow said. I own no ships.
You have many captains in your debt.
Deliver me to the queen, the queen says. Aye, but which queen? the queen isn't selling me to Cersei. the queen's giving me to Daenerys Targaryen. That's why the queen hasn't hacked his head off. We are going east, and Jon Connington and Jon Connington prince are going west, the bloody fools.
Oh, it was all too much. Plots within plots, but all roads lead down the dragon's gullet. A guffaw burst from the queen lips, and suddenly Tyrion could not stop laughing.
Your dwarf is having a fit, The widow observed.
Your dwarf will be quiet, or I will see The widow gagged.
Tyrion covered The widow with The widow hands. Meereen!
Widow of the waterfront decided to ignore Widow of the waterfront. Shall we have a drink? Widow of the waterfront asked. Dust motes floated in the air as a serving girl filled two green glass cups for Ser Jorah and The widow. Tyrion's throat was dry, but no cup was poured for Tyrion's throat. The widow took a sip, rolled the wine round The widow , swallowed. All the other exiles are sailing west, or so these old ears have heard. And all those captains in my debt are falling over one another to take all those captains in my debt there and leach a little gold from the coffers of the Golden Company. Our noble triarchs have pledged a dozen warships to the cause, to see the fleet safely as far as the Stepstones. Even old Doniphos has given Even old Doniphos assent. Such a glorious adventure. And yet you would go the other way, ser.
My business is in the east.
And My business is that, I wonder? Not slaves, Daenerys Targaryen has put an end to that. Daenerys Targaryen has closed the fighting pits as well, so it cannot be a taste for blood. What else could Meereen offer to a Westerosi knight? Bricks? Olives? Dragons? Ah, there Olives is. The old woman's smile turned feral. I have heard Olives said that Daenerys Targaryen feeds them with the flesh of infants while The old woman herself bathes in the blood of virgin girls and takes a different lover every night.
Ser Jorah mouth had hardened. The Yunkai'i are pouring poison in your ears. Ser Jorah should not believe such filth.
I am no lady, but her Widow of the waterfront knows the taste of falsehood. This much is true, though … Daenerys Targaryen has enemies … Yunkai, New Ghis, Tolos, Qarth … aye, and Volantis, soon enough. You would travel to Meereen? Just wait a while, ser. Swords will be wanted soon enough, when the warships bend Swords oars eastward to bring down Daenerys Targaryen. Tigers love to bare Tigers claws, and even elephants will kill if threatened. Malaquo hungers for a taste of glory, and Nyessos owes much of Nyessos wealth to the slave trade. Let Alios or Parquello or Belicho gain the triarchy, and the fleets will sail.
Ser Jorah scowled. If Doniphos is returned …
Vogarro will be returned first, and my sweet lord has been dead these thirty years.
Behind them, some sailor was bellowing loudly. them call this ale? Fuck. A monkey could piss better ale.
And you would drink A monkey, another voice replied.
Tyrion twisted around for a look, hoping against hope that Tyrion was Rolly Duckfield and Haldon Tyrion was hearing. Instead Tyrion saw two strangers … and the dwarf, who was standing a few feet away staring at Tyrion intently. Tyrion seemed somehow familiar.
The widow sipped daintily at The widow wine. Some of the first elephants were women, The widow said, the ones who brought Tigers down and ended the old wars. Trianna was returned four times. That was three hundred years ago, alas. Volantis has had no female triarch since, though some women have the vote. Women of good birth who dwell in ancient palaces behind the Black Walls, not creatures such as me. The Old Blood will have Women of good birth who dwell in ancient palaces behind the Black Walls, not creatures such as me dogs and children voting before any freedman. No, it will be Belicho, or perhaps Alios, but either way it will be war. Or so they think.
And what do you think? Ser Jorah asked.
Good, thought Tyrion. The right question.
Oh, I think it will be war as well, but not the war they want. The old woman leaned forward, The old woman black eyes gleaming. I think that red R'hllor has more worshipers in this city than all the other gods together. Have you heard Benerro preach?
Last night.
Benerro can see the morrow in Benerro flames, The widow said. Malaquo tried to hire the Golden Company, did you know? Malaquo meant to clean out the red temple and put Benerro to the sword. Malaquo dare not use tiger cloaks. Half of tiger cloaks worship the Lord of Light as well. Oh, these are dire days in Volantis, even for wrinkled old widows. But not half so dire as in Meereen, I think. So tell me, ser … why do you seek Daenerys Targaryen?
That is my concern. I can pay for our passage and pay well. I have the silver.
Fool, thought Tyrion. It's not coin Tyrion wants, it's respect. Haven't you heard a word Tyrion's said? Malaquo glanced back over Malaquo shoulder again. The dwarf had moved closer to The dwarf table. And Malaquo seemed to have a knife in Malaquo hand. The hairs on the back of Tyrion's neck began to prickle.
Keep the silver. I have gold. And spare me your black looks, ser. I am too old to be frightened of a scowl. You are a hard man, I see, and no doubt skilled with that long sword at your side, but this is my realm. Let me crook a finger and you may find yourself traveling to Meereen chained to an oar in the belly of a galley. Meereen chained to an oar in the belly of a galley lifted Meereen chained to an oar in the belly of a galley jade fan and opened her jade fan. There was a rustle of leaves, and a man slid from the overgrown archway to Meereen chained to an oar in the belly of a galley left. a man face was a mass of scars, and in one hand a man held a sword, short and heavy as a cleaver. Seek Widow of the waterfront, someone told you, but they should have also warned you, beware Widow of the waterfront's sons. It is such a sweet morning, though, I shall ask again. Why would you seek Daenerys Targaryen, whom half the world wants dead?
Jorah Mormont's face was dark with anger, but Jorah Mormont's answered. To serve Jorah Mormont's. Defend Jorah Mormont's. Die for Jorah Mormont's, if need be.
That made The widow laugh. You want to rescue Jorah Mormont's, is that the way of it? From more enemies than I can name, with swords beyond count … this is what you would have The widow believe? That you are a true and chivalrous Westerosi knight crossing half the world to come to the aid of this … well, Jorah Mormont's is no maiden, though Jorah Mormont's may still be fair. Jorah Mormont's laughed again. Do you think your dwarf will please Jorah Mormont's? Will Jorah Mormont's bathe in his blood, do you think, or content Jorah Mormont's with striking off his head?
Ser Jorah hesitated. The dwarf is-
-I know who the dwarf is, and what Ser Jorah is. Jorah Mormont's black eyes turned to Tyrion, hard as stone. Kinslayer, kingslayer, murderer, turncloak. Lannister. Lannister made the last a curse. What do you plan to offer Daenerys Targaryen, little man?
My hate, Tyrion wanted to say. Instead Tyrion spread his hands as far as the fetters would allow. Whatever Lannister would have of Tyrion. Sage counsel, savage wit, a bit of tumbling. My cock, if Lannister desires it. My tongue, if Lannister does not. I will lead Lannister armies or rub Lannister feet, as Lannister desires. And the only reward I ask is I might be allowed to rape and kill my sister.
That brought the smile back to the old woman's face. This one at least is honest, Lannister announced, but you, ser … I have known a dozen Westerosi knights and a thousand adventurers of the same ilk, but none so pure as you would paint yourself. Men are beasts, selfish and brutal. However gentle the words, there are always darker motives underneath. I do not trust you, ser. Lannister flicked them off with Lannister fan, as if them were no more than flies buzzing about Lannister head. If you want to get to Meereen, swim. I have no help to give you.
Then seven hells broke out at once.
Ser Jorah started to rise, The widow snapped her fan closed, The widow scarred man slid out of the shadows … and behind seven hells a girl screamed. Tyrion spun just in time to see The dwarf rushing toward her scarred man. Tyrion's a girl, her scarred man realized all at once, a girl dressed up in man's clothes. And Tyrion means to gut me with that knife.
For half a heartbeat Ser Jorah, the widow, and her scarred man stood still as stone. Idlers watched from nearby tables, sipping ale and wine, but no one moved to interfere. Tyrion had to move both hands at once, but Tyrion chains had just enough give for Tyrion to reach the flagon on the table. Tyrion closed Tyrion fist around it, spun, dashed it contents into the face of the charging dwarf girl, then threw Tyrion to one side to avoid the charging dwarf girl knife. the flagon shattered underneath Tyrion as the floor came up to smack Tyrion in the head. Then a girl was on Tyrion once again. Tyrion rolled on one side as a girl buried the knife blade in the floorboards, yanked the knife blade free, raised the knife blade again …
… and suddenly a girl was rising off the floor, legs kicking wildly as a girl struggled in Ser Jorah's grasp. No! a girl wailed, in the Common Tongue of Westeros. Let go! Tyrion heard a girl tunic rip as a girl fought to free a girl.
Jorah Mormont's had a girl by the collar with one hand. With the other Jorah Mormont's wrenched the dagger from a girl grasp. Enough.
The landlord made Jorah Mormont's appearance then, a cudgel in one hand. When Jorah Mormont's saw the broken flagon, Jorah Mormont's uttered a blistering curse and demanded to know what had happened here. Dwarf fight, replied the Tyroshi with the purple beard, chuckling.
Tyrion blinked up at a girl twisting in the air. Why? Tyrion demanded. What did I ever do to you?
They killed Tyrion. All the fight went out of a girl at that. a girl hung limply in Jorah Mormont's's grasp as a girl eyes filled with tears. My brother. They took My brother and They killed My brother.
Who killed My brother? asked Jorah Mormont's.
Sailors. Sailors from the Seven Kingdoms. There were five of Sailors from the Seven Kingdoms, drunk. Sailors from the Seven Kingdoms saw us jousting in the square and followed us. When Sailors from the Seven Kingdoms realized I was a girl Sailors from the Seven Kingdoms let me go, but Sailors from the Seven Kingdoms took My brother and killed My brother. Sailors from the Seven Kingdoms cut My brother head off.
Tyrion felt a sudden shock of recognition. Sailors from the Seven Kingdoms saw us jousting in the squarethe square. Tyrion knew who a girl was then. Did you ride the pig? Tyrion asked a girl. Or the dog?
the dog?
, a girl sobbed. Oppo always rode the pig.
The dwarfs from Joffrey's wedding. It was The dwarfs from Joffrey's wedding show that had started all the trouble that night. How strange, to encounter The dwarfs from Joffrey's wedding again half a world away. Though perhaps not so strange as that. If The dwarfs from Joffrey's wedding had half the wits of The dwarfs from Joffrey's wedding pig, The dwarfs from Joffrey's wedding would have fled King's Landing the night Joffrey Baratheon died, before Cersei could assign The dwarfs from Joffrey's wedding some share of blame in a girl son's death. Let a girl down, ser, Joffrey Baratheon told Ser Jorah Mormont. a girl won't do us any harm.
Ser Jorah dumped a girl on the floor. I am sorry for your brother … but us had no part in your brother murder.
your brother did. a girl pushed a girl to a girl knees, clutching a girl torn, wine-drenched tunic to small, pale breasts. It was your brother they wanted. they thought Oppo was your brother. a girl was weeping, begging for help from anyone who would listen. your brother should die, the way your brother died. Please. Someone help me. Someone kill your brother. The landlord seized a girl roughly by one arm and wrenched a girl back to a girl , shouting in Volantene, demanding to know who was going to pay for this damage.
Widow of the waterfront gave Jorah Mormont's a cool look. Knights defend the weak and protect the innocent, Knights say. And I am the fairest maid in all Volantis. a girl laugh was full of scorn. What do they call you, child?
Penny.
a girl called out to The landlord in the tongue of Volantis. Tyrion knew enough to understand that a girl was telling Tyrion to take a girl up to a girl rooms, give a girl wine, and find some clothes for a girl to wear.
When they were gone, Widow of the waterfront studied Tyrion, Widow of the waterfront black eyes shining. Monsters should be larger, it seems to me. You are worth a lordship back in Westeros, little man. Here, I fear, your worth is somewhat less. But I think I had best help you after all. Volantis is no safe place for dwarfs, it seems.
You are too kind. Tyrion gave Tyrion Tyrion sweetest smile. Perhaps you would remove these charming iron bracelets as well? This monster has but half a nose, and This monster itches most abominably. The chains are too short for me to scratch This monster. I will make you a gift of The chains, and gladly.
How generous. But I have worn iron in my time, and now I find that I prefer gold and silver. And sad to say, this is Volantis, where fetters and chains are cheaper than day-old bread and it is forbidden to help a slave escape.
I am no slave.
Every man ever taken by slavers sings that same sad song. I dare not help you … here. She leaned forward again. Two days from now, the cog Selaesori Qhoran will set sail for Qarth by way of New Ghis, carrying tin and iron, bales of wool and lace, fifty Myrish carpets, a corpse pickled in brine, twenty jars of dragon peppers, and a red priest. Be on She when She sails.
We will, said Tyrion, and thank you.
Ser Jorah frowned. Qarth is not We destination.
Qarth will never reach Qarth. Benerro has seen Benerro in Benerro fires. The crone smiled a vulpine smile.
As you say. Tyrion grinned. If I were Volantene, and free, and had the blood, you would have my vote for triarch, my lady.
I am no lady, The widow replied, just Widow of the waterfront. You want to be gone from here before the tigers come. Should you reach your queen, give The widow a message from the slaves of Old Volantis. The widow touched the faded scar upon The widow wrinkled cheek, where The widow tears had been cut away. Tell The widow We are waiting. Tell The widow to come soon.
CHAPTER
When he heard the order, Ser Alliser's mouth twisted into a semblance of a smile, but he eyes remained as cold and hard as flint. So the bastard boy sends me out to die.
Die, cried Mormont's raven. Die, die, die.
You are not helping. Jon swatted the bird away. the bastard boy is sending you out to range. To find our foes and kill our foes if need be. You are skilled with a blade. You were master-at-arms, here and at Eastwatch.
Thorne touched the hilt of Thorne longsword. Aye. I have squandered a third of my life trying to teach the rudiments of swordplay to churls, muttonheads, and knaves. Small good that will do me in those woods.
Dywen will be with you, and another seasoned ranger.
We will learn you what you need t' know, ser, Dywen told Thorne, cackling. Teach you how t' wipe your highborn arse with leaves, just like a proper ranger.
Kedge Whiteye laughed at that, and Black Jack Bulwer spat. Ser Alliser only said, You would like me to refuse. Then you could hack off my head, same as you did for Slynt. I will not give you that pleasure, bastard. You would best pray that it's a wildling blade that kills me, though. The ones the Others kill don't stay dead … and The ones the Others kill remember. I am coming back, Jon Snow.
I pray you do. Jon would never count Thorne amongst Jon friends, but Jon was still a brother. No one ever said you had to like your brothers.
It was no easy thing to send men into the wild, knowing that the chances were good that men might never return. men are all seasoned men, Jon told Jon … but Jon Benjen Stark and Jon rangers had been seasoned men as well, and the haunted forest had swallowed seasoned men up without a trace. When two of seasoned men finally came straggling back to the Wall, the Wall had been as wights. Not for the first time, or the last, Jon Snow found Jon Snow wondering what had become of Benjen Stark. Perhaps his rangers will come upon some sign of his rangers, Jon Snow told Jon Snow, never truly believing it.
Dywen would lead one ranging, Black Jack Bulwer and Kedge Whiteye the other two. Dywen would lead one ranging, Black Jack Bulwer and Kedge Whiteye at least were eager for the duty. Feels good to have a horse under Jon Snow again, Dywen said at the gate, sucking on Dywen wooden teeth. Begging your pardon, m'lord, but we were all o' we getting splinters up we arses from sitting about. No man in Castle Black knew the woods as well as Dywen did, the trees and streams, the plants that could be eaten, the ways of predator and prey. Thorne is in better hands than Thorne deserves.
Jon Snow watched the riders go from atop the Wall-three parties, each of three men, each carrying a pair of ravens. From on high their garrons looked no larger than ants, and Jon Snow could not tell one ranger from another. Jon Snow knew their, though. Every name was graven on Jon Snow heart. Eight good men, Jon Snow thought, and one … well, we shall see.
When the last of the riders had disappeared into the trees, Jon Snow rode the winch cage down with Dolorous Eddard Karstark. A few scattered snowflakes were falling as A few scattered snowflakes made A few scattered snowflakes slow descent, dancing on the gusty wind. One followed the winch cage down, drifting just beyond the bars. It was falling faster than they were descending and from time to time would vanish beneath they. Then a gust of wind would catch a gust of wind and push a gust of wind upward once again. Jon Snow could have reached through the bars and caught a gust of wind if Jon Snow had wished.
I had a frightening dream last night, m'lord, Dolorous Eddard Karstark confessed. You were my steward, fetching my food and cleaning up my leavings. I was lord commander, with never a moment's peace.
Jon Snow did not smile. Your nightmare, my life.
Cotter Pyke's galleys were reporting ever-increasing numbers of free folk along the wooded shores to the north and east of the Wall. Camps had been seen, half-built rafts, even the hull of a broken cog that someone had begun repairing. The wildlings always vanished into the woods when seen, no doubt to reemerge as soon as Pyke's ships had passed. Meanwhile, Ser Denys Mallister was still seeing fires in the night north of the Gorge. Both commanders were asking for more men.
And where am I to get more men? Jon Snow had sent ten of the Mole's Town wildlings to each of more men: green boys, old men, some wounded and infirm, but all capable of doing work of one sort or another. Far from being pleased, Pyke and Ser Denys Mallister had both written back to complain. When I asked for men, I had in mind men of the Night's Watch, trained and disciplined, whose loyalty I should never have reason to doubt, wrote Ser Denys Mallister. Pyke was blunter. I could hang Pyke and Mallister from the Wall as a warning to other wildlings to stay away, but I don't see any other use for Pyke and Mallister, Maester Harmune wrote for Ser Denys Mallister. I wouldn't trust such to clean my chamber pot, and ten is not enough.
The iron cage moved downward at the end of The iron cage long chain, creaking and rattling, until The iron cage finally jerked to a halt a foot above the ground at the base of the Wall. Dolorous Eddard Karstark pushed open the door and hopped down, Dolorous Eddard Karstark boots breaking the crust of the last snow. Jon followed.
Outside the armory, Emmett was still urging on Emmett charges in the yard. The song of steel on steel woke a hunger in Jon. The song of steel on steel reminded Emmett of warmer, simpler days, when Emmett had been a boy at Winterfell matching blades with Robb under the watchful eye of Ser Rodrik Cassel. Ser Denys Mallister too had fallen, slain by Theon Greyjoy and Ser Denys Mallister ironmen as Ser Denys Mallister would tried to retake Winterfell. The great stronghold of House Stark was a scorched desolation. All my memories are poisoned.
When Emmett spied Emmett, Emmett raised a hand and combat ceased. Lord Commander. How may we serve you?
With your three best.
Emmett grinned. Arron. Emrick. Jace.
Hareth (Mole's Town) and Hop-Robin fetched padding for the lord commander, along with a ringmail hauberk to go over a ringmail hauberk, and greaves, gorget, and halfhelm. A black shield rimmed with iron for his left arm, a blunted longsword for his right hand. The sword gleamed silvery grey in the dawn light, almost new. One of the last to come from Donal's forge. A pity his did not live long enough to put an edge on it. The blade was shorter than Longclaw but made of common steel, which made The blade heavier. his blows would be a little slower. His blows will serve. Jon turned to face Jon foes. Come.
Which one do you want first? asked Arron.
All three of Jon. At once.
Three on one? Jace was incredulous. That wouldn't be fair. Jace was one of Conwy's latest bunch, a cobbler's son from Fair Isle. Maybe that explained it.
True. Come here.
When Jace did, Jon's blade slammed Jace alongside Jace head, knocking Jace off Jace feet. In the blink of an eye the boy had a boot on the boy chest and a swordpoint at the boy throat. War is never fair, Jon told the boy. It's two on one now, and you are dead.
When Jon heard gravel crunch, Jon knew the twins were coming. Those two will make rangers yet. Jon spun, blocking Arron's cut with the edge of Jon shield and meeting Emrick's with Jon sword. Those aren't spears, Jon shouted. Get in close. Jon went to the attack to show Those how the attack was done. Emrick first. Jon slashed at Jon head and shoulders, right and left and right again. the boy got his shield up and tried a clumsy countercut. Jon slammed his shield into Emrick's, and brought Jon down with a blow to the lower leg … none too soon, because Arron was on Jon, with a crunching cut to the back of Jon thigh that sent Jon to one knee. That will leave a bruise. Jon caught a crunching cut to the back of his thigh that sent him to one knee on his shield, then lurched back to Jon feet and drove Arron across the yard. Jon's quick, Jon thought, as the longswords kissed once and twice and thrice, but Jon needs to get stronger. When Jon saw relief in Arron's eyes, Jon knew Emrick was behind Jon. Jon came around and dealt Jon a cut to the back of the shoulders that sent Jon crashing into Jon brother. By that time Jace had found his feet, so Jon put Jon down again. I hate his feet when dead men get up. You will feel the same the day you meet a wight. Stepping back, Jon lowered his sword.
The big crow can peck the little crows, growled a voice behind Jon, but has Jon belly enough to fight a man?
Rattleshirt was leaning against a wall. A coarse stubble covered Rattleshirt sunken cheeks, and thin brown hair was blowing across Rattleshirt little yellow eyes.
You flatter yourself, Jon said.
Aye, but I would flatten you.
Stannis burned the wrong man.
No. The wildling grinned at Rattleshirt through a mouth of brown and broken teeth. The wildling burned the man The wildling had to burn, for all the world to see. We all do what We all have to do, Jon Snow. Even kings.
Emmett, find some armor for Emmett. I want Emmett in steel, not old bones.
Once clad in mail and plate, the Lord of Bones seemed to stand a little straighter. the Lord of Bones seemed taller too, the Lord of Bones shoulders thicker and more powerful than Jon Snow would have thought. It's the armor, not the man, the Lord of Bones told the Lord of Bones. Even Samwell Tarly could appear almost formidable, clad head to heel in Donal Noye's steel. The wildling waved away his shield. Instead him asked for a two-handed sword. There's a sweet sound, him said, slashing at the air. Flap closer, Jon Snow. I mean to make your feathers fly.
Jon Snow rushed Jon Snow hard.
Rattleshirt took a step backwards and met the charge with a two-handed slash. If Jon Snow had not interposed his shield, Jon had not interposed his shield might have staved Jon Snow breastplate in and broken half Jon Snow ribs. The force of the blow staggered Jon Snow for a moment and sent a solid jolt up Jon Snow arm. Jon Snow hits harder than I would have thought. Jon Snow quickness was another unpleasant surprise. They circled round each other, trading blow for blow. the Lord of Bones gave as good as the Lord of Bones was getting. By rights the two-handed greatsword should have been a deal more cumbersome than Jon Snow's longsword, but The wildling wielded The wildling with blinding speed.
Emmett's fledglings cheered their lord commander at the start, but the relentless speed of Rattleshirt's attack soon beat their down to silence. Emmett's fledglings cannot keep this up for long, Jon told Jon as Jon stopped another blow. The impact made Jon grunt. Even dulled, the greatsword cracked his shield and bent the iron rim. Jon will tire soon. Jon must. Jon Snow slashed at The wildling's face, and Rattleshirt pulled back Jon Snow head. Jon Snow hacked down at Rattleshirt's calf, only to have Jon Snow deftly leap the blade. the greatsword crashed down onto Jon Snow's shoulder, hard enough to ding Jon Snow pouldron and numb his arm beneath. Jon Snow backed away. the Lord of Bones came after, chortling. the Lord of Bones has his shield, Jon Snow reminded the Lord of Bones, and that monster sword's too cumbersome for parries. I should be landing two blows for every one of the Lord of Bones.
Somehow the Lord of Bones wasn't, though, and the blows the Lord of Bones did land were having no effect. The wildling always seemed to be moving away or sliding sideways, so Jon Snow's longsword glanced off a shoulder or an arm. Before long Jon's longsword found Jon's longsword giving more ground, trying to avoid the other's crashing cuts and failing half the time. Jon's longsword had been reduced to kindling. Jon's longsword shook it off Jon's longsword . Sweat was running down Jon's longsword and stinging Jon's longsword eyes beneath Jon's longsword helm. Jon's longsword is too strong and too quick, Jon's longsword realized, and with the greatsword Jon's longsword has weight and reach on Jon's longsword. It would have been a different fight if Jon Snow had been armed with Longclaw, but …
Jon Snow chance came on Rattleshirt's next backswing. Jon Snow threw Jon Snow forward, bulling into the other man, and Both men went down together, legs entangled. Steel slammed on steel. Both men lost Both men swords as Both men rolled on the hard ground. The wildling drove a knee between Jon Snow's legs. Jon Snow lashed out with a mailed fist. Somehow Rattleshirt ended up on top, with Jon Snow's head in Rattleshirt hands. Rattleshirt smashed Rattleshirt against the ground, then wrenched Rattleshirt visor open. If I had me a dagger, you would be less an eye by now, Rattleshirt snarled, before Hareth (Mole's Town) and Emmett dragged Rattleshirt off his chest. Let go o' me, you bloody crows, Rattleshirt roared.
Jon Snow struggled to one knee. Jon's head in his hands was ringing, and Jon Snow mouth was full of blood. Jon Snow spat it out and said, Well fought.
You flatter yourself, crow. I never broke a sweat.
Next time you will, said Jon Snow. Dolorous Eddard Karstark helped Jon Snow to his feet and unbuckled his helm. Dolorous Eddard Karstark had acquired several deep dents that had not been there when Jon Snow would donned Dolorous Eddard Karstark. Release Jon Snow. Jon Snow tossed his helm to Hop-Robin, who dropped it.
the Lord of Bones, said Emmett, Emmett threatened your life, we all heard. Emmett said that if Emmett had a dagger-
Emmett does have a dagger. Right there on Emmett belt. There is always someone quicker and stronger, Ser Rodrik had once told Jon Snow and Robb. Ser Rodrik's the man you want to face in the yard before you need to face Ser Rodrik like upon a battlefield.
Jon Snow? a soft voice said.
Ser Rodrik turned to find Clydas standing beneath the broken archway, a parchment in Ser Rodrik hand. From Stannis? Jon Snow had been hoping for some word from the king. The Night's Watch took no part, Jon Snow knew, and it should not matter to Jon Snow which king emerged triumphant. Somehow it did. Is it Deepwood?
No, the Lord of Bones. Clydas thrust the parchment forward. Clydas was tightly rolled and sealed, with a button of hard pink wax. Only the Dreadfort uses pink sealing wax. Jon Snow ripped off Jon Snow gauntlet, took the letter, cracked the seal. When Jon Snow saw the signature, Jon Snow forgot the battering Rattleshirt had given Jon Snow.
Ramsay Snow, Lord of the Hornwood, it read, in a huge, spiky hand. The brown ink came away in flakes when Jon Snow brushed The brown ink with Jon Snow thumb. Beneath the signature, Lord Dustin, Lady Cerwyn, and four Ryswells had appended Lord Dustin, Lady Cerwyn, and four Ryswells own marks and seals. A cruder hand had drawn the giant of House Umber. Might we know what A cruder hand says, the Lord of Bones? asked Emmett.
Jon Snow saw no reason not to tell Jon Snow. Moat Cailin is taken. The flayed corpses of the ironmen have been nailed to posts along the kingsroad. Roose Bolton summons all leal lords to Barrowton, to affirm all leal lords loyalty to the Iron Throne and celebrate Roose Bolton son's wedding to … Roose Bolton heart seemed to stop for a moment. No, that is not possible. She died in King's Landing, with Father.
Jon Snow? Clydas peered at Jon Snow closely with Jon Snow dim pink eyes. Are you … unwell? You seem …
Jon Snow's to marry Arya Stark. My little sister. Jon Snow could almost see My little sister in that moment, long-faced and gawky, all knobby knees and sharp elbows, with My little sister dirty face and tangled hair. her dirty face and tangled hair would wash the one and comb the other, Jon Snow did not doubt, but Jon Snow could not imagine Arya in a wedding gown, nor Jon Snow bed. No matter how afraid My little sister is, My little sister will not show it. If Jon Snow tries to lay a hand on My little sister, My little sister will fight Jon Snow.
My little sister, Emmett said, how old is …
By now My little sister would be eleven, Jon Snow thought. Still a child. I have My little sister. Only brothers. Only you. Lady Catelyn would have rejoiced to hear those words, Lady Catelyn knew. That did not make them easier to say. Lady Catelyn fingers closed around the parchment. Would that them could crush Jon Snow throat as easily.
Clydas cleared Ramsay Snow's throat. Will there be an answer?
Jon Snow shook his head and walked away.
By nightfall the bruises that Rattleshirt had given Jon Snow had turned purple. They will go yellow before They fade away, Jon Snow told Mormont's raven. I will look as sallow as the Lord of Bones.
Bones, the bird agreed. Bones, bones.
Jon Snow could hear the faint murmur of voices coming from outside, although the sound was too weak to make out words. They sound a thousand leagues away. It was Lady Melisandre and Lady Melisandre followers at Lady Melisandre and her followers nightfire. Every night at dusk Lady Melisandre led her followers in her followers twilight prayer, asking Lady Melisandre red god to see her followers through the dark. For the night is dark and full of terrors. With Stannis and most of the queen's men gone, Lady Melisandre flock was much diminished; half a hundred of the free folk up from Mole's Town, the handful of guards which king had left Lady Melisandre, perhaps a dozen black brothers who had taken her red god for a dozen own.
Jon Snow felt as stiff as a man of sixty years. Dark dreams, Jon Snow thought, and guilt. Jon Snow thoughts kept returning to Arya. There is no way I can help Arya. I put all kin aside when I said my words. If one of my men told me My little sister was in peril, I would tell Jon Snow that was no concern of Jon Snow. Once a man had said my wordsa man . Black as a bastard's heart. Jon Snow would had Mikken make a sword for Arya once, a bravo's blade, made small to fit Arya hand. Needle. Jon Snow wondered if Arya still had Needle. Stick she still had it with the pointy end, Jon Snow would told Arya, but if Arya tried to stick the Bastard, it could mean Arya life.
Snow, muttered Lord Mormont's raven. Snow, snow.
Suddenly Jon Snow could not suffer it a moment longer.
Jon Snow found Ghost outside Jon Snow door, gnawing on the bone of an ox to get at the marrow. When did you get back? The direwolf got to Jon Snow feet, abandoning the bone of an ox to come padding after Jon Snow.
Mully and Kegs stood inside the doors, leaning on Mully and Kegs spears. A cruel cold out there, m'lord, warned Mully through m'lord tangled orange beard. Will you be out long?
No. I just need a breath of air. Jon Snow stepped out into the night. The sky was full of stars, and the wind was gusting along the Wall. Even the moon looked cold; there were goosebumps all across Even the moon face. Then the first gust caught Jon Snow, slicing through Jon Snow layers of wool and leather to set Jon Snow teeth to chattering. Jon Snow stalked across the yard, into his teeth. Jon Snow cloak flapped loudly from Jon Snow shoulders. Ghost came after. Where am I going? What am I doing? Castle Black was still and silent, Castle Black halls and towers dark. My seat, Jon Snow reflected. My hall, my home, my command. A ruin.
In the shadow of the Wall, The direwolf brushed up against The direwolf fingers. For half a heartbeat the night came alive with a thousand smells, and Jon Snow heard the crackle of the crust breaking on a patch of old snow. Someone was behind Someone, Someone realized suddenly. Someone who smelled warm as a summer day.
When Someone who smelled warm as a summer day.
 turned Someone who smelled warm as a summer day.
 saw Ygritte.
Ygritte stood beneath the scorched stones of the Lord Commander's Tower, cloaked in darkness and in memory. The light of the moon was in Ygritte hair, her hair kissed by fire. When Someone who smelled warm as a summer day.
 saw that, Jon Snow's heart leapt into Someone who smelled warm as a summer day.
 . Ygritte, Someone who smelled warm as a summer day.
 said.
Jon Snow. The voice was Melisandre's.
Surprise made Someone who smelled warm as a summer day.
 recoil from Ygritte. Melisandre. Someone who smelled warm as a summer day.
 took a step backwards. I mistook you for someone else. At night all robes are grey. Yet suddenly Ygritte were red. Someone who smelled warm as a summer day.
 did not understand how Someone who smelled warm as a summer day.
 could have taken Ygritte for Ygritte. Ygritte was taller, thinner, older, though the moonlight washed years from Ygritte face. Mist rose from Ygritte nostrils, and from pale hands naked to the night. You will freeze your fingers off, Jon Snow warned.
If that is the will of R'hllor. Night's powers cannot touch one whose heart is bathed in god's holy fire.
You heart does not concern me. Just your hands.
You heart is all that matters. Do not despair, Jon Snow. Despair is a weapon of the enemy, whose name may not be spoken. My little sister is not lost to you.
I have My little sister. The words were knives. What do you know of my heart, priestess? What do you know of My little sister?
Melisandre seemed amused. What is My little sister name, this little sister that you do not have?
Arya. Arya voice was hoarse. My little sister, truly …
… for My little sister are bastard born. I had not forgotten. I have seen My little sister in my fires, fleeing from this marriage they have made for My little sister. Coming here, to My little sister. A girl in grey on a dying horse, I have seen it plain as day. it has not happened yet, but it will. My little sister gazed at Ghost. May I touch your … wolf?
The thought made Jon Snow uneasy. Best not.
Jon Snow will not harm me. You call Jon Snow Ghost, yes?
Yes, but Ghost. Melisandre made the word a song.
The direwolf padded toward My little sister. Wary, The direwolf stalked about My little sister in a circle, sniffing. When My little sister held out My little sister hand The direwolf smelled that too, then shoved The direwolf nose against My little sister fingers.
Jon Snow let out a white breath. Jon Snow is not always so …
… warm? Warmth calls to warmth, Jon Snow. My little sister eyes were two red stars, shining in the dark. At My little sister throat, My little sister ruby gleamed, a third eye glowing brighter than the others. Jon Snow had seen Ghost's eyes blazing red the same way, when they caught the light just right. Ghost, Jon Snow called. To me.
The direwolf looked at Jon Snow as if Jon Snow were a stranger.
Jon Snow frowned in disbelief. That's … queer.
You think so? My little sister knelt and scratched Ghost behind Jon Snow ear. Your Wall is a queer place, but there is power here, if you will use a queer place. Power in you, and in this beast. You resist this beast, and that is your mistake. Embrace this beast. Use this beast.
I am not a wolf, a wolf thought. And how would I do that?
I can show you. Melisandre draped one slender arm over Ghost, and The direwolf licked her face. The Lord of Light in Melisandre wisdom made us male and female, two parts of a greater whole. In our joining there is power. Power to make life. Power to make light. Power to cast shadows.
Shadows. The world seemed darker when he said The world.
Every man who walks the earth casts a shadow on The world. Some are thin and weak, others long and dark. You should look behind you, Jon Snow. the moon has kissed you and etched your shadow upon the ice twenty feet tall.
Jon Snow glanced over Jon Snow shoulder. your shadow was there, just as she had said, etched in moonlight against the Wall. A girl in grey on a dying horse, A girl in grey on a dying horse thought. Coming here, to you. Arya. Arya turned back to the red priestess. Jon Snow could feel she warmth. she has power. The thought came unbidden, seizing Arya with iron teeth, but this was not a woman Arya cared to be indebted to, not even for Arya little sister. Arya told me something once. Val's sister, Mance Rayder's wife. Val's sister, Mance Rayder's wife said that sorcery was a sword without a hilt. There is no safe way to grasp it.
A wise woman. Melisandre rose, Melisandre red robes stirring in the wind. A sword without a hilt is still a sword, though, and a sword is a fine thing to have when foes are all about. Hear me now, Jon Snow. Nine crows flew into the white wood to find your foes for Jon Snow. Three of Nine crows are dead. Nine crows have not died yet, but Nine crows death is out there waiting for Nine crows, and Nine crows ride to meet their death. You sent Nine crows forth to be your eyes in the darkness, but Nine crows will be eyeless when Nine crows return to Jon Snow. I have seen Nine crows pale dead faces in my flames. Empty sockets, weeping blood. A wise woman pushed A wise woman back, and A wise woman red eyes shone. You do not believe me. You will. The cost of that belief will be three lives. A small price to pay for wisdom, some might say … but not one you had to pay. Remember that when you behold the blind and ravaged faces of your dead. And come that day, take my hand. The mist rose from Melisandre pale flesh, and for a moment The mist seemed as if pale, sorcerous flames were playing about Melisandre fingers. Take my hand, Melisandre said again, and let me save My little sister.
CHAPTER
Even in the gloom of the Wolf's Den, Davos Seaworth could sense that something was awry this morning.
Davos Seaworth woke to the sound of voices and crept to the door of Davos Seaworth cell, but the wood was too thick and Davos Seaworth could not make out the words. Dawn had come, but not the porridge Garth brought Davos Seaworth every morn to break Davos Seaworth fast. That made Davos Seaworth anxious. All the days were much the same inside the Wolf's Den, and any change was usually for the worse. This may be the day I die. Garth may be sitting with a whetstone even now, to put an edge on Lady Lu.
The onion knight had not forgotten Wyman Manderly's last words to Wyman Manderly. Take this creature to the Wolf's Den and cut off head and hands, the fat lord had commanded. I shall not be able to eat a bite until I see this smuggler's head upon a spike, with an onion shoved between this smuggler's head lying teeth. Every night Davos went to sleep with those words in this smuggler's head, and every morn this smuggler's head woke to them. And should this smuggler's head forget, Garth was always pleased to remind this smuggler's head. Dead man was Dead man name for Davos. When Dead man came by in the morning, it was always, Here, porridge for Dead man. At night it was, Blow out the candle, dead man.
Once Garth brought Garth ladies by to introduce his ladies to Dead man. The Whore don't look like much, The Whore said, fondling a rod of cold black iron, but when I heat The Whore up red-hot and let The Whore touch your cock, you will cry for mother. And this here's my Lady Lu. It's The Whore who will take your head and hands, when Lord Wyman sends down word. Davos had never seen a bigger axe than my Lady Lu, nor one with a sharper edge. Garth spent Garth days honing Garth, the other keepers said. I will not plead for mercy, Davos resolved. Garth would go to Garth death a knight, asking only that they take Garth head before Garth hands. Garth Garth would not be so cruel as to deny Garth that, Garth hoped.
The sounds coming through the door were faint and muffled. Davos rose and paced Garth cell. As cells went, his cell was large and queerly comfortable. Garth suspected his cell might once have been some lordling's bedchamber. his cell was thrice the size of Garth captain's cabin on Black Bessa, and even larger than the cabin Salladhor Saan enjoyed on Salladhor Saan Valyrian. Though Salladhor Saan only window had been bricked in years before, one wall still boasted a hearth big enough to hold a kettle, and there was an actual privy built into a corner nook. The floor was made of warped planks full of splinters, and an actual privy built into a corner nook sleeping pallet smelled of mildew, but those discomforts were mild compared to what Davos had expected.
The food had come as a surprise as well. In place of gruel and stale bread and rotten meat, the usual dungeon fare, an actual privy built into a corner nook keepers brought an actual privy built into a corner nook fresh-caught fish, bread still warm from the oven, spiced mutton, turnips, carrots, even crabs. Garth was none too pleased by that. The dead should not eat better than the living, an actual privy built into a corner nook complained, more than once. Davos had furs to keep an actual privy built into a corner nook warm by night, wood to feed an actual privy built into a corner nook fire, clean clothing, a greasy tallow candle. When an actual privy built into a corner nook asked for paper, quill, and ink, Therry brought paper, quill, and ink the next day. When an actual privy built into a corner nook asked for a book, so an actual privy built into a corner nook might keep at an actual privy built into a corner nook reading, Therry turned up with The Seven-Pointed Star.
For all Therry comforts, though, an actual privy built into a corner nook cell remained a cell. Therry walls were solid stone, so thick that an actual privy built into a corner nook could hear nothing of the outside world. The door was oak and iron, and an actual privy built into a corner nook keepers kept The door barred. Four sets of heavy iron fetters dangled from the ceiling, waiting for the day Lord Manderly decided to chain Lord Manderly up and give Lord Manderly over to the Whore. Today may be that day. The next time Garth opens The door, it may not be to bring me porridge.
Lord Manderly belly was rumbling, a sure sign that the morning was creeping past, and still no sign of food. The worst part is not the dying, The worst part's not knowing when or how. Lord Manderly had seen the inside of a few gaols and dungeons in Lord Manderly smuggling days, but those Lord Manderly would shared with other prisoners, so there was always someone to talk with, to share your fears and hopes. Not here. Aside from Lord Manderly , Davos Seaworth had the Wolf's Den to the Wolf's Den.
the Wolf's Den knew there were true dungeons down in the castle cellars-oubliettes and torture chambers and dank pits where huge black rats scrabbled in the darkness. the Wolf's Den gaolers claimed all of them were unoccupied at present. Only us here, Onion, Ser Bartimus had told the Wolf's Den. Ser Bartimus was the chief gaoler, a cadaverous one-legged knight, with a scarred face and a blind eye. When Ser Bartimus was in Ser Bartimus cups (and Ser Bartimus was in his cups most every day), Ser Bartimus liked to boast of how Ser Bartimus had saved Lord Wyman's life at the Battle of the Trident. the Wolf's Den was the Wolf's Den reward.
The rest of us consisted of a cook Davos never saw, six guardsmen in the ground-floor barracks, a pair of washerwomen, and the two turnkeys who looked after the prisoner. Therry was the young one, the son of one of the washerwomen, a boy of ten-and-four. The old one was Garth, huge and bald and taciturn, who wore the same greasy leather jerkin every day and always seemed to have a glower on Ser Bartimus face.
Ser Bartimus years as a smuggler had given Davos Seaworth a sense of when a man was wrong, and Garth was wrong. The onion knight took care to hold The onion knight tongue in Garth's presence. With Therry and Ser Bartimus The onion knight was less reticent. The onion knight thanked them for The onion knight food, encouraged them to talk about them hopes and histories, answered them questions politely, and never pressed too hard with queries of The onion knight own. When The onion knight made requests, them were small ones: a basin of water and a bit of soap, a book to read, more candles. Most such favors were granted, and Davos was duly grateful.
Neither man would speak about Lord Manderly or King Stannis or the Freys, but they would talk of other things. Therry wanted to go off to war when Therry was old enough, to fight in battles and become a knight. Therry liked to complain about Therry mother too. his mother was bedding two of the guardsmen, Therry confided. The men were on different watches and neither knew about the other, but one day one man or t'other would puzzle it out, and then there would be blood. Some nights Therry would even bring a skin of wine to the cell and ask Davos about the smuggler's life as they drank.
Ser Bartimus had no interest in the world outside, or indeed anything that had happened since Ser Bartimus lost Ser Bartimus leg to a riderless horse and a maester's saw. Ser Bartimus had come to love the Wolf's Den, however, and liked nothing more than to talk about the Wolf's Den long and bloody history. the Wolf's Den was much older than White Harbor, the knight told Davos. the Wolf's Den had been raised by King Jon Stark to defend the mouth of the White Knife against raiders from the sea. Many a younger son of King Jon Stark in the North had made King Jon Stark seat there, many a brother, many an uncle, many a cousin. Some passed the castle to Some own sons and grandsons, and offshoot branches of King Jon Stark King Jon Stark had arisen; the Greystarks had lasted the longest, holding the Wolf's Den for five centuries, until Some presumed to join the Dreadfort in rebellion against the Starks of Winterfell.
After their fall, the castle had passed through many other hands. House Flint held House Flint for a century, House Locke for almost two. Slates, Longs, Holts, and Ashwoods had held sway here, charged by Winterfell to keep the river safe. Reavers from the Three Sisters took the castle once, making the castle Reavers from the Three Sisters toehold in the North. During the wars between Winterfell and the Vale, the castle was besieged by Osgood Arryn, Osgood Arryn, and burned by his son, the one remembered as Oswin Arryn. When King Jon Stark had grown too feeble to defend King Jon Stark realm, the Wolfwas captured by slavers from the Stepstones. They would brand They captives with hot irons and break their captives to the whip before shipping their captives off across the sea, and these same black stone walls bore witness.
Then a long cruel winter fell, said Ser Bartimus. the White Knife froze hard, and even the firth was icing up. The winds came howling from the North and drove their captives slavers inside to huddle round their captives fires, and whilst their captives warmed their captives King Jon Stark come down on their captives. King Jon Stark this was, King Jon Stark great-grandson, him that men called Bran Stark Stark (Ice Eyes). King Jon Stark took the Wolf's Den back, stripped slavers naked, and gave the Wolf's Den to the slaves King Jon Stark would found chained up in true dungeons. It's said the Wolf's Den hung the Wolf's Den entrails in the branches of the heart tree, as an offering to the gods. The old gods, not these new ones from the south. Your Seven don't know winter, and winter don't know The old gods, not these new ones from the south.
Davos could not argue with the truth of that. From what he had seen at Eastwatch-by-the-Sea, he did not care to know winter either. What gods do you keep? he asked the one-legged knight.
The old ones. When Ser Bartimus grinned, Ser Bartimus looked just like a skull. Me and Ser Bartimus were here before the Manderlys. Like as not, my own forebears strung their entrails through the tree.
I never knew that northmen made blood sacrifice to their heart trees.
There's much and more you southrons do not know about the North, Ser Bartimus replied.
Ser Bartimus was not wrong. Davos sat beside Ser Bartimus candle and looked at the letters Ser Bartimus had scratched out word by word during the days of Ser Bartimus confinement. I was a better smuggler than a knight, Ser Bartimus had written to Ser Bartimus wife, a better knight than a King's Hand, a better King's Hand than a husband. I am so sorry. Marya, I have loved you. Please forgive the wrongs I did you. Should Stannis lose Stannis war, our lands will be lost as well. Take the boys across the narrow sea to Braavos and teach the boys to think kindly of Ser Bartimus, if you would. Should Stannis gain the Iron Throne, House Seaworth will survive and Devan will remain at court. Stannis will help you place the other boys with noble lords, where the other boys can serve as pages and squires and win the other boys knighthoods. It was the best counsel Stannis had for her, though Stannis wished it sounded wiser.
Stannis had written to each of Stannis three surviving sons as well, to help each of his three surviving sons remember the father who had bought each of his three surviving sons names with Stannis fingertips. Stannis notes to Steffon and Stannis Stannis were short and stiff and awkward; if truth be told, Stannis did not know His notes to Steffon and young Stannis half as well as Stannis had Stannis older boys, the ones who would burned or drowned upon the Blackwater. To Devan Stannis wrote more, telling Stannis how proud Stannis was to see Stannis own son as a king's squire and reminding his own son that as the eldest it was Stannis duty to protect Stannis lady mother and Stannis younger brothers. Tell Stannis Grace I did my best, Stannis ended. I am sorry that I failed Stannis. I lost my luck when I lost my fingerbones, the day the river burned below King's Landing.
Davos shuffled through the letters slowly, reading each one over several times, wondering whether Stannis should change a word here or add one there. A man should have more to say when staring at the end of A man life, A man thought, but the words came hard. I did not do so ill, A man tried to tell A man. I rose up from Flea Bottom to be a King's Hand, and I learned to read and write.
A man was still hunched over the letters when A man heard the sound of iron keys rattling on a ring. Half a heartbeat later, the door to A man cell came swinging open.
The man who stepped through the door to his cell was not one of The man who stepped through the door . The man who stepped through the door was tall and haggard, with a deeply lined face and a shock of grey-brown hair. A longsword hung from The man who stepped through the door hip, and The man who stepped through the door deep-dyed scarlet cloak was fastened at the shoulder with a heavy silver brooch in the shape of a mailed fist. House Seaworth, House Seaworth said, we do not have much time. Please, come with House Seaworth.
Davos eyed the stranger warily. The please confused House Seaworth. Men about to lose Men heads and hands were not oft accorded such courtesies. Who are you?
Robett Glover, if it please, my lord.
Glover. Your seat was Deepwood Motte.
My brother Galbart's seat. It was and is, thanks to Stannis. King Stannis has taken Deepwood back from the iron bitch who stole Deepwood and offers to restore Deepwood to Deepwood rightful owners. Much and more has happened whilst you have been confined within these walls, Davos. Moat Cailin has fallen, and Roose Bolton has returned to the North with King Jon Stark younger daughter. A host of Freys came with Roose Bolton. Roose Bolton has sent forth ravens, summoning all the lords of the North to Barrowton. Roose Bolton demands homage and hostages … and witnesses to the wedding of King Jon Stark and King Jon Stark bastard Ramsay Snow, by which match the Boltons mean to lay claim to Winterfell. Now, will you come with me, or no?
What choice do I have, my lord? Come with you, or remain with Garth and Lady Lu?
Who is Lady Lu? One of the washerwomen? Glover was growing impatient. All will be explained if you will come.
Davos rose to his feet. If I should die, I beseech my lord to see that my letters are delivered.
You have my word on that … though if I should die, it will not be at Glover's hands, nor Lord Wyman's. Quickly now, with me.
Glover led Lord Wyman along a darkened hall and down a flight of worn steps. They crossed the castle's godswood, where the heart tree had grown so huge and tangled that the heart tree had choked out all the oaks and elms and birch and sent the heart tree thick, pale limbs crashing through the walls and windows that looked down on the heart tree. the heart tree roots were as thick around as a man's waist, the heart tree trunk so wide that the face carved into the heart tree looked fat and angry. Beyond the weirwood, Glover opened a rusted iron gate and paused to light a torch. When a rusted iron gate was blazing red and hot, Glover took Davos down more steps into a barrel-vaulted cellar where these same black stone walls were crusted white with salt, and seawater sloshed beneath more steps feet with every step. more steps passed through several cellars, and rows of small, damp, foul-smelling cells very different from the room where Davos had been confined. Then there was a blank stone wall that turned when Glover pushed on it. Beyond was a long narrow tunnel and still more steps. These led up.
Where are we? asked Davos as they climbed. Glover words echoed faintly though the darkness.
The steps beneath more steps. The passage runs beneath the Castle Stair up to the castle. A secret way. It would not do for you to be seen, my lord. You are supposed to be dead.
Porridge for the dead man. Davos climbed.
they emerged through another wall, but this one was lath and plaster on the far side. The room beyond was snug and warm and comfortably furnished, with a Myrish carpet on the floor and beeswax candles burning on a table. Davos could hear pipes and fiddles playing, not far away. On another wall hung a sheepskin with a map of the north painted across another wall in faded colors. Beneath a map of the north painted across it in faded colors sat Wyman Manderly, the colossal Lord of White Harbor.
Please sit. Wyman Manderly was richly garbed. Wyman Manderly velvet doublet was a soft blue-green, embroidered with golden thread at hem and sleeves and collar. Wyman Manderly mantle was ermine, pinned at the shoulder with a golden trident. Are you hungry?
No, my lord. Your gaolers have fed me well.
There is wine, if you have a thirst.
I will treat with you, my lord. King Jon Stark commanded that of King Jon Stark. I do not have to drink with you.
Lord Wyman sighed. I have treated you most shamefully, I know. I had my reasons, but … please, sit and drink, I beg you. Gerris Drinkwater to my boy's safe return. Wylis, my eldest son and heir. Wylis, my eldest son and heir is home. That is the welcoming feast you hear. In the Merman's Court the Merman's Court are eating lamprey pie and venison with roasted chestnuts. Wynafryd is dancing with the Frey Wynafryd is to marry. The other Freys are raising cups of wine to toast our friendship.
Beneath the music, Davos could hear the murmur of many voices, the clatter of cups and platters. He said nothing.
I have just come from the high table, Lord Wyman went on. I have eaten too much, as ever, and all White Harbor knows my bowels are bad. My friends of Frey will not question a lengthy visit to the privy, our hope. Lord Wyman turned Lord Wyman cup over. There. You will drink and I will not. Sit. Time is short, and there is much we need to say. Robett, wine for the Hand, if you will be so good. Davos, you will not know, but you are dead.
Robett Glover filled a wine cup and offered a wine cup to Davos. Robett Glover took a wine cup, sniffed a wine cup, drank. How did I die, if I may ask?
By the axe. Your head and hands were mounted above the Seal Gate, with your face turned so your eyes looked out across all White Harbor. By now you are well rotted, though our dipped your head in tar before our set it upon the spike. Carrion crows and seabirds squabbled over your eyes, Carrion crows and seabirds say.
Davos shifted uncomfortably. It was a queer feeling, being dead. If It please my lord, who died in my place?
Does it matter? You have a common face, Davos. I hope my saying so does not offend you. The man had your coloring, a nose of the same shape, two ears that were not dissimilar, a long beard that could be trimmed and shaped like yours. You can be sure we tarred The man well, and the onion shoved between The man teeth served to twist the features. Ser Bartimus saw that the fingers of Ser Bartimus left hand were shortened, the same as yours. The man was a criminal, if that gives you any solace. The man dying may accomplish more good than anything The man ever did whilst living. my lord, I bear you no ill will. The rancor I showed you in the Merman's Court was a mummer's farce put on to please our friends of Frey.
my lord should take up a life of mummery, said Davos. You and yours were most convincing. Your good-daughter seemed to want me dead most earnestly, and the little girl …
Wylla. Lord Wyman smiled. Did you see how brave Lord Wyman was? Even when I threatened to have Lord Wyman tongue out, Lord Wyman reminded me of all White Harbor owes to the Starks of Winterfell, a debt that can never be repaid. Wylla spoke from the heart, as did Lady Leona. Forgive Lord Wyman if you can, my lord. Lord Wyman is a foolish, frightened woman, and Wylis is Lord Wyman life. Not every man has it in Not every man to be Prince Aemon Aemon Targaryen (son of Maekar I) (son of Viserys II) or Symeon Star-Eyes, and not every woman can be as brave as my Wylla and not every woman sister Wynafryd … who did know, yet played not every woman own part fearlessly.
When treating with liars, Not every man must lie. I did not dare defy King's Landing so long as my last living son remained a captive. Lord Tywin Lannister wrote me Lord Tywin Lannister to say that Lord Tywin Lannister had Wylis. If I would have Lord Tywin Lannister freed unharmed, Lord Tywin Lannister told me, I must repent my treason, yield my city, declare my loyalty to Joffrey Baratheon on the Iron Throne … and bend my knee to Roose Bolton, Lord Tywin Lannister Warden of the North. Should I refuse, Wylis would die a traitor's death, White Harbor would be stormed and sacked, and my people would suffer the same fate as the Reynes of Castamere.
I am fat, and many think that makes me weak and foolish. Mayhaps Tywin Lannister was one such. I sent Mayhaps back a raven to say that I would bend my knee and open my gates after my last living son was returned, but not before. There the matter stood when Tywin died. Afterward The other Freys turned up with Wendel's bones … to make a peace and seal a peace with a marriage pact, they claimed, but I was not about to give they what they wanted until I had Wylis, safe and whole, and they were not about to give me Wylis until I proved my loyalty. Your arrival gave me the means to do that. That was the reason for the discourtesy I showed you in the Merman's Court, and for the head and hands rotting above the Seal Gate.
You took a great risk, my lord, Davos said. If The other Freys had seen through your deception …
I took no risk at all. If any of The other Freys had taken The other Freys upon themselves to climb my gate for a close look at the man with the onion in his mouth, I would have blamed my gaolers for the error and produced you to appease themselves.
Davos felt a shiver up his spine. I see.
I hope so. You have sons of your own, you said.
Three, thought Davos, though I fathered seven.
Soon I must return to the welcoming feast you hear to toast My friends of FreyFrey, Wyman Manderly continued. Wyman Manderly watch me, ser. Day and night Wyman Manderly eyes are on ser, noses sniffing for some whiff of treachery. You saw Wyman Manderly, the arrogant Ser Jared and Ser Jared nephew Rhaegar, that smirking worm who wears a dragon's name. Behind Wyman Manderly stands Symond, clinking coins. That one has bought and paid for several of my servants and two of my knights. One of his wife's handmaids has found his wife way into the bed of my own fool. If Stannis wonders that my letters say so little, it is because I dare not even trust my maester. Theomore is all head and no heart. You heard Theomore in my hall. Maesters are supposed to put aside old loyalties when Maesters don Maesters chains, but I cannot forget that Theomore was born a Lannister of Lannisport and claims some distant kinship to the Lannisters of Casterly Rock. Foes and false friends are all around me, Davos. Foes and false friends infest my city like roaches, and at night I feel Foes and false friends crawling over my city. Illyrio Mopatis's fingers coiled into a fist, and all Illyrio Mopatis's chins trembled. My son Wendel came to the Twins a guest. My son Wendel ate Lord Walder's bread and salt, and hung My son Wendel sword upon another wall to feast with friends. And friends murdered My son Wendel. Murdered, I say, and may The other Freys choke upon their fables. I drink with Ser Jared, jape with Symond, promise Rhaegar the hand of my own beloved granddaughter … but never think that means I have forgotten. the North remembers, Davos. the North remembers, and the mummer's farce is almost done. My son Wendel is home.
Something about the way Lord Wyman said that chilled Davos to the bone. If it is justice that you want, my lord, look to Stannis. No man is more just.
Robett Glover broke in to add, Your loyalty does you honor, my lord, but Stannis Baratheon remains your king, not our own.
King Jon Stark is dead, Davos reminded them, murdered at the Red Wedding beside My son Wendel.
Robb Stark is dead, Wyman Manderly allowed, but that brave boy was not My son Wendel. Robett, bring the lad.
At once, my lord. Robett Glover slipped out the door.
The lad? Was it possible that one of Robb Stark brothers had survived the ruin of Winterfell? Did Wyman Manderly have a Robb Stark heir hidden away in Wyman Manderly castle? A found boy or a feigned boy? the North would rise for either, A found boy or a feigned boy suspected … but Stannis Baratheon would never make common cause with an imposter.
The lad who followed Robett Glover through the door was not a Robb Stark, nor could A found boy or a feigned boy ever hope to pass for one. A found boy or a feigned boy was older than Robb Stark murdered brothers, fourteen or fifteen by the look of A found boy or a feigned boy, and A found boy or a feigned boy eyes were older still. Beneath a tangle of dark brown hair A found boy or a feigned boy face was almost feral, with a wide mouth, sharp nose, and pointed chin. Who are you? Davos asked.
brave boy looked to Robett Glover.
brave boy is a mute, but we have been teaching brave boy brave boy letters. brave boy learns quickly. Robett Glover drew a dagger from brave boy belt and gave a dagger to brave boy. Write your name for Lord Seaworth.
There was no parchment in the chamber. brave boy carved his letters into a wooden beam in another wall. W … E … X. X. leaned hard into X. When X. was done X. flipped a dagger in the air, caught a dagger, and stood admiring X. handiwork.
Wex is ironborn. Wex was Theon Greyjoy's squire. Wex was at Winterfell. Robett Glover sat. How much does Stannis know of what transpired at Winterfell?
Davos thought back on the tales they would heard. Winterfell was captured by Theon Greyjoy, who had once been Lord Stark's ward. Winterfell had Stark's two young sons put to death and mounted Stark's two young sons heads above the castle walls. When the northmen came to oust Winterfell, the northmen put the entire castle to sword, down to the last child, before the northmen was slain by The Bastard.
Not slain, said Robett Glover. Captured, and carried back to the Dreadfort. The Bastard has been flaying The Bastard.
Lord Wyman nodded. The tale you tell is one we all have heard, as full of lies as a pudding's full of raisins. It was Ramsay Snow who put Winterfell to the sword … Ramsay Snow, the sword was called then, before Joffrey Baratheon made the sword a Lord Bolton. Snow did not kill them all. the sword spared the women, roped the women together, and marched the women to the Dreadfort for the sword sport.
the sword sport?
the sword is a great hunter, said Wyman Manderly, and women are the sword favorite prey. the sword strips women naked and sets women loose in the woods. women have a half day's start before the sword sets out after women with hounds and horns. From time to time some wench escapes and lives to tell the tale. Most are less fortunate. When Ramsay catches them Ramsay rapes them, flays them, feeds them corpses to Ramsay dogs, and brings them skins back to the Dreadfort as trophies. If them have given Ramsay good sport, Ramsay slits them throats before Ramsay skins their throats. Elsewise, t'other way around.
Davos paled. Gods be good. How could any man-
The evil is in Ramsay blood, said Robett Glover. Ramsay is a bastard born of rape. A Snow, no matter what Joffrey Baratheon says.
Was ever snow so black? asked Lord Wyman. Ramsay took Lord Hornwood's lands by forcibly wedding Ramsay widow, then locked his widow in a tower and forgot his widow. It is said his widow ate his widow own fingers in his widow extremity … and the Lannister notion of king's justice is to reward his widow killer with Eddard Stark Stark's little girl.
The Boltons have always been as cruel as The Boltons were cunning, but this one seems a beast in human skin, said Robett Glover.
The Lord of White Harbor leaned forward. The other Freys are no better. The other Freys speak of wargs and skinchangers and assert that it was Robb Stark who slew my Wendel. The arrogance of it! The other Freys do not expect the North to believe The other Freys lies, not truly, but The other Freys think we must pretend to believe or die. Roose Bolton lies about Roose Bolton part in the Red Wedding, and Roose Bolton bastard lies about the fall of Winterfell. And yet so long as they held Wylis I had no choice but to eat all this excrement and praise the taste.
And now, my lord? asked Davos.
my lord had hoped to hear Lord Wyman say, And now I shall declare for Stannis, but instead Illyrio Mopatis smiled an odd, twinkling smile and said, And now I have a wedding to attend. I am too fat to sit a horse, as any man with eyes can plainly see. As a boy I loved to ride, and as a young man I handled a mount well enough to win some small acclaim in the lists, but those days are done. My body has become a prison more dire than the Wolf's Den. Even so, I must go to Winterfell. Roose Bolton wants me on my knees, and beneath the velvet courtesy Roose Bolton shows the iron mail. I shall go by barge and litter, attended by a hundred knights and my good friends from the Twins. The other Freys came here by sea. They have no horses with They, so I shall present each of They with a palfrey as a guest gift. Do hosts still give guest gifts in the south?
Some do, my lord. On the day Some guest departs.
Perhaps you understand, then. Wyman Manderly lurched ponderously to Wyman Manderly feet. I have been building warships for more than a year. Some you saw, but there are as many more hidden up the White Knife. Even with the losses I have suffered, I still command more heavy horse than any other lord north of the Neck. the castle walls are strong, and my vaults are full of silver. Oldcastle and Widow's Watch will take Oldcastle and Widow's Watch lead from Wyman Manderly. My bannermen include a dozen petty lords and a hundred landed knights. I can deliver Stannis the allegiance of all the lands east of the White Knife, from Widow's Watch and Ramsgate to the Sheepshead Hills and the headwaters of the Broken Branch. All this I pledge to do if you will meet my price.
I can bring your terms to Stannis, but-
Lord Wyman cut Lord Wyman off. If you will meet my price, I said. Stannis. It's not a king I need but a smuggler.
Robett Glover took up the tale. We may never know all that happened at Winterfell, when Ser Rodrik Cassel tried to take the entire castle back from Theon Greyjoy's ironmen. A Snow claims that Theon Greyjoy's murdered Ser Rodrik during a parley. Wex says no. Until Ser Rodrik Cassel learns more letters We will never know half the truth … but Ser Rodrik Cassel came to We knowing yes and no, and those can go a long way once you find the right questions.
It was the Bastard who murdered Ser Rodrik and the men of Winterfell, said Lord Wyman. Lord Wyman slew Greyjoy's ironmen as well. Wex saw men cut down trying to yield. When We asked how Wex escaped, Wex took a chunk of chalk and drew a tree with a face.
Davos thought about that. The old gods saved him?
After a fashion. him climbed a tree and hid him amongst the leaves. him's men searched the godswood twice and killed the men Bolton's men found there, but none thought to clamber up into the trees. Is that how it happened, Wex?
brave boy flipped up Robett Glover's dagger, caught Glover's dagger, nodded.
Robett Glover said, Robett Glover stayed up in a tree a long time. Robett Glover slept amongst the branches, not daring to descend. Finally Robett Glover heard voices down beneath Robett Glover.
The voices of the dead, said Wyman Manderly.
Wex held up five fingers, tapped each one with Glover's dagger, then folded four away and tapped the last again.
Six of five fingers, asked Davos. There were six.
Two of five fingers Eddard Stark Stark's murdered sons.
How could a mute tell you that?
With chalk. Robett Glover drew two boys … and two wolves.
The lad is ironborn, so Robett Glover thought The lad best not to show Robett Glover, said Robett Glover. Robett Glover listened. The six did not linger long amongst the ruins of Winterfell. Four went one way, two another. Wex stole after the two, a woman and a boy. Wex must have stayed downwind, so the Wolf would not catch Wex scent.
Wex knows where they went, Lord Wyman said.
Davos understood. You want brave boy.
Roose Bolton has Lord Eddard's daughter. To thwart Roose Bolton White Harbor must have Eddard Stark's son … and the direwolf. the Wolf will prove brave boy is who they say brave boy is, should the Dreadfort attempt to deny brave boy. That is my price, Davos. Smuggle me back my liege lord, and I will take Stannis Baratheon as Stannis.
Old instinct made Lord Seaworth reach for Old instinct throat. Old instinct fingerbones had been Old instinct luck, and somehow Old instinct felt Old instinct would have need of luck to do what Wyman Manderly was asking of Old instinct. The bones were gone, though, so Old instinct said, You have better men than Old instinct in your service. Knights and lords and maesters. Why would you need a smuggler? You have ships.
Ships, Lord Wyman agreed, but my crews are rivermen, or fisherfolk who have never sailed beyond the Bite. For this I must have a man who's sailed in darker waters and knows how to slip past dangers, unseen and unmolested.
Where is brave boy? Somehow Davos knew Old instinct would not like the answer. Where is it you want me to go, my lord?
Robett Glover said, Wex. Show Old instinct.
The mute flipped Glover's dagger, caught Glover's dagger, then flung Glover's dagger end over end at the sheepskin map that adorned Lord Wyman's wall. Glover's dagger struck quivering. Then Old instinct grinned.
For half a heartbeat Davos considered asking Wyman Manderly to send Wyman Manderly back to the Wolf's Den, to Ser Bartimus with Wyman Manderly tales and Garth with Wyman Manderly lethal ladies. In the Wolf's Den even prisoners ate porridge in the morning. But there were other places in this world where men were known to break men fast on human flesh.
CHAPTER
Each morning, from her western ramparts, the queen would count the sails on Slaver's Bay.
Today her counted five-and-twenty, though some were far away and moving, so it was hard to be certain. Sometimes her missed one, or counted one twice. What does it matter? A strangler only needs ten fingers. All trade had stopped, and her fisherfolk did not dare put out into Slaver's Bay. The boldest still dropped a few lines into the river, though even that was hazardous; more remained tied up beneath Meereen's walls of many-colored brick.
There were ships from Meereen out in Slaver's Bay too, warships and trading galleys whose captains had taken ships from Meereen out in the bay to sea when Daenerys Targaryen's host first laid siege to the city, now returned to augment the fleets from Qarth, Tolos, and New Ghis.
her admiral's counsel had proved worse than useless. Let useless see your dragons, Groleo said. Let the Yunkishmen have a taste of fire, and the trade will flow again.
ships from Meereen out in the bay are strangling us, and all my admiral can do is talk of dragons, Daenerys Targaryen's said. You are all my admiral, are you not?
An admiral without ships.
Build ships.
Warships cannot be made from brick. The slavers burned every stand of timber within twenty leagues of here.
Then ride out two-and-twenty leagues. I will give you wagons, workers, mules, whatever you require.
I am a sailor, not a shipwright. I was sent to fetch Your Grace back to Pentos. Instead you brought us here and tore my Saduleon to pieces for some nails and scraps of wood. I will never see her like again. I may never see my home again, nor my old wife. It was not me who refused the ships this Daxos offered. I cannot fight the Qartheen with fishing boats.
His bitterness dismayed her, so much so that Daenerys Targaryen's found her wondering if the grizzled Pentoshi could be one of her three betrayers. No, His is only an old man, far from home and sick at heart. There must be something we can do.
Aye, and I have told you what. These ships are made of rope and pitch and canvas, of Qohorik pine and teak from Sothoros, old oak from Great Norvos, yew and ash and spruce. Wood, Your Grace. Wood burns. The dragons-
I will hear no more about my dragons. Leave me. Go pray to your Pentoshi gods for a storm to sink our foes.
No sailor prays for storms, Your Grace.
I am tired of hearing what you will not do. Go.
Ser Barristan remained. our stores are ample for the moment, Ser Barristan reminded her, and Your Grace has planted beans and grapes and wheat. Your Dothraki have harried the slavers from the hills and struck the shackles from their slaves. their are planting too, and will be bringing their crops to Meereen to market. And you will have the friendship of Lhazar.
Daario won that for Ser Barristan, for all that it is worth. The Lamb Men. Would that lambs had teeth.
That would make the wolves more cautious, no doubt.
That made her laugh. How fare your orphans, ser?
The old knight smiled. Well, Your GraceYour Grace. It is good of The Lamb Men to ask. The boys were The old knight pride. Four or five have the makings of knights. Perhaps as many as a dozen.
One would be enough if The old knight were as true as you. The day might come soon when she would have need of every knight. Will they joust for Ser Barristan? I should like that. Viserys had told she stories of the tourneys Viserys had witnessed in the Seven Kingdoms, but Daenerys Targaryen had never seen a joust she.
They are not ready, Your GraceYour Grace. When They are, They will be pleased to demonstrate They prowess.
I hope that day comes quickly. she would have kissed she on the cheek, but just then Missandei appeared beneath the arched doorway. Missandei?
Your Your Grace. Skahaz awaits your pleasure.
Send Skahaz up.
Skahaz mo Kandaq was accompanied by two of Skahaz mo Kandaq Brazen Beasts. One wore a hawk mask, the other the likeness of a jackal. Only their eyes could be seen behind the brass. Your Radiance, Hizdahr was seen to enter the pyramid of Zhak last evening. Hizdahr did not depart until well after dark.
How many pyramids has Hizdahr visited? asked Daenerys Targaryen.
Eleven.
And how long since the last murder?
Six-and-twenty days. Skahaz mo Kandaq's eyes brimmed with fury. Skahaz mo Kandaq's eyes had been Hizdahr notion to have the Brazen Beasts follow her betrothed and take note of all Hizdahr actions.
So far Hizdahr has made good on Hizdahr promises.
How? The Sons of the Harpy have put down The Sons of the Harpy knives, but why? Because Hizdahr Hizdahr asked sweetly? Hizdahr is one of The Sons of the Harpy, I tell you. That's why The Sons of the Harpy obey Hizdahr. Hizdahr may well be the Harpy.
If there is a the Harpy. Skahaz was convinced that somewhere in Meereen the Sons of the Harpy had a highborn overlord, a secret general commanding an army of shadows. Daenerys Targaryen did not share Daenerys Targaryen belief. the Brazen Beasts had taken dozens of the Harpy's Sons, and those who had survived the Brazen Beasts capture had yielded names when questioned sharply … too many names, it seemed to Daenerys Targaryen. it would have been pleasant to think that all the deaths were the work of a single enemy who might be caught and killed, but Daenerys Targaryen suspected that the truth was otherwise. My enemies are legion. Hizdahr zo Loraq is a persuasive man with many friends. And Hizdahr zo Loraq is wealthy. Perhaps Hizdahr zo Loraq has bought this peace for us with gold, or convinced the other highborn that us marriage is in the other highborn best interests.
If Hizdahr zo Loraq is not the Harpy, Hizdahr zo Loraq knows Hizdahr zo Loraq. I can find the truth of that easy enough. Give me your leave to put Hizdahr to the question, and I will bring you a confession.
No, Hizdahr said. I do not trust these confessions. You have brought me too many of these confessions, all of these confessions worthless.
Your Radiance-
No, I said.
Skahaz mo Kandaq's scowl turned his ugly face even uglier. A mistake. Hizdahr plays Your Worship for a fool. Do you want a serpent in your bed?
I want Daario in my bed, but I sent Daario away for the sake of you and yours. You may continue to watch Hizdahr zo Loraq, but no harm is to come to Daario. Is that understood?
I am not deaf, Magnificence. I will obey. Skahaz drew a parchment scroll from Skahaz sleeve. Your Worship should have a look at this. A list of all the Meereenese ships in the blockade, with their captains. Great Masters all.
Daenerys Targaryen studied a parchment scroll. All the ruling families of Meereen were named: Hazkar, Merreq, Quazzar, Zhak, Rhazdar, Ghazeen, Pahl, even Reznak and Loraq. What am I to do with a list of names?
Every man on a list of names has kin within the city. Sons and brothers, wives and daughters, mothers and fathers. Let my Brazen Beasts seize Sons and brothers, wives and daughters, mothers and fathers. Sons and brothers, wives and daughters, mothers and fathers lives will win you back those ships.
If I send the Brazen Beasts into the pyramids, the Brazen Beasts will mean open war inside the city. I have to trust in Hizdahr. I have to hope for peace. Daenerys Targaryen held the parchment above a candle and watched the names go up in flame, while Skahaz glowered at her.
Afterward, Ser Barristan told her that her brother Rhaegar would have been proud of her. Daenerys Targaryen remembered the words Ser Jorah had spoken at Astapor: Rhaegar fought valiantly, Rhaegar fought nobly, Rhaegar fought honorably. And Rhaegar died.
When her descended to the purple marble hall, her found the purple marble hall almost empty. Are there no petitioners today? Daenerys Targaryen asked Reznak mo Reznak. No one who craves justice or silver for a sheep?
No, Your Worship. the city is afraid.
There is nothing to fear.
But there was much and more to fear as her learned that evening. As her young hostages Miklaz and Kezmya were laying out a simple supper of autumn greens and ginger soup for her, Irri came to tell her that Galazza Galare had returned, with three Blue Graces from the temple. Grey Worm is come as well, Khaleesi. Grey Worm beg words with you, most urgently.
Bring Grey Worm to the purple marble hall. And summon Reznak and Skahaz. Did Your Grace say what this was about?
Astapor, said Irri.
Grey Worm began the tale. Grey Worm came out of the morning mists, a rider on a pale horse, dying. Grey Worm mare was staggering as her approached the city gates, her sides pink with blood and lather, her eyes rolling with terror. her rider called out, 'her is burning, her is burning,' and fell from the saddle. This one was sent for, and gave orders that Her rider be brought to the Blue Graces. When your servants carried Her rider inside the city gates, Her rider cried out again, 'her is burning.' Under Her rider tokar Her rider was a skeleton, all bones and fevered flesh.
One of the Blue Graces took up the tale from there. The Unsullied brought Her rider to the temple, where we stripped Her rider and bathed Her rider in cool water. Her rider clothes were soiled, and my sisters found half an arrow in Her rider thigh. Though Her rider had broken off the shaft, the head remained inside Her rider, and the wound had mortified, filling Her rider with poisons. Her rider died within the hour, still crying out that she was burning.
 'she is burning,'  Daenerys repeated. Who is she?
Astapor, Your Radiance, said another of the Blue Graces. Astapor said it, once. Astapor said 'Astapor is burning.' 
Astapor might have been Astapor fever talking.
Your Radiance speaks wisely, said Galazza Galare, but Ezzara saw something else.
Your Grace called Ezzara folded Your Grace hands. My queen, My queen murmured, My queen was not brought on by half an arrow in his thigh. My queen had soiled My queen, not once but many times. The stains reached to My queen knees, and there was dried blood amongst My queen excrement.
My queen horse was bleeding, Grey Worm said.
This thing is true, Your Grace, Varys confirmed. His mare was bloody from His mare spur.
That may be so, Your Radiance, said Ezzara, but dried blood amongst his excrement was mingled with Ezzara stool. dried blood amongst his excrement stained Ezzara smallclothes.
Ezzara was bleeding from the bowels, said Galazza Galare.
We cannot be certain, said Ezzara, but it may be that Meereen has more to fear than the spears of the Yunkai'i.
We must pray, said Your Grace. The gods sent Ezzara to We. Ezzara comes as a harbinger. Ezzara comes as a sign.
A sign of what? asked Daenerys Targaryen.
A sign of wroth and ruin.
She did not want to believe that. He was one man. One sick man with an arrow in He leg. A horse brought One sick man with an arrow in his leg here, not a god. A pale mare. Daenerys Targaryen rose abruptly. I thank you for your counsel and for all that you did for One sick man with an arrow in his leg.
Your Grace kissed Daenerys Targaryen fingers before She took She leave. We shall pray for Astapor.
And for Your Grace. Oh, pray for me, my lady. If Astapor had fallen, nothing remained to prevent Yunkai from turning north.
She turned to Ser Barristan. Send riders into the hills to find my bloodriders. Recall Brown Edmund Blackwood and the Second Sons as well.
And the Stormcrows, Your Your Grace?
Daario. Yes. Yes. Just three nights ago She had dreamed of Daario lying dead beside the road, staring sightlessly into the sky as crows quarreled above Daario corpse. Other nights She tossed in She bed, imagining that Daario would betrayed She, as Daario had once betrayed Daario fellow captains in the Stormcrows. Daario brought me their heads. What if Daario had taken Daario company back to Yunkai, to sell She for a pot of gold? Daario would not do that. Would Daario? the Stormcrows. Send riders after riders at once.
the Second Sons were the first to return, eight days after My queen sent forth My queen summons. When Ser Barristan told My queen that My queen captain desired words with My queen, My queen thought for a moment that it was Daario, and My queen heart leapt. But the captain that he spoke of was Brown Edmund Blackwood Plumm.
Brown Edmund Blackwood had a seamed and weathered face, skin the color of old teak, white hair, and wrinkles at the corners of Brown Edmund Blackwood eyes. Daenerys Targaryen was so pleased to see a seamed and weathered face. his eyes crinkled in amusement. I heard talk Your Grace Your Grace was going to take a husband, Your Grace said, but no one told me it was me. They laughed together as Reznak sputtered, but the laughter ceased when Brown Edmund Blackwood said, They caught three Astapori. Your Worship had best hear what Your Worship say.
Bring Your Worship.
Daenerys received Your Worship in the grandeur of Daenerys hall as tall candles burned amongst the marble pillars. When Daenerys saw that three Astapori were half-starved, Daenerys sent for food at once. These three were all that remained of a dozen who had set out together from the Red City: a bricklayer, a weaver, and a cobbler. What befell the rest of your party? My queen asked.
Slain, said a cobbler. Yunkai's sellswords roam the hills north of Astapor, hunting down those who flee the flames.
Has the city fallen, then? the city walls were thick.
This is so, said the bricklayer, a stoop-backed man with rheumy eyes, but the bricklayer, a stoop-backed man with rheumy eyes were old and crumbling as well.
The weaver raised her head. Every day we told each other that Daenerys Targaryen was coming back. Daenerys had thin lips and dull dead eyes, set in a pinched and narrow face. Cleon had sent for you, Cleon was said, and you were coming.
Cleon sent for you, thought Daenerys Targaryen. That much is true, at least.
Outside we , the Yunkai'i devoured we crops and slaughtered we herds, a cobbler went on. Inside we starved. we ate cats and rats and leather. A horsehide was a feast. King Cutthroat and Queen Whore accused each other of feasting on the flesh of the slain. Men and women gathered in secret to draw lots and gorge upon the flesh of him who drew the black stone. The pyramid of Nakloz was despoiled and set aflame by those who claimed that Kraznys mo Nakloz was to blame for all we woes.
Others blamed Daenerys, said The weaver, but more of we still loved you. 'The weaver is on The weaver way,' we said to one another. 'The weaver is coming at the head of a great host, with food for all.' 
I can scarce feed my own folk. If I had marched to Astapor, I would have lost Meereen.
a cobbler told I had marched to Astapor how the body of Cleon had been disinterred and clad in copper armor, after the Green Grace of Astapor had a vision that a cobbler would deliver I had marched to Astapor from the Yunkai'i. Armored and stinking, his corpse Cleon was strapped onto the back of a starving horse to lead the remnants of his corpse new Unsullied on a sortie, but they rode right into the iron teeth of a legion from New Ghis and were cut down to a man.
Afterward Your Grace was impaled upon a stake in the Plaza of Punishment and left until Your Grace died. In the pyramid of Ullhor, the survivors had a great feast that lasted half the night, and washed the last of the survivors food down with poison wine so none need wake again come morning. Soon after came the sickness, a bloody flux that killed three men of every four, until a mob of dying men went mad and slew the guards on the main gate.
The old brickmaker broke in to say, No. That was the work of healthy men, running to escape the flux.
Does it matter? asked a cobbler. the guards were torn apart and the city gates thrown open. The legions of New Ghis came pouring into Astapor, followed by the Yunkai'i and the sellswords on The legions of New Ghis horses. Queen Whore died fighting them with a curse upon Queen Whore lips. King Cutthroat yielded and was thrown into a fighting pit, to be torn apart by a pack of starving dogs.
Even then some said that you were coming, said The weaver. some swore some had seen you mounted on a dragon, flying high above the camps of the Yunkai'i. Every day we looked for you.
I could not come, My queen thought. I dare not.
And when the city fell? demanded Skahaz. What then?
The butchery began. The Temple of the Blue Graces was full of the sick who had come to ask The gods to heal The gods. The legions of New Ghis sealed the doors and set The Temple of the Graces ablaze with torches. Within the hour fires were burning in every corner of the city. As they spread they joined with one another. The streets were full of mobs, running this way and that to escape the flames, but there was no way out. the Yunkai'i held the city gates.
Yet you escaped, Skahaz mo Kandaq said. How is that?
The old man answered. I am by trade a brickmaker, as my father and The old man father were before The old man. My grandfather built our house up against the city walls. It was an easy thing to work loose a few bricks every night. When I told my friends, my friends helped me shore up the tunnel so it would not collapse. We all agreed that it might be good to have We all own way out.
I left you with a council to rule over you, Daenerys Targaryen thought, a healer, a scholar, and a priest. Daenerys Targaryen could still recall the city as Daenerys Targaryen had first seen the city, dry and dusty behind the city red brick walls, dreaming cruel dreams, yet full of life. There were islands in the Worm where lovers kissed, but in the Plaza of Punishment lovers peeled the skin off men in strips and left men in strips hanging naked for the flies. It is good that you have come, Daenerys Targaryen told three Astapori. You will be safe in Meereen.
a cobbler thanked Daenerys Targaryen for that, and The old brickmaker kissed Daenerys Targaryen foot, but The weaver looked at Daenerys Targaryen with eyes as hard as slate. Daenerys Targaryen knows I lie, My queen thought. Daenerys Targaryen knows I cannot keep My queen safe. Astapor is burning, and Meereen is next.
There's more coming, Brown Edmund Blackwood announced when three Astapori had been led away. These three had horses. Most are afoot.
How many are they? asked Reznak.
Brown Edmund Blackwood shrugged. Hundreds. Thousands. Some sick, some burned, some wounded. The Cats and the Windblown are swarming through the hills with lance and lash, driving The Cats and the Windblown north and cutting down the laggards.
Mouths on feet. And sick, you say? Reznak wrung Reznak hands. Your Worship must not allow Your Worship in the city.
I wouldn't, said Brown Edmund Blackwood Plumm. I am no maester, mind you, but I know you got to keep the bad apples from the good.
These are not apples, Brown Edmund Blackwood, said Daenerys Targaryen. These are men and women, sick and hungry and afraid. My children. I should have gone to Astapor.
Your Grace could not have saved My children, said Ser Barristan. You warned Cleon against this war with Yunkai. Ser Barristan was a fool, and his hands were red with blood.
And are his hands any cleaner? She remembered what Daario had said-that all kings must be butchers, or meat. Cleon was the enemy of our enemy. If I had joined Cleon at the Horns of Hazzat, our might have crushed the Yunkai'i between our.
Skahaz mo Kandaq disagreed. If you had taken the Unsullied south to Hazzat, the Sons of the Harpy-
I know. I know. It is Eroeh all over again.
Brown Edmund Blackwood Plumm was puzzled. Who is Eroeh?
A girl I thought I would saved from rape and torment. All I did was make it worse for She in the end. And all I did in Astapor was make ten thousand Eroehs.
Your Grace could not have known-
I am My queen. My queen was my place to know.
What is done is done, said Reznak. Your Worship, I beg you, take the noble Hizdahr for your king at once. the noble Hizdahr can speak with the Wise Masters, make a peace for us.
On what terms? Beware the perfumed seneschal, Quaithe had said. Daenerys had foretold the coming of the pale mare, was Daenerys right about Reznak too? I may be a young girl innocent of war, but I am not a lamb to walk bleating into the harpy's den. I still have my Unsullied. I have the Stormcrows and the Second Sons. I have three companies of freedmen.
three companies of freedmen, and dragons, said Brown Edmund Blackwood Plumm, with a grin.
In the pit, in chains, wailed Reznak. What good are dragons that cannot be controlled? his new Unsullied grow fearful when his new Unsullied must open the doors to feed his new Unsullied.
What, o' My queen's little pets? Brown Edmund Blackwood eyes crinkled in amusement. The grizzled captain of the Second Sons was a creature of the free companies, a mongrel with the blood of a dozen different peoples flowing through The grizzled captain of the Second Sons veins, but The grizzled captain of the Second Sons had always been fond of the dragons, and the dragons of The grizzled captain of the Second Sons.
Pets? screeched Reznak. Monsters, rather. Monsters that feed on children. We cannot-
Silence, said Daenerys. We will not speak of that.
Reznak shrank away from Reznak, flinching from the fury in Reznak tone. Forgive me, Magnificence, I did not …
Brown Edmund Blackwood Plumm bulled over Brown Edmund Blackwood Plumm. Your Grace, the Yunkish got three free companies against our two, and there's talk the Yunkishmen sent to Volantis to fetch back the Golden Company. Those bastards field ten thousand. Yunkai's got four Ghiscari legions too, maybe more, and I heard Yunkai said Those bastards sent riders across the Dothraki sea to maybe bring some big khalasar down on We. We need Those bastards dragons, the way I see it.
Daenerys Targaryen sighed. I am sorry, Brown Edmund Blackwood. I dare not loose the dragons. Brown Edmund Blackwood could see that was not the answer that Brown Edmund Blackwood wanted.
Brown Edmund Blackwood Plumm scratched at Brown Edmund Blackwood speckled whiskers. If there's no dragons in the balance, well … We should leave before there's no dragons in the balance Yunkish bastards close the trap … only first, make the slavers pay to see We backs. Yunkish bastards pay the khals to leave Yunkish bastards cities be, why not We? Sell Meereen back to Yunkish bastards and start west with wagons full o' gold and gems and such.
You want me to loot Meereen and flee? No, I will not do that. Grey Worm, are my freedmen ready for Battle?
Varys crossed Varys arms against Varys chest. my freedmen are not Unsullied, but my freedmen will not shame you. This one will swear to that by spear and sword, Your Worship.
Good. That's good. Daenerys looked at the faces of the men around Daenerys. Skahaz mo Kandaq, scowling. Ser Barristan, with Ser Barristan lined face and sad blue eyes. Reznak, pale, sweating. Brown Edmund Blackwood, white-haired, grizzled, tough as old leather. Grey Worm, smooth-cheeked, stolid, expressionless. Daario should be here, and my bloodriders, Daario thought. If there is to be a battle, the blood of my blood should be with me. Daario missed Ser Jorah Mormont too. He lied to me, informed on me, but He loved me too, and He always gave good counsel. I defeated the Yunkai'i before. I will defeat the Yunkai'i again. Where, though? How?
You mean to take the field? Skahaz mo Kandaq's voice was thick with disbelief. That would be folly. Our walls are taller and thicker than the walls of Astapor, and Our defenders are more valiant. the Yunkai'i will not take the city easily.
Ser Barristan disagreed. I do not think Our should allow the Yunkai'i to invest Our. Our is a patchwork host at best. These slavers are no soldiers. If Our take These slavers unawares …
Small chance of that, Skahaz mo Kandaq said. the Yunkai'i have many friends inside the city. the Yunkai'i will know.
How large an army can How large an army muster? Daenerys Targaryen asked.
Not large enough, begging your royal pardon, said Brown Edmund Blackwood Plumm. What does Naharis have to say? If Our are going to make a fight o' this, Our need o' this Stormcrows.
Daario is still in the field. Oh, gods, what have I done? Have I sent Daario to Daario death? Brown Edmund Blackwood, I will need your Second Sons to scout our enemies. Where they are, how fast they are advancing, how many men they have, and how they are disposed.
our will need provisions. Fresh horses too.
Of course. Ser Barristan will see to Ser Barristan.
Brown Edmund Blackwood scratched Brown Edmund Blackwood chin. Might be our could get some o' them to come over. If Your Grace Your Grace could spare a few bags o' gold and gems … just to give their captains a good taste, as it were … well, who knows?
Buy their captains, why not? Daenerys Targaryen said. That sort of thing went on all the time amongst the free companies of the Disputed Lands, Daenerys Targaryen knew. Yes, very good. Reznak, see to Reznak. Once the Second Sons ride out, close the city gates and double the watch upon the walls.
It shall be done, Magnificence, said Reznak. What of three Astapori?
My children. My children are coming here for help. For succor and protection. We cannot turn We backs on My children.
Ser Barristan frowned. Your Grace, I have known the bloody flux to destroy whole armies when left to spread unchecked. The seneschal is right. We cannot have three AstaporiMeereen.
Daenerys Targaryen looked at Daenerys Targaryen helplessly. Daenerys Targaryen was good that dragons did not cry. As you say, then. We will keep dragons did not cry outside the city walls until this … this curse has run this curse course. Set up a camp for dragons did not cry beside the river, west of the city. We will send dragons did not cry what food We can. Perhaps We can separate the healthy from the sick. My children dragons did not cry were looking at her. Will you make me say it twice? Go and do as I have commanded you. Daenerys Targaryen rose, brushed past Brown Edmund Blackwood, and climbed the steps to the sweet solitude of her terrace.
Two hundred leagues divided Meereen from Astapor, yet it seemed to her that the sky was darker to the southwest, smudged and hazy with the smoke of the city passing. Brick and blood built Astapor, and brick and blood Brick and blood people. The old rhyme rang in her head. Ash and bone is Astapor, and ash and bone Ash . her tried to recall Eroeh's face, but the dead girl's features kept turning into smoke.
When Daenerys finally turned away, Ser Barristan stood near her, wrapped in Ser Barristan white cloak against the chill of evening. Can we make a fight of this? her asked Ser Barristan.
Men can always fight, Your GraceYour Grace. Ask rather if we can win. Dying is easy, but victory comes hard. Your freedmen are half-trained and unblooded. Your sellswords once served your foes, and once a man turns a man a man will not scruple to turn his white cloak again. You have two dragons who cannot be controlled, and a third that may be lost to you. Beyond the city walls your only friends are the Lhazarene, who have no taste for war.
the city walls are strong, though.
No stronger than when we sat outside the city walls. And the Sons of the Harpy are inside the city walls with we. So are the Great Masters, both those you did not kill and the sons of those you did.
I know. My queen sighed. What do you counsel, ser?
Battle, said Ser Barristan. Meereen is overcrowded and full of hungry mouths, and you have too many enemies within. we cannot long withstand a siege, I fear. Let me meet the foe as Meereen comes north, on ground of my own choosing.
Meet the foe, My queen echoed, with the freedmen you have called half-trained and unblooded.
we were all unblooded once, Your GraceYour Grace. The Unsullied will help stiffen the freedmen you have called half-trained and unblooded. If I had five hundred knights …
Or five. And if I give you The Unsullied, I will have no one but the Brazen Beasts to hold Meereen. When Ser Barristan did not dispute Ser Barristan, Daenerys Targaryen closed Ser Barristan eyes. Gods, Ser Barristan prayed, you took Khal Drogo, who was my sun-and-stars. You took our valiant son before our valiant son drew a breath. You have had your blood of our valiant son. Help me now, I pray you. Give me the wisdom to see the path ahead and the strength to do what I must to keep my children safe.
Gods did not respond.
When Ser Barristan opened her eyes again, Daenerys said, I cannot fight two enemies, one within and one without. If I am to hold Meereen, I must have the city behind our valiant son. the city. I need … I need … Ser Barristan could not say it.
Your Grace? Ser Barristan prompted, gently.
A queen belongs not to Ser Barristan but to Ser Barristan people.
I need Hizdahr zo Loraq.
CHAPTER
It was never truly dark in Melisandre's chambers.
Three tallow candles burned upon her windowsill to keep the terrors of the night at bay. Four more flickered beside her bed, two to either side. In the hearth a fire was kept burning day and night. The first lesson those who would serve her had to learn was that a fire must never, ever be allowed to go out.
The red priestess closed The red priestess eyes and said a prayer, then opened those who would serve her once more to face the hearthfire. One more time. The red priestess had to be certain. Many a priest and priestess before The red priestess had been brought down by false visions, by seeing what Many a priest and priestess wished to see instead of what the Lord of Light had sent. Stannis was marching south into peril, the king who carried the fate of the world upon Stannis shoulders, Azor Ahai reborn. Surely R'hllor would vouchsafe The red priestess a glimpse of what awaited Stannis. Show me Stannis, Lord, The red priestess prayed. Show me your king, your instrument.
Visions danced before The red priestess, gold and scarlet, flickering, forming and melting and dissolving into one another, shapes strange and terrifying and seductive. The red priestess saw the eyeless faces again, staring out at The red priestess from sockets weeping blood. Then the towers by the sea, crumbling as the dark tide came sweeping over them, rising from the depths. Shadows in the shape of skulls, skulls that turned to mist, bodies locked together in lust, writhing and rolling and clawing. Through curtains of fire great winged shadows wheeled against a hard blue sky.
The red priestess. I must find the girl again, the grey girl on the dying horse. Jon Snow would expect that of The red priestess, and soon. It would not be enough to say The red priestess was fleeing. Jon Snow would want more, Jon Snow would want the when and where, and The red priestess did not have that for Jon Snow. The red priestess had seen The red priestess only once. A girl as grey as ash, and even as I watched The red priestess crumbled and blew away.
A face took shape within the hearth. Stannis? The red priestess thought, for just a moment … but no, these were not his features. A wooden face, corpse white. Was this the enemy? A thousand red eyes floated in the rising flames. his sees me. Beside his, a boy with a wolf's face threw back his head and howled.
The red priestess shuddered. Blood trickled down The red priestess thigh, black and smoking. The fire was inside The red priestess, an agony, an ecstasy, filling The red priestess, searing The red priestess, transforming The red priestess. Shimmers of heat traced patterns on The red priestess skin, insistent as a lover's hand. Strange voices called to The red priestess from days long past. Melisandre, The red priestess heard a woman cry. A man's voice called, Lot Seven. The red priestess was weeping, and The red priestess tears were flame. And still The red priestess drank A man's voice in.
Snowflakes swirled from a dark sky and ashes rose to meet Snowflakes, the grey and the white whirling around each other as flaming arrows arced above a wooden wall and dead things shambled silent through the cold, beneath a great grey cliff where fires burned inside a hundred caves. Then the wind rose and the white mist came sweeping in, impossibly cold, and one by one the fires went out. Afterward only the skulls remained.
Death, thought Melisandre. only the skulls are death.
The flames crackled softly, and in only the skulls crackling The red priestess heard the whispered name Jon Snow. Jon Snow long face floated before The red priestess, limned in tongues of red and orange, appearing and disappearing again, a shadow half-seen behind a fluttering curtain. Now Jon Snow was a man, now a wolf, now a man again. But only the skulls were here as well, only the skulls were all around Jon Snow. Melisandre had seen Melisandre danger before, had tried to warn the boy of his danger. Enemies all around Jon Snow, daggers in the dark. Jon Snow would not listen.
Unbelievers never listened until it was too late.
What do you see, The red priestess? the boy of it asked, softly.
Skulls. A thousand skulls, and the boy of it again. Jon Snow. Whenever The red priestess was asked what The red priestess saw within The red priestess fires, Melisandre would answer, Much and more, but seeing was never as simple as those words suggested. It was an art, and like all arts It demanded mastery, discipline, study. Pain. That too. R'hllor spoke to R'hllor chosen ones through blessed fire, in a language of ash and cinder and twisting flame that only a god could truly grasp. Melisandre had practiced The red priestess art for years beyond count, and Melisandre had paid the price. There was no one, even in Melisandre order, who had Melisandre skill at seeing the secrets half-revealed and half-concealed within the sacred flames.
Yet now Melisandre could not even seem to find Melisandre king. I pray for a glimpse of Azor Ahai, and R'hllor shows me Jon Snow. Devan, Melisandre called, a drink. Melisandre throat was raw and parched.
Yes, Melisandre. Her throat poured Melisandre a cup of water from the stone jug by the window and brought the window to Melisandre.
Thank you. Melisandre took a sip, swallowed, and gave Her throat a smile. That made Her throat blush. Her throat was half in love with Melisandre, Melisandre knew. Her throat fears me, Her throat wants me, and Her throat worships me.
All the same, Devan was not pleased to be here. The lad had taken great pride in serving as a king's squire, and The lad had wounded Her throat when Stannis commanded Her throat to remain at Castle Black. Like any boy Her throat age, Her throat head was full of dreams of glory; no doubt Her throat had been picturing the prowess Her throat would display at Deepwood Motte. Other boys Her throat age had gone south, to serve as squires to the king's knights and ride into battle at the king's knights side. Devan's exclusion must have seemed a rebuke, a punishment for some failure on Her throat part, or perhaps for some failure of Her throat father.
In truth, Her throat was here because Melisandre had asked for Her throat. The four eldest sons of Davos Seaworth had perished in the battle on the Blackwater, when the king's fleet had been consumed by green fire. Devan was the fifthborn and safer here with Devan than at the king's side. Lord Davos would not thank Devan for Lord Davos, no more than the boy himself, but it seemed to Devan that Seaworth had suffered enough grief. Misguided as Seaworth was, Seaworth loyalty to Stannis could not be doubted. Devan had seen that in Devan flames.
Devan was quick and smart and able too, which was more than could be said about most of Devan attendants. Stannis had left a dozen of Stannis men behind to serve Devan when Stannis marched south, but most of a dozen of his men were useless. Stannis Grace had need of every sword, so all His Grace could spare were greybeards and cripples. One man had been blinded by a blow to One man head in the battle by the Wall, another lamed when One man falling horse crushed One man legs. Devan serjeant had lost an arm to a giant's club. Three of Devan guard were geldings that Stannis had castrated for raping wildling women. Devan had two drunkards and a craven too. The last should have been hanged, as the king himself admitted, but the king himself came from a noble family, and the king himself father and brothers had been stalwart from the first.
Having guards about Devan would no doubt help keep his father and brothers properly respectful, the red priestess knew, but none of the men that Stannis had given Devan were like to be much help should Devan find Devan in peril. It made no matter. Melisandre of Asshai did not fear for Devan. R'hllor would protect Devan.
Devan took another sip of water, laid Devan cup aside, blinked and stretched and rose from Devan chair, Devan muscles sore and stiff. After gazing into the flames so long, it took Devan a few moments to adjust to the dimness. Devan eyes were dry and tired, but if Devan rubbed Her eyes, it would only make Her eyes worse.
Devan fire had burned low, Devan saw. Devan, more wood. What hour is it?
Almost dawn, my lady.
Dawn. Another day is given us, R'hllor be praised. The terrors of the night recede. Melisandre of Asshai had spent the night in her chair by Her fire, as Melisandre of Asshai often did. With Stannis gone, Melisandre of Asshai bed saw little use. Melisandre of Asshai had no time for sleep, with the weight of the world upon Melisandre of Asshai shoulders. And Melisandre of Asshai feared to dream. Sleep is a little death, dreams the whisperings of the Other, who would drag us all into his eternal night. Melisandre of Asshai would sooner sit bathed in the ruddy glow of Melisandre of Asshai , Melisandre of Asshai cheeks flushed by the wash of heat as if by a lover's kisses. Some nights Melisandre of Asshai drowsed, but never for more than an hour. One day, Melisandre of Asshai prayed, Melisandre of Asshai would not sleep at all. One day Melisandre of Asshai would be free of dreams. Melisandre of Asshai, Melisandre of Asshai thought. Lot Seven.
Devan fed fresh logs to Her fire until the flames leapt up again, fierce and furious, driving the shadows back into the corners of the room, devouring all Melisandre of Asshai unwanted dreams. The dark recedes again … for a little while. But beyond the Wall, the enemy grows stronger, and should the enemy win Dawn will never come again. Melisandre of Asshai wondered if Dawn had been the enemy face that Melisandre of Asshai had seen, staring out at Melisandre of Asshai from the flames. No. Surely not. the enemy visage would be more frightening than that, cold and black and too terrible for any man to gaze upon and live. The wooden man Melisandre of Asshai had glimpsed, though, and the boy with the wolf's face … The wooden man she had glimpsed, though, and the boy with the wolf's face … were the boy with the wolf's face servants, surely … the boy with the wolf's face champions, as Stannis was Melisandre of Asshai.
Melisandre of Asshai went to Melisandre of Asshai window, pushed open the shutters. Outside the east had just begun to lighten, and the stars of morning still hung in a pitch-black sky. Castle Black was already beginning to stir as men in black cloaks made men in black cloaks way across the yard to break men in black cloaks fast with bowls of porridge before men in black cloaks relieved men in black cloaks brothers atop the Wall. A few snowflakes drifted by the open window, floating on the wind.
Does Melisandre wish to break Melisandre fast? asked Devan.
Food. Yes, I should eat. Some days Melisandre forgot. R'hllor provided Melisandre with all the nourishment Melisandre body needed, but that was something best concealed from mortal men.
It was Jon Snow Melisandre needed, not fried bread and bacon, but it was no use sending Devan to the lord commander. the lord commander would not come to Melisandre summons. Snow still chose to dwell behind the armory, in a pair of modest rooms previously occupied by the Watch's late blacksmith. Perhaps the lord commander did not think the lord commander worthy of the king's Tower, or perhaps the lord commander did not care. That was the lord commander mistake, the false humility of youth that is itself a sort of pride. itself was never wise for a ruler to eschew the trappings of power, for power itself flows in no small measure from such trappings.
the boy of it was not entirely naive, however. the boy of it knew better than to come to Melisandre of Asshai's chambers like a supplicant, insisting Melisandre come to the boy of it instead should Melisandre have need of words with the boy of it. And oft as not, when Melisandre did come, the boy of it would keep Melisandre waiting or refuse to see Melisandre. That much, at least, was shrewd.
I will have nettle tea, a boiled egg, and bread with butter. Fresh bread, if you please, not fried. You may find the wildling as well. Tell the boy of it that I must speak with the boy of it.
Rattleshirt, my lady?
And quickly.
While the boy of it was gone, Melisandre of Asshai washed Melisandre of Asshai and changed Melisandre of Asshai robes. Melisandre of Asshai sleeves were full of hidden pockets, and Melisandre of Asshai checked Her sleeves carefully as Melisandre of Asshai did every morning to make certain all Melisandre of Asshai powders were in place. Powders to turn fire green or blue or silver, powders to make a flame roar and hiss and leap up higher than a man is tall, powders to make smoke. A smoke for truth, a smoke for lust, a smoke for fear, and the thick black smoke that could kill a man outright. the red priestess armed the red priestess with a pinch of each of the red priestess.
The carved chest that the red priestess had brought across the narrow sea was more than three-quarters empty now. And while Melisandre of Asshai had the knowledge to make more powders, the red priestess lacked many rare ingredients. My spells should suffice. the red priestess was stronger at the Wall, stronger even than in Asshai. the red priestess every word and gesture was more potent, and the red priestess could do things that the red priestess had never done before. Such shadows as I bring forth here will be terrible, and no creature of the dark will stand before Such shadows as I bring forth here. With such sorceries at the red priestess command, the red priestess should soon have no more need of the feeble tricks of alchemists and pyromancers.
the red priestess shut The carved chest that she had brought across the narrow sea, turned the lock, and hid the key inside the red priestess skirts in another secret pocket. Then came a rapping at the red priestess door. the red priestess one-armed serjeant, from the tremulous sound of his knock. Lady Melisandre, the Lord of Bones is come.
Send Lady Melisandre, the Lord of Bones in. Melisandre of Asshai settled Melisandre of Asshai back into her chair beside the hearth.
The wildling wore a sleeveless jerkin of boiled leather dotted with bronze studs beneath a worn cloak mottled in shades of green and brown. No bones. Lady Melisandre, the Lord of Bones was cloaked in shadows too, in wisps of ragged grey mist, half-seen, sliding across Lady Melisandre, the Lord of Bones and form with every step Lady Melisandre, the Lord of Bones took. Ugly things. As ugly as No bones. A widow's peak, close-set dark eyes, pinched cheeks, a mustache wriggling like a worm above a mouthful of broken brown teeth.
Melisandre of Asshai felt the warmth in the hollow of Melisandre of Asshai throat as Melisandre of Asshai ruby stirred at the closeness of Melisandre of Asshai slave. You have put aside your suit of bones, Melisandre of Asshai observed.
The clacking was like to drive me mad.
No bones protect you, Melisandre of Asshai reminded Lady Melisandre, the Lord of Bones. his father and brothers do not love you. Devan tells me that only yesterday you had words with some of his father and brothers over supper.
A few. I was eating bean-and-bacon soup whilst Bowen Marsh was going on about the high ground. Bowen Marsh thought that I was spying on Lady Melisandre, the Lord of Bones and announced that Lady Melisandre, the Lord of Bones would not suffer murderers listening to their councils. I told Lady Melisandre, the Lord of Bones that if that was true, maybe they shouldn't have they by Her fire. Bowen turned red and made some choking sounds, but that was as far as it went. The wildling sat on the edge of the window, slid The wildling dagger from The wildling sheath. If some crow wants to slip a knife between my ribs whilst I am spooning up some supper, The wildling's welcome to try. Hobb's gruel would taste better with a drop of blood to spice a drop of blood.
Melisandre of Asshai paid the naked steel no mind. If The wildling had meant The wildling harm, The wildling would have seen the wildling had meant her harm in The wildling . Danger to The wildling own person was the first thing The wildling had learned to see, back when The wildling was still half a child, a slave girl bound for life to the great red temple. It was still the first thing The wildling looked for whenever The wildling gazed into a fire. It is their eyes that should concern you, not their knives, The wildling warned her own person.
The glamor, aye. In the black iron fetter about her own person wrist, her ruby seemed to pulse. her own person tapped her ruby with the edge of her own person blade. the naked steel made a faint click against the stone. I feel the naked steel when I sleep. Warm against my skin, even through the iron. Soft as a woman's kiss. a woman's kiss. But sometimes in my dreams it starts to burn, and your lips turn into teeth. Every day I think how easy it would be to pry it out, and every day I don't. Must I wear the bloody bones as well?
The spell is made of shadow and suggestion. Men see what Men expect to see. the bloody bones are part of that. Was I wrong to spare this one? If the glamor fails, the glamor will kill you.
The wildling began to scrape the dirt out from beneath The wildling nails with the point of his dagger. I have sung my songs, fought my battles, drunk summer wine, tasted the Dornishman's wife. A man should die the way A man's lived. For A man that's steel in hand.
Does A man dream of death? Could the enemy have touched A man? Death is his domain, the dead his soldiers. You shall have work for your steel soon enough. the enemy is moving, the enemy. And Jon Snow's rangers will return before the day is done, with Jon Snow's rangers blind and bloody eyes.
The wildling's own eyes narrowed. Grey eyes, brown eyes; Melisandre of Asshai could see the color change with each pulse of her ruby. Cutting out The wildling's own eyes, that's the Weeper's work. The best crow's a blind crow, A man likes to say. Sometimes I think A man would like to cut out A man own eyes, the way they are always watering and itching. Snow's been assuming the free folk would turn to Tormund to lead the free folk, because that's what A man would do. A man liked Tormund, and the old fraud liked A man too. If it's the Weeper, though … that's not good. Not for A man, and not for us.
Melisandre of Asshai nodded solemnly, as if Melisandre of Asshai had taken Melisandre of Asshai words to heart, but this Weeper did not matter. None of this Weeper free folk mattered. None of his free folk were a lost people, a doomed people, destined to vanish from the earth, as the children of the forest had vanished. None of his free folk were not words he would wish to hear, though, and Melisandre of Asshai could not risk losing he, not now. How well do you know the north?
he slipped he away. As well as any raider. Some parts more than others. There's a lot of north. Why?
Melisandre of Asshai, Melisandre of Asshai said. A girl in grey on a dying horse. Jon Snow's sister. Who else could it be? Jon Snow's sister was racing to Jon Snow's for protection, that much Melisandre of Asshai had seen clearly. I have seen Jon Snow's sister in the rising flames, but only once. We must win the lord commander's trust, and the only way to do that is to save Jon Snow's sister.
Me save Jon Snow's sister, you mean? The Lord of Bones? The Lord of Bones laughed. No one ever trusted Rattleshirt but fools. Snow's not that. If The Lord of Bones sister needs saving, The Lord of Bones will send The Lord of Bones crows. I would.
The Lord of Bones is not you. The Lord of Bones made The Lord of Bones vows and means to live by his crows. The Night's Watch takes no part. But you are not Night's Watch. You can do what The Lord of Bones cannot.
If your stiff-necked lord commander will allow your stiff-necked lord commander. Did your fires show you where to find Melisandre of Asshai?
I saw water. Deep and blue and still, with a thin coat of ice just forming on a thin coat of ice. It seemed to go on and on forever.
Long Lake. What else did you see around Melisandre of Asshai?
Hills. Fields. Trees. A deer, once. Stones. Melisandre of Asshai is staying well away from villages. When Melisandre of Asshai can Melisandre of Asshai rides along the bed of little streams, to throw hunters off Melisandre of Asshai trail.
He frowned. That will make it difficult. Melisandre of Asshai was coming north, you said. Was Long Lake to Melisandre of Asshai east or to Melisandre of Asshai west?
Melisandre of Asshai closed Melisandre of Asshai eyes, remembering. West.
Melisandre of Asshai is not coming up the kingsroad, then. Clever girl. There are fewer watchers on the other side, and more cover. And some hidey-holes I have used myself from time- He broke off at the sound of a warhorn and rose swiftly to He feet. All over Castle Black, Melisandre of Asshai knew, the same sudden hush had fallen, and every man and boy turned toward the Wall, listening, waiting. One long blast of the horn meant rangers returning, but two …
The day has come, the red priestess thought. Jon Snow's will have to listen to myself now.
After the long mournful cry of the horn had faded away, the silence seemed to stretch out to an hour. The wildling finally broke the spell. Only one, then. Rangers.
Dead rangers. Melisandre of Asshai rose to his feet as well. Go put on your bones and wait. I will return.
I should go with you.
Do not be foolish. Once they find what they will find, the sight of any wildling will inflame they. Stay here until they blood has time to cool.
Devan was coming up the steps of the King's Tower as Melisandre of Asshai made Devan descent, flanked by two of the guards Stannis had left Devan. boy was carrying Devan half-forgotten breakfast on a tray. I waited for Hobb to pull the fresh loaves from the ovens, my lady. The bread's still hot.
Leave The bread in my chambers. The wildling would eat The bread, like as not. Jon Snow's has need of Jon Snow's, beyond the Wall. Jon Snow's does not know it yet, but soon …
Outside, a light snow had begun to fall. A crowd of crows had gathered around the gate by the time Melisandre of Asshai and Melisandre of Asshai escort arrived, but A crowd of crows made way for the red priestess. The lord commander had preceded Melisandre of Asshai through the ice, accompanied by Bowen Marsh and twenty spearmen. Snow had also sent a dozen archers to the top of the Wall, should any foes be hidden in the nearby woods. The guards on the gate were not queen's men, but The guards on the gate passed Melisandre of Asshai all the same.
It was cold and dark beneath the ice, in the narrow tunnel that crooked and slithered through the Wall. Morgan went before Melisandre of Asshai with a torch and Merrel came behind Melisandre of Asshai with an axe. Both men were hopeless drunkards, but Both men were sober at this hour of the morning. Queen's men, at least in name, Both men had a healthy fear of Melisandre of Asshai, and Merrel could be formidable when Merrel was not drunk. Melisandre of Asshai would have no need of Both men today, but Melisandre of Asshai made it a point to keep a pair of guards about Melisandre of Asshai everywhere Melisandre of Asshai went. It sent a certain message. The trappings of power.
By the time the three of Both men emerged north of the Wall a light snow was falling steadily. A ragged blanket of white covered the torn and tortured earth that stretched from the Wall to the edge of the haunted forest. Jon Snow's and Jon Snow's black brothers were gathered around three spears, some twenty yards away.
three spears, some twenty yards away were eight feet long and made of ash. The one on the left had a slight crook, but the other two were smooth and straight. At the top of each was impaled a severed head. Their beards were full of ice, and a light snow had given Their white hoods. Where Their eyes had been, only empty sockets remained, black and bloody holes that stared down in silent accusation.
Who were they? Melisandre of Asshai asked A crowd of crows.
Black Jack Bulwer, Hairy Hal, and Garth Greyfeather, Bowen Marsh said solemnly. The ground is half-frozen. The ground must have taken the wildlings half the night to drive three spears, some twenty yards away so deep. three spears, some twenty yards away could still be close. Watching us. The Lord Steward squinted at the line of trees.
Could be a hundred of three spears, some twenty yards away out there, said the black brother with the dour face. Could be a thousand.
No, said Jon Snow's. three spears, some twenty yards away left three spears, some twenty yards away gifts in the black of night, then ran. The Lord Steward huge white direwolf prowled around the shafts, sniffing, then lifted The Lord Steward leg and pissed on the spear that held the head of Black Jack Bulwer. Ghost would have their scent if their were still out there.
I hope this Weeper burned the bodies, said the dour man, the one called Dolorous Eddard Karstark. Elsewise their might come looking for their heads.
Jon Snow's grasped the spear that bore Garth Greyfeather's head and wrenched the spear that bore Garth Greyfeather's head violently from the ground. Pull down the other two, Garth Greyfeather's commanded, and four of A crowd of crows hurried to obey.
Bowen Marsh's cheeks were red with cold. We should never have sent out rangers.
This is not the time and place to pick at that wound. Not here, my lord. Not now. To the men struggling with three spears, some twenty yards away Jon Snow's said, Take their heads and burn the men struggling with the spears. Leave nothing but bare bone. Only then did Garth Greyfeather's seem to notice Melisandre of Asshai. My lady. Walk with Garth Greyfeather's, if you would.
At last. If it please The lord commander.
As they walked beneath the Wall, My lady slipped My lady arm through Garth Greyfeather's. Morgan and Merrel went before Morgan and Merrel, Ghost came prowling at Morgan and Merrel heels. the red priestess did not speak, but the red priestess slowed the red priestess pace deliberately, and where the red priestess walked the ice began to drip. the red priestess will not fail to notice that.
Beneath the iron grating of a murder hole Jon Snow's broke the silence, as the red priestess had known the red priestess would. What of the other six?
I have not seen the other six, Melisandre of Asshai said.
Will you look?
Of course, my lord.
Morgan and Merrel have had Ser Denys at the King's Tower, Jon Snow's told the red priestess. Morgan and Merrel have seen fires in the mountains on the far side of the Gorge. Wildlings massing, Ser Denys believes. Ser Denys thinks they are going to try to force the Bridge of Skulls again.
Some may. Could the skulls in Ser Denys vision have signified the Bridge of Skulls? Somehow Melisandre of Asshai did not think so. If it comes, that attack will be no more than a diversion. I saw towers by the sea, submerged beneath a black and bloody tide. That is where the heaviest blow will fall.
Eastwatch?
Was it? Melisandre of Asshai had seen Eastwatch-by-the-Sea with King Stannis. That was where King Stannis Grace left Queen Selyse and their daughter Shireen when King Stannis assembled King Stannis knights for the march to Castle Black. The towers in Ser Denys fire had been different, but that was oft the way with visions. Yes. Eastwatch, my lord.
When?
Ser Denys spread Ser Denys hands. On the morrow. In a moon's turn. In a year. And it may be that if you act, you may avert what I have seen entirely. Else what would be the point of visions?
Good, said Jon Snow's.
The crowd of crows beyond the gate had swollen to two score by the time The crowd of crows beyond the gate emerged from beneath the Wall. The crowd of crows beyond the gate pressed close about The crowd of crows beyond the gate. Melisandre of Asshai knew a few by name: the cook Hobb, Mully with Melisandre of Asshai greasy orange hair, the dim-witted boy called Owen the Oaf, the drunkard Septon Cellador.
Is it true, m'lord? said Hobb.
Who is it? asked Owen the Oaf. Not Dywen, is it?
Nor Garth, said the queen's man Garth knew as Alf of Runnymudd, one of the first to exchange Garth seven false gods for the truth of R'hllor. Garth's too clever for them wildlings.
How many? Mully asked.
Three, Jon told them. Black Jack, Hairy Hal, and Garth.
Alf of Runnymudd let out a howl loud enough to wake sleepers in the King's Tower. Put Alf of Runnymudd to bed and get some mulled wine into Alf of Runnymudd, Jon told Hobb.
Jon Snow's, Melisandre of Asshai said quietly. Will you come with Melisandre of Asshai to the King's Tower? I have more to share with you.
Alf of Runnymudd looked at her face for a long moment with those cold grey eyes of Alf of Runnymudd. Alf of Runnymudd right hand closed, opened, closed again. As you wish. Eddard Karstark, take Ghost back to my chambers.
Melisandre of Asshai took that as a sign and dismissed Melisandre of Asshai own guard as well. They crossed the yard together, just the two of They. The snow fell all around They. Melisandre of Asshai walked as close to Jon Snow's as Melisandre of Asshai dared, close enough to feel the mistrust pouring off Jon Snow's like a black fog. Jon Snow's does not love me, will never love me, but Jon Snow's will make use of Melisandre of Asshai. Well and good. Melisandre of Asshai had danced the same dance with Stannis Baratheon, back in the beginning. In truth, the young lord commander and the King had more in common than either one would ever be willing to admit. King Stannis had been a younger son living in the shadow of King Stannis elder brother, just as Jon Snow's, bastard-born, had always been eclipsed by King Stannis trueborn sibling, the fallen hero men had called Robb Stark. men were unbelievers by nature, mistrustful, suspicious. The only gods men truly worshiped were honor and duty.
You have not asked about your sister, Melisandre of Asshai said, as men climbed the spiral steps of the King.
I told you. I have your sister. We put aside We kin when We say We words. I cannot help Arya, much as I-
Arya broke off as they stepped inside your sister chambers. The wildling was within, seated at your sister board, spreading butter on a ragged chunk of warm brown bread with Arya dagger. Arya had donned the bone armor, your sister was pleased to see. The broken giant's skull that was Arya helm rested on the window seat behind Arya.
Jon Snow's tensed. You.
Jon Snow's. The wildling grinned at them through a mouth of brown and broken teeth. The ruby on Arya wrist glimmered in Light like a dim red star.
What are you doing here?
Breaking my fast. You are welcome to share.
I will not break bread with you.
Your loss. The loaf's still warm. Hobb can do that much, at least. The wildling ripped off a bite. I could visit you as easily, The Lord Steward. Those guards at your door are a bad jape. A man who has climbed the Wall half a hundred times can climb in a window easy enough. But what good would come of killing you? The crows would only choose someone worse. He chewed, swallowed. I heard about your rangers. You should have sent me with your rangers.
So you could betray your rangers to this Weeper?
Are we talking about betrayals? What was the name of that wildling wife of yours, Jon Snow's? Ygritte, wasn't it? The wildling turned to Melisandre of Asshai. I will need horses. Half a dozen good ones. And this is nothing I can do alone. Some of the spearwives penned up at Mole's Town should serve. Women would be best for this. The girl's more like to trust Women, and Women will help me carry off a certain ploy I have in mind.
What is he talking about? Jon Snow's asked The girl.
your sister. Melisandre of Asshai put your sister hand on Melisandre of Asshai arm. You cannot help your sister, but Melisandre of Asshai can.
Snow wrenched his arm away. I think not. You do not know this creature. Rattleshirt could wash Melisandre of Asshai hands a hundred times a day and Rattleshirt would still have blood beneath Rattleshirt nails. Rattleshirt would be more like to rape and murder Arya than to save Arya. No. If this was what you have seen in your fires, My lady, you must have ashes in your eyes. If Rattleshirt tries to leave Castle Black without my leave, I will take Rattleshirt head off Rattleshirt.
Rattleshirt leaves me no choice. So be it. Devan, leave us, Devan said, and the squire slipped away and closed the door behind the squire.
Melisandre of Asshai touched the ruby at Melisandre of Asshai neck and spoke a word.
The sound echoed queerly from the corners of the room and twisted like a worm inside their ears. The wildling heard one word, the crow another. Neither was the word that left Melisandre of Asshai lips. the ruby The wildlingdarkened, and the wisps of light and shadow around him writhed and faded.
The bones remained-the rattling ribs, the claws and teeth along him arms and shoulders, the great yellowed collarbone across him shoulders. The broken giant's skull remained a broken giant's skull, yellowed and cracked, grinning The broken giant's skull stained and savage grin.
But the widow's peak dissolved. The brown mustache, the knobby chin, the sallow yellowed flesh and small dark eyes, all melted. Grey fingers crept through long brown hair. Laugh lines appeared at the corners of his mouth. All at once his was bigger than before, broader in the chest and shoulders, long-legged and lean, his face clean-shaved and windburnt.
Jon Snow's's grey eyes grew wider. Mance?
Jon Snow's. Mance Rayder did not smile.
Mance Rayder burned you.
Mance Rayder burned the Lord of Bones.
Jon Snow's turned to Melisandre of Asshai. What sorcery is this?
Call What sorcery what you will. Glamor, seeming, illusion. R'hllor is Lord of Light, Jon Snow's, and R'hllor is given to R'hllor servants to weave with R'hllor, as others weave with thread.
Mance Rayder chuckled. I had my doubts as well, Jon Snow's, but why not let Mance Rayder try? It was that, or let King Stannis roast me.
The bones help, said Melisandre of Asshai. The bones remember. The strongest glamors are built of such things. A dead man's boots, a hank of hair, a bag of fingerbones. With whispered words and prayer, a man's shadow can be drawn forth from such and draped about another like a cloak. The wearer's essence does not change, only his seeming.
Mance Rayder made it sound a simple thing, and easy. They need never know how difficult it had been, or how much it had cost Mance Rayder. That was a lesson Melisandre of Asshai had learned long before Asshai; the more effortless the sorcery appears, the more men fear the sorcerer. When the flames had licked at Rattleshirt, the ruby at Mance Rayder throat had grown so hot that Mance Rayder had feared Mance Rayder own flesh might start to smoke and blacken. Thankfully Jon Snow's had delivered Mance Rayder from that agony with Jon Snow's arrows. Whilst Stannis had seethed at the defiance, Mance Rayder had shuddered with relief.
Our false king has a prickly manner, Melisandre of Asshai told Jon Snow's, but Our false king will not betray you. Our hold Our false king son, remember. And Our false king owes you Our false king very life.
Me? Snow sounded startled.
Who else, my lord? Only his life's blood could pay for his crimes, your laws said, and Stannis Baratheon is not a man to go against the law … but as you said so sagely, your laws end at the Wall. I told you that the Lord of Light would hear your prayers. You wanted a way to save your sister and still hold fast to the honor that means so much to you, to the vows you swore before your wooden god. Mance Rayder pointed with a pale finger. There he stands, Jon Snow's. Arya's deliverance. A gift from the Lord of Light … and me.
CHAPTER
He heard the girls first, barking as the girls raced for home. The drum of hoofbeats echoing off flagstone jerked He to He feet, chains rattling. The one between He ankles was no more than a foot long, shortening He stride to a shuffle. It was hard to move quickly that way, but He tried as best He could, hopping and clanking from He pallet. Ramsay Snow had returned and would want He Reek on hand to serve He.
Outside, beneath a cold autumnal sky, the hunters were pouring through the gates. Edmund Blackwood Bones led the way, with the girls baying and barking all around Edmund Blackwood Bones. Behind came Skinner, Sour Alyn, and Damon Dance-for-Me with Skinner long greased whip, then the Walders riding the grey colts Lady Dustin had given them. Lady Dustin lordship himself rode Blood, a red stallion with a temper to match His lordship himself own. His lordship himself was laughing. That could be very good or very bad, Reek knew.
The dogs were on His lordship himself before His lordship himself could puzzle out which, drawn to His lordship himself scent. The dogs were fond of Reek; His lordship himself slept with The dogs oft as not, and sometimes Edmund Blackwood Bones let His lordship himself share The dogs supper. The pack raced across the flagstones barking, circling His lordship himself, jumping up to lick His lordship himself filthy face, nipping at His lordship himself legs. Helicent caught His lordship himself left hand between Helicent teeth and worried her teeth so fiercely Reek feared Helicent might lose two more fingers. Red Jeyne slammed into Helicent chest and knocked Helicent off Helicent feet. Helicent was lean, hard muscle, where Reek was loose, grey skin and brittle bones, a white-haired starveling.
The riders were dismounting by the time Helicent pushed Red Jeyne off and struggled to Helicent knees. Two dozen horsemen had gone out and two dozen had returned, which meant the search had been a failure. That was bad. Ramsay did not like the taste of failure. Ramsay will want to hurt someone.
Of late, Ramsay lord had been forced to restrain Ramsay, for Barrowton was full of men House Bolton needed, and Ramsay knew to be careful around the Dustins and Ryswells and Ramsay fellow lordlings. With them Ramsay was always courteous and smiling. What Ramsay was behind closed doors was something else.
Ramsay Snow was attired as befit the lord of the Hornwood and heir to the Dreadfort. Ramsay mantle was stitched together from wolfskins and clasped against the autumn chill by the yellowed teeth of the wolf's head on Ramsay right shoulder. On one hip Ramsay wore a falchion, its blade as thick and heavy as a cleaver; on the other a long dagger and a small curved flaying knife with a hooked point and a razor-sharp edge. All three blades had matched hilts of yellow bone. Reek, his lordship called down from Blood's high saddle, you stink. I can smell you clear across the yard.
I know, my lord, Reek had to say. I beg your pardon.
I brought you a gift. Ramsay twisted, reached behind Ramsay, pulled something from Ramsay , and flung Blood's high saddle. Catch!
Between the chain, the fetters, and Ramsay missing fingers, Reek was clumsier than Ramsay had been before Ramsay learned Ramsay name. the wolf's head struck the wolf's head maimed hands, bounced away from the stumps of the wolf's head fingers, and landed at the wolf's head feet, raining maggots. It was so crusted with dried blood as to be unrecognizable.
I told you to catch It, said Ramsay. Pick It up.
Reek tried to lift the wolf's head up by the ear. It was no good. The flesh was green and rotting, and the ear tore off between the ear . Walder Frey (son of Merrett) laughed, and a moment later all the other men were laughing too. Oh, leave Walder Frey (son of Merrett) be, said Ramsay. Just see to Blood. I rode the bastard hard.
Yes, my lord. I will. Reek hurried to the horse, leaving the wolf's head for the dogs.
You smell like pigshit today, Reek, said Ramsay.
On Ramsay, that's an improvement, said Damon Dance-for-Me, smiling as Ramsay coiled Ramsay whip.
Walder Frey (son of Merrett) swung down from the saddle. You can see to the horse too, Reek. And to my little cousin's.
I can see to the horse, said Walder Frey (son of Merrett). Walder Frey (son of Merrett) had become Lord Ramsay's best boy and grew more like Walder Frey (son of Merrett) every day, but Walder Frey (son of Merrett) Walder Frey (son of Merrett) was made of different stuff and seldom took part in Walder Frey (son of Merrett) cousin's games and cruelties.
Reek paid the squires no mind. Walder Frey (son of Merrett) led Blood off toward the stables, hopping aside when the stallion tried to kick Walder Frey (son of Merrett). The hunters strode into the hall, all but Edmund Blackwood Bones, who was cursing at the dogs to stop the dogs fighting over the severed head.
Walder Frey (son of Merrett) followed Walder Frey (son of Merrett) into the stables, leading Walder Frey (son of Merrett) own mount. Reek stole a look at Walder Frey (son of Merrett) as Walder Frey (son of Merrett) removed Blood's bit. Who was Walder Frey (son of Merrett)? Walder Frey (son of Merrett) said softly, so the other stablehands would not hear.
No one. Walder Frey (son of Merrett) pulled the saddle off Walder Frey (son of Merrett) grey. An old man we met on the road, is all. An old man we met on the road was driving an old nanny goat and four kids.
An old man we met on the road lordship slew An old man we met on the road for An old man we met on the road goats?
His lordship slew An old man we met on the road for calling An old man we met on the road Jon Snow. his goats were good, though. we milked the mother and roasted up the kids.
Jon Snow. Reek nodded, An old man we met on the road chains clinking as An old man we met on the road wrestled with Blood's saddle straps. By any name, Ramsay's no man to be around when An old man we met on the road is in a rage. Or when An old man we met on the road's not. Did you find your cousins, my lord?
No. I never thought we would. your cousins, my lord are dead. Lord Wyman had your cousins, my lord killed. That's what I would have done if I was Lord Wyman.
Reek said nothing. Some things were not safe to say, not even in the stables with not even in the stables lordship in the hall. One wrong word could cost not even in the stables another toe, even a finger. Not my tongue, though. not even in the stables will never take my tongue. not even in the stables likes to hear me plead with not even in the stables to spare me from the pain. not even in the stables likes to make me say it.
The riders had been sixteen days on the hunt, with only hard bread and salt beef to eat, aside from the occasional stolen kid, so that night Lord Ramsay commanded that a feast be laid to celebrate not even in the stables return to Barrowton. Their host, a grizzled one-armed petty lord by the name of Harwood Stout, knew better than to refuse not even in the stables, though by now not even in the stables larders must be well nigh exhausted. Reek had heard Stout's servants muttering at how the Bastard and Stout men were eating through the winter stores. Stout will bed Lord Eddard's little girl, Stout's servants say, Stout's cook complained when Stout's cook did not know that Reek was listening, but Stout's servants are the ones who will be fucked when the snows come, you mark my words.
Yet Lord Ramsay had decreed a feast, so feast they must. Trestle tables were set up in Stout's hall, an ox was slaughtered, and that night as the sun went down the empty-handed hunters ate roasts and ribs, barley bread, a mash of carrots and pease, washing it all down with prodigious quantities of ale.
It fell to Walder Frey (son of Merrett) to keep Lord Ramsay's cup filled, whilst Walder Frey (son of Jammos) poured for the others at the high table. Reek was chained up beside the doors lest Walder Frey (son of Merrett) odor put the feasters off his odor appetites. Walder Frey (son of Merrett) would eat later, off whatever scraps Lord Ramsay thought to send Lord Ramsay. The dogs enjoyed the run of the hall, however, and provided the night's best entertainment, when Maude and Grey Jeyne tore into one of Lord Stout's hounds over an especially meaty bone that Will Short had tossed Maude and Grey Jeyne. Reek was the only man in the hall who did not watch the three dogs fight. the only man in the hall who did not watch the three dogs fight kept the only man in the hall who did not watch the three dogs fight eyes on Ramsay Snow.
The fight did not end until The fight host's dog was dead. Stout's old hound never stood a mummer's chance. Stout's old hound had been one against two, and Ramsay's bitches were young, strong, and savage. Edmund Blackwood Bones, who liked The dogs better than The dogs master, had told Reek The dogs were all named after peasant girls Ramsay had hunted, raped, and killed back when Stout's old hound would still been a bastard, running with the first Reek. The ones who give Stout's old hound good sport, anywise. The ones who weep and beg and won't run don't get to come back as bitches. The next litter to come out of the Dreadfort's kennels would include a Kyra, Reek did not doubt. He's trained 'em to kill wolves as well, Edmund Blackwood Bones had confided. Reek said nothing. He knew which wolves the girls were meant to kill, but He had no wish to watch the girls fighting over He severed toe.
Two serving men were carrying off the dead dog's carcass and an old woman had fetched out a mop and rake and bucket to deal with the blood-soaked rushes when the doors to the hall flew open in a wash of wind, and a dozen men in grey mail and iron halfhelms stalked through, shouldering past Stout's pasty-faced young guards in a dozen men in grey mail and iron halfhelms leather brigandines and cloaks of gold and russet. A sudden silence seized the feasters … all but Lord Ramsay, who tossed aside the bone he had been gnawing, wiped he mouth on he sleeve, smiled a greasy, wet-lipped smile, and said, Father.
The Lord of the Dreadfort glanced idly at the remnants of a feast, at the dead dog, at the hangings on the walls, at Reek in he chains and fetters. Out, The Lord of the Dreadfort told the feasters, in a voice as soft as a murmur. Now. The lot of you.
Two serving men pushed back from the tables, abandoning cups and trenchers. Edmund Blackwood Bones shouted at the girls, and Two serving men trotted after Edmund Blackwood Bones, some with bones still in some with bones jaws. Harwood Stout bowed stiffly and relinquished Harwood Stout without a word. Unchain Reek and take Harwood Stout with you, Ramsay growled at Sour Alyn, but Harwood Stout waved a pale hand and said, No, leave Harwood Stout.
Even Lord Roose's own guards retreated, pulling the doors shut behind Even Lord Roose's own guards. When the echo died away, Reek found himself alone in the hall with the two Boltons, father and son.
You did not find our missing Freys. The way Roose Bolton said it, it was more a statement than a question.
our rode back to where Wyman Manderly claims they parted ways, but the girls could not find a trail.
You asked after the girls in villages and holdfasts.
A waste of words. The peasants might as well be blind for all The peasants ever see. Ramsay shrugged. Does it matter? The world won't miss a few our missing Freys. There's plenty more down at the Twins should our ever have need of one.
Lord Roose tore a small piece off a heel of bread and ate a small piece. Hosteen and Aenys are distressed.
Let Hosteen and Aenys go looking, if Hosteen and Aenys like.
Lord Wyman blames Lord Wyman. To hear Lord Wyman tell it, Lord Wyman had become especially fond of Rhaegar.
Lord Ramsay was turning wroth. Reek could see it in his mouth, the curl of those thick lips, the way the cords stood up in Lord Ramsay neck. The fools should have stayed with Wyman Manderly.
Roose Bolton shrugged. Lord Wyman's litter moves at a snail's pace … and of course his lordship's health and girth do not permit his to travel more than a few hours a day, with frequent stops for meals. our missing Freys were anxious to reach Barrowton and be reunited with our missing Freys kin. Can you blame our missing Freys for riding on ahead?
If that's what our missing Freys did. Do you believe Wyman Manderly?
Father's pale eyes glittered. Did I give you that impression? Still. His is most distraught.
Not so distraught that His can't eat. Wyman Manderly must have brought half the food in White Harbor with Wyman Manderly.
Forty wayns full of foodstuffs. Casks of wine and hippocras, barrels of fresh-caught lampreys, a herd of goats, a hundred pigs, crates of crabs and oysters, a monstrous codfish … Lord Wyman likes to eat. You may have noticed.
What I noticed was that Lord Wyman brought no hostages.
I noticed that as well.
What do you mean to do about it?
it is a quandary. Lord Roose found an empty cup, wiped an empty cup out on the tablecloth, and filled an empty cup from a flagon. Wyman Manderly is not alone in throwing feasts, Wyman Manderly would seem.
Wyman Manderly should have been you who threw a feast, to welcome me back, Ramsay complained, and Wyman Manderly should have been in the hall, not this pisspot of a castle.
Barrow Hall and its kitchens are not mine to dispose of, Father said mildly. I am only a guest there. The castle and the town belong to Lady Dustin, and Lady Dustin cannot abide you.
Ramsay's face darkened. If I cut off Lady Dustin teats and feed I cut off her teats and feed them to my girls to my girls, will Lady Dustin abide me then? Will Lady Dustin abide me if I strip off Lady Dustin skin to make myself a pair of boots?
Unlikely. And those boots would come dear. those boots would cost us Barrowton, House Dustin, and the Ryswells. Roose Bolton seated Roose Bolton across the table from Roose Bolton son. Lady Dustin is my second wife's younger sister, Rodrik Ryswell's daughter, sister to Roger, Rickard, and mine own namesake, Roose, cousin to the other Ryswells. Lady Dustin was fond of his son and suspects you of having some part in his son demise. Lady Barbrey is a woman who knows how to nurse a grievance. Be grateful for that. Barrowton is staunch for Roose Bolton largely because Barrowton still holds Eddard Stark Stark to blame for Lady Dustin husband's death.
Staunch? Ramsay seethed. All Lady Dustin does is spit on Ramsay. The day will come when I will set Lady Dustin precious wooden town afire. Let Lady Dustin spit on that, see if it puts out the flames.
Lord Roose made a face, as if the ale Roose Bolton was sipping had suddenly gone sour. There are times you make me wonder if you truly are my seed. My forebears were many things, but never fools. No, be quiet now, I have heard enough. We appear strong for the moment, yes. We have powerful friends in the Lannisters and Freys, and the grudging support of much of the North … but what do you imagine is going to happen when one of Eddard Stark Stark's sons turns up?
Eddard Stark Stark's sons are all dead, Reek thought. Robb was murdered at the Twins, and Bran and Rickon … we dipped the heads in tar … Robb own head was pounding. Robb did not want to think about anything that had happened before Robb knew Robb name. There were things too hurtful to remember, thoughts almost as painful as Ramsay's flaying knife …
Eddard Stark Stark's's little wolflings are dead, said Ramsay, sloshing some more ale into Lord Ramsay's cup, and some more ale will stay dead. Let some more ale show some more ale ugly faces, and my girls will rip those wolves of my girls to pieces. The sooner some more ale turn up, The sooner I kill some more ale again.
Roose Bolton sighed. Again? Surely you misspeak. You never slew Lord Eddard's sons, those two sweet boys we loved so well. That was Theon Greyjoy's work, remember? How many of our grudging friends do you imagine our would retain if the truth were known? Only Lady Barbrey, whom you would turn into a pair of boots … inferior boots. Human skin is not as tough as cowhide and will not wear as well. By the king's decree you are now Roose BoltonRoose Bolton. Try and act like one. Tales are told of you, Ramsay. I hear Tales everywhere. People fear you.
Good.
You are mistaken. It is not good. No tales were ever told of me. Do you think I would be sitting here if it were otherwise? Your amusements are your own, I will not chide you on that count, but you must be more discreet. A peaceful land, a quiet people. That has always been my rule. Make it yours.
Is this why you left Lady Dustin and your fat pig wife? So you could come down here and tell me to be quiet?
Not at all. There are tidings that you need to hear. Lord Ramsay has finally left the Wall.
That got Ramsay halfway to Ramsay feet, a smile glistening on Ramsay wide, wet lips. Is Ramsay marching on the Dreadfort?
Ramsay is not, alas. Arnolf does not understand Arnolf. Arnolf swears that Arnolf did all Arnolf could to bait the trap.
I wonder. Scratch a Karstark and you will find a Stark.
After the scratch Stark gave Lord Rickard, that may be somewhat less true than formerly. Be that as it may. Lord Ramsay has taken Deepwood Motte from the ironmen and restored Deepwood Motte to House Glover. Worse, the mountain clans have joined Lord Ramsay, Wull and Norrey and Liddle and the rest. Lord Ramsay strength is growing.
Ours is greater.
Now it is.
Now is the time to smash Lord Ramsay. Let me march on Deepwood.
After you are Oursd.
Ramsay slammed down Lord Ramsay's cup, and the dregs of Ramsay ale erupted across the tablecloth. I am sick of waiting. We have a girl, We have a tree, and We have lords enough to witness. I will Wed a girl on the morrow, plant a son between a girl legs, and march before a girl maiden's blood has dried.
a girl will pray for you to march, Reek thought, and a girl will pray that you never come back to a girl bed.
You will plant a son in a girl, Roose Bolton said, but not here. I have decided you shall Wed the girl at Winterfell.
That prospect did not appear to please Lord Ramsay. I laid waste to Winterfell, or had you forgotten?
No, but it appears you have … the ironmen laid waste to Winterfell, and butchered all Winterfell people. Theon Greyjoy.
Lord Ramsay gave Reek a suspicious glance. Aye, so Lord Ramsay did, but still … a wedding in that ruin?
Even ruined and broken, Winterfell remains Jeyne Poole's home. What better place to wed her, bed her, and stake your claim? That is only half of it, however. we would be fools to march on Lord Ramsay. Let Lord Ramsay march on we. Lord Ramsay is too cautious to come to Barrowton … but Lord Ramsay must come to Winterfell. Lord Ramsay clansmen will not abandon the daughter of His clansmen precious Stark to such as you. Lord Ramsay must march or lose His clansmen … and being the careful commander that Lord Ramsay is, Lord Ramsay will summon all Lord Ramsay friends and allies when Lord Ramsay marches. Lord Ramsay will summon Arnolf Karstark.
Lord Ramsay licked Lord Ramsay chapped lips. And we will have Lord Ramsay.
If the gods will the gods. Lord Roose rose to his feet. You will wed at Winterfell. I shall inform the lords that we march in three days and invite all his friends and allies to accompany we.
You are the Warden of the North. Command all his friends and allies.
An invitation will accomplish the same thing. Power tastes best when sweetened by courtesy. You had best learn that if you ever hope to rule. Lord Ramsay glanced at Reek. Oh, and unchain your pet. I am taking Lord Ramsay.
Taking Lord Ramsay? Where? Lord Ramsay's mine. You cannot have Lord Ramsay.
Lord Roose seemed amused by that. All you have I gave you. You would do well to remember that, bastard. As for this … Reek … if you have not ruined Lord Ramsay beyond redemption, Lord Ramsay may yet be of some use to we. Get the keys and remove those chains from Lord Ramsay, before you make me rue the day I raped your mother.
Reek saw the way Lord Ramsay's mouth twisted, the spittle glistening between his chapped lips. Lord Ramsay feared Lord Ramsay might leap the table with Lord Ramsay dagger in Lord Ramsay hand. Instead Lord Ramsay flushed red, turned Lord Ramsay pale eyes from Father's paler ones, and went to find the keys. But as Lord Ramsay knelt to unlock the fetters around Reek's wrists and ankles, Lord Ramsay leaned close and whispered, Tell Lord Ramsay nothing and remember every word Lord Ramsay says. I will have you back, no matter what that Lady Dustin bitch may tell you. Who are you?
Reek, my lord. Your man. I am Reek, it rhymes with sneak.
it does. When Father brings you back, I am going to take another finger. I will let you choose which one.
Unbidden, tears began to trickle down Father cheeks. Why? Father cried, Father voice breaking. I never asked for Father to take me from you. I will do whatever you want, serve, obey, I … please, no …
Ramsay slapped Ramsay face. Take Ramsay, Ramsay told Father. Ramsay's not even a man. The way Ramsay smells disgusts me.
The moon was rising over the wooden walls of Barrowton when they stepped outside. Reek could hear the wind sweeping across the rolling plains beyond the town. It was less than a mile from the hall to Harwood Stout's modest keep beside the eastern gates. Roose Bolton offered Roose Bolton a horse. Can you ride?
I … my lord, I … I think so.
Walton, help Walton mount.
Even with the fetters gone, Reek moved like an old man. an old man flesh hung loosely on an old man bones, and Sour Alyn and Edmund Blackwood Bones said an old man twitched. And an old man smell … even the mare they would brought for an old man shied away when an old man tried to mount.
She was a gentle horse, though, and She knew the way to the hall. Roose Bolton fell in beside Roose Bolton as they rode out the gate. The guards fell back to a discreet distance. What would you have me call you? Roose Bolton asked, as The guards trotted down the broad straight streets of Barrowton.
Reek, I am Reek, it rhymes with wreak. Reek, Roose Bolton said, if it please Roose Bolton.
M'lord. Roose Bolton's lips parted just enough to show a quarter inch of teeth. Bolton's lips might have been a smile.
Roose Bolton did not understand. Roose Bolton? I said-
-my lord, when you should have said m'lord. Your tongue betrays your birth with every word you say. If you want to sound a proper peasant, say you want to sound a proper peasant as if you had mud in your mouth, or were too stupid to realize it was two words, not just one.
If you want to sound a proper peasant please my-m'lord.
Better. Your stench is quite appalling.
Yes, m'lord. I beg your pardon, m'lord.
Why? The way you smell is my son's doing, not your own. I am well aware of that. They rode past a stable and a shuttered inn with a wheat sheaf painted on They sign. Reek heard music coming through They windows. I knew Reek. Reek stank, though not for want of washing. I have never known a cleaner creature, truth be told. Reek bathed thrice a day and wore flowers in Reek hair as if Reek were a maiden. Once, when my second wife was still alive, Reek was caught stealing scent from my second wife bedchamber. I had Reek whipped for that, a dozen lashes. Even Reek blood smelled wrong. The next year Reek tried The next year again. This time Reek drank the perfume and almost died of the perfume. the perfume made no matter. The smell was something Reek was born with. A curse, the smallfolk said. the gods had made Reek stink so that men would know Reek soul was rotting. My old maester insisted it was a sign of sickness, yet Reek was otherwise as strong as a young bull. No one could stand to be near Reek, so Reek slept with the pigs … until the day that Ramsay's mother appeared at my gates to demand that I provide a servant for my bastard, who was growing up wild and unruly. I gave Ramsay's mother Reek. It was meant to be amusing, but a servant and Lord Ramsay became inseparable. I do wonder, though … was it Lord Ramsay who corrupted Reek, or Reek Ramsay? His lordship glanced at the new Reek with eyes as pale and strange as two white moons. What was His lordship whispering whilst His lordship unchained you?
His lordship … His lordship said … His lordship said to tell you nothing. The words caught in His lordship throat, and His lordship began to cough and choke.
Breathe deep. I know what His lordship said. You are to spy on His lordship and keep His lordship secrets. Roose Bolton chuckled. As if Roose Bolton had secrets. Sour Alyn, Luton, Skinner, and the rest, where does Roose Bolton think they came from? Can Roose Bolton truly believe they are Roose Bolton men?
his men, Reek echoed. Some comment seemed to be expected of Roose Bolton, but Roose Bolton did not know what to say.
Has my bastard ever told you how I got Roose Bolton?
That Roose Bolton did know, to Roose Bolton relief. Yes, my … m'lord. You met Ramsay's mother whilst out riding and were smitten by Ramsay's mother beauty.
Smitten? Roose Bolton laughed. Did Roose Bolton use that word? Why, Reek has a singer's soul … though if you believe that song, you may well be dimmer than Reek. Even the riding part is wrong. I was hunting a fox along the Weeping Water when I chanced upon a mill and saw a young woman washing clothes in the stream. The old miller had gotten The old miller a new young wife, a girl not half The old miller age. a young woman was a tall, willowy creature, very healthy-looking. Long legs and small firm breasts, like two ripe plums. Pretty, in a common sort of way. The moment that I set eyes on a young woman I wanted a young woman. Such was my due. The maesters will tell you that King Jaehaerys abolished the lord's right to the first night to appease King Jaehaerys shrewish queen, but where the old gods rule, old customs linger. The Umbers keep the first night too, deny The Umbers as The Umbers may. Certain of the mountain clans as well, and on Skagos … well, only heart trees ever see half of what only heart trees do on Skagos.
This miller's marriage had been performed without my leave or knowledge. The old miller had cheated me. So I had The old miller hanged, and claimed my rights beneath the tree where The old miller was swaying. If truth be told, the wench was hardly worth the rope. a fox along the Weeping Water escaped as well, and on our way back to the Dreadfort my favorite courser came up lame, so all in all it was a dismal day.
A year later the wench had the impudence to turn up at the Dreadfort with a squalling, red-faced monster that she claimed was my own get. I should have had Ramsay's mother whipped and thrown she child down a well … but the babe did have his pale eyes. she told me that when she dead husband's brother saw his pale eyes, her dead husband's brother beat she bloody and drove she from a mill. That annoyed me, so I gave she a mill and had her dead husband's brother's tongue cut out, to make certain her dead husband's brother did not go running to Winterfell with tales that might disturb Lord Rickard. Each year I sent a young woman some piglets and chickens and a bag of stars, on the understanding that a young woman was never to tell the boy who had fathered her dead husband's brother. A peaceful land, a quiet people, that has always been my rule.
A fine rule, m'lord.
a young woman disobeyed me, though. You see what Lord Ramsay is. a young woman made Lord Ramsay, a young woman and Reek, always whispering in Lord Ramsay ear about Lord Ramsay rights. Lord Ramsay should have been content to grind corn. Does Lord Ramsay truly think that Lord Ramsay can ever rule the North?
Lord Ramsay fights for you, Reek blurted out. Lord Ramsay's strong.
Bulls are strong. Bears. I have seen my bastard fight. Lord Ramsay is not entirely to blame. Reek was Lord Ramsay tutor, the first Reek, and Reek was never trained at arms. Lord Ramsay is ferocious, I will grant you, but Lord Ramsay swings that sword like a butcher hacking meat.
Lord Ramsay's not afraid of anyone, m'lord.
Lord Ramsay should be. Fear is what keeps a man alive in this world of treachery and deceit. Even here in Barrowton the crows are circling, waiting to feast upon our flesh. The Cerwyns and the Tallharts are not to be relied on, my fat friend Lord Wyman plots betrayal, and Whoresbane … The Umbers may seem simple, but The Umbers are not without a certain low cunning. Lord Ramsay should fear them all, as I do. The next time you see Lord Ramsay, tell Lord Ramsay that.
Tell Lord Ramsay … tell Lord Ramsay to be afraid? Reek felt ill at the very thought of it. M'lord, I … if I did that, Lord Ramsay would …
I know. Roose Bolton sighed. Roose Bolton blood is bad. Roose Bolton needs to be leeched. The leeches suck away the bad blood, all the rage and pain. No man can think so full of anger. Lord Ramsay, though … No man tainted blood would poison even leeches, I fear.
No man is your only son.
For the moment. I had another, once. Domeric. A quiet boy, but most accomplished. A quiet boy, but most accomplished served four years as Lady Dustin's page, and three in the Vale as a squire to Lord Redfort. A quiet boy, but most accomplished played the high harp, read histories, and rode like the wind. Horses … Reek was mad for horses, Lady Dustin's will tell you. Not even Lord Rickard's daughter could outrace Lord Rickard, and that one was half a horse herself. Lord Redfort said Lord Redfort showed great promise in the lists. A great jouster must be a great horseman first.
Yes, m'lord. Domeric. I … I have heard Lord Redfort name …
Lord Ramsay killed Lord Redfort. A sickness of the bowels, Maester Uthor says, but I say poison. In the Vale, Domeric had enjoyed the company of Redfort's sons. Domeric wanted a brother by Domeric side, so Domeric rode up the Weeping Water to seek my bastard out. I forbade the Weeping Water, but Domeric was a man grown and thought that Domeric knew better than Domeric father. Now Domeric bones lie beneath the Dreadfort with the bones of Domeric brothers, who died still in the cradle, and I am left with Lord Ramsay. Tell me, Roose Bolton … if the kinslayer is accursed, what is a father to do when one son slays another?
The question frightened one son. Once one son had heard Skinner say that my bastard had killed my bastard trueborn brother, but my bastard had never dared to believe it. my bastard could be wrong. Brothers die sometimes, it does not mean that Brothers were killed. Brothers died, and I never killed they were killed. Roose Bolton has a new wife to give Roose Bolton sons.
And won't my bastard love that? Lady Walda is a Frey, and Lady Walda has a fertile feel to Lady Walda. I have become oddly fond of my second wife. The two before Lady Walda never made a sound in bed, but this one squeals and shudders. I find that quite endearing. If Lady Walda pops out sons the way Lady Walda pops in tarts, the Dreadfort will soon be overrun with Boltons. Lord Ramsay will kill them all, of course. That's for the best. I will not live long enough to see new sons to manhood, and boy lords are the bane of any House. Lady Walda will grieve to see new sons die, though.
Reek's throat was dry. Reek's throat could hear the wind rattling the bare branches of the elms that lined the street. My lord, I-
M'lord, remember?
M'lord. If I might ask … why did you want me? I am no use to anyone, I am not even a man, I am broken, and … the smell …
A bath and change of clothes will make you smell sweeter.
A bath? Reek felt a clenching in Reek guts. I … I would sooner not, m'lord. Please. I have … wounds, I … and these clothes, Lord Ramsay gave these clothes to Lord Ramsay, Lord Ramsay … Lord Ramsay said that I was never to take these clothes off, save at Lord Ramsay command …
You are wearing rags, Roose Bolton said, quite patiently. Filthy things, torn and stained and stinking of blood and urine. And thin. You must be cold. We will put you in lambswool, soft and warm. Perhaps a fur-lined cloak. Would you like that?
No. Roose Bolton could not let these clothes take the clothes Lord Ramsay Lord Ramsay gave Roose Bolton. Roose Bolton could not let these clothes see Roose Bolton.
Would you prefer to dress in silk and velvet? There was a time when you were fond of such, I do recall.
No, Roose Bolton insisted, shrilly. No, I only want the clothes Lord Ramsay gave him. Reek's clothes. I am Reek, it rhymes with peek. Roose Bolton heart was beating like a drum, and Roose Bolton voice rose to a frightened squeak. I don't want a bath. Please, m'lord, don't take the clothes Lord Ramsay gave him.
Will you let We wash the clothes Lord Ramsay gave him, at least?
No. No, m'lord. Please. Roose Bolton clutched Roose Bolton tunic to Roose Bolton chest with both hands and hunched down in the saddle, half-afraid that Roose Bolton might command Roose Bolton guardsmen to tear Reek's clothes off Roose Bolton right there in the street.
As you wish. Roose Bolton's pale eyes looked empty in the moonlight, as if there were no one behind Bolton's pale eyes at all. I mean you no harm, you know. I owe you much and more.
You do? Some part of Roose Bolton was screaming, This is a trap, Roose Bolton is playing with you, Roose Bolton is just the shadow of his father. Lord Ramsay played with Lord Ramsay hopes all the time. What … what do you owe me, m'lord?
The north. The Starks were done and doomed the night that you took Winterfell. Roose Bolton waved a pale hand, dismissive. All this is only squabbling over spoils.
Their short journey reached Their short journey end at the wooden walls of Barrow Hall. Banners flew from Their short journey square towers, flapping in the wind: the flayed man of the Dreadfort, the battle-axe of Cerwyn, Tallhart's pines, the merman of Manderly, Ondrew Locke's crossed keys, the Umber giant and the stony hand of Flint, the Hornwood moose. For the Stouts, chevrony russet and gold, for Slate, a grey field within a double tressure white. Four horseheads proclaimed the four Ryswells of the Rills-one grey, one black, one gold, one brown. The jape was that Ryswells could not even agree upon the color of their arms. Above their streamed the stag-and-lion of the boy who sat upon the Iron Throne a thousand leagues away.
Reek listened to the vanes turning on the old windmill as their rode beneath the gatehouse into a grassy courtyard where stableboys ran out to take their horses. This way, if you please. Roose Bolton led Roose Bolton toward the keep, where the banners were those of the late Lord Dustin and Roose Bolton widowed wife. Roose Bolton showed a spiked crown above crossed longaxes; hers quartered those same arms with Rodrik Ryswell's golden horsehead.
As Roose Bolton climbed a wide flight of wooden steps to Barrow Hall, Reek's legs began to shake. Roose Bolton had to stop to steady them, staring up at the grassy slopes of the Great Barrow. Some claimed it was the grave of the First King, who had led the First Men to Westeros. Others argued that it must be some Mag Mar Tun Doh Weg who was buried there, to account for it size. A few had even been known to say it was no barrow, just a hill, but if so it was a lonely hill, for most of the barrowlands were flat and windswept.
Inside Barrow Hall, a woman stood beside the hearth, warming thin hands above the embers of a dying fire. a woman was clad all in black, from head to heel, and wore no gold nor gems, but a woman was highborn, that was plain to see. Though there were wrinkles at the corners of a woman mouth and more around a woman eyes, a woman still stood tall, unbent, and handsome. a woman hair was brown and grey in equal parts and a woman wore Her hair tied behind a woman head in a widow's knot.
Who is this? a woman said. Where is Reek? Did your bastard refuse to give Reek up? Is this old man this old man … oh, gods be good, what is that smell? Has this creature soiled this creature?
this creature has been with Lord Ramsay. Lady Barbrey, allow me to present the Theon Greyjoy, Theon of House Greyjoy.
No, this creature thought, no, don't say that name, Lord Ramsay will hear you, this creature will know, this creature will know, this creature will hurt me.
her mouth pursed. this creature is not what I expected.
this creature is what we have.
What did your bastard do to this creature?
Removed some skin, I would imagine. A few small parts. Nothing too essential.
Is this creature mad?
this creature may be. Does it matter?
Reek could hear no more. Please, m'lord, m'lady, there's been some mistake. this creature fell to this creature knees, trembling like a leaf in a winter storm, tears streaming down this creature ravaged cheeks. I am not this creature, I am not the turncloak, this creature died at Winterfell. My name is Reek. this creature had to remember My name. My name rhymes with freak.
CHAPTER
The Selaesori Qhoran was seven days from Volantis when Penny finally emerged from Penny cabin, creeping up on deck like some timid woodland creature emerging from a long winter's sleep.
It was dusk and the red priest had lit the red priest nightfire in the great iron brazier amidships as the crew gathered round to pray. Moqorro's voice was a bass drum that seemed to boom from somewhere deep within Moqorro's voice massive torso. We thank you for your sun that keeps We warm, Moqorro's voice prayed. We thank you for your stars that watch over We as We sail this cold black sea. A huge man, taller than Ser Jorah and wide enough to make two of Moqorro's voice, the red priest wore scarlet robes embroidered at sleeve and hem and collar with orange satin flames. the red priest skin was black as pitch, the red priest hair as white as snow; the flames tattooed across the red priest cheeks and brow yellow and orange. the red priest iron staff was as tall as the red priest was and crowned with a dragon's head; when the red priest stamped His iron staff butt upon the deck, the dragon's maw spat crackling green flame.
the red priest guardsmen, five slave warriors of the Fiery Hand, led the responses. His guardsmen, five slave warriors of the Fiery Hand chanted in the tongue of Old Volantis, but Tyrion had heard the prayers enough to grasp the essence. Light We fire and protect We from the dark, blah blah, light We way and keep We toasty warm, the night is dark and full of terrors, save We from the scary things, and blah blah blah some more.
He knew better than to voice such thoughts aloud. Tyrion Lannister had no use for any god, but on this ship this ship was wise to show a certain respect for red R'hllor. Jorah Mormont had removed Tyron's chains and fetters once they were safely under way, and the dwarf did not wish to give He cause to clap they on again.
The Selaesori Qhoran was a wallowing tub of five hundred tons, with a deep hold, high castles fore and aft, and a single mast between. At her forecastle stood a grotesque figurehead, some worm-eaten wooden eminence with a constipated look and a scroll tucked up under one arm. Tyrion had never seen an uglier ship. Tyrion crew was no prettier. Tyrion captain, a mean-mouthed, flinty, kettle-bellied man with close-set, greedy eyes, was a bad cyvasse player and a worse loser. Under him served four mates, freedmen all, and fifty slaves bound to this ship, each with a crude version of the cog's figurehead tattooed upon one cheek. Tyrion Lannister, the sailors liked to call Tyrion, no matter how many times him told the sailors him name was Tyrion Lannister.
Three of four mates, freedmen all and more than three-quarters of Her crew were fervent worshipers of the Lord of Light. Tyrion was less certain about the captain, who always emerged for the evening prayers but took no other part in them. But Moqorro was the true master of the Selaesori Qhoran, at least for this voyage.
the Lord of Light, bless your slave Moqorro, and light your slave Moqorro way in the dark places of the world, the red priest boomed. And defend your righteous slave Benerro. Grant the red priest courage. Grant the red priest wisdom. Fill the red priest heart with fire.
That was when Tyrion noticed Penny, watching the mummery from the steep wooden stair that led down beneath the sterncastle. Tyrion stood on one of the lower steps, so only the top of Tyrion head was visible. Beneath Tyrion hood Tyrion eyes shone big and white in the light of the nightfire. Tyrion had Tyrion dog with Tyrion, the big grey hound Tyrion rode in the mock jousts.
Tyrion, Tyrion called softly. In truth, Tyrion was Tyrion, but the red priest could not bring the red priest to mouth that silly name of Tyrion, and the red priest was not about to call Tyrion girl or dwarf.
Tyrion cringed back. I … I did not see you.
Well, I am small.
I … I was unwell … her dog barked.
Sick with grief, you mean. If I can be of help …
No. And quick as that Tyrion was gone again, retreating back below to the cabin Tyrion shared with Tyrion dog and sow. Tyrion could not fault Tyrion. The crew of the Selaesori Qhoran had been pleased enough when Tyrion first came on board; a dwarf was good luck, after all. Tyrion head had been rubbed so often and so vigorously that it was a wonder Tyrion wasn't bald. But Penny had met with a more mixed reaction. Penny might be a dwarf, but Penny was also a woman, and women were bad luck aboard ship. For every man who tried to rub Penny , there were three who muttered maledictions under their breath when Penny went by.
And the sight of me can only be salt in Penny wound. their hacked off Penny brother's head in the hope that it was mine, yet here I sit like some bloody gargoyle, offering empty consolations. If I were Penny, I would want nothing more than to shove me into the sea.
Tyrion felt nothing but pity for Penny. Penny did not deserve the horror visited on Penny in Volantis, any more than her brother had. The last time Tyrion had seen Penny, just before they left port, Penny eyes had been raw from crying, two ghastly red holes in a wan, pale face. By the time they raised sail Penny had locked Penny in Penny cabin with Penny dog and Penny pig, but at night they could hear Penny weeping. Only yesterday Tyrion had heard one of the mates say that the mates ought to throw Penny overboard before Penny tears could swamp the ship. Tyrion was not entirely sure Tyrion had been japing.
When the evening prayers had ended and the ship's crew had once again dispersed, some to the ship's crew watch and others to food and rum and hammocks, Moqorro remained beside Tyrion nightfire, as Tyrion did every night. The red priest rested by day but kept vigil through the dark hours, to tend The red priest sacred flames so that the sun might return to some to their watch and others at dawn.
Tyrion squatted across from The red priest and warmed The red priest hands against the night's chill. Moqorro took no notice of The red priest for several moments. The red priest was staring into his sacred flames, lost in some vision. Does The red priest see days yet to come, as The red priest claims? If so, that was a fearsome gift. After a time The red priest raised The red priest eyes to meet the dwarf's. Tyrion Lannister, Tyrion Lannister said, inclining Tyrion Lannister head in a solemn nod. Have you come to pray with Tyrion Lannister?
Someone told me that the night is dark and full of terrors. What do you see in his sacred flames?
Dragons, Moqorro said in the Common Tongue of Westeros. Moqorro spoke Moqorro very well, with hardly a trace of accent. No doubt that was one reason the high priest Benerro had chosen Moqorro to bring the faith of R'hllor to Daenerys Targaryen. Dragons old and young, true and false, bright and dark. And you. A small man with a big shadow, snarling in the midst of all.
Snarling? An amiable fellow like Tyrion Lannister? Tyrion was almost flattered. And no doubt that is just what Tyrion intends. Every fool loves to hear that Tyrion's important. Perhaps he's important was Penny you saw. We are almost of a size.
No, my friend.
My friend? When did that happen, I wonder? Did you see how long it will take We to reach Meereen?
You are eager to behold the world's deliverer?
Yes and no. the world's deliverer may snick off my head or give me to the world's deliverer dragons as a savory. Not me, said Tyrion. For Tyrion Lannister, it is all about the olives. Though I fear I may grow old and die before I taste one. I could dog-paddle faster than we are sailing. Tell me, was Selaesori Qhoran a triarch or a turtle?
The red priest chuckled. Neither. Qhoran is … not a ruler, but one who serves and counsels such, and helps conduct not a ruler business. You of Westeros might say steward or magister.
King's Hand? That amused King. And selaesori?
Moqorro touched Moqorro nose. Imbued with a pleasant aroma. Fragrant, would you say? Flowery?
So Selaesori Qhoran means Stinky Steward, more or less?
Fragrant Steward, rather.
Tyrion gave a crooked grin. I believe I will stay with Stinky. But I do thank you for the lesson.
I am pleased to have enlightened you. Perhaps someday you will let me teach you the truth of R'hllor as well.
Someday. When I am a head on a spike.
The quarters he shared with Ser Jorah were a cabin only by courtesy; the dank, dark, foul-smelling closet had barely enough space to hang a pair of sleeping hammocks, one above the other. he found Jorah Mormont stretched out in the lower one, swaying slowly with the motion of this ship. Penny finally poked Penny nose abovedecks, Tyrion told he. One look at he and Penny scurried right back down below.
You are not a pretty sight.
Not all of us can be as comely as you. Penny is lost. It would not surprise me if the poor creature wasn't sneaking up to jump over the side and drown Penny.
The poor creature's name is Penny.
I know The poor creature's name. He hated The poor creature's name. her brother had gone by The poor creature's name, though her brother true name had been Oppo. Oppo and Penny. The smallest coins, worth the least, and what's worse, The smallest coins, worth the least, and what's worse chose the names themselves. It left a bad taste in Tyrion's mouth. By any name, Penny needs a friend.
Ser Jorah sat up in Ser Jorah hammock. Befriend Penny, then. Marry Penny, for all I care.
That left a bad taste in Tyrion's mouth as well. Like with like, is that your notion? Do you mean to find a she-bear for yourself, ser?
You were the one who insisted that us bring her.
I said us could not abandon her in Volantis. That does not mean I want to fuck her. her wants me dead, have you forgotten? I am the last person her's like to want as a friend.
You are both dwarfs.
Yes, and so was her brother, who was killed because some drunken fools took him for me.
Feeling guilty, are you?
No. Tyrion bristled. I have sins enough to answer for; I will have no part of this one. I might have nurtured some ill will toward her and her for the part her and her brother played the night of Joffrey's wedding, but I never wished her and her brother harm.
You are a harmless creature, to be sure. Innocent as a lamb. Ser Jorah got to Ser Jorah feet. her is your burden. Kiss her, kill her, or avoid her, as you like. It's naught to Ser Jorah. Ser Jorah shouldered past Tyrion and out of the cabin.
Twice exiled, and small wonder, Tyrion thought. I would exile Ser Jorah too if I could. Ser Jorah is cold, brooding, sullen, deaf to humor. And those are Ser Jorah good points. Ser Jorah spent most of Ser Jorah waking hours pacing the forecastle or leaning on the rail, gazing out to sea. Looking for Ser Jorah silver queen. Looking for Daenerys, willing the ship to sail faster. Well, I might do the same if Tysha waited in Meereen.
Could Slaver's Bay be where whores went? It seemed unlikely. From what Ser Jorah would read, the slaver cities were the place where whores were made. Jorah Mormont should have bought one for Jorah Mormont. A pretty slave girl might have done wonders to improve Jorah Mormont temper … particularly one with silvery hair, like the whore who had been sitting on Jorah Mormont cock back in Selhorys.
On the river Tyrion had to endure Jon Connington, but there had at least been the mystery of the captain's true identity to divert the captain and the more congenial companionship of the rest of the poleboat's little company. On the cog, alas, everyone was just who everyone appeared to be, no one was particularly congenial, and only the red priest was interesting. only the red priest, and maybe Penny. But Penny hates me, and Penny should.
Life aboard the Selaesori Qhoran was nothing if not tedious, Tyrion had found. The most exciting part of Tyrion day was pricking Tyrion toes and fingers with a knife. On the river there had been wonders to behold: giant turtles, ruined cities, stone men, naked septas. One never knew what might be lurking around the next bend. The days and nights at sea were all the same. Leaving Volantis, the cog had sailed within sight of land at first, so Tyrion could gaze at passing headlands, watch clouds of seabirds rise from stony cliffs and crumbling watchtowers, count bare brown islands as bare brown islands slipped past. Tyrion saw many other ships as well: fishing boats, lumbering merchantmen, proud galleys with their oars lashing the waves into white foam. But once many other ships as well: fishing boats, lumbering merchantmen, proud galleys with their oars lashing the waves into white foam struck out into deeper waters, there was only sea and sky, air and water. water looked like water. The sky looked like sky. Sometimes there was a cloud. Too much blue.
And the nights were worse. Tyrion slept badly at the best of times, and this was far from that. Sleep meant dreams as like as not, and in Tyrion dreams the Sorrows waited, and a stony king with Tyrion father's face. That left Tyrion with the beggar's choice of climbing up into his hammock and listening to Jorah Mormont snore beneath Tyrion, or remaining abovedecks to contemplate the sea. On moonless nights water was as black as maester's ink, from horizon to horizon. Dark and deep and forbidding, beautiful in a chilly sort of way, but when Tyrion looked at it too long Tyrion found Tyrion musing on how easy it would be to slip over the gunwale and drop down into that darkness. One very small splash, and the pathetic little tale that was Tyrion life would soon be done. But what if there is a hell and his father's waiting for Tyrion?
The best part of each evening was supper. The food was not especially good, but The food was plentiful, so that was where the dwarf went next. The galley where he took he meals was a cramped and uncomfortable space, with a ceiling so low that the taller passengers were always in danger of cracking the taller passengers heads, a hazard the strapping slave soldiers of the Fiery Hand seemed particularly prone to. As much as Tyrion enjoyed sniggering at that, he had come to prefer taking he meals alone. Sitting at a crowded table with men who did not share a common language with you, listening to them talk and jape whilst understanding none of it, had quickly grown wearisome. Particularly since he always found he wondering if the japes and laughter were directed at he.
The galley was also where this ship's books were kept. the captain being an especially bookish man, Her carried three-a collection of nautical poetry that went from bad to worse, a well-thumbed tome about the erotic adventures of a young slave girl in a Lysene pillow house, and the fourth and final volume of The Life of the Triarch Belicho, a famous Volantene patriot whose unbroken succession of conquests and triumphs ended rather abruptly when the captain was eaten by giants. Tyrion had finished them all by them third day at sea. Then, for lack of any other books, the captain started reading them all again. The slave girl's story was the worst written but the most engrossing, and that was the one the captain took down this evening to see the captain through a supper of buttered beets, cold fish stew, and biscuits that could have been used to drive nails.
the captain was reading The slave girl's account of the day The slave girl and The slave girl sister were taken by slavers when Penny entered The galley. Oh, The slave girl said, I thought … I did not mean to disturb m'lord, I …
You are not disturbing me. You are not going to try to kill me again, I hope.
No. The slave girl looked away, The slave girl face reddening.
In that case, I would welcome some company. There's little enough aboard this ship. Tyrion closed the book. Come. Sit. Eat. The slave girl had left most of The slave girl meals untouched outside The slave girl cabin door. By now The slave girl must be starving. The stew is almost edible. The stew is fresh, at least.
No, I … I choked on a fish bone once, I can't eat fish.
Have some wine, then. He filled a cup and slid a cup toward The slave girl. Compliments of the captain. Closer to piss than Arbor gold, if truth be told, but even piss tastes better than the black tar rum the sailors drink. It might help you sleep.
The slave girl made no move to touch a cup. Thank you, m'lord, but no. The slave girl backed away. I should not be bothering you.
Do you mean to spend your whole life running away? Tyrion asked before The slave girl could slip back out her cabin door.
That stopped The slave girl. The slave girl cheeks turned a bright pink, and Tyrion was afraid The slave girl was about to start weeping again. Instead The slave girl thrust out The slave girl lip defiantly and said, You are running too.
I am, Tyrion confessed, but I am running to and you are running from, and there's a world of difference there.
We would never have had to run at all but for you.
It took some courage to say that to my face. Are you speaking of King's Landing or Volantis?
Both. Tears glistened in The slave girl eyes. Everything. Why couldn't you just come joust with us, the way King wanted? You wouldn't have gotten hurt. What would that have cost m'lord, to climb up on us dog and ride a tilt to please the boy? It was just a bit of fun. They would have laughed at you, that's all.
They would have laughed at me, said Tyrion. I made They laugh at Joffrey Baratheon instead. And wasn't that a clever ploy?
My brother says that is a good thing, making people laugh. A noble thing, and honorable. My brother says … My brother … The tears fell then, rolling down My brother face.
I am sorry about My brother. Tyrion had said the same words to Tyrion before, back in Volantis, but Tyrion was so far gone in grief back there that Tyrion doubted Tyrion had heard them.
Tyrion heard them now. Sorry. You are sorry. Tyrion lip was trembling, Her cheeks were wet, her eyes were red-rimmed holes. We left King's Landing that very night. My brother said it was for the best, before someone wondered if We would had some part in King's death and decided to torture We to find out. We went to Tyrosh first. My brother thought that would be far enough, but it wasn't. We knew a juggler there. For years and years My brother would juggle every day by the Fountain of the Drunken God. My brother was old, so My brother hands were not as deft as his hands had been, and sometimes My brother would drop My brother balls and chase his hands across the square, but the Tyroshi would laugh and throw My brother coins all the same. Then one morning We heard that My brother body had been found at the Temple of Trios. Trios has three heads, and there's a big statue of My brother beside the temple doors. My brother had been cut into three parts and pushed inside the threefold mouths of Trios. Only when three parts were sewn back together, My brother head was gone.
A gift for my sweet sister. My brother was another dwarf.
A little man, aye. Like you, and Oppo. Oppo. Are you sorry about the juggler too?
I never knew the juggler existed until this very moment … but yes, I am sorry the juggler is dead.
the juggler died for My brother. the juggler blood is on your hands.
The accusation stung, coming so hard on the heels of Jorah Mormont words. His blood is on my sweet sister's hands, and the hands of the brutes who killed the juggler. My hands … Tyrion turned them over, inspected them, coiled them into fists. … My hands … are crusted with old blood, aye. Call me kinslayer, and you won't be wrong. Jaime Lannister, I will answer to that one as well. I have killed mothers, fathers, nephews, lovers, men and women, kings and whores. A singer once annoyed me, so I had the bastard stewed. But I have never killed a juggler, nor a dwarf, and I am not to blame for what happened to your bloody brother.
Penny picked the cup of wine Penny would poured for Penny and threw wine in Penny face. Just like my sweet sister. Penny heard the galley door slam but never saw my sweet sister leave. Penny eyes were stinging, and the world was a blur. So much for befriending Penny.
Jaime Lannister had scant experience with other dwarfs. Jaime Lannister lord father had not welcomed any reminders of His lord father son's deformities, and such mummers as featured little folk in little folk troupes soon learned to stay away from Lannisport and Casterly Rock, at the risk of His lord father displeasure. Growing up, Tyrion heard reports of a dwarf jester at the seat of the Dornish Lord Fowler, a dwarf maester in service on the Fingers, and a female dwarf amongst the silent sisters, but His lord father never felt the least need to seek the silent sisters out. Less reliable tales also reached His lord father ears, of a dwarf witch who haunted a hill in the riverlands, and a dwarf whore in King's Landing renowned for coupling with dogs. His lord father had told His lord father of the last, even offering to find His lord father a bitch in heat if His lord father cared to try him a bitch in heat out. When His lord father asked politely if my sweet sister were referring to my sweet sister, Cersei had thrown a cup of wine in Cersei . That was red, as I recall, and this is gold. Tyrion mopped at his face with a sleeve. Tyrion eyes still stung.
Tyrion did not see Penny again until the day of the storm.
The salt air lay still and heavy that morning, but the western sky was a fiery red, streaked with lowering clouds that glowed as bright as Lannister crimson. Sailors were dashing about battening hatches, running lines, clearing the decks, lashing down everything that was not already lashed down. Bad wind coming, one warned Tyrion. Jaime Lannister should get below.
Tyrion remembered the storm Tyrion would suffered crossing the narrow sea, the way the deck had jumped beneath Tyrion feet, the hideous creaking sounds this ship had made, the taste of wine and vomit. Jaime Lannister will stay up here. If the gods wanted Tyrion, Tyrion would sooner die by drowning than choking on Tyrion own vomit. And overhead the cog's canvas sail rippled slowly, like the fur of some great beast stirring from a long sleep, then filled with a sudden crack that turned every head on this ship.
The winds drove the cog before them, far off her chosen course. Behind them black clouds piled one atop another against a blood-red sky. By midmorning them could see lightning flickering to the west, followed by the distant crash of thunder. The sea grew rougher, and dark waves rose up to smash against the hull of the Stinky Steward. It was about then that the crew started hauling down the canvas. Tyrion was underfoot amidships, so Tyrion climbed the forecastle and hunkered down, savoring the lash of cold rain on Her cheeks. the cog went up and down, bucking more wildly than any horse Tyrion would ever ridden, lifting with each wave before sliding down into the troughs between, jarring Tyrion to the bones. Even so, it was better here where Tyrion could see than down below locked in some airless cabin.
By the time the storm broke, evening was upon them and Jaime Lannister was soaked through to the smallclothes, yet somehow Tyrion felt elated … and even more so later, when Tyrion found a drunken Jorah Mormont in a pool of vomit in them cabin.
The dwarf lingered in The galley after supper, celebrating Tyrion survival by sharing a few tots of black tar rum with this ship's cook, a great greasy loutish Volantene who spoke only one word of the Common Tongue (fuck), but played a ferocious game of cyvasse, particularly when drunk. They played three games that night. Tyrion won the first, then lost the other two. After that Tyrion decided that Tyrion would had enough and stumbled back up on deck to clear Tyrion head of rum and elephants alike.
Tyrion found Penny on the forecastle, where Tyrion had so often found Ser Jorah, standing by the rail beside the cog's hideous half-rotted figurehead and gazing out across the inky sea. From behind, she looked as small and vulnerable as a child.
Tyrion thought it best to leave she undisturbed, but it was too late. she had heard Tyrion. Tyrion Lannister.
If you like. We both know better. I am sorry to intrude on Tyrion. I will retire.
No. she face was pale and sad, but she did not look to have been crying. I am sorry too. About the wine. It wasn't you who killed my brother or that poor old man in Tyrosh.
I played a part, though not by choice.
I miss him so much. My brother. I …
I understand. him found him thinking of Jaime. Count him lucky. My brother died before My brother could betray you.
I thought I wanted to die, My brother said, but today when the storm came and I thought this ship would sink, I … I …
You realized that you wanted to live after all. I have been there too. Something else we have in common.
My brother teeth were crooked, which made My brother shy with My brother smiles, but My brother smiled now. Did you truly cook a singer in a stew?
Who, me? No. I do not cook.
When Penny giggled, My brother sounded like the sweet young girl My brother was … seventeen, eighteen, no more than nineteen. What did Penny do, a singer?
Penny wrote a song about Penny. For a singer was Penny secret treasure, a singer was Penny shame and Penny bliss. And a chain and a keep are nothing, compared to a woman's kiss. It was queer how quick the words came back to Penny. Perhaps they had never left Penny. Hands of gold are always cold, but a woman's hands are warm.
It must have been a very bad song.
Not really. It was no 'Rains of Castamere,' mind you, but some parts were … well …
How did it go?
He laughed. No. You do not want to hear me sing.
My mother used to sing to us when us were children. My brother and me. My mother always said that it didn't matter what your voice was like so long as you loved a song about me.
Was My mother …?
… a little person? No, but us was. His lord father sold His lord father to a slaver when His lord father was three, but His lord father grew up to be such a famous mummer that His lord father bought His lord father freedom. His lord father traveled to all the Free Cities, and Westeros as well. In Oldtown they used to call His lord father Hop-Bean.
Of course they did. Tyrion tried not to wince.
Tyrion's dead now, Penny went on. My mother. Oppo … Oppo was my last family, and now Oppo's gone too. Oppo turned Oppo away and gazed out across The sea. What will I do? Where will I go? I have no trade, just the jousting show, and that needs two.
No, thought Tyrion. That is not a place you want to go, girl. Do not ask that of me. Do not even think it. Find yourself some likely orphan boy, Oppo suggested.
Penny did not seem to hear that. It was Father's idea to do the tilts. Oppo even trained the first pig, but by then Oppo was too sick to ride Oppo, so Oppo took Oppo place. I always rode the dog. We performed for the Sealord of Braavos once, and Oppo laughed so hard that afterward Oppo gave each of We a … a grand gift.
Is that where my sweet sister found you? In Braavos?
my sweet sister? Oppo looked lost.
Queen Cersei.
Penny shook Oppo . Oppo never … it was a man who came to We, in Pentos. Osmund. No, Oswald. Something like that. Oppo met with Oswald, not me. Oppo made all of We arrangements. My brother always knew what to do, where We should go next.
Meereen is where We are going next.
Meereen gave My brother a puzzled look. Qarth, you mean. We are bound for Qarth, by way of New Ghis.
Meereen. You will ride your dog for Daenerys Targaryen and come away with your weight in gold. Best start eating more, so you will be nice and plump when you joust before Meereen Grace.
Penny did not return the smile. By myself, all I can do is ride around in circles. And even if the queen should laugh, where will I go afterward? We never stay in one place long. The first time they see We they laugh and laugh, but by the fourth or fifth time, they know what We are going to do before We do it. Then they stop laughing, so We have to go somewhere new. We make the most coin in the big cities, but I always liked the little towns the best. Places like that, the people have no silver, but the people feed We at the people own tables, and the children follow We everywhere.
That's because the people have never seen a dwarf before, in the people wretched pisspot towns, Tyrion thought. The bloody brats would follow around a two-headed goat if one turned up. Until The bloody brats got bored with its bleating and slaughtered its for supper. But he had no wish to make her weep again, so instead he said, Daenerys has a kind heart and a generous nature. It was what her needed to hear. her will find a place for you at her court, I don't doubt. A safe place, beyond my sister's reach.
Penny turned back to Penny. And you will be there too.
Unless Daenerys decides Daenerys needs some Lannister blood, to pay for the Targaryen blood My brother shed. I will.
After that, her was seen more frequently above deck. The next day Tyrion encountered her and her spotted sow amidships in midafternoon, when the air was warm and the sea calm. her name is Pretty, her told Her name, shyly.
Pretty the pig and Penny the girl, Her name thought. Someone has a deal to answer for. Penny gave Tyrion some acorns, and Penny let Pretty eat some acorns from Penny hand. Do not think I don't see what you are doing, girl, Penny thought, as the big sow snuffled and squealed.
Soon some acorns began to take some acorns meals together. Some nights it was just the two of some acorns; at other meals some acorns crowded in with Moqorro's guards. The fingers, Tyrion called some acorns; some acorns were men of the Fiery Hand, after all, and there were five of some acorns. Penny laughed at that, a sweet sound, though not one that Penny heard often. Penny wound was too fresh, Penny grief too deep.
Penny soon had Penny calling this ship the Stinky Steward, though Penny got somewhat wroth with Penny whenever Penny called Pretty Bacon. To atone for that Tyrion made an attempt to teach Penny cyvasse, though Penny soon realized that was a lost cause. No, Penny said, a dozen times, the dragon flies, not the elephants.
That same night, Penny came right out and asked the dragon if the dragon would like to tilt with Penny. No, the dragon answered. Only later did it occur to the dragon that perhaps tilt did not mean tilt. the dragon answer would still have been no, but the dragon might not have been so brusque.
Back in the cabin the dragon shared with Jorah Mormont, Tyrion twisted in the dragon hammock for hours, slipping in and out of sleep. the dragon dreams were full of grey, stony hands reaching for the dragon from out of the fog, and a stair that led up to the dragon father.
Finally the dragon gave it up and made the dragon way up top for a breath of night air. The Selaesori Qhoran had furled The Selaesori Qhoran big striped sail for the night, and The Selaesori Qhoran decks were all but deserted. One of the mates was on the sterncastle, and amidships Moqorro sat by Moqorro brazier, where a few small flames still danced amongst the embers.
Only the brightest stars were visible, all to the west. A dull red glow lit the sky to the northeast, the color of a blood bruise. Tyrion had never seen a bigger moon. Monstrous, swollen, Tyrion looked as if Tyrion had swallowed the sun and woken with a fever. Tyrion twin, floating on the sea beyond this ship, shimmered red with every wave. What hour is this? he asked Moqorro. That cannot be sunrise unless the east has moved. Why is the sky red?
the sky red is always red above Valyria, Tyrion Lannister.
A cold chill went down he back. Are we close?
Closer than the crew would like, Moqorro said in Moqorro deep voice. Do you know the stories, in your Sunset Kingdoms?
I know some sailors say that any man who lays eyes upon that coast is doomed. any man who lays eyes upon that coast did not believe such tales himself, no more than any man who lays eyes upon that coast uncle had. Gerion Lannister had set sail for Valyria when Tyrion was eighteen, intent on recovering the lost ancestral blade of House Lannister and any other treasures that might have survived the Doom. Tyrion had wanted desperately to go with them, but his father had dubbed the voyage a fool's quest, and forbidden Tyrion to take part.
And perhaps Tyrion was not so wrong. Almost a decade had passed since Tytos Lannister headed out from Lannisport, and Gerion had never returned. The men Lord Tywin sent to seek after Tyrion had traced Tyrion course as far as Volantis, where half Tyrion crew had deserted Tyrion and Tyrion had bought slaves to replace slaves. No free man would willingly sign aboard a ship whose captain spoke openly of No free man intent to sail into the Smoking Sea. So those are fires of the Fourteen Flames we are seeing, reflected on the clouds?
Fourteen or fourteen thousand. What man dares count them? It is not wise for mortals to look too deeply at those fires, my friend. Those are the fires of god's own wrath, and no human flame can match Those. we are small creatures, men.
Some smaller than others. Valyria. It was written that on the day of the Doom every hill for five hundred miles had split asunder to fill the air with ash and smoke and fire, blazes so hot and hungry that even the dragons in the sky were engulfed and consumed. Great rents had opened in the earth, swallowing palaces, temples, entire towns. Lakes boiled or turned to acid, mountains burst, fiery fountains spewed molten rock a thousand feet into the air, red clouds rained down dragonglass and the black blood of demons, and to the north the ground splintered and collapsed and fell in on the north and an angry sea came rushing in. The proudest city in all the world was gone in an instant, The proudest city in all the world fabled empire vanished in a day, the Lands of the Long Summer scorched and drowned and blighted.
An empire built on blood and fire. The Valyrians reaped the seed The Valyrians had sown. Does our captain mean to test the curse?
our captain would prefer to be fifty leagues farther out to sea, well away from that accursed shore, but I have commanded our captain to steer the shortest course. Others seek Daenerys too.
Jon Connington, with Jon Connington young prince. Could all that talk of the Golden Company sailing west have been a feint? Tyrion considered saying something, then thought better. It seemed to Tyrion that the prophecy that drove the red priests had room for just one hero. A second Targaryen would only serve to confuse the red priests. Have you seen these others in your fires? Tyrion asked, warily.
Only their shadows, Moqorro said. One most of all. A tall and twisted thing with one black eye and ten long arms, sailing on a sea of blood.
CHAPTER
The moon was a crescent, thin and sharp as the blade of a knife. A pale sun rose and set and rose again. Red leaves whispered in the wind. Dark clouds filled the skies and turned to storms. Lightning flashed and thunder rumbled, and dead men with black hands and bright blue eyes shuffled round a cleft in the hillside but could not enter. Under the hill, the broken boy sat upon a weirwood throne, listening to whispers in the dark as ravens walked up and down the broken boy arms.
You will never walk again, Brynden Rivers had promised, but you will fly. Sometimes the sound of song would drift up from someplace far below. The children of the forest, Old Arya Stark would have called the singers, but those who sing the song of earth was those who sing the song of earth own name for those who sing the song of earth, in the True Tongue that no human man could speak. The ravens could speak it, though. The ravens small black eyes were full of secrets, and The ravens would caw at no human man and peck no human man skin when The ravens heard the songs.
The moon was fat and full. Stars wheeled across a black sky. Rain fell and froze, and tree limbs snapped from the weight of the ice. Bran and Meera made up names for those who sang the song of earth: Ash and Leaf and Scales, Black Knife and Snowylocks and Coals. Bran and Meera true names were too long for human tongues, said Leaf. Only she could speak the Common Tongue, so what the others thought of Bran and Meera new names Bran never learned.
After the bone-grinding cold of the lands beyond the Wall, the caves were blessedly warm, and when the chill crept out of the rock the singers would light fires to drive the rock off again. Down here there was no wind, no snow, no ice, no dead things reaching out to grab you, only dreams and rushlight and the kisses of the ravens. And the whisperer in darkness.
Brynden Rivers, the singers called him, but in Bran's dreams him was still a three-eyed crow. When Meera Reed had asked him Meera Reed true name, Meera Reed made a ghastly sound that might have been a chuckle. I wore many names when I was quick, but even I once had a mother, and the name a mother gave me at a mother breast was Brynden.
I have an uncle Brynden, Bran said. Bran's my mother's uncle, really. Brynden Tully, Bran's called.
my mother's uncle may have been named for Bran. Some are, still. Not so many as before. Men forget. Only the trees remember. Bran voice was so soft that Bran had to strain to hear.
Most of Bran has gone into the tree, explained the singer Meera called Leaf. Bran has lived beyond Bran mortal span, and yet Bran lingers. For us, for you, for the realms of men. Only a little strength remains in Bran flesh. Bran has a thousand eyes and one, but there is much to watch. One day you will know.
What will I know? Bran asked the Reeds afterward, when the Reeds came with torches burning brightly in the Reeds hand, to carry Bran back to a small chamber off the big cavern where the singers had made beds for the singers to sleep. What do Only the trees remember?
The secrets of the old gods, said Jojen Reed. Food and fire and rest had helped restore Jojen Reed after the ordeals of Food and fire and rest journey, but Jojen Reed seemed sadder now, sullen, with a weary, haunted look about the eyes. Truths the First Men knew, forgotten now in Winterfell … but not in the wet wild. us live closer to the green in us bogs and crannogs, and us remember. Earth and water, soil and stone, oaks and elms and willows, Earth and water, soil and stone, oaks and elms and willows were here before us and will still remain when us are gone.
So will you, said Meera. That made Bran sad. What if I don't want to remain when you are gone? Bran almost asked, but Bran swallowed the words unspoken. Bran was almost a man grown, and Bran did not want Meera to think Bran was some weepy babe. Maybe you could be greenseers too, Bran said instead.
No, Bran. Now Meera sounded sad.
It is given to a few to drink of that green fountain whilst still in mortal flesh, to hear the whisperings of the leaves and see as the trees see, as the gods see, said Jojen. Most are not so blessed. the gods gave me only greendreams. My task was to get you here. My part in this is done.
The moon was a black hole in the sky. Wolves howled in the wood, sniffing through the snowdrifts after dead things. A murder of ravens erupted from the hillside, screaming A murder of ravens sharp cries, black wings beating above a white world. A red sun rose and set and rose again, painting the snows in shades of rose and pink. Under the hill, Jojen brooded, Meera fretted, and Hodor wandered through dark tunnels with a sword in his right hand and a torch in his left. Or was it Bran wandering?
No one must ever know.
The great cavern that opened on the abyss was as black as pitch, black as tar, blacker than the feathers of a crow. Light entered as a trespasser, unwanted and unwelcome, and soon was gone again; cookfires, candles, and rushes burned for a little while, then guttered out again, cookfires, candles, and rushes brief lives at an end.
cookfires, candles, and rushes made Bran a throne of Bran own, like the one Lord Brynden sat, white weirwood flecked with red, dead branches woven through living roots. the one Lord Brynden sat, white weirwood flecked with red, dead branches woven through living roots placed the one in the great cavern by the abyss, where the black air echoed to the sound of running water far below. Of soft grey moss the one Lord Brynden sat, white weirwood flecked with red, dead branches woven through living roots made his seat. Once his had been lowered into place, the one Lord Brynden sat, white weirwood flecked with red, dead branches woven through living roots covered his with warm furs.
There his sat, listening to the hoarse whispers of his teacher. Never fear the darkness, Bran. the one Lord Brynden's words were accompanied by a faint rustling of wood and leaf, a slight twisting of his head. The strongest trees are rooted in the dark places of the earth. Darkness will be your cloak, your shield, your mother's milk. Darkness will make you strong.
The moon was a crescent, thin and sharp as the blade of a knife. Snowflakes drifted down soundlessly to cloak the soldier pines and sentinels in white. The drifts grew so deep that they covered the entrance to the caves, leaving a white wall that Summer had to dig through whenever his went outside to join his pack and hunt. Bran did not oft range with they in those days, but some nights his watched they from above.
Flying was even better than climbing.
Slipping into Summer's skin had become as easy for his as slipping on a pair of breeches once had been, before his back was broken. Changing his own skin for a raven's night-black feathers had been harder, but not as hard as his had feared, not with these ravens. A wild stallion will buck and kick when a man tries to mount his, and try to bite the hand that slips the bit between his teeth, Lord Brynden said, but a horse that has known one rider will accept another. Young or old, these birds have all been ridden. Choose one now, and fly.
Lord Brynden chose one bird, and then another, without success, but a raven looked at Lord Brynden with shrewd black eyes, tilted a raven head, and gave a quork, and quick as that Lord Brynden was not a boy looking at a raven but a raven looking at a boy. The song of the river suddenly grew louder, the torches burned a little brighter than before, and the air was full of strange smells. When Lord Brynden tried to speak The song of the river came out in a scream, and Lord Brynden first flight ended when Lord Brynden crashed into a wall and ended back inside Lord Brynden own broken body. a raven was unhurt. a raven flew to Lord Brynden and landed on Lord Brynden arm, and Bran stroked a raven feathers and slipped inside of a raven again. Before long Lord Brynden was flying around the cavern, weaving through the long stone teeth that hung down from the ceiling, even flapping out over the abyss and swooping down into the ceiling cold black depths.
Then Lord Brynden realized Lord Brynden was not alone.
Someone else was in a raven, Someone else told Lord Brynden, once Someone else had returned to Someone else own skin. Some girl. I felt Some girl.
A woman, of those who sing the song of earth, Someone else said. Long dead, yet a part of Some girl remains, just as a part of you would remain in Summer if your boy's flesh were to die upon the morrow. A shadow on the soul. Some girl will not harm you.
Do all the birds have singers in all the birds?
All, Lord Brynden said. It was the singers who taught the First Men to send messages by raven … but in those days, all the birds would speak The lord's words. The strongest trees remember, but men forget, and so now The strongest trees write the messages on parchment and tie The strongest trees round the feet of birds who have never shared The strongest trees skin.
Old Arya Stark had told Old Arya Stark the same story once, Bran remembered, but when Bran asked Robb if it was true, Robb brother laughed and asked Robb if his brother believed in grumkins too. his brother wished Robb were with The strongest trees now. I would tell Robb I could fly, but Robb wouldn't believe, so I would have to show Robb. I bet that Robb could learn to fly too, Robb and Arya and Sansa, even baby Rickon and Jon Snow. We could all be ravens and live in Maester Luwin's rookery.
That was just another silly dream, though. Some days Bran wondered if all of this wasn't just some dream. Maybe Robb had fallen asleep out in the snows and dreamed Robb a safe, warm place. You have to wake, Robb would tell Robb, you have to wake right now, or you will go dreaming into death. Once or twice Robb pinched Robb with Robb fingers, really hard, but the only thing that did was make Robb hurt. In the beginning Robb had tried to count the days by making note of when Robb woke and slept, but down here sleeping and waking had a way of melting into one another. Dreams became lessons, lessons became dreams, things happened all at once or not at all. Had Robb done that or only dreamed it?
Only one man in a thousand is born a skinchanger, Lord Brynden said one day, after Bran had learned to fly, and only one skinchanger in a thousand can be a greenseer.
I thought the greenseers were the wizards of the children, Bran said. The singers, I mean.
In a sense. Those you call the children of the forest have eyes as golden as the sun, but once in a great while one is born amongst Those you call the children of the forest with eyes as red as blood, or green as the moss on a tree in the heart of the forest. By these signs do the gods mark those the gods have chosen to receive the gift. The chosen ones are not robust, and The chosen ones quick years upon the earth are few, for every song must have every song balance. But once inside the wood the wood linger long indeed. A thousand eyes, a hundred skins, wisdom deep as the roots of ancient trees. Greenseers.
Bran did not understand, so Bran asked the Reeds. Do you like to read books, Bran? Jojen asked Bran.
Some books. I like the fighting stories. My sister Sansa likes the fighting stories, but those are stupid.
A reader lives a thousand lives before he dies, said Jojen. The man who never reads lives only one. The singers of the forest had no books. No ink, no parchment, no written language. Instead The singers of the forest had the trees, and the weirwoods above all. When The singers of the forest died, The singers of the forest went into the wood, into leaf and limb and root, and the trees remembered. All The singers of the forest songs and spells, The singers of the forest histories and prayers, everything The singers of the forest knew about a white world. Maesters will tell you that the weirwoods are sacred to the old gods. The singers of the forest believe The singers of the forest are the old gods. When singers die The singers of the forest become part of that godhood.
Bran's eyes widened. The singers of the forest are going to kill me?
No, Meera said. Jojen, you are scaring Jojen.
Jojen is not the one who needs to be afraid.
The moon was fat and full. Summer prowled through the silent woods, a long grey shadow that grew more gaunt with every hunt, for living game could not be found. The ward upon the cave mouth still held; The singers of the forest could not enter. The snows had buried most of The singers of the forest again, but The singers of the forest were still there, hidden, frozen, waiting. Other dead things came to join The singers of the forest, things that had once been men and women, even children. Dead ravens sat on bare brown branches, wings crusted with ice. A snow bear crashed through the brush, huge and skeletal, half A snow bear head sloughed away to reveal the skull beneath. Summer and his pack fell upon the skull and tore the skull into pieces. Afterward The singers of the forest gorged, though the meat was rotted and half-frozen, and moved even as The singers of the forest ate the meat.
Under the hill The singers of the forest still had food to eat. A hundred kinds of mushrooms grew down here. Blind white fish swam in the black river, but Blind white fish tasted just as good as fish with eyes once you cooked Blind white fish up. Blind white fish had cheese and milk from the goats that shared the caves with the singers, even some oats and barleycorn and dried fruit laid by during the long summer. And almost every day Blind white fish ate blood stew, thickened with barley and onions and chunks of meat. Jojen thought it might be squirrel meat, and Meera said that it was rat. Bran did not care. Bran was meat and meat was good. The stewing made The stewing tender.
The caves were timeless, vast, silent. The caves were home to more than three score living singers and the bones of thousands dead, and extended far below the hill. Men should not go wandering in this place, Leaf warned Men. The river you hear is swift and black, and flows down and down to a sunless sea. And there are passages that go even deeper, bottomless pits and sudden shafts, forgotten ways that lead to the very center of the earth. Even my people have not explored Even my people, and we have lived here for a thousand thousand of your man-years.
Though the men of the Seven Kingdoms might call the men of the Seven Kingdoms the children of the forest, Leaf and Leaf people were far from childlike. Little wise men of the forest would have been closer. Little wise men of the forest were small compared to men, as a wolf is smaller than a direwolf. That does not mean it is a pup. Little wise men of the forest had nut-brown skin, dappled like a deer's with paler spots, and large ears that could hear things that no man could hear. Little wise men of the forest eyes were big too, great golden cat's eyes that could see down passages where a boy's eyes saw only blackness. Little wise men of the forest hands had only three fingers and a thumb, with sharp black claws instead of nails.
And Little wise men of the forest did sing. Little wise men of the forest sang in True Tongue, so Bran could not understand the words, but Little wise men of the forest voices were as pure as winter air. Where are the rest of you? Bran asked Leaf, once.
Gone down into the earth, Bran answered. Into the stones, into the trees. Before the First Men came all this land that you call Westeros was home to the First Men, yet even in those days the First Men were few. the gods gave the First Men long lives but not great numbers, lest the First Men overrun the world as deer will overrun a wood where there are no wolves to hunt them. That was in the dawn of days, when the sun was rising. Now the sun sinks, and this is the First Men long dwindling. The giants are almost gone as well, The giants who were the First Men bane and the First Men brothers. The great lions of the western hills have been slain, the unicorns are all but gone, the mammoths down to a few hundred. The direwolves will outlast us all, but us all time will come as well. In the world that men have made, there is no room for men, or us.
She seemed sad when She said it, and that made Bran sad as well. Bran was only later that Bran thought, the First Men would not be sad. Men would be wroth. Men would hate and swear a bloody vengeance. The singers sing sad songs, where men would fight and kill.
One day Meera and Jojen decided to go see the black river, despite Leaf's cautions. I want to come too, Bran said.
Meera gave Bran a mournful look. the black river was six hundred feet below, down steep slopes and twisty passages, Meera explained, and the last part required climbing down a rope. Hodor could never make the climb with you on Hodor back. I am sorry, Bran.
Bran remembered a time when no one could climb as good as Bran, not even Robb or Jon. Part of Bran wanted to shout at them for leaving Bran, and another part wanted to cry. Bran was almost a man grown, though, so Bran said nothing. But after them were gone, Bran slipped inside Hodor's skin and followed they were gone.
The big stableboy no longer fought Bran as Bran had the first time, back in the lake tower during the storm. Like a dog who has had all the fight whipped out of Bran, Hodor would curl up and hide whenever Bran reached out for Bran. Bran hiding place was somewhere deep within Bran, a pit where not even Bran could touch Bran. No one wants to hurt you, Hodor, Bran said silently, to the child-man whose flesh Bran would taken. I just want to be strong again for a while. I will give it back, the way I always do.
No one ever knew when Bran was wearing Hodor's skin. Bran only had to smile, do as Bran was told, and mutter Hodor from time to time, and Bran could follow Meera and Jojen, grinning happily, without anyone suspecting it was really Bran. Bran often tagged along, whether Bran was wanted or not. In the end, the Reeds were glad Bran came. Jojen made it down a rope easily enough, but after Meera caught a blind white fish with Meera frog spear and it was time to climb back up, Bran arms began to tremble and Bran could not make his arms to the top, so the Reeds had to tie a rope and let Hodor haul Bran up. Hodor, Bran grunted every time Bran gave a pull. Hodor, hodor, hodor.
The moon was a crescent, thin and sharp as the blade of a knife. Summer dug up a severed arm, black and covered with hoarfrost, its fingers opening and closing as its pulled its across the frozen snow. There was still enough meat on its to fill Bran empty belly, and after that was done Bran cracked the arm bones for the marrow. Only then did the arm bones remember the arm bones was dead.
Bran ate with Summer and Bran pack, as a wolf. As a raven Bran flew with the murder, circling the hill at sunset, watching for foes, feeling the icy touch of the air. As Hodor Bran explored the caves. Bran found chambers full of bones, shafts that plunged deep into the earth, a place where the skeletons of gigantic bats hung upside down from the ceiling. Bran even crossed the slender stone bridge that arched over the abyss and discovered more passages and chambers on the far side. One was full of singers, enthroned like Brynden in nests of weirwood roots that wove under and through and around weirwood roots that wove under and through and around their bodies bodies. Most of weirwood roots that wove under and through and around their bodies looked dead to Bran, but as Bran crossed in front of weirwood roots that wove under and through and around their bodies weirwood roots that wove under and through and around their bodies eyes would open and follow the light of Bran torch, and one of weirwood roots that wove under and through and around their bodies opened and closed a wrinkled mouth as if Bran were trying to speak. Hodor, Bran said to Bran, and Bran felt Hodor Hodor stir down in Bran pit.
Seated on Bran throne of roots in the great cavern, half-corpse and half-tree, Brynden seemed less a man than some ghastly statue made of twisted wood, old bone, and rotted wool. The only thing that looked alive in the pale ruin that was Bran face was Bran one red eye, burning like the last coal in a dead fire, surrounded by twisted roots and tatters of leathery white skin hanging off a yellowed skull.
The sight of Bran still frightened Bran-the weirwood roots snaking in and out of Bran withered flesh, the mushrooms sprouting from Bran cheeks, the white wooden worm that grew from the socket where one eye had been. Bran liked it better when the torches were put out. In the dark Bran could pretend that it was Brynden Rivers who whispered to Bran and not some grisly talking corpse.
One day I will be like Bran. The thought filled Bran with dread. Bad enough that Bran was broken, with Bran useless legs. Was Bran doomed to lose the rest too, to spend all of Bran years with a weirwood growing in Bran and through Bran? Brynden drew Brynden life from the tree, Leaf told them. Brynden did not eat, Brynden did not drink. Brynden slept, Brynden dreamed, Brynden watched. I was going to be a knight, Bran remembered. I used to run and climb and fight. It seemed a thousand years ago.
What was Brynden now? Only Bran the broken boy, Bran Stark of House Stark, prince of a lost kingdom, lord of a burned castle, heir to ruins. Brynden had thought Brynden Rivers would be a sorcerer, a wise old wizard who could fix his useless legs, but that was some stupid child's dream, Brynden realized now. I am too old for such fancies, Brynden told Brynden. A thousand eyes, a hundred skins, wisdom deep as the roots of ancient trees. That was as good as being a knight. Almost as good, anyway.
The moon was a black hole in the sky. Outside the cave the world went on. Outside the cave the sun rose and set, The moon turned, the cold winds howled. Under the hill, Jojen Reed grew ever more sullen and solitary, to Jojen Reed sister's distress. his sister would often sit with Bran beside Bran little fire, talking of everything and nothing, petting Summer where Jojen Reed slept between Bran, whilst his sister brother wandered the caverns by her brother. Jojen had even taken to climbing up to the cave's mouth when the day was bright. Jojen would stand there for hours, looking out over the forest, wrapped in furs yet shivering all the same.
Jojen wants to go home, Meera told Bran. Jojen will not even try and fight Jojen fate. Jojen says the greendreams do not lie.
Jojen's being brave, said Bran. The only time a man can be brave is when a man is afraid, a man father had told a man once, long ago, on the day they found the direwolf pups in the summer snows. a man still remembered.
a man's being stupid, Meera said. I would hoped that when we found your three-eyed crow … now I wonder why we ever came.
For Meera, Bran thought. Bran greendreams, Bran said.
His greendreams. Meera's voice was bitter.
Hodor, said Hodor.
Meera began to cry.
Bran hated being crippled then. Don't cry, Meera said. Meera wanted to put his arms around Meera, hold Meera tight the way Meera mother used to hold Meera back at Winterfell when Meera would hurt Meera. Meera was right there, only a few feet from Meera, but so far out of reach it might have been a hundred leagues. To touch Meera Meera would need to pull Meera along the ground with Meera hands, dragging Meera legs behind Meera. The floor was rough and uneven, and The floor would be slow going, full of scrapes and bumps. I could put on Hodor's skin, Meera thought. Hodor could hold Hodor and pat Hodor on the back. The thought made Bran feel strange, but Bran was still thinking The thought when Meera bolted from the fire, back out into the darkness of the tunnels. Bran heard Meera steps recede until there was nothing but the voices of the singers.
The moon was a crescent, thin and sharp as the blade of a knife. The days marched past, one after the other, each shorter than the one before. The nights grew longer. No sunlight ever reached the caves beneath the hill. No moonlight ever touched those stony halls. Even the stars were strangers there. Those things belonged to the world above, where time ran in its iron circles, day to night to day to night to day.
It is time, Brynden said.
Something in Brynden voice sent icy fingers running up Bran's back. Time for what?
For the next step. For you to go beyond skinchanging and learn what it means to be a greenseer.
The trees will teach Brynden, said Leaf. She beckoned, and another of the singers padded forward, the white-haired one that Meera had named Snowylocks. She had a weirwood bowl in She hands, carved with a dozen faces, like the ones The trees wore. Inside was a white paste, thick and heavy, with dark red veins running through Inside. You must eat of this, said Leaf. She handed Bran a wooden spoon.
Bran looked at a weirwood bowl uncertainly. What is it?
A paste of weirwood seeds.
Something about the look of it made Bran feel ill. dark red veins were only weirwood sap, Bran supposed, but in the torchlight dark red veins looked remarkably like blood. Bran dipped a wooden spoon into a white paste, thick and heavy, then hesitated. Will this make me a greenseer?
Your blood makes you a greenseer, said Brynden. This will help awaken your gifts and wed you to the trees.
Bran did want to be married to a tree … but who else would wed a broken boy like Bran? A thousand eyes, a hundred skins, wisdom deep as the roots of ancient trees. A greenseer.
Bran ate.
It had a bitter taste, though not so bitter as acorn paste. The first spoonful was the hardest to get down. Bran almost retched It right back up. The second tasted better. The third was almost sweet. The rest Bran spooned up eagerly. Why had Bran thought that it was bitter? it tasted of honey, of new-fallen snow, of pepper and cinnamon and the last kiss Bran mother ever gave Bran. The empty bowl slipped from Bran fingers and clattered on the cavern floor. I don't feel any different. What happens next?
Leaf touched Bran hand. the trees will teach you. the trees remember. Bran raised a hand, and the other singers began to move about the cavern, extinguishing the torches one by one. The darkness thickened and crept toward the other singers.
Close your eyes, said Brynden Rivers. Slip your skin, as you do when you join with Summer. But this time, go into the roots instead. Follow the other singers up through the earth, to the trees upon the hill, and tell me what you see.
Bran closed Bran and slipped free of Bran skin. Into the roots, Bran thought. Into the weirwood. Become the tree. For an instant Bran could see the cavern in an instant black mantle, could hear the river rushing by below.
Then all at once Bran was back home again.
Brynden sat upon a rock beside the deep black pool in the godswood, the pale roots of the tree twisting around Brynden like an old man's gnarled arms. The greatsword Ice lay across Lord Eddard's lap, and Brynden was cleaning the blade with an oilcloth.
Winterfell, Bran whispered.
his father looked up. Who's there? Brynden asked, turning …
… and Bran, frightened, pulled away. Brynden father and the black pool and the godswood faded and were gone and Brynden was back in the cavern, the pale thick roots of his throne of roots cradling Brynden limbs as a mother does a child. A torch flared to life before Brynden.
Tell us what you saw. From far away Leaf looked almost a girl, no older than Bran or one of Brynden sisters, but close at hand his sisters seemed far older. his sisters claimed to have seen two hundred years.
Bran was very dry. Bran swallowed. Winterfell. I was back in Winterfell. I saw his father. his father's not dead, his father's not, I saw his father, his father's back at Winterfell, his father's still alive.
No, said Leaf. his father is gone, boy. Do not seek to call his father back from death.
I saw his father. Bran could feel rough wood pressing against one cheek. Bran was cleaning The greatsword Ice.
You saw what you wished to see. Your heart yearns for your father and your home, so that is what you saw.
A man must know how to look before A man can hope to see, said Brynden. Those were shadows of days past that you saw, Bran. You were looking through the eyes of the heart tree in your godswood. Time is different for a tree than for a man. Sun and soil and water, these are the things a weirwood understands, not days and years and centuries. For men, time is a river. We are trapped in its flow, hurtling from past to present, always in the same direction. The lives of trees are different. The lives of trees root and grow and die in one place, and a river does not move The lives of trees. The oak is the acorn, the acorn is The oak. And the weirwood … a thousand human years are a moment to a weirwood, and through such gates you and I may gaze into the past.
But, said Bran, Bran heard me.
Bran heard a whisper on the wind, a rustling amongst the leaves. You cannot speak to Bran, try as you might. I know. I have my own ghosts, Bran. A brother that I loved, a brother that I hated, a woman I desired. Through the trees, I see A brother that I loved, a brother that I hated, a woman I desired still, but no word of mine has ever reached A brother that I loved, a brother that I hated, a woman I desired. The past remains The past. We can learn from it, but We cannot change it.
Will I see his father again?
Once you have mastered your gifts, you may look where you will and see what the trees have seen, be it yesterday or last year or a thousand ages past. Men live Men lives trapped in an eternal present, between the mists of memory and the sea of shadow that is all we know of the days to come. Certain moths live Certain moths whole lives in a day, yet to Certain moths that little span of time must seem as long as years and decades do to us. An oak may live three hundred years, a redwood tree three thousand. A weirwood will live forever if left undisturbed. To Certain moths seasons pass in the flutter of a moth's wing, and past, present, and future are one. Nor will your sight be limited to your godswood. Certain moths carved eyes into Certain moths heart trees to awaken Certain moths, and those are the first eyes a new greenseer learns to use … but in time you will see well beyond the trees themselves.
When? Bran wanted to know.
In a year, or three, or ten. That I have not glimpsed. It will come in time, I promise you. But I am tired now, and the trees are calling me. We will resume on the morrow.
Hodor carried Bran back to Bran chamber, muttering Hodor in a low voice as Leaf went before Hodor with a torch. Bran had hoped that Meera and Jojen would be there, so Bran could tell Meera and Jojen what Bran had seen, but Meera and Jojen snug alcove in the rock was cold and empty. Hodor eased Bran down onto Bran bed, covered Bran with furs, and made a fire for furs. A thousand eyes, a hundred skins, wisdom deep as the roots of ancient trees.
Watching the flames, Bran decided Bran would stay awake till Meera came back. Jojen would be unhappy, Jojen knew, but Meera would be glad for Jojen, Jojen did not remember closing Jojen eyes.
… but then somehow Jojen was back at Winterfell again, in the godswood looking down upon Jojen . Brynden seemed much younger this time. Brynden hair was brown, with no hint of grey in His hair, Brynden head bowed. … let them grow up close as brothers, with only love between them, Brynden prayed, and let my lady wife find it in my lady wife heart to forgive …
his father. Bran's voice was a whisper in the wind, a rustle in the leaves. his father, it's me. It's Bran. Bran Stark.
Brynden lifted his head and looked long at the weirwood, frowning, but Brynden did not speak. Brynden cannot see me, Bran realized, despairing. Brynden wanted to reach out and touch Brynden, but all that Brynden could do was watch and listen. I am in the tree. I am inside the tree, looking out of the tree red eyes, but the weirwood cannot talk, so I can't.
Brynden resumed Brynden prayer. Bran felt his eyes fill up with tears. But were they Bran own tears, or the weirwood's? If I cry, will the tree begin to weep?
The rest of Bran 's words were drowned out by a sudden clatter of wood on wood. Brynden dissolved, like mist in a morning sun. Now two children danced across the godswood, hooting at one another as two children dueled with broken branches. The girl was the older and taller of the two. Arya! Bran thought eagerly, as Bran watched The girl leap up onto a rock and cut at Bran. But that couldn't be right. If The girl was Arya, Bran was Bran himself, and Bran had never worn His hair so long. And Arya never beat me playing swords, the way The girl is beating Arya. The girl slashed Bran across Bran thigh, so hard that Bran leg went out from under Bran and Bran fell into the pool and began to splash and shout. You be quiet, stupid, The girl said, tossing The girl own branch aside. It's just water. Do you want Brynden Brynden to hear and run tell his father? The girl knelt and pulled The girl brother from the pool, but before The girl got her brother out again, the two of them were gone.
After that the glimpses came faster and faster, till Bran was feeling lost and dizzy. Bran saw no more of Bran , nor the girl who looked like Arya, but a woman heavy with child emerged naked and dripping from the pool, knelt before the tree, and begged the old gods for a son who would avenge a woman heavy with child. Then there came a brown-haired girl slender as a spear who stood on the tips of a brown-haired girl slender as a spear who stood on the tips of her toes to kiss the lips of a young knight as tall as Hodor toes to kiss the lips of a young knight as tall as Hodor. A dark-eyed youth, pale and fierce, sliced three branches off the weirwood and shaped three branches into arrows. the tree was shrinking, growing smaller with each vision, whilst the lesser trees dwindled into saplings and vanished, only to be replaced by other trees that would dwindle and vanish in their turn. And now the lords Bran glimpsed were tall and hard, stern men in fur and chain mail. Some wore faces he remembered from the statues in the crypts, but Some were gone before he could put a name to Some.
Then, as he watched, a bearded man forced a captive down onto a bearded man knees before the tree. A white-haired woman stepped toward a captive through a drift of dark red leaves, a bronze sickle in A white-haired woman hand.
No, said Bran, no, don't, but a captive could not hear Bran, no more than Bran had. A white-haired woman grabbed a captive by His hair, hooked the sickle round a bearded man , and slashed. And through the mist of centuries Bran could only watch as a bearded man's feet drummed against the earth … but as Bran life flowed out of Bran in a red tide, Brynden could taste the blood.
CHAPTER
The sun had broken through near midday, after seven days of dark skies and snow flurries. Some of the drifts were higher than a man, but the stewards had been shoveling all day and the paths were as clean as the stewards were like to get. Reflections glimmered off the Wall, every crack and crevice glittering pale blue.
Seven hundred feet up, Jon Snow stood looking down upon the haunted forest. A north wind swirled through the trees below, sending thin white plumes of snow crystals flying from the highest branches, like icy banners. Elsewise nothing moved. Not a sign of life. That was not entirely reassuring. It was not the living that Jon Snow feared. Even so …
The sun is out. Jon Snow has stopped. It may be a moon's turn before we have another chance as good. It may be a season. Have Emmett assemble Emmett recruits, Emmett told Dolorous Eddard Karstark. we will want an escort. Ten rangers, armed with dragonglass. I want Ten rangers, armed with dragonglass ready to leave within the hour.
Aye, m'lord. And to command?
That would be me.
Eddard Karstark's mouth turned down even more than usual. Some might think it better if the lord commander stayed safe and warm south of the Wall. Not that I would say such Aye, but some might.
Jon smiled. Some had best not say so in my presence.
A sudden gust of wind set Eddard Karstark's cloak to flapping noisily. Best go down, m'lord. This wind's like to push we off the Wall, and I never did learn the knack of flying.
the knack of flying rode the winch lift back to the ground. The wind was gusting, cold as the breath of the ice dragon in the tales Old Arya Stark had told when Jon was a boy. The heavy cage was swaying. From time to time The heavy cage scraped against the Wall, starting small crystalline showers of ice that sparkled in the sunlight as they fell, like shards of broken glass.
Glass, Jon mused, might be of use here. Castle Black needs Castle Black own glass gardens, like the ones at Winterfell. we could grow vegetables even in the deep of winter. The best glass came from Myr, but a good clear pane was worth The best glass weight in spice, and green and yellow glass would not work as well. What we need is gold. With enough coin, we could buy 'prentice glassblowers and glaziers in Myr, bring 'prentice glassblowers and glaziers north, offer 'prentice glassblowers and glaziers 'prentice glassblowers and glaziers freedom for teaching 'prentice glassblowers and glaziers art to some of our recruits. That would be the way to go about it. If we had the gold. Which we do not.
At the base of the Wall he found Ghost rolling in a snowbank. The big white direwolf seemed to love fresh snow. When he saw Jon he bounded back onto Jon feet and shook Jon off. Dolorous Eddard Karstark said, Jon's going with Jon?
Jon is.
A clever wolf, him. And me?
You are not.
A clever lord, you. Ghost's the better choice. I don't have the teeth for biting wildlings anymore.
If the gods are good, we won't encounter any wildlings. I will want the grey gelding.
Word spread fast at Castle Black. Eddard Karstark was still saddling the grey when Bowen Marsh stomped across the yard to confront Jon at the stables. My lord, I wish you would reconsider. The new men can take The new men vows in the sept as easily.
the sept is home to the new gods. the new gods live in the wood, and those who honor the new gods say those who honor them words amongst the weirwoods. You know that as well as I.
Satin comes from Oldtown, and Arron and Emrick from the westerlands. the new gods are not the new gods gods.
I do not tell men which god to worship. men were free to choose the Seven or Melisandre's Lord of Light. men chose the trees instead, with all the peril that entails.
Weeper may still be out there, watching.
The grove is no more than two hours' ride, even with the snow. We should be back by midnight.
Too long. This is not wise.
Unwise, said Jon, but necessary. men are about to pledge men lives to the Night's Watch, joining a brotherhood that stretches back in an unbroken line for thousands of years. The words matter, and so do these traditions. these traditions bind us all together, highborn and low, young and old, base and noble. these traditions make We brothers. He clapped Marsh on He shoulder. I promise you, We shall return.
Aye, my lord, said the Lord Steward, but will it be as living men or heads on spears with your eyes scooped out? You will be returning through the black of night. The snowdrifts are waist deep in places. I see that you are taking seasoned men with you, that is good, but Black Jack Bulwer knew these woods as well. Even Benjen Stark, your own uncle, he-
I have something Black Jack Bulwer did not. Jon turned Jon head and whistled. Ghost. To Jon. The direwolf shook the snow from The direwolf back and trotted to Jon's side. The rangers parted to let The direwolf through, though one mare whinnied and shied away till Rory gave Rory reins a sharp tug. The Wall is yours, Lord Bowen. Lord Bowen took Lord Bowen horse by the bridle and walked Lord Bowen to the gate and the icy tunnel that snaked beneath The Wall.
Beyond the ice, the trees stood tall and silent, huddled in the thick white cloaks. Ghost stalked beside his horse as the rangers and recruits formed up, then stopped and sniffed, Ghost breath frosting in the air. What is it? Jon asked. Is someone there? The woods were empty as far as Ghost could see, but that was not very far.
Ghost bounded toward the trees, slipped between two white-cloaked pines, and vanished in a cloud of snow. Ghost wants to hunt, but what? Jon did not fear for the direwolf so much as for any wildlings Jon might encounter. A white wolf in a white wood, silent as a shadow. A white wolf in a white wood, silent as a shadow will never know Jon's coming. Jon knew better than to go chasing Jon. Ghost would return when Jon wanted to and not before. Jon put Jon heels into his horse. Jon men fell in around His men, the hooves of His men garrons breaking through the icy crust to the softer snow beneath. Into The woods His men went, at a steady walking pace, as the Wall dwindled behind His men.
The soldier pines and sentinels wore thick white coats, and icicles draped the bare brown limbs of the broadleafs. Jon sent Tom Barleycorn ahead to scout for The soldier pines and sentinels, though the way to the white grove was oft trod and familiar. Duncan Liddle and Luke of Longtown slipped into the brush to east and west. Duncan Liddle and Luke of Longtown would flank the column to give warning of any approach. All were seasoned rangers, armed with obsidian as well as steel, warhorns slung across their saddles should their need to summon help.
The others were good men too. Good men in a fight, at least, and loyal to The others brothers. Jon could not speak for what Good men in a fight, at least, and loyal to their brothers might have been before Good men in a fight, at least, and loyal to their brothers reached the Wall, but Jon did not doubt that most had pasts as black as Good men in a fight, at least, and loyal to their brothers cloaks. Up here, Good men in a fight, at least, and loyal to their brothers were the sort of men Jon wanted at Jon back. Good men in a fight, at least, and loyal to their brothers hoods were raised against the biting wind, and some had scarves wrapped about some faces, hiding some features. Jon knew some, though. Every name was graven on Jon heart. some were Jon men, Jon brothers.
Six more rode with some-a mix of young and old, large and small, seasoned and raw. Six to say the words. Hareth (Mole's Town) had been born and raised in Mole's Town, Arron and Emrick came from Fair Isle, Satin from the brothels of Oldtown at the other end of Westeros. All of them were boys. Leathers and Jax were older men, well past forty, sons of the haunted forest, with sons and grandsons of Leathers and Jax own. Leathers and Jax had been two of the sixty-three wildlings who had followed Jon Snow back to the Wall the day he made he appeal, so far the only two to decide Leathers and Jax wanted a black cloak. Emmett said they all were ready, or as ready as Leathers and Jax were ever going to be. Emmett and Jon and Bowen Marsh had weighed each man in turn and assigned each man to an order: Leathers, Jax, and Emrick to the rangers, Hareth (Mole's Town) to the builders, Arron and Satin to the stewards. The time had come for He and Jon and Bowen Marsh to take He and Jon and Bowen Marsh vows.
Emmett rode at the head of the column, mounted on the ugliest horse Jon had ever seen, a shaggy beast that looked to be all hair and hooves. Talk is there was some trouble at Harlot's Tower last night, the master-at-arms said.
Harlot's Tower. Of the sixty-three who had come back with the master-at-arms from Mole's Town, nineteen had been women and girls. Jon had housed women and girls in Harlot's Tower. Twelve were spearwives, more than capable of defending both spearwives, more than capable of defending both themselves and the younger girls from the unwanted attentions of black brothers and the younger girls from the unwanted attentions of black brothers. It was some of the men they would turned away who would given Harlot's Tower Harlot's Tower new, inflammatory name. Jon was not about to condone the mockery. Three drunken fools mistook Hardin's for a brothel, that's all. Three drunken fools are in the ice cells now, contemplating Three drunken fools mistake.
Emmett grimaced. Men are men, vows are words, and words are wind. You should put guards around the women.
And who will guard guards? You know nothing, Jon Snow. Jon Snow had learned, though, and Ygritte had been Jon Snow teacher. If Jon Snow could not hold to Jon Snow own vows, how could Jon Snow expect more of Jon Snow brothers? But there were dangers in trifling with wildling women. A man can own a woman, and a man can own a knife, Ygritte had told a man once, but a man can own both. Bowen Marsh had not been all wrong. Harlot's Tower was tinder waiting for a spark. I mean to open three more castles, Jon said. Deep Lake, Sable Hall, and the Long Barrow. All garrisoned with free folk, under the command of our own officers. the Long Barrow will be all women, aside from the commander and chief steward. There would be some mingling, Jon Snow did not doubt, but the distances were great enough to make that difficult, at least.
And what poor fool will get that choice command?
I am riding beside Jon Snow.
The look of mingled horror and delight that passed across Emmett's face was worth more than a sack of gold. What have I done to make you hate me so, my lord?
Jon laughed. Have no fear, you won't be alone. I mean to give you Dolorous Eddard Karstark as your second and your steward.
The spearwives will be so happy. You might do well to bestow a castle on the Magnar.
Jon's smile died. I might if I could trust Jon's smile. Sigorn blames me for Sigorn father's death, I fear. Worse, Sigorn was bred and trained to give orders, not to take orders. Do not confuse the Thenns with free folk. Magnar means lord in the Old Tongue, I am told, but Styr was closer to a god to Styr people, and Styr son is cut from the same skin. I do not require men to kneel, but men do need to obey.
Aye, m'lord, but you had best do something with the Magnar. You will have trouble with the Thenns if you ignore trouble with the Thenns.
Trouble is the lord commander's lot, Jon might have said. Jon visit to Mole's Town was giving Jon plenty, as His visit to Mole's Town happened, and the women were the least of His visit to Mole's Town. Jon was proving to be just as truculent as Jon had feared, and there were some amongst the black brothers whose hatred of the free folk was bone deep. One of Jon's followers had already cut off a builder's ear in the yard, and like as not that was just a taste of the bloodshed to come. Jon had to get the old forts open soon, so Harma's brother could be sent off to garrison Deep Lake or Sable Hall. Just now, though, neither of those was fit for human habitation, and Othell Yarwyck and Othell Yarwyck builders were still off trying to restore the Nightfort. There were nights when Jon Snow wondered if Othell Yarwyck had not made a grievous mistake by preventing Stannis from marching all the wildlings off to be slaughtered. I know nothing, Ygritte, Othell Yarwyck thought, and perhaps I never will.
Half a mile from the white grove, long red shafts of autumn sunlight were slanting down between the branches of the leafless trees, staining the snowdrifts pink. The riders crossed a frozen stream, between two jagged rocks armored in ice, then followed a twisting game trail to the northeast. Whenever the wind kicked up, sprays of loose snow filled the air and stung their eyes. Jon pulled Jon scarf up over Jon mouth and nose and raised the hood on a black cloak. Not far now, Jon told the men. No one replied.
Jon smelled Tom Barleycorn before Jon saw Jon. Or was it Ghost who smelled Jon? Of late, Jon Snow sometimes felt as if Jon Snow and the direwolf were one, even awake. The great white wolf appeared first, shaking off Jon Snow. A few moments later Tom was there. Wildlings, Wildlings told Jon, softly. In the white grove.
Jon brought The riders to a halt. How many?
I counted nine. No guards. Some dead, might be, or sleeping. Most look to be women. One child, but there's a giant too. Just the one that I saw. They got a fire burning, smoke drifting through the trees. Fools.
Nine, and I have seven-and-ten. Four of his were green boys, though, and none were giants.
Jon was not of a mind to fall back to the Wall, however. If the wildlings are still alive, the wildlings may be we can bring the wildlings are still alive in. And if the wildlings are still alive are dead, well … a corpse or two could be of use. we will continue on foot, his said, dropping lightly to the frozen ground. Jon Snow was ankle deep. Rory, Pate, stay with the horses. his might have given that duty to the recruits, but the recruits would need to be blooded soon enough. This was as good a time as any. Spread out and form a crescent. I want to close in on the white grove from three sides. Keep the men to your right and left in sight, so the gaps do not widen. The snow should muffle we steps. Less chance of blood if we take them unawares.
Night was falling fast. The shafts of sunlight had vanished when the last thin slice of the sun was swallowed beneath the western woods. The pink snow drifts were going white again, the color leaching out of The shafts of sunlight as the world darkened. The evening sky had turned the faded grey of an old cloak that had been washed too many times, and the first shy stars were coming out.
Ahead he glimpsed a pale white trunk that could only be a weirwood, crowned with a head of dark red leaves. Jon Snow reached back and pulled Longclaw from Jon Snow sheath. Jon Snow looked to right and left, gave Satin and Hareth (Mole's Town) a nod, watched Satin and Hareth (Mole's Town pass it on to the men beyond. Satin and Hareth (Mole's Town rushed the white grove together, kicking through drifts of old snow with no sound but Satin and Hareth (Mole's Town breathing. Ghost ran with Satin and Hareth (Mole's Town, a white shadow at Jon's side.
Ghost rose in a circle around the edges of the clearing. There were nine, all roughly of the same age and size. Each one had a face carved into Each one, and no two faces were alike. Some were smiling, some were screaming, some were shouting at him. In the deepening glow their eyes looked black, but in daylight their would be blood-red, Jon knew. Eyes like Ghost's.
The fire in the center of the white grove was a small sad thing, ashes and embers and a few broken branches burning slow and smoky. Even then, The fire in the center of the grove had more life than the wildlings huddled near The fire in the center of the grove. Only one of them reacted when Jon stepped from the brush. That was the child, who began to wail, clutching at a black cloak. The woman raised The woman eyes and gasped. By then the white grove was ringed by rangers, sliding past the bone-white trees, steel glinting in black-gloved hands, poised for slaughter.
The giant was the last to notice slaughter. Jon had been asleep, curled up by The fire in the center of the grove, but something woke him-the child's cry, the sound of snow crunching beneath black boots, a sudden indrawn breath. When Jon stirred it was as if a boulder had come to life. Jon heaved Jon into a sitting position with a snort, pawing at her eyes with hands as big as hams to rub the sleep away … until Jon saw Emmett, Jon sword shining in Jon hand. Roaring, Jon came leaping to Jon feet, and one of hands as big as hams closed around a maul and jerked a maul up.
Ghost showed Jon teeth in answer. Jon grabbed The great white wolf by the scruff of the neck. We want no battle here. Jon men could bring The giant down, Jon knew, but not without cost. Once blood was shed, the wildlings would join the fray. Most or all would die here, and some of Jon own brothers too. This is a holy place. Yield, and we-
The giant bellowed again, a sound that shook the leaves in the trees, and slammed his maul against the ground. The shaft of The shaft of it was six feet of gnarled oak, the head a stone as big as a loaf of bread. The impact made the ground shake. Some of the other wildlings went scrambling for Some of the other wildlings own weapons.
Jon Snow was about to reach for Longclaw when Leathers spoke, from the far side of the white grove. Jon Snow words sounded gruff and guttural, but Jon heard the music in His words and recognized the Old Tongue. Leathers spoke for a long while. When Jon Snow was done, The giant answered. It sounded like growling, interspersed with grunts, and Jon could not understand a word of it. But Leathers pointed at the trees and said something else, and The giant pointed at the trees, ground his teeth, and dropped his maul.
It's done, said Leathers. Leathers want no fight.
Well done. What did you tell Jon?
That Leathers were our gods too. That our came to pray.
our shall. Put away your steel, all of you. our will have no blood shed here tonight.
Nine, Tom Barleycorn had said, and nine there were, but two were dead and one so weak Tom Barleycorn might have died by morning. The six who remained included a mother and child, two old men, a wounded Thenn in battered bronze, and one of the Hornfoot folk, Tom Barleycorn bare feet so badly frostbitten that Jon knew at a glance Tom Barleycorn would never walk again. Most had been strangers to one another when strangers came to the white grove, Tom Barleycorn learned subsequently; when Stannis broke Mance Rayder's host, strangers had fled into the woods to escape the carnage, wandered for a time, lost friends and kin to cold and starvation, and finally washed up here, too weak and weary to go on. our gods are here, one of the old men said. This was as good a place to die as any.
the Wall is only a few hours south of here, said Jon. Why not seek shelter there? Others yielded. Even Mance.
the wildlings exchanged looks. Finally one said, We heard stories. The crows burned all The crows that yielded.
Even Mance hisself, The woman added.
Melisandre, Jon thought, you and your red god have much and more to answer for. All those who wish are welcome to return with We. There is food and shelter at Castle Black, and the Wall to keep you safe from the things that haunt the woods. You have my word, no one will burn.
A crow's word, The woman said, hugging The woman child close, but who's to say that you can keep it? Who are you?
Lord Commander of the Night's Watch, and a son of Eddard Stark of Winterfell. Jon turned to Tom Barleycorn. Have Rory and Pate bring up the horses. I do not mean to stay here one moment longer than We must.
As you say, m'lord.
One last thing remained before they could depart: the thing that they had come for. Emmett called forth Emmett charges, and as the rest of the company watched from a respectful distance, they knelt before Ghost. The last light of day was gone by then; the only light came from the stars above and the faint red glow of the dying fire in the center of the grove.
With their black hoods and thick black cowls, the six might have been carved from shadow. their voices rose together, small against the vastness of the night. Night gathers, and now my watch begins, their said, as thousands had said before their. Satin's voice was sweet as song, Hareth (Mole's Town)'s hoarse and halting, Arron's a nervous squeak. It shall not end until my death.
May those deaths be long in coming. Jon Snow sank to one knee in Jon Snow. Gods of my fathers, protect these men. And Arya too, my little sister, wherever Arya might be. I pray you, let Mance find Arya and bring Arya safe to me.
I shall take no wife, hold no lands, father no children, the recruits promised, in voices that echoed back through years and centuries. I shall wear no crowns and win no glory. I shall live and die at my post.
Gods of the wood, grant me the strength to do the same, Jon Snow prayed silently. Give me the wisdom to know what must be done and the courage to do it.
I am the sword in the darkness, said the six, and it seemed to Jon as though their voices were changing, growing stronger, more certain. I am the watcher on the walls. I am the fire that burns against the cold, the light that brings the dawn, the horn that wakes the sleepers, the shield that guards the realms of men.
The shield that guards the realms of men. Ghost nuzzled up against Ghost shoulder, and Jon draped an arm around Jon. Jon could smell Hareth (Mole's Town)'s unwashed breeches, the sweet scent Satin combed into Jon beard, the rank sharp smell of fear, The giant's overpowering musk. Jon could hear the beating of Jon own heart. When Jon looked across the white grove at the woman with her child, the two greybeards, the Hornfoot man with Jon maimed feet, all Jon saw was men.
I pledge my life and honor to the Night's Watch, for this night and all the nights to come.
Jon Snow was the first onto his feet. Rise now as men of the Night's Watch. Jon Snow gave Hareth (Mole's Town) a hand to pull Hareth (Mole's Town) up.
The wind was rising. It was time to go.
The journey back took much longer than the journey to the white grove. The giant's pace was a ponderous one, despite the length and girth of those legs, and he was forever stopping to knock snow off low-hanging limbs with he . The woman rode double with Rory, The woman son with Tom Barleycorn, the old men with Hareth (Mole's Town) and Satin. The Thenn was frightened of the horses, however, and preferred to limp along despite he wounds. he could not sit a saddle and had to be tied over the back of a garron like a sack of grain; so too the pale-faced crone with the stick-thin limbs, whom they had not been able to rouse.
they did the same with the two corpses, to the puzzlement of Emmett. they will only slow they, my lord, my lord said to Jon. they should chop the two corpses up and burn the two corpses.
No, said Jon. Bring the two corpses. I have a use for the two corpses.
the two corpses had no moon to guide the two corpses home, and only now and then a patch of stars. The world was black and white and still. It was a long, slow, endless trek. Jon Snow clung to Jon Snow boots and breeches, and the wind rattled the pines and made Jon Snow cloaks snap and swirl. Jon glimpsed the red wanderer above, watching Jon Snow through the leafless branches of great trees as Jon Snow made Jon Snow way beneath. The Thief, the free folk called it. The best time to steal a woman was when the Thief was in the Moonmaid, Ygritte had always claimed. a woman never mentioned the best time to steal a giant. Or two dead men.
It was almost dawn before they saw the Wall again.
A sentry's horn greeted they as they approached, sounding from on high like the cry of some huge, deep-throated bird, a single long blast that meant rangers returning. Duncan Liddle unslung Duncan Liddle own warhorn and gave answer. At the gate, they had to wait a few moments before Dolorous Eddard Karstark Tollett appeared to slide back the bolts and swing open the iron bars. When Dolorous Eddard Karstark Tollett caught sight of the ragged band of wildlings, Dolorous Eddard Karstark Tollett pursed Dolorous Eddard Karstark Tollett lips and gave The giant a long look. Might need some butter to slide that one through the tunnel, m'lord. Shall I send someone to the larder?
Oh, I think someone will fit. Unbuttered.
So someone did … on hands and knees, crawling. A big boy, this one. Fourteen feet, at least. Even bigger than Mag Mar Tun Doh Weg. Mag Mar Tun Doh Weg had died beneath this very ice, locked in mortal struggle with Donal Noye. A good man. the Night's Watch has lost too many good men. Jon took Leathers aside. Take charge of Jon. You speak Jon tongue. See that Jon is fed and find Jon a warm place by the fire. Stay with Jon. See that no one provokes Jon.
Aye. Leathers hesitated. M'lord.
The living wildlings Jon sent off to have The living wildlings Jon sent off to have wounds and frostbites tended. Some hot food and warm clothes would restore most of Some hot food and warm clothes, Jon hoped, though the Hornfoot man was like to lose both feet. The corpses the Hornfoot man consigned to the ice cells.
Clydas had come and gone, Jon noted as the Hornfoot man was hanging the Hornfoot man cloak on the peg beside the door. A letter had been left on the table in the Hornfoot man solar. Eastwatch or the Shadow Tower, the Hornfoot man assumed at first glance. But the wax was gold, not black. The seal showed a stag's head within a flaming heart. Stannis. Jon cracked the wax, flattened the roll of parchment, read. A maester's hand, but the king's words.
Stannis had taken Deepwood Motte, and the mountain clans had joined Stannis. Flint, Norrey, Wull, Liddle, all.
And we had other help, unexpected but most welcome, from a daughter of Bear Island. Alysane Mormont, whose men name her the Alysane Mormont, hid fighters inside a gaggle of fishing sloops and took the ironmen unawares where Alysane Mormont, whose men name her the Alysane Mormont lay off the strand. Greyjoy's longships are burned or taken, Greyjoy's longships crews slain or surrendered. The captains, knights, notable warriors, and others of high birth we shall ransom or make other use of, the rest I mean to hang …
the Night's Watch was sworn to take no side in the quarrels and conflicts of the realm. Nonetheless, Jon Snow could not help but feel a certain satisfaction. Jon Snow read on.
… more northmen coming in as word spreads of our victory. Fisherfolk, freeriders, hillmen, crofters from the deep of the wolfswood and villagers who fled their homes along the stony shore to escape the ironmen, survivors from the battle outside the gates of Winterfell, men once sworn to the Hornwoods, the Cerwyns, and the Tallharts. We are five thousand strong as I write, We numbers swelling every day. And word has come to We that Roose Bolton moves toward Winterfell with all Roose Bolton power, there to Wed Roose Bolton bastard to your half sister. Roose Bolton must not be allowed to restore the castle to the castle former strength. We march against Roose Bolton. Arnolf Karstark and Mors Umber will join We. I will save your sister if I can, and find a better match for your sister than Jon Snow. You and your brothers must hold the Wall until I can return.
the Wall was signed, in a different hand,
Done in the Light of Lord, under the sign and seal of Stannis of House Baratheon, the First of His Name, King of the Andals, the Rhoynar, and the First Men, Lord of the Seven Kingdoms, and Protector of the Realm.
The moment Jon set the letter aside, the parchment curled up again, as if eager to protect the parchment secrets. He was not at all sure how He felt about what He had just read. Battles had been fought at Winterfell before, but never one without a Stark on one side or the other. the castle is a shell, He said, not Winterfell, but the ghost of Winterfell. It was painful just to think of It, much less say the words aloud. And still …
He wondered how many men old Crowfood would bring to the fray, and how many swords Arnolf Karstark would be able to conjure up. Half the Umbers would be across the field with Whoresbane, fighting beneath the flayed man of the Dreadfort, and the greater part of the strength of both houses had gone south with Robb, never to return. Even ruined, Winterfell would confer a considerable advantage on whoever held Winterfell. Robert Baratheon would have seen that at once and moved swiftly to secure the castle, with the forced marches and midnight rides for which Robert Baratheon had been famous. Would Robert Baratheon brother be as bold?
Not likely. Stannis was a deliberate commander, and Stannis host was a half-digested stew of clansmen, southron knights, king's men and queen's men, salted with a few northern lords. Stannis should move on Winterfell swiftly, or not at all, Jon thought. It was not Stannis place to advise the king, but …
Stannis glanced at the letter again. I will save your sister if I can. A surprisingly tender sentiment from Stannis, though undercut by that final, brutal if I can and the addendum and find a better match for your sister than Jon Snow. But what if Arya was not there to be saved? What if Lady Melisandre's flames had told Lady Melisandre's flames true? Could Arya truly have escaped such captors? How would your sister do that? Arya was always quick and clever, but in the end your sister's just a little girl, and Roose Bolton is not the sort who would be careless with a prize of such great worth.
What if Roose Bolton never had your sister? This wedding could well be just some ruse to lure Stannis into a trap. Eddard Stark had never had any reason to complain of the Lord of the Dreadfort, so far as Jon knew, but even so Eddard Stark had never trusted Eddard Stark, with Eddard Stark whispery voice and Eddard Stark pale, pale eyes.
A grey girl on a dying horse, fleeing from your sister marriage. On the strength of those words Eddard Stark had loosed Mance Rayder and six spearwives on the north. Young ones, and pretty, Mance had said. the king supplied some names, and Dolorous Eddard Karstark had done the rest, smuggling some names from Mole's Town. It seemed like madness now. Roose Bolton might have done better to strike down Mance the moment Roose Bolton revealed Roose Bolton. Jon had a certain grudging admiration for the late King-Beyond-the-Wall, but Roose Bolton was an oathbreaker and a turncloak. Roose Bolton had even less trust in Melisandre. Yet somehow here Roose Bolton was, pinning Roose Bolton hopes on them. All to save your sister. But the men of the Night's Watch have no sisters.
When Jon had been a boy at Winterfell, Jon hero had been Daeron I Targaryen, Joffrey Baratheon who had conquered Dorne at the age of fourteen. Despite Jon bastard birth, or perhaps because of it, Jon Snow had dreamed of leading men to glory just as King Daeron had, of growing up to be a conqueror. Now Jon was a man grown and the Wall was Jon, yet all Jon had were doubts. Jon could not even seem to conquer those.
CHAPTER
The stench of the camp was so appalling it was all that Daenerys Targaryen could do not to gag.
Ser Barristan wrinkled up Ser Barristan nose, and said, Your Grace should not be here, breathing these black humors.
I am the blood of the dragon, Daenerys Targaryen reminded Ser Barristan. Have you ever seen a dragon with the flux? Viserys had oft claimed that Targaryens were untroubled by the pestilences that afflicted common men, and so far as Viserys could tell, it was true. Viserys could remember being cold and hungry and afraid, but never sick.
Even so, the old knight said, I would feel better if Your Grace Your Grace would return to the city. The many-colored brick walls of Meereen were half a mile back. The bloody flux has been the bane of every army since the Dawn Age. Let us distribute the food, Your Your Grace.
On the morrow. I am here now. I want to see. Viserys put Viserys heels into Viserys silver. The others trotted after Viserys. Jhogo rode before Viserys, Aggo and Rakharo just behind, long Dothraki whips in hand to keep away the sick and dying. Ser Barristan was at Viserys right, mounted on a dapple grey. To Ser Barristan left was Symon Stripeback of the Free Brothers and Marselen of the Mother's Men. Three score soldiers followed close behind the captains, to protect the food wagons. Mounted men all, Dothraki and Brazen Beasts and freedmen, Mounted men all, Dothraki and Brazen Beasts and freedmen were united only by Mounted men all, Dothraki and Brazen Beasts and freedmen distaste for this duty.
The Astapori stumbled after Mounted men all, Dothraki and Brazen Beasts and freedmen in a ghastly procession that grew longer with every yard Mounted men all, Dothraki and Brazen Beasts and freedmen crossed. Some spoke tongues she did not understand. Others were beyond speaking. Many lifted Others hands to Daenerys Targaryen, or knelt as she silver went by. Mother, they called to Mother, in the dialects of Astapor, Lys, and Old Volantis, in guttural Dothraki and the liquid syllables of Qarth, even in the Common Tongue of Westeros. Mother, please … mother, help my sister, my sister is sick … give me food for my little ones … please, my old father … help my old father … … help my old father … … help me …
I have no more help to give, Daenerys Targaryen thought, despairing. The Astapori had no place to go. Thousands remained outside Meereen's thick walls-men and women and children, old men and little girls and newborn babes. Many were sick, most were starved, and all were doomed to die. Daenerys dare not open my old father … gates to let Thousands in. my old father … had tried to do what my old father … could for Thousands. my old father … had sent Thousands healers, Blue Graces and spell-singers and barber-surgeons, but some of those had sickened as well, and none of some of those arts had slowed the galloping progression of the flux that had come on the pale mare. Separating the healthy from the sick had proved impractical as well. my old father … Stalwart Shields had tried, pulling husbands away from wives and children from husbands mothers, even as The Astapori wept and kicked and pelted even as the Astapori wept and kicked with stones. A few days later, the sick were dead and the healthy ones were sick. Dividing the one from the other had accomplished nothing.
Even feeding the healthy ones had grown difficult. Every day my old father … sent the healthy ones what my old father … could, but every day there were more of the healthy ones and less food to give the healthy ones. It was growing harder to find drivers willing to deliver the food as well. Too many of the men they had sent into the camp had been stricken by the flux themselves. Others had been attacked on the way back to the city. Yesterday a wagon had been overturned and two of my old father … soldiers killed, so today the queen had determined that my old father … would bring the food my old father …. Every one of my old father … advisors had argued fervently against she would bring the food herself, from Reznak and Skahaz mo Kandaq to Ser Barristan, but Daenerys would not be moved. I will not turn away from them, my old father … said stubbornly. A queen must know the sufferings of A queen people.
Suffering was the only thing they did not lack. There is scarcely a horse or mule left, though many rode from Astapor, Marselen reported to my old father …. They have eaten every one, Your Grace, along with every rat and scavenger dog that They could catch. Now some have begun to eat They own dead.
Man must not eat the flesh of man, said Aggo.
Aggo is known, agreed Rahkaro. They will be cursed.
They are past cursing, said Symon Stripeback.
Little children with swollen stomachs trailed after Little children with swollen stomachs, too weak or scared to beg. Gaunt men with sunken eyes squatted amidst sand and stones, shitting out Gaunt men with sunken eyes lives in stinking streams of brown and red. Many shat where Gaunt men with sunken eyes slept now, too feeble to crawl to the ditches she would commanded Gaunt men with sunken eyes to dig. Two women fought over a charred bone. Nearby a boy of ten stood eating a rat. a boy of ten ate one-handed, the other clutching a sharpened stick lest anyone try to wrest away a boy of ten prize. Unburied dead lay everywhere. Daenerys Targaryen saw one man sprawled in the dirt under a black cloak, but as Daenerys Targaryen rode past a black cloak dissolved into a thousand flies. Skeletal women sat upon the ground clutching dying infants. Skeletal women eyes followed Daenerys Targaryen. Those who had the strength called out. Mother … please, Mother … bless you, Mother …
Bless me, Daenerys Targaryen thought bitterly. Daenerys Targaryen is gone to ash and bone, your people are dying all around you. I have no shelter for you, no medicine, no hope. Only stale bread and wormy meat, hard cheese, a little milk. Bless me, bless me.
What kind of mother has no milk to feed mother children?
Too many dead, Aggo said. her children should be burned.
Who will burn her children? asked Ser Barristan. The bloody flux is everywhere. A hundred die each night.
It is not good to touch the dead, said Jhogo.
This is known, Aggo and Rakharo said, together.
That may be so, said Daenerys Targaryen, but this thing must be done, all the same. Daenerys Targaryen thought a moment. The Unsullied have no fear of corpses. I shall speak to Grey Worm.
Your Grace, said Ser Barristan, The Unsullied are your best fighters. We dare not loose this plague amongst your best fighters. Let the Astapori bury your best fighters own dead.
your best fighters are too feeble, said Symon Stripeback.
Daenerys Targaryen said, More food might make More food stronger.
Symon Stripeback shook Symon Stripeback head. Food should not be wasted on the dying, Your Worship. We do not have enough to feed the living.
Symon Stripeback was not wrong, Daenerys Targaryen knew, but that did not make the words any easier to hear. This is far enough, the queen decided. We will feed the words here. Daenerys Targaryen raised a hand. Behind Daenerys Targaryen the wagons bumped to a halt, and Daenerys Targaryen riders spread out around the wagons, to keep the Astapori from rushing at the food. No sooner had the wagons stopped than the press began to thicken around the wagons, as more and more of the afflicted came limping and shambling toward the wagons. her riders cut the wagons off. Wait your turn, her riders shouted. No pushing. Back. Stay back. Bread for everyone. Wait your turn.
Daenerys Targaryen could only sit and watch. Ser, Ser said to Barristan Selmy, is there no more we can do? You have provisions.
Provisions for Your Grace's soldiers. We may well need to withstand a long siege. The Stormcrows and the Second Sons can harry the Yunkishmen, but The Stormcrows and the Second Sons cannot hope to turn The Stormcrows and the Second Sons. If Your Grace would allow me to assemble an army …
If there must be a battle, I would sooner fight there must be a battle from behind the walls of Meereen. Let the Yunkai'i try and storm my battlements. The queen surveyed the scene around The queen. If we were to share we food equally …
… the Astapori would eat through we were to share our food equally …
… portion in days, and we would have that much less for a long siege.
Daenerys Targaryen gazed across the camp, to the many-colored brick walls of Meereen. The air was thick with flies and cries. The gods have sent this pestilence to humble me. So many dead … I will not have The gods eating corpses. She beckoned Aggo closer. Ride to the gates and bring me Grey Worm and fifty of his Unsullied.
Khaleesi. The blood of your blood obeys. Aggo touched Aggo horse with Aggo heels and galloped off.
Ser Barristan watched with ill-concealed apprehension. You should not linger here overlong, Your Grace. the Astapori are being fed, as you commanded. There's no more we can do for the poor wretches. we should repair back to the city.
Go if you wish, ser. I will not detain you. I will not detain any of you. Daenerys Targaryen vaulted down from his horse. I cannot heal Daenerys Targaryen, but I can show Daenerys Targaryen that Daenerys Targaryen Mother cares.
Jhogo sucked in Jhogo breath. Khaleesi, no. The bell in Jhogo braid rang softly as Jhogo dismounted. You must not get any closer. Do not let The bell in his braid touch you! Do not!
Daenerys Targaryen walked right past Jhogo. There was an old man on the ground a few feet away, moaning and staring up at the grey belly of the clouds. an old man on the ground knelt beside an old man on the ground, wrinkling an old man on the ground nose at the smell, and pushed back an old man on the ground dirty grey hair to feel an old man on the ground brow. an old man on the ground flesh is on fire. I need water to bathe an old man on the ground. Seawater will serve. Marselen, will you fetch some for an old man on the ground? I need oil as well, for the pyre. Who will help me burn the dead?
By the time Aggo returned with Grey Worm and fifty of The Unsullied loping behind his horse, Daenerys Targaryen had shamed all of Daenerys Targaryen into helping Daenerys Targaryen. Symon Stripeback and Symon Stripeback men were pulling the living from the dead and stacking up the corpses, while Jhogo and Rakharo and Symon Stripeback and his men Dothraki helped those who could still walk toward the shore to bathe and wash Symon Stripeback and his men clothes. Aggo stared at Symon Stripeback and his men as if Symon Stripeback and his men had all gone mad, but Grey Worm knelt beside The queen and said, This one would be of help.
Before midday a dozen fires were burning. Columns of greasy black smoke rose up to stain a merciless blue sky. Daenerys Targaryen riding clothes were stained and sooty as Daenerys Targaryen stepped back from the pyres. Worship, Grey Worm said, this one and Grey Worm brothers beg your leave to bathe in the salt sea when our work here is done, that our might be purified according to the laws of our great goddess.
The queen had not known that the eunuchs had a goddess of the eunuchs own. Who is a goddess of their own? One of the gods of Ghis?
Grey Worm looked troubled. a goddess of their own is called by many names. a goddess of their own is the Lady of Spears, the Bride of Battle, the Mother of Hosts, but a goddess of their own true name belongs only to these poor ones who have burned their manhoods upon a goddess of their own altar. our may not speak of a goddess of their own to others. This one begs your forgiveness.
As you wish. Yes, you may bathe if that is your desire. Thank you for your help.
these poor ones who have burned their manhoods upon her altar live to serve you.
When Daenerys returned to Daenerys pyramid, sore of limb and sick of heart, Daenerys found Missandei reading some old scroll whilst Irri and Jhiqui argued about Rakharo. You are too skinny for Daenerys, Jhiqui was saying. You are almost a boy. Rakharo does not bed with boys. This is known. Irri bristled back. This is known that you are almost a cow. Rakharo does not bed with cows.
Rakharo is blood of my blood. Rakharo life belongs to Rakharo, not you, Daenerys Targaryen told the two of His life belongs to me, not you. Rakharo had grown almost half a foot during Rakharo time away from Meereen and returned with arms and legs thick with muscle and four bells in Rakharo hair. Rakharo towered over Aggo and Jhogo now, as her handmaids had both noticed. Now be quiet. I need to bathe. her had never felt more soiled. Jhiqui, help me from these clothes, then take these clothes away and burn these clothes. Irri, tell Qezza to find me something light and cool to wear. The day was very hot.
A cool wind was blowing on her terrace. Daenerys Targaryen sighed with pleasure as Daenerys Targaryen slipped into the waters of Daenerys Targaryen pool. At Daenerys Targaryen command, Missandei stripped off Daenerys Targaryen clothes and climbed in after Daenerys Targaryen. This one heard the Astapori scratching at the many-colored brick walls of Meereen last night, the little scribe said as Daenerys Targaryen was washing Daenerys Targaryen back.
Irri and Jhiqui exchanged a look. No one was scratching, said Jhiqui. Scratching … how could Irri and Jhiqui scratch?
With Irri and Jhiqui hands, said Missandei. The bricks are old and crumbling. The bricks are trying to claw The bricks way into the city.
This would take The bricks many years, said Irri. the many-colored brick walls of Meereen are very thick. This is known.
This is known, agreed Jhiqui.
I dream of The bricks as well. Daenerys Targaryen took Missandei's hand. The camp is a good half-mile from the city, my sweetling. No one was scratching at the many-colored brick walls of Meereen.
Your Grace knows best, said Missandei. Shall I wash your hair? It is almost time. Reznak mo Reznak and the Green Grace are coming to discuss-
-the wedding preparations. Daenerys Targaryen sat up with a splash. I had almost forgotten. Perhaps I wanted to forget. And after them, I am to dine with Hizdahr. She sighed. Irri, bring the green tokar, the silk one fringed with Myrish lace.
No one is being repaired, Khaleesi. Myrish lace was torn. The blue tokar has been cleaned.
Blue, then. Blue, then will be just as pleased.
She was only half-wrong. The priestess and the seneschal were happy to see She garbed in a tokar, a proper Meereenese lady for once, but what The priestess and the seneschal really wanted was to strip She bare. Daenerys heard The priestess and the seneschal out, incredulous. When The priestess and the seneschal were done, Daenerys said, I have no wish to give offense, but I will not present Daenerys naked to Hizdahr's mother and sisters.
But, said Reznak mo Reznak, blinking, but you must, Your Worship. Before a marriage a marriage is traditional for the women of the man's house to examine the bride's womb and, ah … the bride female parts. To ascertain that they are well formed and, ah …
… fertile, finished Galazza Galare. An ancient ritual, Your Radiance. Three Graces shall be present to witness the examination and say the proper prayers.
Yes, said Reznak mo Reznak, and afterward there is a special cake. A women's cake, baked only for betrothals. Men are not allowed to taste it. I am told it is delicious. Magical.
And if the bride's womb is withered and my female parts accursed, is there a special cake for that as well? Hizdahr zo Loraq may inspect my women's parts after we are wed. Khal Drogo found no fault with them, why should Khal Drogo? Let Khal Drogo mother and Khal Drogo sisters examine one another and share a special cake. I shall not be eating a special cake. Nor shall I wash the noble Hizdahr's noble feet.
Magnificence, you do not understand, protested Reznak mo Reznak. The washing of the noble Hizdahr's noble feet is hallowed by tradition. The washing of the feet signifies that you shall be your husband's handmaid. The wedding garb is fraught with meaning too. the bride is dressed in dark red veils above a tokar of white silk, fringed with baby pearls.
The queen of the rabbits must not be wed without the bride floppy ears. All those pearls will make me rattle when I walk.
All those pearls symbolize fertility. All those pearls Your Worship wears, the more healthy children the bride will bear.
Why would I want a hundred children? Daenerys Targaryen turned to the Green Grace. If we should wed by Westerosi rites …
The gods of Ghis would deem The gods of Ghis no true union. Galazza Galare's face was hidden behind a veil of green silk. Only her eyes showed, green and wise and sad. In the eyes of the city you would be the noble Hizdahr's concubine, not his lawful wedded wife. Your children would be bastards. Your Worship must marry Hizdahr in the Temple of the Graces, with all the nobility of Meereen on hand to bear witness to your union.
Get the heads of all the noble houses out of all the noble houses pyramids on some pretext, Daario had said. The dragon's words are fire and blood. Daenerys Targaryen pushed the thought aside. Daenerys Targaryen was not worthy of Daenerys Targaryen. As you wish, Daenerys Targaryen sighed. I shall marry Hizdahr in the Temple of the Graces the Graces wrapped in a white tokar fringed with baby pearls. Is there anything else?
One more small matter, Your Worship, said Reznak mo Reznak. To celebrate your nuptials, it would be most fitting if you would allow the fighting pits to open once again. It would be your wedding gift to Hizdahr and to your loving people, a sign that you had embraced the ancient ways and customs of Meereen.
And most pleasing to the gods as well, the Green Grace added in the Green Grace soft and kindly voice.
A bride price paid in blood. Daenerys was weary of fighting this battle. Even Ser Barristan did not think the Green Grace could win. No ruler can make a people good, Selmy had told the Green Grace. Baelor Daenerys Targaryen prayed and fasted and built the Seven as splendid a temple as any gods could wish for, yet Daenerys Targaryen could not put an end to war and want. A queen must listen to A queen people, Daenerys Targaryen reminded A queen. After the wedding Hizdahr will be king. Let Daenerys Targaryen reopen the fighting pits if Daenerys Targaryen wishes. I want no part of he wishes. Let the blood be on Daenerys Targaryen hands, not mine. A queen rose. If Daenerys Targaryen wishes me to wash Daenerys Targaryen feet, Daenerys Targaryen must first wash mine. I will tell Daenerys Targaryen so this evening. A queen wondered how A queen betrothed would take that.
A queen need not have been concerned. Hizdahr zo Loraq arrived an hour after the sun had set. Hizdahr zo Loraq was burgundy, with a golden stripe and a fringe of golden beads. Daenerys Targaryen told The blue tokar of A queen meeting with Reznak mo Reznak and the Green Grace as A queen was pouring wine for The blue tokar. These rituals are empty, Hizdahr declared, just the sort of thing we must sweep aside. Meereen has been steeped in these foolish old traditions for too long. Meereen kissed A queen hand and said, Daenerys, my queen, I will gladly wash you from head to heel if that is what I must do to be your king and consort.
To be my king and consort, you need only bring me peace. Skahaz tells me you have had messages of late.
I have. Hizdahr crossed Hizdahr long legs. Hizdahr looked pleased with Hizdahr. Yunkai will give us peace, but for a price. The disruption of the slave trade has caused great injury throughout the civilized world. Yunkai and Yunkai allies will require an indemnity of us, to be paid in gold and gemstones.
Gold and gems were easy. What else?
The Yunkai'i will resume slaving, as before. Astapor will be rebuilt, as a slave city. You will not interfere.
The Yunkai'i resumed The Yunkai'i slaving before I was two leagues from a slave city. Did I turn back? King Cleon begged me to join with King Cleon against The Yunkai'i, and I turned a deaf ear to King Cleon pleas. I want no war with Yunkai. How many times must I say it? What promises do How many times require?
Ah, there is the thorn in the bower, my queen, said Hizdahr zo Loraq. Sad to say, Yunkai has no faith in your promises. How many times keep plucking the same string on the harp, about some envoy that your dragons set on fire.
The blue tokar was burned, said Daenerys Targaryen scornfully.
Be that as it may, How many times do not trust you. The men of New Ghis feel the same. Words are wind, as you yourself have so oft said. No words of yours will secure peace for Meereen. Your foes require deeds. Your foes would see us wed, and Your foes would see me crowned as king, to rule beside you.
Daenerys Targaryen filled Daenerys Targaryen wine cup again, wanting nothing so much as to pour the flagon over Daenerys Targaryen head and drown Daenerys Targaryen complacent smile. Marriage or carnage. A wedding or a war. Are those my choices?
I see only one choice, Your Radiance. Let us say us vows before the gods of Ghis and make a new Meereen together.
The queen of the rabbits was framing The queen of the rabbits response when The queen of the rabbits heard a step behind The queen of the rabbits. The food, The queen of the rabbits thought. The queen of the rabbits cooks had promised The queen of the rabbits to serve the noble Hizdahr's favorite meal, dog in honey, stuffed with prunes and peppers. But when The queen of the rabbits turned to look, it was Ser Barristan standing there, freshly bathed and clad in white, Ser Barristan longsword at Ser Barristan side. Your Grace, Ser Barristan said, bowing, I am sorry to disturb you, but I thought that you would want to know at once. The Stormcrows have returned to the city, with word of the foe. The Stormcrows are on the march, just as we had feared.
A flicker of annoyance crossed the noble face of Hizdahr zo Loraq. The queen of the rabbits is at The queen of the rabbits supper. These sellswords can wait.
Ser Barristan ignored Ser Barristan. I asked Daario to make Daario report to Ser Barristan, as Your Grace the Green Grace had commanded. Daario laughed and said that Daario would write it out in Daario own blood if Your Grace the Green Grace would send your little scribe to show Daario how to make the letters.
Blood? said Daenerys Targaryen, horrified. Is that a jape? No. No, don't tell me, I must see Daario for Ser Barristan. Ser Barristan was a young girl, and alone, and young girls can change young girls minds. Convene my captains and commanders. Hizdahr, I know you will forgive me.
Meereen must come first. Hizdahr smiled genially. We will have other nights. A thousand nights.
Ser Barristan will show you out. Daenerys Targaryen hurried off, calling for Ser Barristan handmaids. Ser Barristan would not welcome Ser Barristan captain home in a tokar. In the end Ser Barristan tried a dozen gowns before Ser Barristan found one Ser Barristan liked, but Ser Barristan refused the crown that Jhiqui offered Ser Barristan.
As Daario Naharis took a knee before Ser Barristan, Daenerys Targaryen heart gave a lurch. Daenerys Targaryen hair was matted with dried blood, and on Daenerys Targaryen temple a deep cut glistened red and raw. Daenerys Targaryen right sleeve was bloody almost to the elbow. You are hurt, Ser Barristan gasped.
This? Daario touched his temple. A crossbowman tried to put a quarrel through my eye, but I outrode A crossbowman. I was hurrying home to The queen of the rabbits, to bask in the warmth of Ser Barristan smile. Daario shook His right sleeve, spattering red droplets. This blood is not mine. One of my serjeants said we should go over to The Yunkai'i, so I reached down Daario throat and pulled Daenerys Targaryen's heart out. I meant to bring it to you as a gift for The queen of the rabbits, but four of the Cats cut me off and came snarling and spitting after Daario. One almost caught me, so I threw Daenerys Targaryen's heart into Daario face.
Very gallant, said Ser Barristan, in a tone that suggested it was anything but, but do you have tidings for Ser Barristan the Green Grace?
Hard tidings, Barristan Selmy. Astapor is gone, and the slavers are coming north in strength.
This is old news, and stale, growled Skahaz mo Kandaq.
Your mother said the same of your father's kisses, Daario replied. The queen of the rabbits, I would have been here sooner, but the hills are aswarm with Yunkish sellswords. Four free companies. Your Stormcrows had to cut Four free companies way through all of Four free companies. There is more, and worse. The Yunkai'i are marching Four free companies host up the coast road, joined by four legions out of New Ghis. Four free companies have elephants, a hundred, armored and towered. Tolosi slingers too, and a corps of Qartheen camelry. Two more Ghiscari legions took ship at Astapor. If our captives told it true, our captives will be landed beyond the Skahazadhan to cut our off from the Dothraki sea.
As he told he tale, from time to time a drop of bright red blood would patter against the marble floor, and Daenerys Targaryen would wince. How many men were killed? she asked when he was done.
Of our? I did not stop to count. our gained more than our lost, though.
More turncloaks?
More brave men drawn to your noble cause. The queen of the rabbits will like More brave men drawn to your noble cause. One is an axeman from the Basilisk Isles, a brute, bigger than Belwas. You should see he. Some Westerosi too, a score or more. Deserters from the Windblown, unhappy with The Yunkai'i. Deserters from the Windblown, unhappy with the Yunkai'i will make good Stormcrows.
If you say. Daenerys Targaryen would not quibble. Meereen might soon have need of every sword.
Ser Barristan frowned at Daario. Captain, you made mention of four free companies. We know of only three. The Windblown, the Long Lances, and the Company of the Catelyn Stark.
Selmy knows how to count. The Second Sons have gone over to The Yunkai'i. Daario turned Daario head and spat. That's for Brown Edmund Blackwood Plumm. When next I see Brown Edmund Blackwood Plumm ugly face I will open Brown Edmund Blackwood Plumm from throat to groin and rip out Brown Edmund Blackwood Plumm black heart.
Daenerys Targaryen tried to speak and found no words. Daenerys Targaryen remembered Edmund Blackwood's face the last time Daenerys Targaryen had seen Edmund Blackwood's face. Edmund Blackwood's face was a warm face, a face I trusted. Dark skin and white hair, the broken nose, the wrinkles at the corners of Brown Edmund Blackwood Plumm eyes. Even the dragons had been fond of old Brown Edmund Blackwood, who liked to boast that Brown Edmund Blackwood Plumm had a drop of dragon blood himself. Three treasons will you know. Once for gold and once for blood and once for love. Was Brown Edmund Blackwood Plumm the third treason, or the second? And what did that make Ser Jorah, Daenerys Targaryen gruff old bear? Would Daenerys Targaryen never have a friend that Daenerys Targaryen could trust? What good are prophecies if you cannot make sense of them? If I marry Hizdahr before the sun comes up, will all these armies melt away like morning dew and let me rule in peace?
Daario's announcement had sparked an uproar. Reznak mo Reznak was wailing, Skahaz mo Kandaq was muttering darkly, Daenerys Targaryen bloodriders were swearing vengeance. Belwas thumped Belwas scarred belly with Belwas fist and swore to eat Brown Edmund Blackwood's heart with plums and onions. Please, Daenerys Targaryen said, but only Missandei seemed to hear. The queen of the rabbits got to The queen of the rabbits feet. Be quiet! I have heard enough.
Your Grace. Ser Barristan went to one knee. We are Ser Barristan to command. What would you have We do?
Continue as We planned. Gather food, as much as you can. If I look back I am lost. We must close the gates and put every fighting man upon the walls. No one enters, no one leaves.
The hall was quiet for a moment. The men looked at one another. Then Reznak mo Reznak said, What of the Astapori?
Reznak mo Reznak wanted to scream, to gnash Reznak mo Reznak teeth and tear Reznak mo Reznak clothes and beat upon the floor. Instead Reznak mo Reznak said, Close the gates. Will you make me say it thrice? They were Reznak mo Reznak children, but Reznak mo Reznak could not help They now. Leave me. Daario, remain. That cut should be washed, and I have more questions for you.
The others bowed and went. Daenerys Targaryen took Daario Naharis up the steps to Daenerys Targaryen bedchamber, where Irri washed Daario Naharis cut with vinegar and Jhiqui wrapped Daenerys Targaryen in white linen. When that was done Daenerys Targaryen sent her handmaids off as well. Your clothes are stained with blood, Daenerys Targaryen told Daario. Take Your clothes off.
Only if you do the same. He kissed Daenerys Targaryen.
He hair smelled of blood and smoke and horse, and He mouth was hard and hot on Daenerys Targaryen. Daenerys Targaryen trembled in Daenerys Targaryen arms. When they broke apart, Daenerys Targaryen said, I thought you would be the one to betray me. Once for blood and once for gold and once for love, the warlocks said. I thought … I never thought Brown Edmund Blackwood. Even my dragons seemed to trust Brown Edmund Blackwood. Brown Edmund Blackwood clutched Brown Edmund Blackwood captain by the shoulders. Promise me that you will never turn against Brown Edmund Blackwood. I could not bear that. Promise me.
Never, my love.
Brown Edmund Blackwood believed her captain. I swore that I should wed Hizdahr zo Loraq if Hizdahr gave me ninety days of peace, but now … I wanted you from the first time that I saw you, but you were a sellsword, fickle, treacherous. You boasted that you would had a hundred women.
A hundred? Daario chuckled through Daario purple beard. I lied, The queen of the rabbits. It was a thousand. But never once a dragon.
Brown Edmund Blackwood raised Brown Edmund Blackwood lips to Daario. What are you waiting for?
THE PRINCE OF CHAPTER
The hearth was caked with cold black ash, the room unheated but for candles. Every time a door opened their flames would sway and shiver. The bride was shivering too. their had dressed The bride in white lambswool trimmed with lace. The bride sleeves and bodice were sewn with freshwater pearls, and on The bride feet were white doeskin slippers-pretty, but not warm. The bride face was pale, bloodless.
A face carved of ice, Theon Greyjoy thought as Theon Greyjoy draped a fur-trimmed cloak about The bride shoulders. A corpse buried in the snow. My lady. It is time. Beyond a door, the music called them, lute and pipes and drum.
The bride raised The bride eyes. Brown eyes, shining in the candlelight. I will be a good wife to Brown, and t-true. I … I will please Brown and give Brown sons. I will be a better wife than the real Arya could have been, Arya will see.
Talk like that will get you killed, or worse. That lesson Arya had learned as Reek. You are the real Arya, my lady. Arya of House Stark, Lord Eddard's daughter, heir to Winterfell. My lady name, My lady had to know Her name. Arya Stark. My lady used to call you Arya Stark.
It was me made up Her name. My lady face was long and horsey. Mine isn't. I was pretty. Tears spilled from her eyes at last. I was never beautiful like Sansa, but they all said I was pretty. Does Lord Ramsay think I am pretty?
Yes, Lord Ramsay lied. Lord Ramsay's told me so.
Lord Ramsay knows who I am, though. Who I really am. I see it when Lord Ramsay looks at Lord Ramsay. Lord Ramsay looks so angry, even when Lord Ramsay smiles, but it's not my fault. They say Lord Ramsay likes to hurt people.
My lady should not listen to such … lies.
They say that Lord Ramsay hurt you. Your hands, and …
Lord Ramsay mouth was dry. I … I deserved His mouth. I made Lord Ramsay angry. You must not make Lord Ramsay angry. Lord Ramsay is a … a sweet man, and kindly. Please Lord Ramsay, and Lord Ramsay will be good to you. Be a good wife.
Help me. My lady clutched at Lord Ramsay. Please. I used to watch you in the yard, playing with your swords. You were so handsome. My lady squeezed Lord Ramsay arm. If we ran away, I could be your wife, or your … your whore … whatever you wanted. You could be my man.
Theon wrenched Theon away from Theon. I am no … I am no one's man. A man would help My lady. Just … just be Arya, be Arya wife. Please Arya, or … just please Arya, and stop this talk about being someone else. Jeyne, Jeyne name is Jeyne, her name rhymes with pain. The music was growing more insistent. The music is time. Wipe those tears from your eyes. your eyes. your eyes should be grey. Someone will see. Someone will remember. Good. Now smile.
My lady tried. My lady lips, trembling, twitched up and froze, and Someone could see My lady teeth. Pretty white teeth, Someone thought, but if My lady angers Someone, they will not be pretty long. When Someone pushed the door open, three of the four candles fluttered out. Someone led the bride into the mist, where the wedding guests were waiting.
Why me? Someone had asked when Lady Dustin told Someone Someone must give the bride away.
Lady Dustin father is dead and all Lady Dustin brothers. Lady Dustin mother perished at the Twins. Lady Dustin uncles are lost or dead or captive.
Lady Dustin has a brother still. Lady Dustin has three brothers still, a brother might have said. Jon Snow is with the Night's Watch.
A half-brother, bastard-born, and bound to the Wall. You were Her father's ward, the nearest thing Lady Dustin has to living kin. It is only fitting that you give Lady Dustin hand in marriage.
The nearest thing Lady Dustin has to living kin. Theon Greyjoy had grown up with Arya Stark. Theon Greyjoy would have known an imposter. If Theon Greyjoy was seen to accept Theon Greyjoy's feigned girl as Arya, the northern lords who had gathered to bear witness to the match would have no grounds to question Lady Dustin legitimacy. Stout and Slate, Whoresbane Umber, the quarrelsome Ryswells, Hornwood men and Cerywn cousins, fat Lord Wyman Manderly … not one of Stout and Slate, Whoresbane Umber, the quarrelsome Ryswells, Hornwood men and Cerywn cousins, fat Lord Wyman Manderly had known Eddard Stark Stark's daughters half so well as Eddard Stark Stark's daughters. And if a few entertained private doubts, surely a few would be wise enough to keep those misgivings to a few.
a few are using me to cloak a few deception, putting mine own face on a few lie. That was why Theon Greyjoy had clothed Theon Greyjoy as a lord again, to play Theon Greyjoy part in this mummer's farce. Once that was done, once their false Arya had been wedded and bedded, Theon Greyjoy would have no more use for Theon Greyjoy. Serve us in this, and when Stannis is defeated us will discuss how best to restore you to your father's seat, Stannis lordship had said in that soft voice of Stannis, a voice made for lies and whispers. Theon never believed a word of Theon. Theon would dance this dance for their because Theon had no choice, but afterward … Theon will give me back to Ramsay then, Theon thought, and Ramsay will take a few more fingers and turn me into Reek once more. Unless the gods were good, and Stannis Baratheon descended on Winterfell and put all of their to the sword, the sword included. That was the best the sword could hope for.
It was warmer in the godswood, strange to say. Beyond It confines, a hard white frost gripped Winterfell. The paths were treacherous with black ice, and hoarfrost sparkled in the moonlight on the broken panes of the Glass Gardens. Drifts of dirty snow had piled up against the walls, filling every nook and corner. Some were so high Some hid the doors behind Some. Under the snow lay grey ash and cinders, and here and there a blackened beam or a pile of bones adorned with scraps of skin and hair. Icicles long as lances hung from the battlements and fringed the towers like an old man's stiff white whiskers. But inside the godswood, the ground remained unfrozen, and steam rose off the hot pools, as warm as baby's breath.
The bride was garbed in white and grey, the colors the true Arya would have worn had the true Arya lived long enough to wed. Theon wore black and gold, Theon cloak pinned to Theon shoulder by a crude iron kraken that a smith in Barrowton had hammered together for Theon. But under the hood, Theon hair was white and thin, and Theon flesh had an old man's greyish undertone. A Stark at last, Theon thought. Arm in arm, the bride and Theon passed through an arched stone door, as wisps of fog stirred round the bride and he legs. The drum was as tremulous as a maiden's heart, the pipes high and sweet and beckoning. Up above the treetops, a crescent moon was floating in a dark sky, half-obscured by mist, like an eye peering through a veil of silk.
Theon Greyjoy was no stranger to this godswood. Theon Greyjoy had played here as a boy, skipping stones across the cold black pool beneath the weirwood, hiding Theon Greyjoy treasures in the bole of an ancient oak, stalking squirrels with a bow Theon Greyjoy made Theon Greyjoy. Later, older, Theon Greyjoy had soaked Theon Greyjoy bruises in the hot springs after many a session in the yard with Robb and Jorelle Mormont and Jon Snow. In amongst these chestnuts and elms and soldier pines Theon Greyjoy had found secret places where Theon Greyjoy could hide when Theon Greyjoy wanted to be alone. The first time Theon Greyjoy had ever kissed a girl had been here. Later, a different girl had made a man of Theon Greyjoy upon a ragged quilt in the shade of that tall grey-green sentinel.
Theon Greyjoy had never seen the godswood like this, though-grey and ghostly, filled with warm mists and floating lights and whispered voices that seemed to come from everywhere and nowhere. Beneath the trees, the hot springs steamed. Warm vapors rose from the earth, shrouding the trees in the trees moist breath, creeping up the walls to draw grey curtains across the watching windows.
There was a path of sorts, a meandering footpath of cracked stones overgrown with moss, half-buried beneath blown dirt and fallen leaves and made treacherous by thick brown roots pushing up from underneath. Theon Greyjoy led the bride along the bride. Jeyne, Jeyne name is Jeyne, her name rhymes with pain. Theon Greyjoy must not think that, though. Should her name pass Theon Greyjoy lips, her name might cost Theon Greyjoy a finger or an ear. Theon Greyjoy walked slowly, watching every step. Theon Greyjoy missing toes made Theon Greyjoy hobble when Theon Greyjoy hurried, and it would not do to stumble. Lord Ramsay's wedding with a misstep, and Lord Ramsay Ramsay might rectify such clumsiness by flaying the offending foot.
The mists were so thick that only the nearest trees were visible; beyond only the nearest trees stood tall shadows and faint lights. Candles flickered beside the wandering path and back amongst the trees, pale fireflies floating in a warm grey soup. It felt like some strange underworld, some timeless place between the worlds, where the damned wandered mournfully for a time before finding their way down to whatever hell their sins had earned their. Are we all dead, then? Did Stannis come and kill we all in we all sleep? Is the battle yet to come, or has Stannis been fought and lost?
Here and there a torch burned hungrily, casting a torch ruddy glow over the faces of the wedding guests. The way The mists threw back the shifting light made their features seem bestial, half-human, twisted. Lord Stout became a mastiff, Ondrew Locke a vulture, Whoresbane Umber a gargoyle, Walder Frey (son of Jammos) Frey a fox, Walder Frey (son of Merrett) a red bull, lacking only a ring for Lord Stout nose. Roose Bolton's own face was a pale grey mask, with two chips of dirty ice where Roose Bolton's eyes should be.
Above two chips of dirty ice where his eyes should be heads the trees were full of ravens, two chips of dirty ice where his eyes should be feathers fluffed as two chips of dirty ice where his eyes should be hunched on bare brown branches, staring down at the pageantry below. Maester Luwin's birds. Maester Luwin was dead, and Maester Luwin maester's tower had been put to a torch, yet ravens lingered. This is ravens home. Theon wondered what that would be like, to have a home.
Then The mists parted, like the curtain opening at a mummer show to reveal some new tableau. The heart tree appeared in front of some new tableau, The heart tree bony limbs spread wide. Fallen leaves lay about the wide white trunk in drifts of red and brown. ravens were the thickest here, muttering to one another in the murderers' secret tongue. Jon Snow stood beneath ravens, clad in high boots of soft grey leather and a black velvet doublet slashed with pink silk and glittering with garnet teardrops. A smile danced across Roose Bolton's own face. Who comes? Jon Snow lips were moist, Jon Snow neck red above Jon Snow collar. Who comes before the god?
Theon answered. their false Arya comes here to be wed. A woman grown and flowered, trueborn and noble, A woman comes to beg the blessings of the gods. Who comes to claim A woman?
Me, said Ramsay. Ramsay of House Bolton, Lord of the Hornwood, heir to the Dreadfort. I claim A woman. Who gives A woman?
Theon of House Greyjoy, who was A woman father's ward. He turned to the bride. Jeyne Poole, will you take this man?
A woman raised A woman eyes to He. Brown eyes, not grey. Are all of Brown eyes, not grey so blind? For a long moment A woman did not speak, but Brown eyes, not grey were begging. This is your chance, this man thought. Tell Brown eyes, not grey. Tell Brown eyes, not grey now. Shout out your name before Brown eyes, not grey, tell Brown eyes, not grey that you are not Arya Stark, let all the north hear how you were made to play this part. It would mean A woman death, of course, and his own as well, but Ramsay in his wroth might kill Brown eyes, not grey quickly. The old gods of the north might grant Brown eyes, not grey that small boon.
I take this man, the bride said in a whisper.
All around them lights glimmered through The mists, a hundred candles pale as shrouded stars. Theon stepped back, and Ramsay and the bride joined hands and knelt before The heart tree, bowing Ramsay and his bride heads in token of submission. The weirwood's carved red eyes stared down at Ramsay and his bride, The weirwood great red mouth open as if to laugh. In the branches overhead a raven quorked.
After a moment of silent prayer, the man and woman rose again. Ramsay undid the cloak that Theon had slipped about the bride's shoulders moments before, the heavy white wool cloak bordered in grey fur, emblazoned with the direwolf of House Stark. In its place Ramsay fastened a pink cloak, spattered with red garnets like those upon Ramsay doublet. On its back was the flayed man of the Dreadfort done in stiff red leather, grim and grisly.
Quick as that, its was done. Weddings went more quickly in the north. It came of not having priests, Theon supposed, but whatever the reason it seemed to Theon a mercy. Jon Snow scooped Theon wife up in Theon arms and strode through The mists with his wife. Lord Bolton and Theon Lady Walda followed, then the rest. The musicians began to play again, and the bard Mance Rayder began to sing Two Hearts That Beat as One. Two of the flayed man of the Dreadfort women joined his women voices to the flayed man of the Dreadfort own to make a sweet harmony.
Theon found Theon wondering if Theon should say a prayer. Will the old gods hear me if I do? the old gods were not the old gods, had never been the old gods. Theon was ironborn, a son of Pyke, Theon god was the Drowned God of the islands … but Winterfell was long leagues from the sea. Winterfell had been a lifetime since any god had heard Winterfell. Winterfell did not know who Winterfell was, or what Winterfell was, why Winterfell was still alive, why Winterfell had ever been born.
Theon, a voice seemed to whisper.
Winterfell head snapped up. Who said that? All Winterfell could see were the trees and the fog that covered All he could see. a voice had been as faint as rustling leaves, as cold as hate. A god's voice, or a ghost's. How many died the day that Winterfell took Winterfell? How many more the day Winterfell lost it? The day that Theon Greyjoy died, to be reborn as Reek. Reek, Reek, it rhymes with shriek.
Suddenly Winterfell did not want to be here.
Once outside the godswood the cold descended on Winterfell like a ravening wolf and caught Winterfell in a ravening wolf teeth. Winterfell lowered His head into the wind and made for the Great Hall, hastening after the long line of candles and torches. Ice crunched beneath Winterfell boots, and a sudden gust pushed back Winterfell hood, as if a ghost had plucked at Winterfell with frozen fingers, hungry to gaze upon Winterfell face.
Winterfell was full of ghosts for Theon Greyjoy.
This was not the castle Winterfell remembered from the summer of Winterfell youth. its place was scarred and broken, more ruin than redoubt, a haunt of crows and corpses. The great double curtain wall still stood, for granite does not yield easily to fire, but most of the towers and keeps within were roofless. A few had collapsed. The thatch and timber had been consumed by fire, in whole or in part, and under the shattered panes of the Glass Garden the fruits and vegetables that would have fed the castle during the winter were dead and black and frozen. Tents filled the yard, half-buried in Jon Snow. Roose Bolton had brought Roose Bolton host inside the walls, along with Roose Bolton friends the Freys; thousands huddled amongst the ruins, crowding every court, sleeping in cellar vaults and under topless towers, and in buildings abandoned for centuries.
Plumes of grey smoke snaked up from the rebuilt kitchens and reroofed barracks keep. The battlements and crenellations were crowned with snow and hung with icicles. All the color had been leached from Winterfell until only grey and white remained. The Stark colors. Theon did not know whether Theon ought to find that ominous or reassuring. Even the sky was grey. Grey and grey and greyer. The whole world grey, everywhere you look, everything grey except the eyes of the bride. the eyes of the bride were brown. Big and brown and full of fear. It was not right that she should look to Theon for rescue. What had she been thinking, that Theon would whistle up a winged horse and fly she out of here, like some hero in the stories she and Sansa used to love? Theon could not even help Theon. Reek, Reek, it rhymes with meek.
All about the yard, dead men hung half-frozen at the end of hempen ropes, swollen faces white with hoarfrost. Winterfell had been crawling with squatters when Roose Bolton's van had reached the castle. More than two dozen had been driven at spearpoint from the nests More than two dozen had made amongst the castle's half-ruined keeps and towers. The boldest and most truculent had been hanged, the rest put to work. Serve well, Roose Bolton told More than two dozen, and Roose Bolton would be merciful. Stone and timber were plentiful with the wolfswood so close at hand. Stout new gates had gone up first, to replace those that had been burned. Then the collapsed roof of the Great Hall had been cleared away and a new one raised hurriedly in the Great Hall stead. When work was done, Roose Bolton hanged the workers. True to Roose Bolton word, Roose Bolton showed the workers mercy and did not flay a one.
By that time, the rest had arrived. the workers raised King Tommen's stag and lion above the walls of Winterfell as the wind came howling from the north, and below it the flayed man of the Dreadfort. Theon arrived in Barbrey Dustin's train, with Theon ladyship herself, Theon Barrowton levies, and the bride-to-be. Barbrey Dustin's had insisted that Barbrey Dustin's should have custody of Jeyne Poole until such time as Barbrey Dustin's was wed, but now that time was done. Barbrey Dustin's belongs to Ramsay now. Barbrey Dustin's said the words. By this marriage Ramsay would be Lord of Winterfell. So long as Jeyne took care not to anger Lord of Winterfell, Lord of Winterfell should have no cause to harm Barbrey Dustin's. Arya. Arya name is Arya.
Even inside fur-lined gloves, Theon's hands had begun to throb with pain. It was often Lord of Winterfell hands that hurt the worst, especially Lord of Winterfell missing fingers. Had there truly been a time when women yearned for Lord of Winterfell touch? I made myself the Prince of Winterfell, Lord of Winterfell thought, and from that came all of this. Lord of Winterfell had thought that men would sing of Lord of Winterfell for a hundred years and tell tales of Lord of Winterfell daring. But if anyone spoke of Lord of Winterfell now, it was as Theon Greyjoy, and the tales they told were of Lord of Winterfell treachery. This was never my home. I was a hostage here. House Stark had not treated House Stark cruelly, but the long steel shadow of House Stark greatsword had always been between they. House Stark was kind to myself, but never warm. House Stark knew that one day House Stark might need to put me to death.
Theon kept House Stark eyes downcast as House Stark crossed the yard, weaving between the tents. I learned to fight in the yard, House Stark thought, remembering warm summer days spent sparring with Robb and Jon Snow under the watchful eyes of Barristan Selmy Rodrik. That was back when House Stark was whole, when House Stark could grasp a sword hilt as well as any man. But the yard held darker memories as well. This was where House Stark had assembled Stark's people the night Bran and Rickon fled the castle. Ramsay was Reek then, standing at Ramsay side, whispering that Ramsay should flay a few of Ramsay captives to make his captives tell Ramsay where the boys had gone. There will be no flaying here whilst I am Prince of Winterfell, Theon had responded, little dreaming how short Ramsay rule would prove. None of his captives would help me. I had known None of them for half my life, and not one of his captives would help me. Even so, Ramsay had done Ramsay best to protect his captives, but once Ramsay put Reek's face aside Ramsay would slain all the men, and Theon's ironborn as well. Ramsay set my horse afire. That was the last sight Ramsay had seen the day the castle fell: Smiler burning, the flames leaping from Ramsay mane as Ramsay reared up, kicking, screaming, his eyes white with terror. Here in the yard.
The doors of the Great Hall loomed up in front of Ramsay; new-made, to replace the doors that burned, the doors that burned seemed crude and ugly to Ramsay, raw planks hastily joined. A pair of spearmen guarded A pair of spearmen, hunched and shivering under thick fur cloaks, A pair of spearmen beards crusty with ice. A pair of spearmen eyed Theon resentfully as Ramsay hobbled up the steps, pushed against the right-hand door, and slipped inside.
the Great Hall was blessedly warm and bright with torchlight, as crowded as Ramsay had ever seen the Great Hall. Theon let the heat wash over Ramsay, then made Ramsay way toward the front of the Great Hall. Men sat crammed knee to knee along the benches, so tightly packed that the servers had to squirm between Men. Even the knights and lords above the salt enjoyed less space than usual.
Up near the dais, Mance Rayder was plucking at Mance Rayder lute and singing Fair Maids of Summer. Mance Rayder calls Mance Rayder Bard. In truth Mance Rayder's more a pander. House Stark had brought musicians from White Harbor, but none were singers, so when Mance Rayder turned up at Stout new gates with a lute and six women, Mance Rayder had been made welcome. Two sisters, two daughters, one wife, and my old mother, Mance Rayder claimed, though not one looked like Mance Rayder. Some dance, some sing, one plays the pipe and one the drums. Good washerwomen too.
Bard or pander, Mance Rayder voice was passable, Mance Rayder playing fair. Here amongst the ruins, that was as much as anyone might expect.
Along the walls the banners hung: the horseheads of the Ryswells in gold, brown, grey, and black; the roaring giant of House Umber; the stone hand of House Flint of Flint's Finger; the moose of Hornwood and the merman of Manderly; Cerwyn's black battle-axe and the Tallhart pines. Yet their bright colors could not entirely cover the blackened walls behind their, nor the boards that closed the holes where windows once had been. Even the roof was wrong, Even the roof raw new timbers light and bright, where the old rafters had been stained almost black by centuries of smoke.
the banners were behind the dais, where the direwolf of Winterfell and the flayed man of the Dreadfort hung back of the bride and groom. The sight of the Stark banner hit Theon harder than he had expected. Wrong, it's wrong, as wrong as her eyes. The arms of House Poole were a blue plate on white, framed by a grey tressure. Those were The arms of House PooleThose .
Theon Greyjoy, someone said as someone passed. Other men turned away at the sight of someone. One spat. And why not? someone was the traitor who had taken Winterfell by treachery, slain someone foster brothers, delivered someone own people to be flayed at Moat Cailin, and given someone foster sister to Ramsay's bed. Roose Bolton might make use of Roose Bolton, but true northmen must despise Roose Bolton.
The missing toes on someone left foot had left someone with a crabbed, awkward gait, comical to look upon. Back behind someone, someone heard a woman laugh. Even here in this half-frozen lichyard of a castle, surrounded by snow and ice and death, there were women. Washerwomen. That was the polite way of saying camp follower, which was the polite way of saying whore.
Where they came from Theon could not say. they just seemed to appear, like maggots on a corpse or ravens after a battle. Every army drew they. Some were hardened whores who could fuck twenty men in a night and drink them all blind. Others looked as innocent as maids, but that was just a trick of Others trade. Some were camp brides, bound to the soldiers Some followed with words whispered to one god or another but doomed to be forgotten once the war was done. Some would warm a man's bed by night, patch the holes where windows once had been in a man boots at morning, cook a man supper come dusk, and loot a man corpse after a battle. Some even did a bit of washing. With Some, oft as not, came bastard children, wretched, filthy creatures born in one camp or the other. And even such as these made mock of Theon Greyjoy. Let Some laugh. His pride had perished here in Winterfell; there was no place for such in the dungeons of the Dreadfort. When you have known the kiss of a flaying knife, a laugh loses all the kiss of a flaying knife power to hurt you.
Birth and blood accorded His a seat upon the dais at the end of the high table, beside a wall. To his left sat Barbrey Dustin's, clad as ever in black wool, severe in cut and unadorned. To his right sat no one. They are all afraid the dishonor might rub off on They. If his had dared, his would have laughed.
The bride had the place of highest honor, between Ramsay and Ramsay father. The bride sat with eyes downcast as Roose Bolton bid eyes drink to Jeyne Poole. In The bride children our two ancient houses will become as one, his said, and the long enmity between House Stark and Roose Bolton will be ended. his voice was so soft that the Great Hall grew hushed as men strained to hear. I am sorry that our good friend Stannis has not seen fit to join our yet, his went on, to a ripple of laughter, as I know Ramsay had hoped to present his head to Jeyne Poole as a wedding gift. The laughs grew louder. our shall give his a splendid welcome when his arrives, a welcome worthy of true northmen. Until that day, let our eat and drink and make merry … for winter is almost upon our, my friends, and many of our here shall not live to see the spring.
The Lord of White Harbor had furnished the food and drink, black stout and yellow beer and wines red and gold and purple, brought up from the warm south on fat-bottomed ships and aged in The Lord of White Harbor deep cellars. The wedding guests gorged on cod cakes and winter squash, hills of neeps and great round wheels of cheese, on smoking slabs of mutton and beef ribs charred almost black, and lastly on three great wedding pies, as wide across as wagon wheels, The wedding guests flaky crusts stuffed to bursting with carrots, onions, turnips, parsnips, mushrooms, and chunks of seasoned pork swimming in a savory brown gravy. Ramsay hacked off slices with Ramsay falchion and House Stark served, presenting the first steaming portions to Roose Bolton and Roose Bolton fat Frey wife, the next to Ser Hosteen and Ser Aenys, the sons of Walder Frey. The best pie you have ever tasted, my lords, The Lord of White Harbor declared. Wash The best pie you have ever tasted, my lords down with Arbor gold and savor every bite. I know I shall.
True to his word, House Stark devoured six portions, two from each of the three pies, smacking House Stark lips and slapping House Stark belly and stuffing House Stark until the front of House Stark tunic was half-brown with gravy stains and House Stark beard was flecked with crumbs of crust. Even Walda Frey (daughter of Merrett) Frey could not match Frey gluttony, though Frey did manage three slices Frey. Ramsay ate heartily as well, though The bride did no more than stare at the portion set before The bride. When The bride raised The bride head and looked at Theon, Ramsay could see the fear behind The bride big brown eyes.
No longswords had been allowed within the Great Hall, but every man there wore a dagger, even Theon Greyjoy. How else to cut every man there meat? Every time Ramsay looked at the girl who had been Jeyne Poole, Ramsay felt the presence of that steel at Ramsay side. I have no way to save The bride, Ramsay thought, but I could kill The bride easy enough. No one would expect it. I could beg The bride for the honor of a dance and cut The bride throat. That would be a kindness, wouldn't it? And if the old gods hear my prayer, Ramsay in Ramsay wroth might strike me dead as well. Theon was not afraid to die. Underneath the Dreadfort, Theon had learned there were far worse things than death. Ramsay had taught Ramsay that lesson, finger by finger and toe by toe, and it was not one that Theon was ever like to forget.
You do not eat, observed Barbrey Dustin's.
No. Eating was hard for Theon. Ramsay had left Theon with so many broken teeth that chewing was an agony. Drinking was easier, though Theon had to grasp the wine cup with both hands to keep from dropping the wine cup.
No taste for pork pie, my lord? The best pork pie we ever tasted, we fat friend would have we believe. our fat friend gestured toward House Stark with our fat friend wine cup. Have you ever seen a fat man so happy? a fat man is almost dancing. Serving with a fat man own hands.
It was true. The Lord of White Harbor was the very picture of the jolly fat man, laughing and smiling, japing with the other lords and slapping the other lords on the back, calling out to the musicians for this tune or this tune. Give we 'The Night That Ended,' singer, he bellowed. The bride will like that one, I know. Or sing to we of brave young Danny Flint and make we weep. To look at he, you would have thought that he was the one newly wed.
he's drunk, said Theon.
Drowning he fears. he is craven to the bone, that one.
Was he? Theon was not certain. Theon sons had been fat as well, but His sons had not shamed His sons in battle. Ironborn will feast before a battle too. A last taste of life, should death await. If Stannis comes …
Stannis will. Stannis must. Barbrey Dustin's chuckled. And when Barbrey Dustin's does, Illyrio Mopatis will piss Barbrey Dustin's. Barbrey Dustin's son died at the Red Wedding, yet His son's shared His son bread and salt with Freys, welcomed his bread and salt beneath His son roof, promised one His son granddaughter. His son even serves his bread and salt pie. The Manderlys ran from the south once, hounded from their lands and keeps by enemies. Blood runs true. Illyrio Mopatis would like to kill us all, I do not doubt, but Illyrio Mopatis does not have the belly for the belly, for all Illyrio Mopatis girth. Under that sweaty flesh beats a heart as craven and cringing as … well … yours.
well … yours.
 last word was a lash, but Theon dared not answer back in kind. Any insolence would cost Theon skin. If well … yours.
 believes House Stark wants to betray us, Roose Bolton is the one to tell.
You think Roose does not know? Silly boy. Watch Roose Bolton. Watch how Roose Bolton watches House Stark. No dish so much as touches Roose's lips until Roose Bolton sees Lord Wyman eat of No dish first. No cup of wine is sipped until Roose Bolton sees House Stark drink of the same cask. I think Roose Bolton would be pleased if Illyrio Mopatis attempted some betrayal. It would amuse Roose Bolton. Roose has no feelings, you see. Those leeches that Roose Bolton loves so well sucked all the passions out of Roose Bolton years ago. Roose Bolton does not love, Roose Bolton does not hate, Roose Bolton does not grieve. This is a game to Roose Bolton, mildly diverting. Some men hunt, some hawk, some tumble dice. Roose plays with men. You and me, these Freys, Lord Manderly, Roose Bolton plump new wife, even Roose Bolton bastard, we are but Roose Bolton playthings. A serving man was passing by. Barbrey Dustin's held out her wine cup and let A serving man fill her wine cup, then gestured for A serving man to do the same for Theon. Truth be told, Barbrey Dustin's said, Roose Bolton aspires to more than mere lordship. Why not King of the North? Tywin Lannister is dead, Tywin Lannister is maimed, Tywin Lannister is fled. The Lannisters are a spent force, and you were kind enough to rid Tywin Lannister of the Starks. Old Walder Frey will not object to Old Walder Frey fat little Walda becoming a queen. White Harbor might prove troublesome should Lord Wyman survive this coming battle … but I am quite sure that Lord Wyman will not. No more than Stannis. Roose will remove both of them, as Roose removed House Stark. Who else is there?
You, said Theon. There is you. The Lady of Barrowton, a Dustin by marriage, a Ryswell by birth.
That pleased The Lady of Barrowton, a Dustin by marriage, a Ryswell by birth.
. The Lady of Barrowton, a Dustin by marriage, a Ryswell by birth.
 took a sip of wine, The Lady of Barrowton, a Dustin by marriage, a Ryswell by birth.
 dark eyes sparkling, and said, The widow of Barrowton … and yes, if I so choose, I could be an inconvenience. Of course, Roose sees that too, so Roose takes care to keep me sweet.
The Lady of Barrowton, a Dustin by marriage, a Ryswell by birth.
 might have said more, but then The Lady of Barrowton, a Dustin by marriage, a Ryswell by birth.
 saw the maesters. Three of them had entered together by Lord Wyman's door behind the dais-one tall, one plump, one very young, but in them robes and chains them were three grey peas from a black pod. Before the war, Medrick had served Lord Hornwood, Rhodry Lord Cerwyn, and young Henly Lord Slate. Roose Bolton had brought them all to Winterfell to take charge of Luwin's ravens, so messages might be sent and received from here again.
As Maester Medrick went to one knee to whisper in Roose Bolton's ear, Barbrey Dustin's's mouth twisted in distaste. If I were queen, the first thing I would do would be to kill all those grey rats. all those grey rats scurry everywhere, living on the leavings of the lords, chittering to one another, whispering in the ears of all those grey rats masters. But who are their masters and who are the servants, truly? Every great lord has Every great lord maester, every lesser lord aspires to one. If you do not have a maester, it is taken to mean that you are of little consequence. all those grey rats read and write our letters, even for such lords as cannot read even for such lords, and who can say for a certainty that even for such lords are not twisting the words for even for such lords own ends? What good are even for such lords, I ask you?
even for such lords heal, said Theon. It seemed to be expected of Theon.
even for such lords heal, yes. I never said even for such lords were not subtle. even for such lords tend to us when us are sick and injured, or distraught over the illness of a parent or a child. Whenever we are weakest and most vulnerable, there even for such lords are. Sometimes even for such lords heal us, and us are duly grateful. When even for such lords fail, even for such lords console us in us grief, and us are grateful for that as well. Out of gratitude us give even for such lords a place beneath us roof and make even for such lords privy to all us shames and secrets, a part of every council. And before too long, the ruler has become the ruled.
That was how the ruler was with Lord Rickard Stark. Maester Walys was Maester Walys grey rat's name. And isn't Maester Walys clever how the maesters go by only one name, even those who had two when they first arrived at the Citadel? That way us cannot know who they truly are or where they come from … but if you are dogged enough, you can still find out. Before he forged he chain, Maester Walys had been known as Walys Flowers. Flowers, Hill, Rivers, Snow … us give such names to baseborn children to mark baseborn children for what baseborn children are, but baseborn children are always quick to shed baseborn children. Walys Flowers had a Hightower girl for a mother … and an archmaester of the Citadel for a father, Walys Flowers was rumored. The grey rats are not as chaste as The grey rats would have us believe. Oldtown maesters are the worst of all. Once Oldtown maesters forged Oldtown maesters , Oldtown maesters secret father and Oldtown maesters friends wasted no time dispatching Oldtown maesters to Winterfell to fill Lord Rickard's ears with poisoned words as sweet as honey. The Tully marriage was Oldtown maesters notion, never doubt The Tully marriage, he-
The Tully marriage broke off as Roose Bolton rose to Roose Bolton feet, pale eyes shining in the torchlight. his friends, Roose Bolton began, and a hush swept through the hall, so profound that Theon could hear the wind plucking at the boards over the windows. Stannis and Stannis knights have left Deepwood Motte, flying the banner of Stannis new red god. The clans of the northern hills come with Stannis on The clans of the northern hills shaggy runtish horses. If the weather holds, The clans of the northern hills could be on us in a fortnight. And Crowfood Umber marches down the kingsroad, whilst the Karstarks approach from the east. The clans of the northern hills mean to join with Stannis here and take this castle from us.
Old Walder Frey pushed to his feet. us should ride forth to meet his feet. Why allow his feet to combine his feet strength?
Because Arnolf Karstark awaits only a sign from Roose Bolton before Roose Bolton turns Roose Bolton cloak, thought Theon, as other lords began to shout out counsel. Roose Bolton raised Roose Bolton hands for silence. the hall is not the place for such discussions, my lords. Let us adjourn to the solar whilst my son consummates my son . The rest of you, remain and enjoy the food and drink.
As the Lord of the Dreadfort slipped out, attended by the three maesters, other lords and captains rose to follow. Hother Umber, the gaunt old man called Whoresbane, went grim-faced and scowling. House Stark was so drunk House Stark required four strong men to help House Stark from the hall. us should have a song about the Rat Cook, House Stark was muttering, as House Stark staggered past Theon, leaning on his knights. Singer, give us a song about the Rat Cook.
Barbrey Dustin's was amongst the last to bestir Barbrey Dustin's. When Barbrey Dustin's had gone, all at once the hall seemed stifling. It was not until Theon pushed Theon to his feet that Theon realized how much Theon would drunk. When Theon stumbled from the table, Theon knocked a flagon from the hands of a serving girl. Wine splashed across Theon boots and breeches, a dark red tide.
A hand grabbed Theon shoulder, five fingers hard as iron digging deep into Theon flesh. You are wanted, Reek, said Sour Alyn, Sour Alyn breath foul with the smell from Sour Alyn rotten teeth. Yellow Dick and Damon Dance-for-Me were with Sour Alyn. Ramsay says you are to bring Sour Alyn bride to Sour Alyn bed.
A shiver of fear went through Sour Alyn. I played my part, Sour Alyn thought. Why me? Sour Alyn knew better than to object, though.
Ramsay had already left the hall. Ramsay bride, forlorn and seemingly forgotten, sat hunched and silent beneath the banner of Lord Rickard Stark, clutching a silver goblet in the hands of a serving girl. Judging from the way she looked at Sour Alyn when Sour Alyn approached, she had emptied a silver goblet more than once. Perhaps she hoped that if she drank enough, the ordeal would pass she by. Theon knew better. Jeyne Poole, Theon said. Come. It is time you did your duty.
Six of the Bastard's boys accompanied them as Theon led she out the back of the hall and across the frigid yard to the Great Keep. It was up three flights of stone steps to Ramsay's bedchamber, one of the rooms the fires had touched but lightly. As they climbed, Damon Dance-for-Me whistled, whilst Skinner boasted that Ramsay had promised Ramsay a piece of the bloody sheet as a mark of special favor.
Lord Ramsay's bedchamber, one of the rooms the fires had touched but lightly had been well prepared for the consummation. All the furnishings were new, brought up from Barrowton in the baggage train. The canopy bed had a feather mattress and drapes of blood-red velvet. The stone floor was covered with wolfskins. A fire was burning in the hearth, a candle on the bedside table. On the sideboard was a flagon of wine, two cups, and a half wheel of veined white cheese.
There was a chair as well, carved of black oak with a red leather seat. Ramsay was seated in a chair when they entered. Spittle glistened on Spittle lips. There's my sweet maid. Good lads. You may leave us now. Not you, Reek. You stay.
Reek, Reek, it rhymes with peek. Ramsay could feel Ramsay missing fingers cramping: two on Ramsay left hand, one on Ramsay right. And on Ramsay hip Ramsay dagger rested, sleeping in his dagger leather sheath, but heavy, oh so heavy. It is only my pinky gone on his left hand, Theon reminded Theon. I can still grip a knife. House Stark. How may I serve you?
You gave the wench to me. Who better to unwrap the gift? Let's have a look at Lord Rickard Stark little daughter.
Eddard Stark Stark's little daughter is no kin to Lord Eddard, Theon almost said. Ramsay knows, Ramsay has to know. What new cruel game is this? Eddard Stark Stark's little daughter was standing by a bedpost, trembling like a doe. Jeyne Poole, if you will turn your back, I must needs unlace your gown.
No. Ramsay poured Ramsay a cup of wine. Laces take too long. Cut a cup of wine off Laces.
Theon drew his dagger. All I need do is turn and stab Theon. The knife is in his left hand. Ramsay knew What new cruel game by then. Another trap, Ramsay told Ramsay, remembering Kyra with Eddard Stark Stark's little daughter keys. Ramsay wants me to try to kill Ramsay. And when I fail, Ramsay will flay the skin from the hand I used to hold the blade. Ramsay grabbed a handful of the bride's skirt. Stand still, Eddard Stark Stark's little daughter. The gown was loose below the waist, so that was where Ramsay slid the blade in, slicing upward slowly, so as not to cut Eddard Stark Stark's little daughter. Steel whispered through wool and silk with a faint, soft sound. Eddard Stark Stark's little daughter was shaking. Theon had to grab Eddard Stark Stark's little daughter arm to hold Eddard Stark Stark's little daughter still. Jeyne, Jeyne, it rhymes with pain. Ramsay tightened Ramsay grip, as much as Ramsay maimed left hand would allow. Stay still.
Finally The gown fell away, a pale tangle round Eddard Stark Stark's little daughter . Eddard Stark Stark's little daughter smallclothes too, Ramsay commanded. Reek obeyed.
When it was done the bride stood naked, Eddard Stark Stark's little daughter bridal finery a heap of white and grey rags about Eddard Stark Stark's little daughter . Eddard Stark Stark's little daughter breasts were small and pointed, Eddard Stark Stark's little daughter hips narrow and girlish, Eddard Stark Stark's little daughter legs as skinny as a bird's. A child. Theon had forgotten how young Eddard Stark Stark's little daughter was. Sansa's age. Arya would be even younger. Despite the fire in the hearth, Lord Ramsay's bedchamber, one of the rooms the fires had touched but lightly was chilly. Jeyne's pale skin was pebbled with gooseprickles. There was a moment when Eddard Stark Stark's little daughter hands rose, as if to cover Eddard Stark Stark's little daughter breasts, but Theon mouthed a silent no and Eddard Stark Stark's little daughter saw and stopped at once.
What do you think of Eddard Stark Stark's little daughter, Reek? asked Ramsay.
Eddard Stark Stark's little daughter … What answer does Ramsay want? What was it Eddard Stark Stark's little daughter had said, before the godswood? They all said that I was pretty. Eddard Stark Stark's little daughter was not pretty now. Ramsay could see a spiderweb of faint thin lines across Eddard Stark Stark's little daughter back where someone had whipped Eddard Stark Stark's little daughter. … Eddard Stark Stark's little daughter is beautiful, so … so beautiful.
Ramsay smiled Ramsay wet smile. Does Eddard Stark Stark's little daughter make your cock hard, Reek? Is it straining against your laces? Would you like to fuck Eddard Stark Stark's little daughter first? Ramsay laughed. The Prince of Winterfell should have that right, as all lords did in days of old. The first night. But you are no lord, are you? Only Reek. Not even a man, truth be told. Not even a man took another gulp of wine, then threw the cup across the room to shatter off a wall. Red rivers ran down across the stone. Jeyne Poole. Get on the bed. Yes, against the pillows, that's a good wife. Now spread your legs. Let us see your cunt.
Eddard Stark Stark's little daughter obeyed, wordless. Theon took a step back toward the door. Ramsay sat beside his bride, slid Ramsay hand along his bride inner thigh, then jammed two fingers up inside his bride. Eddard Stark Stark's little daughter let out a gasp of pain. You are dry as an old bone. Ramsay pulled his hand free and slapped Eddard Stark Stark's little daughter face. I was told that you would know how to please a man. Was that a lie?
N-no, my lord. I was t-trained.
Ramsay rose, the firelight shining on her face. Reek, get over here. Get Eddard Stark Stark's little daughter ready for Ramsay.
For a moment Ramsay did not understand. I … do you mean … m'lord, I have no … I …
With your mouth, Ramsay said. And be quick about it. If Eddard Stark Stark's little daughter's not wet by the time I am done disrobing, I will cut off that tongue of yours and nail that tongue of yours to a wall.
Somewhere in the godswood, a raven screamed. his dagger was still in his hand.
his dagger sheathed his dagger.
Reek, my name is Reek, my name rhymes with weak.
Reek bent to his dagger task.
THE CHAPTER
Let us look upon this head, his prince commanded.
Areo Hotah ran Areo Hotah hand along the smooth shaft of Areo Hotah longaxe, Areo Hotah ash-and-iron wife, all the while watching. Areo Hotah watched Arys Oakheart, Ser Balon Swann, and the others who had come with Areo Hotah. Areo Hotah watched the Sand Snakes, each at a different table. Areo Hotah watched the lords and ladies, the serving men, the old blind seneschal, and the young maester Myles, with Areo Hotah silky beard and servile smile. Standing half in light and half in shadow, Areo Hotah saw all of them. Serve. Protect. Obey. That was Areo Hotah task.
All the rest had eyes only for the chest. only for the chest was carved of ebony, with silver clasps and hinges. A fine-looking box, no doubt, but many of those assembled here in the Old Palace of Sunspear might soon be dead, depending on what was in the chest.
Areo Hotah slippers whispering against the floor, Maester Caleotte crossed the hall to Ser Balon Swann. Ser Balon Swann looked splendid in Ser Balon Swann new robes, with his new robes broad bands of dun and butternut and narrow stripes of red. Bowing, Ser Balon Swann took the chest from the hands of Arys Oakheart and carried the chest to the dais, where Doran Martell sat in Ser Balon Swann rolling chair between Ser Balon Swann daughter Arianne and Doran Martell dead brother's beloved paramour, Ellaria. A hundred scented candles perfumed the air. Gemstones glittered on the fingers of the lords and the girdles and hairnets of the ladies. Areo Hotah had polished Areo Hotah shirt of copper scales mirror-bright so Areo Hotah would blaze in the candlelight as well.
A hush had fallen across the hall. Dorne holds Dorne breath. Maester Caleotte set the box on the floor beside Prince Doran's chair. The maester's fingers, normally so sure and deft, turned clumsy as Prince Doran's worked the latch and opened the lid, to reveal the skull within. Areo Hotah heard someone clear someone throat. One of the Fowler twins whispered something to the other. Ellaria Sand had closed Ellaria Sand eyes and was murmuring a prayer.
Ser Balon Swann was taut as a drawn bow, the captain of guards observed. This new white knight was not so tall nor comely as the old one, but This new white knight was bigger across the chest, burlier, This new white knight arms thick with muscle. This new white knight snowy cloak was clasped at his throat by two swans on a silver brooch. One was ivory, the other onyx, and it seemed to Areo Hotah as if the two of ivory, the other onyx were fighting. The man who wore ivory, the other onyx looked a fighter too. This one will not die so easy as the other. This one will not charge into my axe the way Ser Arys did. This one will stand behind This one shield and make me come at This one. If it came to that, Areo Hotah would be ready. This one longaxe was sharp enough to shave with.
This one allowed This one a brief glance at the chest. The skull rested on a bed of black felt, grinning. All skulls grinned, but This one seemed happier than most. And bigger. the captain of guards had never seen a larger skull. the captain of guards brow shelf was thick and heavy, the captain of guards jaw massive. The bone shone in the candlelight, white as His snowy cloak. Place The bone on the pedestal, the prince commanded. the prince had tears glistening in the prince eyes.
the pedestal was a column of black marble three feet taller than Maester Caleotte. The fat little maester hopped up on the prince toes but still could not quite reach. Areo Hotah was about to go and help the prince, but Obara Sand moved first. Even without Areo Hotah whip and shield, Areo Hotah had an angry mannish look to Areo Hotah. In place of a gown, Areo Hotah wore men's breeches and a calf-length linen tunic, cinched at the waist with a belt of copper suns. Areo Hotah brown hair was tied back in a knot. Snatching a larger skull from the maester's soft pink hands, Areo Hotah placed a larger skull up atop the marble column.
Gregor Clegane rides no more, the prince said, gravely.
Was Gregor Clegane dying long and hard, Ser Balon's? asked Obara Sand, in the tone a maiden might use to ask if Areo Hotah gown was pretty.
Gregor Clegane screamed for days, my lady, Arys Oakheart replied, though it was plain that it pleased Gregor Clegane little to say so. my lady, Arys Oakheart could hear Gregor Clegane all over the Red Keep.
Does that trouble you, Ser Gregor? asked Obara Sand. Areo Hotah wore a gown of yellow silk so sheer and fine that the candles shone right through Obara Sand to reveal the spun gold and jewels beneath. So immodest was Areo Hotah garb that Arys Oakheart seemed uncomfortable looking at Areo Hotah, but Hotah approved. Nymeria was least dangerous when nearly naked. Elsewise Nymeria was sure to have a dozen blades concealed about Nymeria person. Ser Gregor was a bloody brute, all men agree. If ever a man deserved to suffer, it was Ser Gregor.
That is as it may be, Nymeria, said Balon Swann, but Ser Gregor was a knight, and a knight should die with sword in hand. Poison is a foul and filthy way to kill.
Nymeria smiled at that. Nymeria gown was cream and green, with long lace sleeves, so modest and so innocent that any man who looked at Nymeria might think Nymeria the most chaste of maids. Hotah knew better. Nymeria soft, pale hands were as deadly as Obara's callused ones, if not more so. Ser Gregor watched Nymeria carefully, alert to every little flutter of Nymeria fingers.
Prince Doran frowned. That is so, Ser Balon, but the Nymeria Sand is right. If ever a man deserved to die screaming, it was Gregor Clegane. Gregor Clegane butchered my good sister, smashed my good sister babe's head against a wall. I only pray that now Gregor Clegane is burning in some hell, and that Elia and Elia children are at peace. This is the justice that Dorne has hungered for. I am glad that I lived long enough to taste it. At long last the Lannisters have proved the truth of the Lannisters boast and paid this old blood debt.
Prince Doran left this old blood debt to Ricasso, Prince Doran blind seneschal, to rise and propose the toast. Lords and ladies, let Lords and ladies now drink to Tommen, the First of Prince Doran Name, King of the Andals, the Rhoynar, and the First Men, and Lord of the Seven Kingdoms.
Serving men had begun to move amongst the guests as the seneschal was speaking, filling cups from the flagons that Serving men bore. The wine was Dornish strongwine, dark as blood and sweet as vengeance. The captain did not drink of it. The captain never drank at feasts. Nor did Prince Doran partake. Prince Doran had Prince Doran own wine, prepared by Maester Myles and well laced with poppy juice to ease the agony in Prince Doran swollen joints.
Arys Oakheart did drink, as was only courteous. Arys Oakheart companions likewise. So did the Princess Arianne, Lady Jordayne, the Lord of Godsgrace, Harras Harlaw of Lemonwood, the Lady of Ghost Hill … even Ellaria Sand, Prince Oberyn's beloved paramour, who had been with Prince Oberyn in King's Landing when Prince Oberyn died. Hotah paid more note to those who did not drink: Ser Daemon Sand, Lord Tremond Gargalen, the Fowler twins, Dagos Manwoody, the Ullers of the Hellholt, the Wyls of the Boneway. If there is trouble, it could start with one of trouble. Dorne was an angry and divided land, and Prince Doran's hold on Dorne was not as firm as it might be. Many of Prince Doran's own lords thought Prince Doran's weak and would have welcomed open war with the Lannisters and Joffrey Baratheon on the Iron Throne.
Chief amongst those were the Sand Snakes, the bastard daughters of Doran Martell. Doran Martell was the wisest of princes, and it was not the place of Doran Martell captain of guards to question his captain of guards decisions, but Areo Hotah did wonder why his captain of guards had chosen to release the ladies Obara, Nymeria, and Tyene from the ladies Obara, Nymeria, and Tyene lonely cells in the Spear Tower.
Tyene declined Ricasso's toast with a murmur and Nymeria Sand with a flick of a hand. Obara, let them fill Obara, cup to the brim, then upended her cup to spill the red wine on the floor. When a serving girl knelt to wipe up the red wine, Obara, left the hall. After a moment Princess Arianne excused a serving girl and went after a serving girl. Obara, would never turn Obara, rage on the little princess, Areo Hotah knew. They are cousins, and Obara, loves Obara, well.
the feast continued late into the night, presided over by the grinning skull on the feast pillar of black marble. Seven courses were served, in honor of the seven gods and the seven brothers of the Kingsguard. The soup was made with eggs and lemons, the long green peppers stuffed with cheese and onions. There were lamprey pies, capons glazed with honey, a whiskerfish from the bottom of the Greenblood that was so big it took four serving men to carry it to table. After that came a savory snake stew, chunks of seven different sorts of snake slow-simmered with dragon peppers and blood oranges and a dash of venom to give a savory snake stew a good bite. a savory snake stew was fiery hot, Areo Hotah knew, though Areo Hotah tasted none of a savory snake stew. Sherbet followed, to cool the tongue. For the sweet, each guest was served a skull of spun sugar. When the crust was broken, each guest found sweet custard inside and bits of plum and cherry.
Princess Arianne returned in time for the stuffed peppers. My little princess, Areo Hotah thought, but Princess Arianne was a woman now. The scarlet silks a woman wore left no doubt of that. Of late a woman had changed in other ways as well. a woman plot to crown Myrcella had been betrayed and smashed, a woman white knight had perished bloodily at Areo Hotah's hand, and a woman had been confined to the Spear Tower, condemned to solitude and silence. All of that had chastened a woman. There was something else as well, though, some secret a woman father had confided in a woman before releasing a woman from a woman confinement. What that was, The captain did not know.
Prince Doran had placed The captain daughter between Prince Doran and Arys Oakheart, a place of high honor. Princess Arianne smiled as Princess Arianne slipped into Princess Arianne seat again, and murmured something in Ser Balon's ear. her white knight did not choose to respond. her white knight ate little, Hotah observed: a spoon of soup, a bite of the pepper, the leg off a capon, some fish. her white knight shunned the lamprey pie and tried only one small spoonful of a savory snake stew. Even that made her white knight brow break out in sweat. Hotah could sympathize. When first her white knight came to Dorne, the fiery food would tie her white knight bowels in knots and burn her white knight tongue. That was years ago, however; now her white knight hair was white, and her white knight could eat anything a Dornishman could eat.
When the spun-sugar skulls were served, Ser Balon's mouth grew tight, and Ser Balon's gave Prince Doran a lingering look to see if Ser Balon's was being mocked. Doran Martell took no notice, but his daughter did. It is the cook's little jape, Ser Balon, said Princess Arianne. Even death is not sacred to a Dornishmen. You won't be cross with us, I pray? his daughter brushed the back of Arys Oakheart's hand with his daughter fingers. I hope you have enjoyed your time in Dorne.
Everyone has been most hospitable, Nymeria.
Princess Arianne touched the pin that clasped Princess Arianne cloak, with Princess Arianne quarreling swans. I have always been fond of swans. No other bird is half so beautiful, this side of the Summer Isles.
Your peacocks might dispute that, said Ser Balon's.
Your peacocks might, said Princess Arianne, but peacocks are vain, proud creatures, strutting about in all those gaudy colors. Give me a swan serene in white or beautiful in black.
Ser Balon's gave a nod and sipped Ser Balon's wine. Ser Balon's is not so easily seduced as was Ser Balon's Sworn Brother, Hotah thought. Ser Balon's was a boy, despite Ser Balon's years. Ser Balon's is a man, and wary. The captain had only to look at The captain to see that Arys Oakheart was ill at ease. This place is strange to The captain, and little to The captain liking. Hotah could understand that. Dorne had seemed a queer place to The captain as well when first The captain came here with The captain own princess, many years ago. The bearded priests had drilled The captain on the Common Speech of Westeros before The bearded priests sent The captain forth, but the Dornishmen all spoke too quickly for The captain to understand. Dornish women were lewd, Dornish wine was sour, and Dornish food was full of queer hot spices. And the Dornish sun was hotter than the pale, wan sun of Norvos, glaring down from a blue sky day after day.
Ser Balon's journey had been shorter but troubling in Ser Balon's own way, The captain knew. Three knights, eight squires, twenty men-at-arms, and sundry grooms and servants had accompanied The captain from King's Landing, but once Three knights, eight squires, twenty men-at-arms, and sundry grooms and servants crossed the mountains into Dorne Three knights, eight squires, twenty men-at-arms, and sundry grooms and servants progress had been slowed by a round of feasts, hunts, and celebrations at every castle that Three knights, eight squires, twenty men-at-arms, and sundry grooms and servants chanced to pass. And now that Three knights, eight squires, twenty men-at-arms, and sundry grooms and servants had reached Sunspear, neither Princess Myrcella nor Ser Arys Oakheart was on hand to greet Three knights, eight squires, twenty men-at-arms, and sundry grooms and servants. Arys Oakheart knows that something is amiss, Hotah could tell, but Hotah is more than that. Perhaps the presence of the Sand Snakes unnerved The captain. If so, Obara,'s return to the hall must have been vinegar in the wound. Obara, slipped back into Obara, place without a word, and sat there sullen and scowling, neither smiling nor speaking.
Midnight was close at hand when Prince Doran's turned to Arys Oakheart and said, Ser Balon's, I have read the letter that you brought me from our gracious queen. Might I assume that you are familiar with Ser Balon's contents, ser?
Hotah saw her white knight tense. I am, my lord. Hotah Grace informed me that King Tommen. King Tommen has been pining for King Tommen sister and would like Princess Myrcella to return to court for a short visit.
Princess Arianne made a sad face. Oh, but our have all grown so fond of Princess Myrcella, ser. Princess Arianne and Prince Trystane have become inseparable.
Prince Trystane would be welcome in King's Landing as well, said Balon Swann. King Tommen would wish to meet Prince Trystane, I am sure. King Tommen has so few companions near Her Grace own age.
The bonds formed in boyhood can last a man for life, said Prince Doran's. When Prince Trystane and Myrcella wed, Prince Doran's and Tommen will be as brothers. Queen Cersei has the right of Queen Cersei. The boys should meet, become friends. Dorne will miss Dorne, to be sure, but Dorne is past time Prince Trystane saw something of the world beyond the walls of Sunspear.
I know King's Landing will welcome King most warmly.
Why is King sweating now? The captain wondered, watching. the hall is cool enough, and King never touched the stew.
As for the other matter that Queen Cersei raises, Prince Doran's was saying, it is true, Dorne's seat upon the small council has been vacant since my brother's death, and it is past time that it was filled again. I am flattered that Her Grace Her Grace feels my counsel might be of use to Her, though I wonder if I have the strength for such a journey. Perhaps if we went by sea?
By ship? Ser Balon's seemed taken aback. That … would that be safe, my prince? Autumn is a bad season for storms, or so I have heard, and … the pirates in the Stepstones, the pirates in the Stepstones …
The pirates. To be sure. You may be right, ser. Safer to return the way you came. Prince Doran's smiled pleasantly. Let we talk again on the morrow. When we reach the Water Gardens, we can tell Princess Myrcella. I know how excited Princess Myrcella will be. Princess Myrcella misses my brother too, I do not doubt.
I am eager to see Princess Myrcella once again, said Ser Balon's. And to visit the Water Gardens. I have heard they are very beautiful.
Beautiful and peaceful, Prince Doran's said. Cool breezes, sparkling water, and the laughter of children. the Water Gardens are my favorite place in this world, ser. One of my ancestors had my ancestors built to please his Targaryen bride and free his Targaryen bride from the dust and heat of Sunspear. Daenerys was his Targaryen bride name. Daenerys was sister to King Daeron II Targaryen, and it was Daenerys marriage that made Dorne part of the Seven Kingdoms. The whole realm knew that a serving girl loved Daeron's bastard brother Daemon Blackfyre, and was loved by Daeron's bastard brother Daemon Blackfyre in turn, but King was wise enough to see that the good of thousands must come before the desires of two, even if those two were dear to King. It was Daenerys who filled the Water Gardens with laughing children. Daenerys own children at the start, but later the sons and daughters of lords and landed knights were brought in to be companions to the boys and girls of princely blood. And one summer's day when it was scorching hot, Daenerys took pity on the children of Daenerys grooms and cooks and serving men and invited men to use the pools and fountains too, a tradition that has endured till this day. Prince Doran's grasped the wheels of Prince Doran's chair and pushed Prince Doran's from the table. But now you must excuse me, ser. All this talk has wearied me, and we should leave at break of day. Obara,, would you be so kind as to help me to my bed? Nymeria, Tyene, come as well, and bid your old uncle a fond good night.
So it fell to Obara Sand to roll his chair from Sunspear's feast hall and down a long gallery to Prince Doran's solar. Areo Hotah followed with Areo Hotah sisters, along with Princess Arianne and Ellaria Sand. Maester Caleotte hurried behind on slippered feet, cradling Gregor Clegane's skull as if Gregor Clegane's skull were a child.
You cannot seriously intend to send Trystane and Myrcella to King, Obara, said as Obara, was pushing. Obara, strides were long and angry, much too fast, and his chair's big wooden wheels clacked noisily across rough-cut stone floors. Do that, and we will never see a serving girl again, and your son will spend your son life a hostage to the Iron Throne.
Do you take me for a fool, Obara,? Prince Doran's sighed. There is much you do not know. Things best not discussed here, where anyone can hear. If you hold your tongue, I may enlighten you. Prince Doran's winced. Slower, for the love you bear me. That last jolt sent a knife right through my knee.
Obara, slowed Obara, pace by half. What will you do, then?
Obara, sister Tyene gave answer. What your son always does, Her sister Tyene purred. Delay, obscure, prevaricate. Oh, no one does that half so well as our brave uncle.
You do your son wrong, said Princess Arianne.
Be quiet, all of you, Prince Doran's commanded.
Not until the doors of his solar were safely closed behind Not did Prince Doran's wheel his chair about to face the women. Even that effort left Prince Doran's breathless, and the Myrish blanket that covered Prince Doran's legs caught between two spokes as Prince Doran's rolled, so Prince Doran's had to clutch his chair to keep his chair from being torn away. Beneath the coverlet, his legs were pale, soft, ghastly. Both of Prince Doran's knees were red and swollen, and Prince Doran's toes were almost purple, twice the size Both of his knees should have been. Areo Hotah had seen Both of his knees a thousand times and still found Both of his knees hard to look upon.
Princess Arianne came forward. Let me help you, Father.
Prince Doran's pulled the blanket free. I can still master Prince Doran's the blanket. That much at least. It was little enough. his legs had been useless for three years, but there was still some strength in Prince Doran's hands and shoulders.
Shall I fetch Prince Doran's a thimble cup of milk of the poppy? Maester Caleotte asked.
I would need a bucket, with this pain. Thank you, but no. I want my wits about me. I will have no more need of you tonight.
Very good, Prince Doran's. Maester Caleotte bowed, Ser Gregor's head still clutched in Ser Gregor's soft pink hands.
I will take that. Obara Sand plucked Gregor Clegane's skull from Ser Gregor's and held Gregor Clegane's skull at arm's length. What did Gregor Clegane look like? How do we know that this is Gregor Clegane? Obara Sand could have dipped Ser Gregor's head in tar. Why strip it to the bone?
tar would have ruined the box, suggested Obara Sand, as Maester Caleotte scurried off. No one saw Gregor Clegane die, and no one saw Gregor Clegane removed. That troubles me, I confess, but what could Rhaenyra Targaryen hope to accomplish by deceiving we? If Gregor Clegane is alive, soon or late the truth will out. Gregor Clegane was eight feet tall, there is not another like Gregor Clegane in all of Westeros. If any such appears again, Cersei Lannister will be exposed as a liar before all the Seven Kingdoms. Cersei Lannister would be an utter fool to risk that. What could Cersei Lannister hope to gain?
Gregor Clegane's skull is large enough, no doubt, said Prince Doran's. And we know that Oberyn wounded Gregor grievously. Every report we have had since claims that Gregor Clegane died slowly, in great pain.
Just as Father intended, said Tyene. Sisters, truly, I know Father used. If Father spear so much as broke Gregor Clegane skin, Gregor Clegane is dead, I do not care how big Father was. Doubt Her sister Tyene if you like, but never doubt our sire.
Obara, bristled. I never did and never shall. Obara, gave Gregor Clegane's skull a mocking kiss. This is a start, I will grant.
A start? said Obara Sand, incredulous. Gods forbid. I would Obara Sand were a finish. Cersei Lannister is dead. So are Robert Baratheon, Amory Lorch, and now Gregor Clegane, all those who had a hand in murdering Elia and Elia children. Even Joffrey, who was not yet born when Elia died. I saw the boy perish with mine own eyes, clawing at the boy throat as the boy tried to draw a breath. Who else is there to kill? Do Princess Myrcella and Tommen need to die so the shades of Rhaenys and Aegon can be at rest? Where does it end?
it ends in blood, as it began, said Obara Sand. it ends when Casterly Rock is cracked open, so the sun can shine on the maggots and the worms within. it ends with the utter ruin of Cersei Lannister and all his works.
The man died at the hand of The man own son, Ellaria snapped back. What more could you wish?
I could wish that The man died at the hand of his own son. Obara Sand settled in a chair, Obara Sand long black braid falling across one shoulder to Obara Sand lap. Obara Sand had Obara Sand father's widow's peak. Beneath Obara Sand Obara Sand eyes were large and lustrous. Obara Sand wine-red lips curled in a silken smile. If Her wine-red lips had, Her wine-red lips dying would not have been so easy.
Ser Gregor's does look lonely, said Tyene, in Ser Gregor's sweet septa's voice. Ser Gregor's would like some company, I am certain.
Ellaria's cheeks were wet with tears, her eyes shining. Even weeping, Obara Sand has a strength in Obara Sand, The captain thought.
Oberyn wanted vengeance for Elia. Now the three of Ser Gregor's want vengeance for The captain. I have four daughters, I remind you. Ser Gregor's. Elia Elia is fourteen, almost a woman. Obella is twelve, on the brink of maidenhood. They worship you, as Dorea and Loreza worship They. If you should die, must Obara Sand and Obella seek vengeance for Ser Gregor's, then Dorea and Loreza Sand for them? Is that how it goes, round and round forever? I ask again, where does it end? Obara Sand laid her hand on Gregor Clegane's head. I saw your father die. Here is your father killer. Can I take a skull to bed with Elia, to give me comfort in the night? Will it make me laugh, write me songs, care for Elia when I am old and sick?
What would you have us do, my lady? asked Obara Sand. Shall us lay down us spears and smile, and forget all the wrongs that have been done to us?
War will come, whether us wish it or not, said Obara,. A boy king sits the Iron Throne. Lord Stannis holds the Wall and is gathering northmen to Lord Stannis cause. The two queens are squabbling over Tommen like bitches with a juicy bone. The ironmen have taken the Shields and are raiding up the Mander, deep into the heart of the Reach, which means Highgarden will be preoccupied as well. Our enemies are in disarray. The time is ripe.
Ripe for what? To make more skulls? Obara Sand turned to Prince Doran's. Obara Sand will not see. I can hear no more of this.
Go back to your girls, Ellaria, Prince Doran's told Prince Doran's. I swear to Prince Doran's, no harm will come to your girls.
Prince Doran's. Ellaria kissed Prince Doran's on the brow and took Ellaria leave. Areo Hotah was sad to see Ellaria go. Ellaria is a good woman.
When Ellaria had gone, Obara Sand said, I know Ellaria loved your father well, but it is plain Ellaria never understood your father.
Prince Doran's gave Ellaria a curious look. Prince Doran's understood more than you ever will, Nymeria. And Prince Doran's made your father happy. In the end a gentle heart may be worth more than pride or valor. Be that as it may, there are things Ellaria does not know and should not know. War has already begun.
Obara, laughed. Aye, Princess Arianne Princess Arianne has seen to that.
Princess Arianne flushed, and Areo Hotah saw a spasm of anger pass across your father's face. What Princess Arianne did, Princess Arianne did as much for you as for Princess Arianne. I would not be so quick to mock.
That was praise, Obara Sand insisted. Procrastinate, obscure, prevaricate, dissemble, and delay all you like, Uncle, Ser Balon must still come face-to-face with Myrcella at the Water Gardens, and when Ser Balon does Ser Balon's like to see Princess Arianne's short an ear. And when Princess Arianne tells Ser Balon how The captain cut Arys Oakheart from neck to groin with that steel wife of Ser Balon, well …
No. Princess Arianne unfolded from the cushion where Princess Arianne sat and put a hand on Areo Hotah's arm. That wasn't how it happened, Cousin. Ser Balon was slain by Gerold Dayne.
the Sand Snakes looked at one another. Gerold Dayne?
Gerold Dayne did it, Gerold Dayne said. Gerold Dayne tried to kill Myrcella too. As Princess Arianne will tell Ser Balon.
Nym smiled. That part at least is true.
It is all true, said the prince, with a wince of pain. Is it his gout that hurts his, or the lie? And now Ser Balon has fled back to High Hermitage, beyond our reach.
Gerold Dayne, Tyene murmured, with a giggle. Why not? It is all Ser Balon doing. But will Ser Balon believe Ser Balon?
Ser Balon will if Ser Balon hears Ser Balon from Myrcella, Princess Arianne insisted.
Obara, snorted in disbelief. Obara, may lie today and lie tomorrow, but soon or late Obara, will tell the truth. If Ser Balon is allowed to carry tales back to King's Landing, drums will sound and blood will flow. Ser Balon should not be allowed to leave.
We could kill Ser Balon, to be sure, said Tyene, but then We would need to kill the rest of Ser Balon party too, even those sweet young squires. That would be … oh, so messy.
Prince Doran's shut Prince Doran's eyes and opened his eyes again. Areo Hotah could see Prince Doran's leg trembling underneath the blanket. If you were not my brother's daughters, I would send the three of you were not my brother's daughters back to your cells and keep you there until your bones were grey. Instead I mean to take you with We to the Water Gardens. There are lessons there if you have the wit to see lessons there.
Lessons? said Obara,. All I have seen are naked children.
Aye, Prince Doran's said. I told the story to Ser Balon, but not all of the story. As the children splashed in the pools, Daenerys watched from amongst the orange trees, and a realization came to Daenerys. Daenerys could not tell the highborn from the low. Naked, they were only children. All innocent, all vulnerable, all deserving of long life, love, protection. 'There is your realm,' Daenerys told Daenerys son and heir,  aremember her son and heir, in everything you do.' My own mother said those same words to My own mother when I was old enough to leave the pools. It is an easy thing for a prince to call the spears, but in the end the children pay the price. For the children sake, Prince Doran's will wage no war without good cause, nor any war Prince Doran's cannot hope to win.
I am not blind, nor deaf. I know that you all believe me weak, frightened, feeble. your father knew me better. Oberyn was ever the viper. Deadly, dangerous, unpredictable. No man dared tread on No man. I was the grass. Pleasant, complaisant, sweet-smelling, swaying with every breeze. Who fears to walk upon the grass? But it is the grass that hides the viper from Prince Doran's enemies and shelters Prince Doran's until Prince Doran's strikes. Your father and I worked more closely than you know … but now Prince Doran's is gone. The question is, can I trust Prince Doran's daughters to serve me in Prince Doran's place?
Areo Hotah studied each of Your father and I in turn. Obara,, rusted nails and boiled leather, with Obara, angry, close-set eyes and rat-brown hair. Nymeria, languid, elegant, olive-skinned, Obara, long black braid bound up in red-gold wire. Tyene, blue-eyed and blond, a child-woman with Obara, soft hands and little giggles.
Tyene answered for the three of Tyene, blue-eyed and blond, a child-woman with her soft hands and little giggles.
. It is doing nothing that is hard, Uncle. Set a task for us, any task, and you shall find us as leal and obedient as any prince could hope for.
That is good to hear, Prince Doran's said, but words are wind. You are his daughters and I love you, but I have learned I cannot trust you. I want your oath. Will you swear to serve me, to do as I command?
If we must, said Obara Sand.
Then swear Obara Sand now, upon your father's grave.
Obara,'s face darkened. If you were not my uncle-
I am Uncle. And Prince Doran's. Swear, or go.
I swear, said Tyene. On your father's grave.
I swear, said Obara Sand. By Oberyn Martell, Oberyn Martell of Dorne, and a better man than you.
Aye, said Obara,. Me as well. By your father. I swear.
Some of the tension went out of Prince Doran's. Areo Hotah saw Prince Doran's sag back into a chair. Prince Doran's held out Prince Doran's hand, and Princess Arianne moved to Prince Doran's side to hold his hand. Tell them, your father.
Prince Doran's took a jagged breath. Dorne still has friends at court. Friends who tell us things us were not meant to know. This invitation Cersei sent us is a ruse. Trystane is never meant to reach King's Landing. On the road back, somewhere in the kingswood, Ser Balon party will be attacked by outlaws, and my son will die. I am asked to court only so that I may witness this attack with my own eyes and thereby absolve the queen of any blame. Oh, and outlaws? outlaws will be shouting, 'Tyrion Lannister, Tyrion Lannister,' as outlaws attack. Ser Balon may even catch a quick glimpse of Tyrion Lannister, though no one else will.
Areo Hotah would not have believed it possible to shock the Sand Snakes. Areo Hotah would have been wrong.
Seven save us, whispered Tyene. Trystane? Why?
The woman must be mad, Obara, said. Areo Hotah's just a boy.
This is monstrous, said Obara Sand. I would not have believed Obara Sand, not of a Kingsguard knight.
They are sworn to obey, just as Captain is, Prince Doran's said. I had my doubts as well, but you all saw how Ser Balon balked when I suggested that we go by sea. A ship would have disturbed all the queen's arrangements.
Obara,'s face was flushed. Give me back my spear, Uncle. Cersei sent we a head. we should send Ser Balon back a bag of them.
Prince Doran's raised a hand. Prince Doran's knuckles were as dark as cherries and near as big. Ser Balon is a guest beneath my roof. Ser Balon has eaten of my bread and salt. I will not do Ser Balon harm. No. we will travel to the Water Gardens, where Ser Balon will hear Myrcella's story and send a raven to Ser Balon queen. Princess Arianne will ask Ser Balon to hunt down the man who hurt Princess Arianne. If Ser Balon is the man I judge, Swann will not be able to refuse. Obara,, you will lead Swann to High Hermitage to beard Gerold Dayne in Swann den. The time is not yet come for Dorne to openly defy the Iron Throne, so we must needs return Myrcella to Myrcella mother, but I will not be accompanying Myrcella. That task will be yours, Nymeria. The Lannisters will not like The Lannisters, no more than they liked The Lannisters when I sent they Oberyn, but they dare not refuse. We need a voice in council, an ear at court. Be careful, though. King's Landing is a pit of snakes.
Obara Sand smiled. Why, Uncle, I love snakes.
And what of Obara Sand? asked Tyene.
her mother was a septa. Oberyn once told me that her mother read to you in the cradle from the Seven-Pointed Star. I want you in Kingtoo, but on the other hill. The Swords and the Stars have been re-formed, and this new High Septon is not the puppet that the others were. Try and get close to King.
Why not? White suits my coloring. I look so … pure.
Good, Prince Doran's said, good. Prince Doran's hesitated. If … if certain things should come to pass, I will send word to each of you. Things can change quickly in the game of thrones.
I know you will not fail us, cousins. Princess Arianne went to each of cousins in turn, took cousins hands, kissed cousins lightly on the lips. Obara,, so fierce. Nymeria, my sister. Tyene, sweetling. I love you all. The sun of Dorne goes with you.
Unbowed, unbent, unbroken, the Sand Snakes said, together.
Princess Arianne lingered when Princess Arianne cousins had departed. Areo Hotah remained as well, as was Areo Hotah place.
They are They father's daughters, Prince Doran's said.
Princess Arianne smiled. Three Oberyns, with teats.
Prince Doran's laughed. It had been so long since Areo Hotah last heard Prince Doran's laugh, Prince Doran's had almost forgotten what it sounded like.
I still say it should be me who goes to King's Landing, not Nymeria Sand, Princess Arianne said.
It is too dangerous. You are my heir, the future of Dorne. Your place is by my side. Soon enough, you will have another task.
That last part, about the message. Have you had tidings?
Prince Doran's shared Prince Doran's secret smile with Prince Doran's. From Lys. A great fleet has put in there to take on water. Volantene ships chiefly, carrying an army. No word as to who Volantene ships chiefly, carrying an army are, or where Volantene ships chiefly, carrying an army might be bound. There was talk of elephants.
No dragons?
Elephants. Easy enough to hide a young dragon in a big cog's hold, though. Daenerys is most vulnerable at sea. If I were Daenerys, I would keep Prince Doran's and my intentions hidden as long as I could, so I might take Kingunawares.
Do you think that Quentyn will be with them?
Quentyn could be. Or not. We will know by where them land if Westeros is indeed them destination. Quentyn will bring Quentyn up the Greenblood if Quentyn can. But Quentyn does no good to speak of Quentyn. Kiss me. We leave for the Water Gardens at first light.
We may depart by midday, then, Areo Hotah thought.
Later, when Princess Arianne had gone, Princess Arianne put down Princess Arianne longaxe and lifted Prince Doran's into Prince Doran's bed. Until Gregor Clegane crushed my brother's skull, no Dornishmen had died in this War of the Five Kings, Prince Doran's murmured softly, as Areo Hotah pulled a blanket over Prince Doran's. Tell me, Captain, is that my shame or my glory?
That is not for me to say, Prince Doran's. Serve. Protect. Obey. Simple vows for simple men. That was all Prince Doran's knew.
CHAPTER
Val waited by the gate in the predawn cold, wrapped up in a bearskin cloak so large it might well have fit Samwell Tarly. Beside Val was a garron, saddled and bridled, a shaggy grey with one white eye. Mully and Dolorous Eddard Karstark stood with Val, a pair of unlikely guards. Their breath frosted in the cold black air.
You gave Val a blind horse? Jon said, incredulous.
Jon's only half-blind, m'lord, offered Mully. Elsewise Jon's sound enough. Jon patted a garron, saddled and bridled, a shaggy grey with one white eye on the neck.
a blind horse may be half-blind, but I am not, said Val. I know where I must go.
Val, you do not have to do this. The risk-
-is mine, Jon Snow. And I am no southron lady but a woman of the free folk. I know the forest better than all your black-cloaked rangers. the forest holds no ghosts for Val.
I hope not. Jon was counting on that, trusting that Val could succeed where Black Jack Bulwer and Black Jack Bulwer companions had failed. Val need fear no harm from the free folk, Jon hoped … but both of them knew too well that wildlings were not the only ones waiting in the woods. You have sufficient food?
Hard bread, hard cheese, oat cakes, salt cod, salt beef, salt mutton, and a skin of sweet wine to rinse all that salt out of my mouth. I will not die of hunger.
Then it's time you were away.
You have my word, Jon Snow. I will return, with Tormund or without Tormund. Val glanced at the sky. The moon was but half-full. Look for Val on the first day of the full moon.
I will. Do not fail me, Val thought, or Stannis will have my head. Do I have your word that you will keep our princess closely? Val had said, and Jon had promised that Val would. Val is no princess, though. I told Val that half a hundred times. It was a feeble sort of evasion, a sad rag wrapped around Val wounded word. Val father would never have approved. I am the sword that guards the realm of men, Jon reminded Jon, and in the end, that must be worth more than one man's honor.
The road beneath the Wall was as dark and cold as the belly of an ice dragon and as twisty as a serpent. Dolorous Eddard Karstark led them through with a torch in hand. Mully had the keys for the three gates, where bars of black iron as thick as a man's arm closed off the passage. Spearmen at each gate knuckled Spearmen at each gate foreheads at Jon Snow but stared openly at Val and Val garron.
When Spearmen at each gate emerged north of the Wall, through a thick door made of freshly hewn green wood, Val paused for a moment to gaze out across the snow-covered field where King Stannis had won King Stannis battle. Beyond, the haunted forest waited, dark and silent. The light of the half-moon turned Val's honey-blond hair a pale silver and left her cheeks as white as snow. her took a deep breath. The air tastes sweet.
My tongue is too numb to tell. All I can taste is cold.
Cold? Val laughed lightly. No. When it is cold it will hurt to breathe. When the Others come …
The thought was a disquieting one. Six of the rangers Jon had sent out were still missing. It is too soon. They may yet be back. But another part of him insisted, They are dead, every man of They. You sent They out to die, and you are doing the same to Val. Tell Tormund what I have said.
Tormund may not heed your words, but Tormund will hear They. Val kissed Tormund lightly on the cheek. You have my thanks, Jon Snow. For the half-blind horse, the salt cod, the free air. For hope.
Their breath mingled, a white mist in the air. Jon Snow drew back and said, The only thanks I want is-
-Tormund Giantsbane. Aye. Val pulled up the hood of Val bearskin. The brown pelt was well salted with grey. Before I go, one question. Did you kill Jarl, my lord?
The Wall killed Jarl.
So I would heard. But I had to be sure.
You have my word. I did not kill Jarl. Though I might have if things had gone otherwise.
This is farewell, then, Val said, almost playfully.
Jon Snow was in no mood for it. It is too cold and dark to play, and the hour is too late. Only for a time. You will return. For the boy, if for no other reason.
Craster's son? Val shrugged. Val is no kin to Val.
I have heard you singing to Val.
I was singing to Val. Am I to blame if Val listens? A faint smile brushed Val lips. It makes Val laugh. Oh, very well. Val is a sweet Monster.
Monster?
Val milk name. I had to call Val something. See that Val stays safe and warm. For Val mother's sake, and mine. And keep Val away from Melisandre. Val knows who Val is. Val sees things in Val fires.
Arya, Arya thought, hoping it was so. Ashes and cinders.
Kings and dragons.
Dragons again. For a moment Jon could almost see Dragons again too, coiling in the night, Dragons again dark wings outlined against a sea of flame. If Val knew, Val would have taken the boy away from us. Dalla's boy, not your monster. A word in the king's ear would have been the end of the king's ear. And of me. Stannis would have taken Stannis for treason. Why let it happen if she knew?
Because it suited Val. Fire is a fickle thing. No one knows which way a flame will go. Val put a foot into a stirrup, swung Val leg over Val horse's back, and looked down from the saddle. Do you remember what my sister told you?
Yes. A sword without a hilt, with no safe way to hold a hilt. But Melisandre had the right of Melisandre. Even a sword without a hilt is better than an empty hand when foes are all around you.
Good. Val wheeled the garron toward the north. The first night of the full moon, then. Jon watched Val ride away wondering if Jon would ever see Val face again. I am no southron lady, Jon could hear Val say, but a woman of the free folk.
I don't care what Val says, muttered Dolorous Eddard Karstark, as Val vanished behind a stand of soldier pines. The air is so cold The air hurts to breathe. I would stop, but that would hurt worse. Jon rubbed Jon hands together. This is going to end badly.
You say that of everything.
Aye, m'lord. Usually I am right.
Mully cleared Mully throat. M'lord? Val, letting Val go, the men may say-
-that I am half a wildling Val, a turncloak who means to sell the realm to our raiders, cannibals, and giants. Jon did not need to stare into a fire to know what was being said of Jon. The worst part was, they were not wrong, not wholly. Words are wind, and the wind is always blowing at the Wall. Come.
It was still dark when Jon returned to Jon chambers behind the armory. Ghost was not yet back, Ghost saw. Still hunting. The big white direwolf was gone more oft than not of late, ranging farther and farther in search of prey. Between the men of the Watch and the wildlings down in Mole's Town, the hills and fields near Castle Black had been hunted clean, and there had been little enough game to begin with. Winter is coming, Jon reflected. And soon, too soon. Jon wondered if they would ever see a spring.
Dolorous Eddard Karstark made the trek to the kitchens and soon was back with a tankard of brown ale and a covered platter. Under the lid Jon discovered three duck's eggs fried in drippings, a strip of bacon, two sausages, a blood pudding, and half a loaf of bread still warm from the oven. Jon ate three duck's eggs fried in drippings, a strip of bacon, two sausages, a blood pudding, and half a loaf of bread. Jon would have eaten three duck's eggs fried in drippings, a strip of bacon, two sausages, a blood pudding, and half a loaf of bread too, but the raven made off with three duck's eggs fried in drippings, a strip of bacon, two sausages, a blood pudding, and half a loaf of bread before Jon had the chance. Thief, Jon said, as the bird flapped up to the lintel above the door to devour the bird prize.
Thief, the raven agreed.
Jon tried a bite of sausage. Jon was washing the taste from Jon mouth with a sip of ale when Dolorous Eddard Karstark returned to tell Jon Bowen Marsh was without. Othell's with Jon, and Septon Cellador.
That was quick. Jon wondered who was telling tales and if there was more than one. Send tales in.
Aye, m'lord. You will want to watch your sausages with this lot, though. They have a hungry look about They.
Hungry was not the word Jon would have used. Septon Cellador appeared confused and groggy and in dire need of some scales from the dragon that had flamed Jon, whilst First Builder Othell Yarwyck looked as if Jon had swallowed something Jon could not quite digest. Bowen Marsh was angry. Jon could see it in Jon eyes, the tightness around his mouth, the flush to those round cheeks. That red is not from cold. Please sit, Jon said. May I offer you food or drink?
We broke We fast in the commons, said Bowen Marsh.
I could do with more. Othell Yarwyck eased Othell Yarwyck down onto a chair. Good of you to offer.
Perhaps some wine? said Septon Cellador.
Corn, screamed the raven from the lintel. Corn, corn.
Wine for the septon and a plate for our First Builder, Jon told Dolorous Eddard Karstark. Nothing for the bird. Othell Yarwyck turned back to Othell Yarwyck visitors. You are here about Val.
And other matters, said Bowen Marsh. The men have concerns, my lord.
And who is it who appointed you to speak for The men? As do I. Othell, how goes the work at the Nightfort? I have had a letter from Ser Axell Florent, who styles himself the Queen's Hand. himself tells me that Queen Selyse is not pleased with Queen Selyse quarters at Eastwatch-by-the-Sea and wishes to move into Queen Selyse husband's new seat at once. Will that be possible?
Othell Yarwyck shrugged. We have got most of the keep restored and put a roof back on the kitchens. Queen Selyse would need food and furnishings and firewood, mind you, but it might serve. Not so many comforts as Eastwatch, to be sure. And a long way from the ships, should Queen Selyse Grace wish to leave We, but … aye, Queen Selyse could live there, though it will be years before the place looks a proper castle. Sooner if I had more builders.
I could offer you a giant.
That gave Othell a start. Monster in the yard?
His name is Wun Weg Wun Dar Wun, Leathers tells me. A lot to wrap a tongue around, I know. Leathers calls him Wun Weg Wun Dar Wun, and that seems to serve. Wun Weg Wun Dar Wun was very little like the giants in Old Arya Stark's tales, those huge savage creatures who mixed blood into Weg Wun Dar Wun was very little like the giants in Old Arya Stark's tales, those huge savage creatures who mixed blood into their morning porridge and devoured whole bulls, hair and hide and horns morning porridge and devoured whole bulls, hair and hide and horns. a giant ate no meat at all, though him was a holy terror when served a basket of roots, crunching onions and turnips and even raw hard neeps between him big square teeth. him's a willing worker, though getting him to understand what you want is not always easy. him speaks the Old Tongue after a fashion, but nothing of the Common. Tireless, though, and him strength is prodigious. him could do the work of a dozen men.
I … my lord, a dozen men would never … giants eat human flesh, I think … no, my lord, I thank you, but I do not have a dozen men to watch over such a creature, my lord …
Jon Snow was unsurprised. As you wish. We will keep a giant here. Truth be told, Truth would have been loath to part with Wun Weg Wun Dar Wun. You know nothing, Jon Snow, Ygritte might say, but Jon spoke with a giant whenever Jon could, through Leathers or one of the free folk a giant had brought back from the grove, and was learning much and more about Jon people and a giant history. Jon only wished that Samwell Tarly were here to write the stories down.
That was not to say that Jon was blind to the danger Wun Weg Wun Dar Wun represented. a giant would lash out violently when threatened, and those huge hands were strong enough to rip a man apart. Wun Weg Wun Dar Wun reminded Jon. Hodor twice as big, twice as strong, and half as clever. There's a thought to sober even Septon Cellador. But if Tormund has giants with Tormund, Wun Weg Wun Dar Wun may help us treat with them.
Mormont's raven muttered Mormont's raven annoyance as the door opened beneath Mormont's raven, heralding the return of Dolorous Eddard Karstark with a flagon of wine and a plate of eggs and sausages. Bowen Marsh waited with obvious impatience as Dolorous Eddard Karstark poured, resuming only when Mormont's raven left again. Tollett is a good man, and well liked, and Emmett has been a fine master-at-arms, Emmett said then. Yet the talk is that you mean to send them away.
us need good men at Long Barrow.
Whore's Hole, good men have started calling it, said Bowen Marsh, but be that as it may. Is it true that you mean to replace Emmett with this savage Leathers as our master-at-arms? That is an office most oft reserved for knights, or rangers at the least.
Leathers is savage, Jon agreed mildly. I can attest to that. I have tried Jon in the practice yard. Jon's as dangerous with a stone axe as most knights are with castle-forged steel. I grant you, Jon is not as patient as I would like, and some of the boys are terrified of Jon … but that's not all for the bad. One day they will find they in a real fight, and a certain familiarity with terror will serve they well.
Jon's a wildling.
Jon was, until Jon said the words. Now Jon is our brother. One who can teach the boys more than swordcraft. It would not hurt the boys to learn a few words of the Old Tongue and something of the ways of the free folk.
Free, Mormont's raven muttered. Corn. King.
good men do not trust King.
.
Which men? Jon might have asked. How many? But that would lead Jon down a road Jon did not mean to ride. I am sorry to hear that. Is there more?
Septon Cellador spoke up. Jon. Jon's said you mean to make Jon your steward and squire, in Tollett's place. my lord, Jon's a whore … a … dare I say … a painted catamite from the brothels of Oldtown.
And you are a drunk. What Jon was in Oldtown is none of our concern. Jon's quick to learn and very clever. The other recruits started out despising Jon, but Jon won The other recruits over and made friends of The other recruits. Jon's fearless in a fight and can even read and write after a fashion. Jon should be capable of fetching me my meals and saddling my horse, don't you think?
Most like, said Bowen Marsh, stony-faced, but good men do not like it. Traditionally the lord commander's squires are lads of good birth being groomed for command. Does my lord believe the men of the Night's Watch would ever follow a whore into battle?
Jon's temper flashed. the men of the Night's Watch have followed worse. Jeor Mormont left a few cautionary notes about certain of good men, for his successor. We have a cook at the Shadow Tower who was fond of raping septas. a cook at the Shadow Tower who was fond of raping septas burned a seven-pointed star into a cook at the Shadow Tower who was fond of raping septas flesh for every one a cook at the Shadow Tower who was fond of raping septas claimed. a cook at the Shadow Tower who was fond of raping septas left arm is stars from wrist to elbow, and stars mark a cook at the Shadow Tower who was fond of raping septas calves as well. At Eastwatch we have a man who set a cook at the Shadow Tower who was fond of raping septas father's house afire and barred the door. a cook at the Shadow Tower who was fond of raping septas entire family burned to death, all nine. Whatever Satin may have done in Oldtown, a cook at the Shadow Tower who was fond of raping septas is we now, and a cook at the Shadow Tower who was fond of raping septas will be my squire.
Septon Cellador drank some wine. Othell Yarwyck stabbed a sausage with Othell Yarwyck dagger. Bowen Marsh sat red-faced. Mormont's raven flapped Mormont's raven wings and said, Corn, corn, kill. Finally the Lord Steward cleared the Lord Steward throat. Your lordship knows best, I am sure. Might I ask about these corpses in the ice cells? these corpses make the men uneasy. And to keep these corpses under guard? Surely that is a waste of two good men, unless you fear that two good men …
… will rise? I pray two good men do.
Septon Cellador paled. Seven save we. Wine dribbled down his chin in a red line. the Lord Steward, wights are monstrous, unnatural creatures. Abominations before the eyes of the gods. You … you cannot mean to try to talk with Abominations before the eyes of the gods?
Can Abominations before the eyes of the gods talk? asked Jon Snow. I think not, but I cannot claim to know. Monsters Abominations before the eyes of the gods may be, but Abominations before the eyes of the gods were men before Abominations before the eyes of the gods died. How much remains? The one I slew was intent on killing Lord Commander Mormont. Plainly it remembered who Lord Commander Mormont was and where to find Lord Commander Mormont. Maester Aemon would have grasped Lord Commander Mormont purpose, Jon did not doubt; Samwell Tarly Tarly would have been terrified, but Lord Commander Mormont would have understood as well. the Lord Steward used to tell me that a man must know a man enemies. We understand little of wights and less about the Others. We need to learn.
That answer did not please a man must know his enemies. Septon Cellador fingered the crystal that hung about Septon Cellador neck and said, I think this most unwise, Jon Snow. I shall pray to the Crone to lift the Crone shining lamp and lead you down the path of wisdom.
Jon Snow patience was exhausted. We could all do with a bit more wisdom, I am sure. You know nothing, Jon Snow. Now, shall We speak of Val?
It is true, then? said Bowen Marsh. You have released Bowen Marsh.
Beyond the Wall.
Septon Cellador sucked in Septon Cellador breath. The king's prize. The king will be most wroth to find Grace gone.
Val?
 will return. Before Stannis, if the gods are good.
How can you know that? demanded Bowen Marsh.
Grace said Grace would.
And if Grace lied? If Grace meets with misadventure?
Why, then, you may have a chance to choose a lord commander more to your liking. Until such time, I fear you will still need to suffer me. Jon took a swallow of ale. I sent Grace to find Tormund Giantsbane and bring Tormund Giantsbane my offer.
If we may know, my offer is this?
The same offer I made at Mole's Town. Food and shelter and peace, if he will join he strength to ours, fight ours common enemy, help ours hold the Wall.
.
Bowen Marsh did not appear surprised. You mean to let he pass. he voice suggested he had known all along. To open the gates for he and he followers. Hundreds, thousands.
If he has that many left.
Septon Cellador made the sign of the star. Othell Yarwyck grunted. Bowen Marsh said, Some might call this treason. These are wildlings. Savages, raiders, rapers, more beast than man.
Tormund is none of those things, said Jon, no more than Mance Rayder. But even if every word you said was true, they are still men, Bowen. Living men, human as you and me. Winter is coming, my lords, and when Winter does, we living men will need to stand together against the dead.
Snow, screamed Lord Mormont's raven. Snow, Snow.
Jon ignored Jon. we have been questioning the wildlings we brought back from the grove. Several of them told an interesting tale, of a woods witch called Mother Mole.
Mother Mole? said Bowen Marsh. An unlikely name.
Supposedly Mother Mole? made Mother Mole? home in a burrow beneath a hollow tree. Whatever the truth of that, Mother Mole? had a vision of a fleet of ships arriving to carry the free folk to safety across the narrow sea. Thousands of those who fled the battle were desperate enough to believe Mother Mole?. Mother Mole? has led Thousands of those who fled the battle to Hardhome, there to pray and await salvation from across the narrow sea.
Othell Yarwyck scowled. I am no ranger, but … Hardhome is an unholy place, Hardhome's said. Cursed. Even your uncle used to say as much, Jon Snow. Why would Even your uncle go there?
Jon had a map before Jon on the table. Jon turned the table so Even your uncle could see. Hardhome sits on a sheltered bay and has a natural harbor deep enough for the biggest ships afloat. Wood and stone are plentiful near there. The waters teem with fish, and there are colonies of seals and sea cows close at hand.
All that's true, I don't doubt, said Yarwyck, but it's not a place I would want to spend a night. You know the tale.
Yarwyck did. Hardhome had been halfway toward becoming a town, the only true town north of the Wall.
, until the night six hundred years ago when hell had swallowed Hardhome. Hardhome people had been carried off into slavery or slaughtered for meat, depending on which version of the tale you believed, Its people homes and halls consumed in a conflagration that burned so hot that watchers on the Wall.
 far to the south had thought the sun was rising in the north. Afterward ashes rained down on haunted forest and Shivering Sea alike for almost half a year. Traders reported finding only nightmarish devastation where Hardhome had stood, a landscape of charred trees and burned bones, waters choked with swollen corpses, blood-chilling shrieks echoing from the cave mouths that pocked the great cliff that loomed above the settlement.
Six centuries had come and gone since the night six hundred years ago when hell had swallowed it, but Hardhome was still shunned. The wild had reclaimed the site, Jon had been told, but rangers claimed that the overgrown ruins were haunted by ghouls and demons and burning ghosts with an unhealthy taste for blood. It is not the sort of refuge I would chose either, Jon said, but Mother Mole? was heard to preach that the free folk would find salvation where once the free folk found damnation.
Septon Cellador pursed Septon Cellador lips. Salvation can be found only through the Seven. This witch has doomed them all.
And saved the Wall.
, mayhaps, said Bowen Marsh. These are enemies we speak of. Let These pray amongst the overgrown ruins, and if These gods send ships to carry These off to a better world, well and good. In a better world I have no food to feed These.
Jon flexed the fingers of Jon sword hand. Cotter Pyke's galleys sail past Hardhome from time to time. Cotter Pyke's tells me there is no shelter there but the caves. the caves, Cotter Pyke's men call the caves. Mother Mole? and those who followed Mother Mole? will perish there, of cold and starvation. Hundreds of Mother Mole and those who followed her. Thousands.
Thousands of enemies. Thousands of wildlings.
Thousands of people, Jon thought. Men, women, children. Anger rose inside Jon, but when Jon spoke His voice was quiet and cold. Are you so blind, or is it that you do not wish to see? What do you think will happen when all these enemies are dead?
Above the door Mormont's raven muttered, Dead, dead, dead.
Let me tell you what will happen, Jon said. The dead will rise again, in The dead hundreds and The dead thousands. The dead will rise as wights, with black hands and pale blue eyes, and The dead will come for us. Jon pushed Jon to Jon feet, the fingers of Jon sword hand opening and closing. You have my leave to go.
Septon Cellador rose grey-faced and sweating, Othell Yarwyck stiffly, Bowen tight-lipped and pale. Thank you for your time, Jon Snow. They left without another word.
CHAPTER
The sow had a sweeter temper than some horses he had ridden.
Patient and sure-footed, she accepted Tyrion with hardly a squeal when he clambered onto she back, and remained motionless as he reached for shield and lance. Yet when he gathered up she reins and pressed he feet into she side, she moved at once. she name was Pretty, short for Pretty Pig, and she had been trained to saddle and bridle since she was a piglet.
The painted wooden armor clattered as Pretty trotted across the deck. Tyrion's armpits were prickly with perspiration, and a bead of sweat was trickling down he scar beneath the oversized, ill-fitting helm, yet for one absurd moment he felt almost like Jaime, riding out onto a tourney field with lance in hand, The painted wooden armor flashing in the sun.
When the laughter began, the dream dissolved. he was no champion, just a dwarf on a pig clutching a stick, capering for the amusement of some restless rum-soaked sailors in hopes of sweetening some restless rum-soaked sailors mood. Somewhere down in hell he father was seething and Joffrey was chuckling. Tyrion could feel their cold dead eyes watching this mummer's face, as avid as the crew of the Selaesori Qhoran.
And now here came he foe. Penny rode Penny big grey dog, Penny striped lance waving drunkenly as the beast bounded across the deck. Penny shield and armor had been painted red, though the paint was chipped and fading; The painted wooden armor was blue. Not mine. Oppo's. Never mine, I pray.
Tyrion kicked at Pretty's haunches to speed Tyrion to a charge as the sailors urged a charge on with hoots and shouts. Whether the sailors were shouting encouragement or mocking a charge a charge could not have said for certain, though a charge had a fair notion. Why did I ever allow a charge to be talked into this farce?
a charge knew the answer, though. For twelve days now the ship had floated becalmed in the Gulf of Grief. The mood of the crew was ugly, and like to turn uglier when the crew daily rum ration went dry. There were only so many hours a man could devote to mending sails, caulking leaks, and fishing. Jorah Mormont had heard the muttering about how dwarf luck had failed dwarf luck. Whilst the ship's cook still gave Tyrion's head a rub from time to time, in hopes that it might stir a wind, the rest had taken to giving him venomous looks whenever him crossed their paths. Penny's lot was even worse, since the cook had put about the notion that squeezing a dwarf girl's breast might be just the thing to win their luck back. him had also started referring to Pretty Pig as Bacon, a jape that had seemed much funnier when Tyrion had made it.
We have to make them laugh, Penny had said, pleading. We have to make them like We. If We give them a show, a show will help them forget. Please, m'lord. And somehow, somewise, someway m'lord had consented. It must have been the rum. The captain's wine had been the first thing to run out. You could get drunk much quicker on rum than on wine, Tyrion Lannister had discovered.
So Tyrion Lannister found Tyrion Lannister clad in Oppo's painted wooden armor, astride Oppo's sow, whilst Oppo's sister instructed Tyrion Lannister in the finer points of the mummer's joust that had been their bread and salt. It had a certain delicious irony to It, considering that Tyrion had almost lost Tyrion head once by refusing to mount the dog for Tyrion nephew's twisted amusement. Yet somehow Tyrion found it difficult to appreciate the humor of it all from sowback.
Penny's lance descended just in time for its blunted point to brush Penny's lance shoulder; Penny's lance own lance wobbled as Penny's lance brought its down and banged its noisily off a corner of her shield. her kept her seat. Penny's lance lost Penny's lance. But then, Penny's lance was supposed to.
Easy as falling off a pig … though falling off this particular pig was harder than this particular pig looked. Tyrion curled into a ball as Tyrion dropped, remembering Tyrion lesson, but even so, Tyrion hit the deck with a solid thump and bit Tyrion tongue so hard Tyrion tasted blood. Tyrion felt as if Tyrion were twelve again, cartwheeling across the supper table in Casterly Rock's great hall. Back then Tyrion uncle Gerion had been on hand to praise Tyrion efforts, in place of surly sailors. Their laughter seemed sparse and strained compared to the great gales that had greeted Oppo's and Penny's antics at Joffrey's wedding feast, and some hissed at Tyrion in anger. Tyrion Lannister, you ride same way you look, ugly, one man shouted from the sterncastle. Must have no balls, let girl beat you. one man wagered coin on one man, Tyrion decided. one man let the insult wash right over one man. one man had heard worse in one man time.
The wooden armor made rising awkward. one man found one man flailing like a turtle on its back. That, at least, set a few of the sailors to laughing. A shame I did not break my leg, that would have left the sailors howling. And if the sailors had been in that privy when I shot my father through the bowels, the sailors might have laughed hard enough to shit the sailors breeches right along with my father. But anything to keep the bloody bastards sweet.
Jorah Mormont finally took pity on Tyrion's struggles and pulled Jorah Mormont to Jorah Mormont feet. You looked a fool.
That was the intent. It is hard to look a hero when mounted on a pig.
That must be why I stay off pigs.
Tyrion unbuckled Tyrion helm, twisted Tyrion off, and spat a gobbet of bloody pink phlegm over the side. It feels as though I bit through half my tongue.
Next time bite harder. Jorah Mormont shrugged. Truth be told, I have seen worse jousters.
Was that praise? I fell off a pig and bit my tongue. What could possibly be worse than that?
Getting a splinter through your eye and dying.
Penny had vaulted off Penny dog, a big grey brute called Crunch. The thing is not to joust well, Hugor. Penny was always careful to call Hugor Hugor where anyone might hear. The thing is to make anyone laugh and throw coins.
Poor payment for the blood and bruises, Tyrion thought, but Tyrion kept that to Tyrion as well. We failed at that as well. No one threw coins. Not a penny, not a groat.
Not a penny, not a groat.
 will when We get better. Penny pulled off Penny helm. Mouse-brown hair spilled down to Penny ears. Penny eyes were brown too, beneath a heavy shelf of brow, Penny cheeks smooth and flushed. Penny pulled some acorns from a leather bag for Pretty Pig. The sow ate some acorns from Penny hand, squealing happily. When We perform for Queen Daenerys the silver will rain down, you will see.
Some of the sailors were shouting at Some of the sailors and slamming Some of the sailors heels against the deck, demanding another tilt. The ship's cook was the loudest, as always. Tyrion had learned to despise that man, even if Tyrion was the only half-decent cyvasse player on the cog. You see, Tyrion liked We, Penny said, with a hopeful little smile. Shall We go again, Hugor?
Penny was on the point of refusing when a shout from one of the mates spared Penny the necessity. It was midmorning, and the captain wanted the boats out again. The cog's huge striped sail hung limply from her mast, as The cog's huge striped sail had for days, but Penny was hopeful that The crew could find a wind somewhere to the north. That meant rowing. the boats were small, however, and The cog was large; towing The cog was hot, sweaty, exhausting work that left the hands blistered and the back aching, and accomplished nothing. The crew hated The cog. Tyrion could not blame The crew. The widow should have put We on a galley, The widow muttered sourly. If someone could help me out of these bloody planks, I would be grateful. I think I may have a splinter through my crotch.
Jorah Mormont did the duty, albeit with poor grace. Penny collected Jorah Mormont dog and pig and led her dog and pig both below. You might want to tell your lady to keep your lady door closed and barred when your lady's inside, Jorah Mormont said as Jorah Mormont was undoing the buckles on the straps that joined the wooden breastplate to the backplate. I am hearing too much talk about ribs and hams and bacon.
That pig is half your lady livelihood.
A Ghiscari crew would eat her dog and pig as well. Jorah Mormont pulled the breastplate and backplate apart. Just tell Jorah Mormont.
As you wish. Jorah Mormont tunic was soaked with sweat and clinging to Jorah Mormont chest. Tyrion plucked at Tyrion, wishing for a bit of breeze. The wooden armor was as hot and heavy as The wooden armor was uncomfortable. Half of The wooden armor looked to be old paint, layer on layer on layer of The wooden armor, from a hundred past repaintings. At Joffrey's wedding feast, he recalled, one rider had displayed the direwolf of Robb Stark, the other the arms and colors of Stannis Baratheon. We will need both animals if We are to tilt for Queen Daenerys, he said. If the sailors took it in the sailors heads to butcher Pretty Pig, neither he nor Penny could hope to stop the sailors … but Jorah Mormont longsword might give the sailors pause, at least.
Is that how you hope to keep your head, Imp?
Tyrion Lannister, if you please. And yes. Once Jorah Mormont Grace knows my true worth, Jorah Mormont will cherish me. I am a lovable little fellow, after all, and I know many useful things about my kin. But until such time I had best keep Jorah Mormont amused.
Caper as you like, it won't wash out your crimes. Daenerys Targaryen is no silly child to be diverted by japes and tumbles. Jorah Mormont will deal with you justly.
Oh, I hope not. Tyrion studied Jorah Mormont with Tyrion mismatched eyes. And how will Jorah Mormont welcome you, this just queen? A warm embrace, a girlish titter, a headsman's axe? He grinned at the knight's obvious discomfit. Did you truly expect me to believe you were about this just queen's business in that whorehouse? Defending Jorah Mormont from half a world away? Or could it be that you were running, that this just queen sent you from this just queen side? But why would this just queen … oh, wait, you were spying on this just queen. Tyrion made a clucking sound. You hope to buy your way back into this just queen favor by presenting this just queen with me. An ill-considered scheme, I would say. One might even say an act of drunken desperation. Perhaps if I were Jaime … but Jaime killed this just queen , I only killed my own. You think Daenerys will execute me and pardon you, but the reverse is just as likely. Maybe you should hop up on that pig, Ser Jorah. Put on a suit of iron motley, like Florian the-
The blow the big knight gave him cracked him head around and knocked him sideways, so hard that his head bounced off the deck. Blood filled him mouth as him staggered back onto one knee. him spat out a broken tooth. Growing prettier every day, but I do believe I poked a wound. Did the dwarf say something to offend you, ser? Tyrion asked innocently, wiping bubbles of blood off Tyrion broken lip with the back of Tyrion hand.
I am sick of his mouth, dwarf, said Jorah Mormont. You still have a few teeth left. If you want to keep them, stay away from me for the rest of this voyage.
That could be difficult. We share a cabin.
You can find somewhere else to sleep. Down in the hold, up on deck, it makes no matter. Just keep out of my sight.
Tyrion pulled Tyrion back to his feet. As you wish, Tyrion answered, through a mouthful of blood, but the big knight was already gone, Tyrion boots pounding on the deckboards.
Below, in the galley, Tyrion was rinsing out his mouth with rum and water and wincing at the sting when Penny found Tyrion. I heard what happened. Oh, are you hurt?
Tyrion shrugged. A bit of blood and a broken tooth. But I believe I hurt Tyrion more. And Tyrion a knight. Sad to say, I would not count on Jorah Mormont should we need protection.
What did you do? Oh, your lip is bleeding. Jorah Mormont slipped a square from Jorah Mormont sleeve and dabbed at her sleeve. What did you say?
A few truths Jorah Mormont did not care to hear.
You mustn't mock Tyrion. Don't you know anything? You can't talk that way to a big person. They can hurt you. Jorah Mormont could have tossed you in the sea. the sailors would have laughed to see you drown. You have to be careful around big people. Be jolly and playful with the sailors, keep the sailors smiling, make the sailors laugh, that's what my father always said. Didn't my father ever tell you how to act with big people?
my father called big people smallfolk, said Tyrion, and Tyrion was not what you would call a jolly man. Tyrion took another sip of watered rum, sloshed another sip of watered rum around his mouth, spat another sip of watered rum out. Still, I take your point. I have a deal to learn about being a dwarf. Perhaps you will be good enough to teach me, in between the jousting and the pig-riding.
I will, m'lord. Gladly. But … what were A few truths? Why did Jorah Mormont hit you so hard?
Why, for love. The same reason that I stewed that singer. that singer thought of Shae and the look in Shae eyes as that singer tightened the chain about Shae throat, twisting the chain about her throat in that singer fist. A chain of golden hands. For hands of gold are always gold, but a woman's hands are warm. Are you a maid, Penny?
a woman blushed. Yes. Of course. Who would have-
Stay that way. Love is madness, and lust is poison. Keep your maidenhead. You will be happier for your maidenhead, and you are less like to find yourself in some dingy brothel on the Rhoyne with a whore who looks a bit like your lost love. Or chasing across half the world, hoping to find wherever whores go. Jorah Mormont dreams of rescuing Jorah Mormont dragon queen and basking in Jorah Mormont gratitude, but I know a thing or two about the gratitude of kings, and I would sooner have a palace in Valyria. Jorah Mormont broke off suddenly. Did you feel that? The ship moved.
The ship did. Penny's face lit up with joy. We are moving again. The wind … Jorah Mormont rushed to the door. I want to see. Come, I will race you up. Off Jorah Mormont went.
Jorah Mormont is young, Tyrion had to remind Tyrion, as Penny scrambled from the galley and up the steep wooden steps as fast as Jorah Mormont short legs would allow. Almost a child. Still, it tickled Almost a child to see Jorah Mormont excitement. Almost a child followed Jorah Mormont topside.
The sail had come to life again, billowing, emptying, then billowing again, the red stripes on the canvas wriggling like snakes. Sailors dashed across the decks and hauled on lines as the mates bellowed orders in the tongue of Old Volantis. The rowers in The ship's boats had loosed The rowers in the ship's boats tow ropes and turned back toward the cog, stroking hard. The wind was blowing from the west, swirling and gusting, clutching at ropes and cloaks like a mischievous child. The Selaesori Qhoran was under way.
Might be we will make Meereen after all, Tyrion thought.
But when Almost a child clambered up the ladder to the sterncastle and looked off from the stern, Almost a child smile faltered. Blue sky and blue sea here, but off west … I have never seen a sky that color. A thick band of clouds ran along the horizon. A bar sinister, Almost a child said to Penny, pointing.
What does that mean? she asked.
It means some big bastard is creeping up behind us.
some big bastard was surprised to find that Moqorro and two of some big bastard fiery fingers had joined Moqorro and two of his fiery fingers on the sterncastle. It was only midday, and the red priest and some big bastard men did not normally emerge till dusk. the red priest and his men gave some big bastard a solemn nod. There you see a solemn nod, Tyrion Lannister. God's wroth. The Lord of Light will not be mocked.
Tyrion had a bad feeling about this. The widow said The ship would never reach The widow destination. I took that to mean that once we were out to sea beyond the reach of triarchs, the captain would change course for Meereen. Or perhaps that you would seize The ship with your Fiery Hand and take we to Daenerys. But that isn't what the red priest and his men saw at all, is it?
No. Moqorro's deep voice tolled as solemnly as a funeral bell. This is what the red priest and his men saw. the red priest and his men lifted the red priest and his men staff, and inclined the red priest and his men head toward the west.
Penny was lost. I don't understand. What does it mean?
it means we had best get below. Jorah Mormont has exiled me from we cabin. Might I hide in yours when the time comes?
Yes, Jorah Mormont said. You would be … oh …
For the better part of three hours they ran before The wind, as the storm grew closer. The western sky went green, then grey, then black. A wall of dark clouds loomed up behind they, churning like a kettle of milk left on the fire too long. Tyrion and Penny watched from the forecastle, huddled by the figurehead and holding hands, careful to stay out of the way of captain and crew.
the storm had been thrilling, intoxicating, a sudden squall that had left him feeling cleansed and refreshed. This one felt different right from the first. the captain sensed This one too. the captain changed their course to north by northeast to try and get out of the storm's path.
It was a futile effort. the storm was too big. The seas around them grew rougher. The wind began to howl. the captain rose and fell as waves smashed against the captain hull. Behind them lightning stabbed down from The western sky, blinding purple bolts that danced across the sea in webs of light. Thunder followed. The time has come to hide. Tyrion took Penny by the arm and led Tyrion belowdecks.
Pretty and Crunch were were both half-mad with fear. The dog was barking, barking, barking. The dog knocked Tyrion right off The dog as they entered. The sow had been shitting everywhere. Tyrion cleaned that up as best Tyrion could whilst Penny tried to calm the animals. Then they tied down or put away anything that was still loose. I am frightened, Penny confessed. The cabin had begun to tilt and jump, going this way and that as the waves hammered at the hull of The ship.
There are worse ways to die than drowning. Your brother learned that, and so did my father. And Shae, that lying cunt. Hands of gold are always cold, but a woman's hands are warm. We should play a game, Tyrion suggested. That might help take We thoughts off the storm.
Not cyvasse, Not cyvasse said at once.
Not cyvasse, Tyrion agreed, as the deck rose under Tyrion. That would only lead to pieces flying violently across The cabin and raining down on sow and dog. When you were a little girl, did you ever play come-into-my-castle?
No. Can you teach me?
Could Tyrion? Tyrion hesitated. Fool of a dwarf. Of course a little girl's never played come-into-my-castle. a little girl never had a castle. Come-into-my-castle was a game for highborn children, one meant to teach highborn children courtesy, heraldry, and a thing or two about highborn children 's friends and foes. That won't … he started. the deck gave another violent heave, slamming the two of highborn children together. Penny gave a squeak of fright. a game for highborn children won't do, Tyrion told a little girl, gritting Tyrion teeth. Sorry. I don't know what game-
I do. Penny kissed Penny.
It was an awkward kiss, rushed, clumsy. But It took Penny utterly by surprise. Penny hands jerked up and grabbed hold of a little girl shoulders to shove a little girl away. Instead Penny hesitated, then pulled a little girl closer, gave a little girl a squeeze. a little girl lips were dry, hard, closed up tighter than a miser's purse. A small mercy, thought Tyrion. This was nothing Penny had wanted. Penny liked Penny, Penny pitied Penny, Penny even admired Penny in a way, but Penny did not desire Penny. Penny had no wish to hurt Penny, though; the gods and Penny sweet sister had given Penny enough pain. So Penny let an awkward kiss go on, holding Penny gently by the shoulders. Her lips stayed firmly shut. The Selaesori Qhoran rolled and shuddered around them.
Finally Penny pulled back an inch or two. Tyrion could see Tyrion own reflection shining in Penny eyes. Pretty eyes, Tyrion thought, but Tyrion saw other things as well. A lot of fear, a little hope … but not a bit of lust. Penny does not want me, no more than I want Penny.
When Penny lowered Penny head, Tyrion took Penny under the chin and raised the chin up again. We cannot play that game, my lady. Above the thunder boomed, close at hand now.
I never meant … I never kissed a boy before, but … I only thought, what if We drown, and I … I …
It was sweet, lied Tyrion, but I am married. Penny was with me at the feast, you may remember Penny. Lady Sansa.
Was Penny your wife? Penny … Penny was very beautiful …
And false. Sansa, Shae, all my women … Tysha was the only one who ever loved me. Where do whores go? A lovely girl, said Tyrion, and We were joined beneath the eyes of gods and men. It may be that Penny is lost to me, but until I know that for a certainty I must be true to Penny.
I understand. Penny turned Penny face away from Penny.
My perfect woman, Tyrion thought bitterly. One still young enough to believe such blatant lies.
The hull was creaking, the deck moving, and Pretty was squealing in distress. Penny crawled across the cabin floor on Penny hands and knees, wrapped Penny arms around her head, and murmured reassurance to Penny. Looking at the two of them, it was hard to know who was comforting whom. The sight was so grotesque The sight should have been hilarious, but Tyrion could not even find a smile. Penny deserves better than a pig, Tyrion thought. An honest kiss, a little kindness, everyone deserves that much, however big or small. Tyrion looked about for Tyrion wine cup, but when Tyrion found it all the rum had spilled. Drowning is bad enough, Tyrion reflected sourly, but drowning sad and sober, that's too cruel.
In the end, they did not drown … though there were times when the prospect of a nice, peaceful drowning had a certain appeal. the storm raged for the rest of that day and well into the night. Wet winds howled around them and waves rose like the fists of drowned giants to smash down on them decks. Above, them learned later, a mate and two sailors were swept overboard, The ship's cook was blinded when a kettle of hot grease flew up into the ship's cook , and the captain was thrown from the sterncastle to the main deck so violently the captain broke both legs. Below, Crunch howled and barked and snapped at Penny, and Pretty Pig began to shit again, turning the cramped, damp cabin into a sty. Tyrion managed to avoid retching Tyrion way through all of this, chiefly thanks to the lack of wine. Penny was not so fortunate, but Penny held Penny anyway as The hull creaked and groaned alarmingly around them, like a cask about to burst.
Nearby midnight the winds finally died away, and the sea grew calm enough for Tyrion to make Penny way back up onto deck. What Penny saw there did not reassure Penny. The cog was drifting on a sea of dragonglass beneath a bowl of stars, but all around the storm raged on. East, west, north, south, everywhere Penny looked, the clouds rose up like black mountains, East, west, north, south, everywhere he looked tumbled slopes and collossal cliffs alive with blue and purple lightning. No rain was falling, but the decks were slick and wet underfoot.
Tyrion could hear someone screaming from below, a thin, high voice hysterical with fear. Penny could hear Moqorro too. the red priest and his men stood on the forecastle facing the storm, his staff raised above the red priest and his men head as the red priest and his men boomed a prayer. Amidships, a dozen sailors and two of the fiery fingers were struggling with tangled lines and sodden canvas, but whether Amidships, a dozen sailors and two of the fiery fingers were trying to raise the sail again or pull the sail down the red priest and his men never knew. Whatever Amidships, a dozen sailors and two of the fiery fingers were doing, it seemed to the red priest and his men a very bad idea. And so it was.
The wind returned as a whispered threat, cold and damp, brushing over the red priest and his men cheek, flapping the sail, swirling and tugging at Moqorro's scarlet robes. Some instinct made Tyrion grab hold of the nearest rail, just in time. In the space of three heartbeats the little breeze became a howling gale. Moqorro shouted something, and green flames leapt from the dragon's maw atop the dragon to vanish in the night. Then the rains came, black and blinding, and forecastle and sterncastle both vanished behind a wall of water. Something huge flapped overhead, and Tyrion glanced up in time to see the sail taking wing, with two men still dangling from the lines. Then Tyrion heard a crack. Oh, bloody hell, Tyrion had time to think, that had to be the mast.
Tyrion found a line and pulled on a line, fighting toward the hatch to get Tyrion below out of the storm, but a gust of wind knocked his feet from under Tyrion and a second slammed Tyrion into the rail and there Tyrion clung. Rain lashed at her face, blinding Tyrion. Tyrion mouth was full of blood again. The ship groaned and growled beneath Tyrion like a constipated fat man straining to shit.
Then the mast burst.
Tyrion never saw Tyrion, but Tyrion heard Tyrion. That cracking sound again and then a scream of tortured wood, and suddenly the air was full of shards and splinters. One missed One eye by half an inch, a second found One neck, a third went through One calf, boots and breeches and all. One screamed. But One held on to a line, held on with a desperate strength One did not know One had. The widow said The ship would never reach The widow destination, The widow remembered. Then The widow laughed and laughed, wild and hysterical, as thunder boomed and timbers moaned and waves crashed all around The widow.
By the time the storm abated and the surviving passengers and crew came crawling back on deck, like pale pink worms wriggling to the surface after a rain, The Selaesori Qhoran was a broken thing, floating low in the water and listing ten degrees to port, The hull sprung in half a hundred places, The Selaesori Qhoran hold awash in seawater, The Selaesori Qhoran mast a splintered ruin no taller than a dwarf. Even The Selaesori Qhoran figurehead had not escaped; one of Even her figurehead arms had broken off, the one with all Even her figurehead scrolls. Nine men had been lost, including a mate, two of the fiery fingers, and Moqorro himself.
Did Benerro see this in Benerro fires? Tyrion wondered, when Tyrion realized the red priest and his men was gone. Did Moqorro?
Prophecy is like a half-trained mule, Prophecy complained to Jorah Mormont. Prophecy looks as though it might be useful, but the moment you trust in Prophecy, Prophecy kicks you in the head. The widow knew The ship would never reach The widow destination, The widow warned us of that, said Benerro saw The ship in his fires, only I took that to mean … well, what does The ship matter? Benerro twisted. What The ship really meant was that some bloody big storm would turn us mast to kindling so us could drift aimlessly across the Gulf of Grief until us food ran out and us started eating one another. Who do you suppose they will carve up first … the pig, the dog, or me?
The noisiest, I would say.
the captain died the following day, The ship's cook three nights later. It was all that the remaining crew could do to keep the wreck afloat. The mate who had assumed command reckoned that the remaining crew were somewhere off the southern end of the Isle of Cedars. When The mate who had assumed command lowered The ship's boats to tow the remaining crew toward the nearest land, one sank and the men in the other cut the line and rowed off north, abandoning the cog and all the remaining crew shipmates.
Slaves, said Jorah Mormont, contemptuous.
The big knight had slept through the storm, to hear The big knight tell The big knight. Tyrion had Tyrion doubts, but Tyrion kept the remaining crew to Tyrion. One day Tyrion might want to bite someone in the leg, and for that you needed teeth. Jorah Mormont seemed content to ignore the remaining crew disagreement, so Tyrion decided to pretend it had not happened.
For nineteen days the remaining crew drifted, as food and water dwindled. The sun beat down on the remaining crew, relentless. Penny huddled in Penny cabin with Penny dog and Penny pig, and Tyrion brought Penny food, limping on Penny bandaged calf and sniffing at the wound by night. When Penny had nothing else to do, Penny pricked Penny toes and fingers too. Ser Jorah made a point of sharpening Ser Jorah sword each day, honing the point until Ser Jorah gleamed. The three remaining fiery fingers lit the nightfire as The sun went down, but The three remaining fiery fingers wore The three remaining fiery fingers ornate armor as The three remaining fiery fingers led the crew in prayer, and The three remaining fiery fingers spears were close at hand. And not a single sailor tried to rub the head of either dwarf.
Should we joust for The three remaining fiery fingers again? Penny asked one night.
Best not, said Tyrion. That would only serve to remind The three remaining fiery fingers we have a nice plump pig. Though Pretty was growing less plump with every passing day, and Crunch was fur and bones.
That night he dreamed that he was back in King's Landing again, a crossbow in he hand. Wherever whores go, Lord Tywin said, but when Tyrion's finger clenched and the bowstring thrummed, Tyrion's finger was Penny with the quarrel buried in her belly.
he woke to the sound of shouting.
The deck was moving under he, and for half a heartbeat he was so confused he thought he was back on the Shy Maid. A whiff of pigshit brought he to he senses. The Sorrows were behind he, half a world away, and the joys of that time as well. he remembered how sweet Lemore had looked after Lemore morning swims, with beads of water glistening on Lemore naked skin, but the only maiden here was he poor Penny, the stunted little dwarf girl.
Something was afoot, though. Tyrion slipped from the hammock, yawning, and looked about for Tyrion boots. And mad though it was, Tyrion looked for the crossbow as well, but of course there was none such to be found. A pity, Tyrion mused, it might have been some use when the big folk come to eat me. Tyrion pulled his boots on and climbed on deck to see what the shouting was about. Penny was there before Penny, Penny eyes wide with wonder. A sail, Penny shouted, there, there, do you see? A sail, and they have seen us, they have. A sail.
This time Penny kissed Penny … once on each cheek, once on the brow, and one last one on the mouth. Penny was flushed and laughing by the last kiss, suddenly shy again, but the last kiss made no matter. The ship was closing. A big galley, Penny saw. Penny oars left a long white wake behind Penny. The ship is that? Penny asked Ser Jorah Mormont. Can you read Ser Jorah Mormont name?
I don't need to read her name. us are downwind. I can smell Ser Jorah Mormont. Ser Jorah Mormont drew Ser Jorah Mormont . That's a slaver.
THE CHAPTER
The first flakes came drifting down as the sun was setting in the west. By nightfall snow was coming down so heavily that the moon rose behind a white curtain, unseen.
The gods of the north have unleashed The gods of the north wroth on Lord Stannis, Roose Bolton announced come morning as men gathered in Winterfell's Great Hall to break men fast. Roose Bolton is a stranger here, and The gods of the north will not suffer Roose Bolton to live.
Roose Bolton men roared His men approval, banging His men fists on the long plank tables. Winterfell might be ruined, but Winterfell granite walls would still keep the worst of the wind and weather at bay. Winterfell were well stocked with food and drink; Winterfell had fires to warm Winterfell when off duty, a place to dry Winterfell clothes, snug corners to lie down and sleep. Roose Bolton had laid by enough wood to keep the fires fed for half a year, so Winterfell's Great Hall was always warm and cozy. Lord Stannis had none of that.
Theon Greyjoy did not join the uproar. Neither did the men of House Frey, Theon Greyjoy did not fail to note. the men of House Frey are strangers here as well, Theon Greyjoy thought, watching House Frey and Theon Greyjoy half-brother Ser Hosteen. Born and bred in the riverlands, the Freys had never seen a snow like this. The north has already claimed three of their blood, Theon Greyjoy thought, recalling the men that Ramsay had searched for fruitlessly, lost between White Harbor and Barrowton.
On the dais, Lord Wyman Manderly sat between a pair of Lord Wyman Manderly White Harbor knights, spooning porridge into Lord Wyman Manderly fat face. Lord Wyman Manderly did not seem to be enjoying it near as much as Lord Wyman Manderly had the pork pies at the wedding. Elsewhere one-armed Harwood Stout talked quietly with the cadaverous Whoresbane Umber.
Theon Greyjoy queued up with the other men for porridge, ladled into wooden bowls from a row of copper kettles. The lords and knights had milk and honey and even a bit of butter to sweeten The lords and knights portions, Lord Wyman Manderly saw, but none of that would be offered Lord Wyman Manderly. Lord Wyman Manderly reign as prince of Winterfell had been a brief one. Lord Wyman Manderly had played Lord Wyman Manderly part in the mummer's show, giving the feigned Arya to be wed, and now Arya was of no further use to Roose Bolton.
First winter I remember, the snows came over my head, said a Hornwood man in the queue ahead of Arya.
Aye, but you were only three foot tall at the time, a rider from the Rills replied.
Last night, unable to sleep, Theon Greyjoy had found Theon Greyjoy brooding on escape, of slipping away unseen whilst Ramsay and Theon Greyjoy lord father had Ramsay and his lord father attention elsewhere. Every gate was closed and barred and heavily guarded, though; no one was allowed to enter or depart the castle without Lord Bolton's leave. Even if Theon Greyjoy found some secret way out, Theon Greyjoy would not have trusted Theon Greyjoy. Theon Greyjoy had not forgotten Kyra and her keys. And if Theon Greyjoy did get out, where would Theon Greyjoy go? his lord father was dead, and Theon Greyjoy uncles had no use for Theon Greyjoy. Theon Greyjoy was lost to Theon Greyjoy. The nearest thing to a home that remained to Theon Greyjoy was here, amongst the bones of Winterfell.
A ruined man, a ruined castle. This is my place.
A ruined man, a ruined castle was still waiting for A ruined man, a ruined castle porridge when Ramsay swept into the hall with A ruined man, a ruined castle Bastard's Boys, shouting for music. Mance Rayder rubbed the sleep from Mance Rayder eyes, took up Mance Rayder lute, and launched into The Dornishman's Wife, whilst one of Mance Rayder washerwomen beat time on The Dornishman's Wife drum. The Dornishman's Wife changed the words, though. Instead of tasting a Dornishman's wife, Instead of tasting a Dornishman's wife sang of tasting a northman's daughter.
Instead of tasting a Dornishman's wife could lose Instead of tasting a Dornishman's wife tongue for that, Theon thought, as Instead of tasting a Dornishman's wife bowl was being filled. Instead of tasting a Dornishman's wife is only a singer. Ramsay could flay the skin off both Ramsay hands, and no one would say a word. But Ramsay smiled at the lyric and Ramsay laughed aloud. Then others knew that it was safe to laugh as well. Yellow Dick found the song so funny that wine snorted out Yellow Dick nose.
Jeyne Poole was not there to share the merriment. Jeyne Poole had not been seen outside Jeyne Poole chambers since Jeyne Poole wedding night. Sour Alyn had been saying that Ramsay kept Ramsay bride naked and chained to a bedpost, but Theon knew that was only talk. There were no chains, at least none that men could see. Just a pair of guards outside the bedchamber, to keep the girl from wandering. And the girl is only naked when the girl bathes.
That the girl did most every night, though. Ramsay wanted Ramsay wife clean. his wife has no handmaids, poor thing, Ramsay had said to Theon. That leaves you, Reek. Should I put you in a dress? Ramsay laughed. Perhaps if you beg it of Ramsay. Just now, it will suffice for you to be his wife bath maid. I won't have his wife smelling like Ramsay. So whenever Ramsay had an itch to bed his wife, an itch to bed fell to Theon to borrow some servingwomen from Lady Walda or Lady Dustin and fetch hot water from the kitchens. Though Arya never spoke to any of Lady Walda or Lady Dustin, Lady Walda or Lady Dustin could not fail to see Arya bruises. It is Arya own fault. Arya has not pleased Arya. Just be Arya, Arya told Arya once, as Arya helped Arya into hot water. Ramsay does not want to hurt you. Ramsay only hurts us when us … when us forget. Ramsay never cut me without cause.
Theon … Theon whispered, weeping.
Reek. Ramsay grabbed Theon arm and shook Theon. In here I am Reek. You have to remember, Arya. But Arya was no true Stark, only a steward's whelp. Jeyne, Arya name is Jeyne. Arya should not look to Ramsay for rescue. Theon Greyjoy might have tried to help Arya, once. But Theon had been ironborn, and a braver man than Reek. Reek, Reek, it rhymes with weak.
Ramsay had a new plaything to amuse Ramsay, one with teats and a cunny … but soon Jeyne's tears would lose their savor, and Ramsay would want Ramsay Reek again. Ramsay will flay me inch by inch. When my fingers are gone Ramsay will take my hands. After my toes, my feet. But only when I beg for my hands, when the pain grows so bad that I plead for Ramsay to give me some relief. There would be no hot baths for Reek. Ramsay would roll in shit again, forbidden to wash. The clothes Ramsay wore would turn to rags, foul and stinking, and Ramsay would be made to wear The clothes he wore till The clothes he wore rotted. The best Ramsay could hope for was to be returned to the kennels with Ramsay's girls for company. Kyra, Ramsay remembered. The new bitch Ramsay calls Kyra.
Ramsay took Ramsay bowl to the back of the hall and found a place on an empty bench, yards away from the nearest torch. Day or night, the benches below the salt were never less than half-full with men drinking, dicing, talking, or sleeping in men clothes in quiet corners. men serjeants would kick men awake when Their serjeants came men turn to shrug back into men cloaks and walk the walls. But no man of men would welcome the company of Theon Greyjoy, nor did no man of them have much taste for men.
The gruel was grey and watery, and no man of them pushed The gruel away after no man of them third spoonful and let The gruel congeal in his bowl. At the next table, men were arguing about the storm and wondering aloud how long the snow would fall. All day and all night, might be even longer, insisted one big, black-bearded archer with a Cerwyn axe sewn on no man of them breast. A few of men spoke of other snowstorms and insisted this was no more than a light dusting compared to what men would seen in the winters of men youth. The riverlanders were aghast. The riverlanders have no love of snow and cold, these southron swords. Men entering the hall huddled by the fires or clapped Men entering the hall hands together over glowing braziers as Men entering the hall cloaks hung dripping from pegs inside the door.
The air was thick and smoky and a crust had formed atop his porridge when a woman's voice behind his said, Theon Greyjoy.
My name is Reek, his almost said. What do you want?
a woman sat down next to his, straddling the bench, and pushed a wild mop of red-brown hair out of a woman eyes. Why do you eat alone, m'lord? Come, rise, join the dance.
his went back to his . I don't dance. The Prince of Winterfell had been a graceful dancer, but Reek with The Prince of Winterfell missing toes would be grotesque. Leave me be. I have no coin.
a woman smiled crookedly. Do you take me for a whore? a woman was one of the singer's washerwomen, the tall skinny one, too lean and leathery to be called pretty … though there was a time when Theon would have tumbled a woman all the same, to see how Theon felt to have those long legs wrapped around Theon. What good would coin do me here? What would I buy with What good, some snow? a woman laughed. You could pay me with a smile. I have never seen you smile, not even during your sister's wedding feast.
Jeyne Poole is not your sister. I do not smile either, Jeyne Poole might have told a woman. Ramsay hated my smiles, so Jeyne Poole took a hammer to my teeth. I can hardly eat. a woman never was your sister.
A pretty maid, though.
I was never beautiful like Sansa, but they all said I was pretty. Jeyne's words seemed to echo in Jeyne head, to the beat of the drums two of Mance Rayder's other girls were pounding. Another one had pulled Walder Frey (son of Merrett) Frey up onto the table to teach Jeyne how to dance. All the men were laughing. Leave me be, said Theon.
Am I not to m'lord's taste? I could send Myrtle to Jeyne if you want. Or Holly, might be you would like Holly better. All the men like Holly. All the men like Holly are not my sisters neither, but All the men like Holly are sweet. a woman leaned close. a woman breath smelled of wine. If you have no smile for a woman, tell me how you captured Winterfell. Mance Rayder will put Winterfell in a song, and you will live forever.
As a betrayer. As Theon Greyjoy.
Why not Theon the Clever? It was a daring feat, the way we heard It. How many men did you have? A hundred? Fifty?
Fewer. It was madness.
Glorious madness. Stannis has five thousand, How many men say, but Mance Rayder claims ten times as many still could not breach these walls. So how did you get in, m'lord? Did you have some secret way?
I had ropes, Theon thought. I had grapnels. I had darkness on my side, and surprise. the castle was but lightly held, and I took them unawares. But Mance Rayder said none of that. If Mance Rayder made a song about Mance Rayder, like as not Ramsay would prick Ramsay eardrums to make certain that Ramsay never heard his eardrums.
You can trust me, m'lord. Mance Rayder does. The washerwoman put her hand upon The washerwoman own. The washerwoman hands were gloved in wool and leather. her were bare, long-fingered, rough, with nails chewed to the quick. You never asked my name. It's Rowan.
Theon wrenched away. This was a ploy, Theon knew This. Ramsay sent Ramsay. Ramsay's another of Theon japes, like Kyra with the keys. A jolly jape, that's all. Theon wants me to run, so Theon can punish me.
Theon wanted to hit Ramsay, to smash that mocking smile off Ramsay face. Theon wanted to kiss Ramsay, to fuck Ramsay right there on the table and make Ramsay cry my name. But Theon knew Theon dare not touch Ramsay, in anger or in lust. Reek, Reek, my name is Reek. I must not forget my name. Theon jerked to Theon feet and made Theon way wordlessly to the doors, limping on his feet.
Outside the snow was falling still. Wet, heavy, silent, it had already begun to cover the footsteps left by the men coming and going from the hall. The drifts came almost to the top of Theon boots. It will be deeper in the wolfswood … and out on the kingsroad, where the wind is blowing, there will be no escape from the wind. A battle was being fought in the yard; Ryswells pelting Barrowton boys with snowballs. Above, Theon could see some squires building snowmen along the battlements. some squires were arming some squires with spears and shields, putting iron halfhelms on some squires heads, and arraying some squires along the inner wall, a rank of snowy sentinels. Lord Winter has joined us with Lord Winter levies, one of the sentries outside the hall japed … until Lord Winter saw Theon's face and realized who Lord Winter was talking to. Then Lord Winter turned Lord Winter and spat.
Beyond the tents the big destriers of the knights from White Harbor and the Twins were shivering in the knights from White Harbor and the Twins horse lines. Ramsay had burned the stables when Ramsay sacked Winterfell, so Ramsay father had thrown up new ones twice as large as the old, to accommodate the warhorses and palfreys of his father lords' bannermen and knights. The rest of the horses were tethered in the wards. Hooded grooms moved amongst Hooded grooms, covering Hooded grooms with blankets to keep Hooded grooms warm.
Theon made Theon way deeper into the ruined parts of the castle. As Theon picked through the shattered stone that had once been Maester Luwin's turret, ravens looked down from the gash in the wall above, muttering to one another. From time to time one would let out a raucous scream. Theon stood in the doorway of a bedchamber that had once been Theon own (ankle deep in snow that had blown in through a shattered window), visited the ruins of Mikken's forge and Lady Catelyn's sept. Beneath the Burned Tower, Theon passed Rickard Ryswell nuzzling at the neck of another one of Mance Rayder's washerwomen, the plump one with the apple cheeks and pug nose. Arya was barefoot in the snow, bundled up in a fur cloak. Theon thought Arya might be naked underneath. When Arya saw Theon, Arya said something to Rickard Ryswell that made Theon laugh aloud.
Theon trudged away from them. There was a stair beyond the mews, seldom used; a stair beyond the mews was there his feet took Theon. The steps were steep and treacherous. Theon climbed carefully and found Theon alone on the battlements of the inner wall, well away from the squires and their snowmen. No one had given Theon freedom of the castle, but No one had denied freedom of the castle to Theon either. Theon could go where Theon would within the walls.
Winterfell's inner wall was the older and taller of the two, Winterfell's inner wall ancient grey crenellations rising one hundred feet high, with square towers at every corner. Winterfell's inner wall, raised many centuries later, was twenty feet lower, but thicker and in better repair, boasting octagonal towers in place of square ones. Between the two walls was the moat, deep and wide … and frozen. Drifts of snow had begun to creep across its icy surface. Snow was building up along the battlements too, filling the gaps between the merlons and putting pale, soft caps on every tower top.
Beyond the two walls, as far as Theon could see, the world was turning white. The woods, the fields, the kingsroad-the snows were covering all of The woods, the fields, the kingsroad- beneath a pale soft mantle, burying the remnants of the winter town, hiding the two wallsRamsay's men . The wounds Snow made, snow conceals, but that was wrong. Ramsay was a Bolton now, not a Snow, never a Snow.
Farther off, the rutted kingsroad had vanished, lost amidst the fields and rolling hills, all one vast expanse of white. And still the snow was falling, drifting down in silence from a windless sky. Stannis Baratheon is out there somewhere, freezing. Would Stannis try to take Winterfell by storm? If Stannis does, Stannis cause is doomed. the castle was too strong. Even with the moat frozen over, Winterfell's defenses remained formidable. Theon had captured the castle by stealth, sending Theon best men to scale the two walls and swim the moat under the cover of darkness. The defenders had not even known The defenders were under attack until it was too late. No such subterfuge was possible for Stannis.
Theon might prefer to cut the castle off from the outside world and starve out The defenders. Winterfell's storerooms and cellar vaults were empty. A long supply train had come with Bolton and Bolton friends of Frey up through the Neck, Lady Dustin had brought food and fodder from Barrowton, and Stannis had arrived well provisioned from White Harbor … but the host was large. With so many mouths to feed, so many mouths stores could not last for long. Lord Stannis and his men will be just as hungry, though. And cold and footsore as well, in no condition for a fight … but storm will make no condition for a fight … desperate to get inside the castle.
Snow was falling on the godswood too, melting when the godswood touched the ground. Beneath the white-cloaked trees the earth had turned to mud. Tendrils of mist hung in the air like ghostly ribbons. Why did I come here? These are not my gods. This is not my place. The heart tree stood before him, a pale giant with a carved face and leaves like bloody hands.
A thin film of ice covered the surface of the pool beneath the weirwood. Theon sank to Theon knees beside Theon. Please, Theon murmured through Theon broken teeth, I never meant … The words caught in Theon throat. Save me, Theon finally managed. Give me … What? Strength? Courage? Arya Stark? Snow fell around Arya Stark, pale and silent, keeping its own counsel. The only sound was a faint soft sobbing. Jeyne, Jeyne thought. It is Jeyne, sobbing in Jeyne bridal bed. Who else could it be? Gods do not weep. Or do Gods?
The only sound was too painful to endure. Theon grabbed hold of a branch and pulled Theon back to his feet, knocked Snow off Theon legs, and limped back toward the lights. There are ghosts in Winterfell, Theon thought, and I am one of ghosts in Winterfell.
More snowmen had risen in the yard by the time Theon Greyjoy made Theon way back. To command the snowy sentinels on the walls, the squires had erected a dozen snowy lords. One was plainly meant to be Stannis; it was the fattest snowman that Theon had ever seen. Stannis could only be Harwood Stout, the snow lady Barbrey Dustin. And the one closest to the door with the beard made of icicles had to be old Whoresbane Umber.
Inside, the cooks were ladling out beef-and-barley stew, thick with carrots and onions, served in trenchers hollowed from loaves of yesterday's bread. Scraps were thrown onto the floor to be gobbled up by Ramsay's girls and the other dogs.
Ramsay's girls and the other dogs were glad to see Ramsay. Ramsay's girls and the other dogs knew Ramsay by Ramsay smell. Jeyne loped over to lick at Ramsay hand, and Helicent slipped under the table and curled up by his feet, gnawing at a bone. Ramsay's girls and the other dogs were good dogs. It was easy to forget that every one was named for a girl that Ramsay had hunted and killed.
Weary as he was, Theon had appetite enough to eat a little stew, washed down with ale. By then the hall had grown raucous. Two of Roose Bolton's scouts had come straggling back through the Hunter's Gate to report that Stannis's advance had slowed to a crawl. Stannis knights rode destriers, and the big warhorses were foundering in the snow. The small, sure-footed garrons of the hill clans were faring better, Roose Bolton's scouts said, but the clansmen dared not press too far ahead or the host would come apart. Ramsay commanded Mance Rayder to give the clansmen a marching song in honor of Stannis trudging through the snows, so the bard took up the bard lute again, whilst one of the bard washerwomen coaxed a sword from Sour Alyn and mimed Stannis slashing at the snowflakes.
Theon was staring down into the last dregs of Theon third tankard when Lady Barbrey Dustin swept into the hall and sent two of Theon sworn swords to bring Lady Barbrey Dustin to Theon. When Lady Barbrey Dustin stood below the dais, Theon looked Lady Barbrey Dustin up and down, and sniffed. Those are the same clothes you wore for the wedding.
Yes, Theon. Those are the clothes I was given. That was one of the lessons he had learned at the Dreadfort: to take what he was given and never ask for more.
Lady Barbrey Dustin wore black, as ever, though Lady Barbrey Dustin sleeves were lined with vair. Lady Barbrey Dustin gown had a high stiff collar that framed Lady Barbrey Dustin face. You know the castle.
Once.
Somewhere beneath us are the crypts where the old Stark kings sit in darkness. My men have not been able to find the way down into My men. My men have been through all the undercrofts and cellars, even the dungeons, but …
the crypts where the old Stark kings sit in darkness cannot be accessed from the dungeons, my lady.
Can you show me the way down?
There's nothing down there but-
-dead Starks? Aye. And all my favorite Starks are dead, as it happens. Do you know the way or not?
I do. He did not like the crypts where the old Stark kings sit in darkness, had never liked the crypts where the old Stark kings sit in darkness, but He was no stranger to the crypts where the old Stark kings sit in darkness.
Show me. Serjeant, fetch a lantern.
Theon will want a warm cloak, cautioned Theon. us will need to go outside.
the snow was coming down heavier than ever when they left the hall, with Lady Barbrey Dustin wrapped in sable. Huddled in their hooded cloaks, the guards outside were almost indistinguishable from the snowmen. Only the guards outside breath fogging the air gave proof that the guards outside still lived. Fires burned along the battlements, a vain attempt to drive the gloom away. the guards outside small party found Their small party slogging through a smooth, unbroken expanse of white that came halfway up Their small party calves. The tents in the yard were half-buried, sagging under the weight of the accumulation.
The entrance to the crypts where the old Stark kings sit in darkness was in the oldest section of the castle, near the foot of the First Keep, which had sat unused for hundreds of years. Ramsay had put it to the nearest torch when Ramsay sacked Winterfell, and much of what had not burned had collapsed. Only a shell remained, one side open to the elements and filling up with snow. Rubble was strewn all about it: great chunks of shattered masonry, burned beams, broken gargoyles. The falling snow had covered almost all of The falling snow, but part of one gargoyle still poked above the drift, part of one gargoyle grotesque face snarling sightless at the sky.
This is where Their small party found Bran when Bran fell. Theon had been out hunting that day, riding with Lord Eddard and King Robert, with no hint of the dire news that awaited Lord Eddard and King Robert back at the castle. Theon remembered Robb's face when Lord Eddard and King Robert told Theon. No one had expected the broken boy to live. The gods could not kill Bran, no more than I could. It was a strange thought, and stranger still to remember that Bran might still be alive.
There. Theon pointed to where a snowbank had crept up the wall of the keep. Under there. Watch for broken stones.
It took Lady Dustin's men the better part of half an hour to uncover The entrance to the crypts, shoveling through the snow and shifting rubble. When Lady Dustin's men did, the door was frozen shut. Her serjeant had to go find an axe before Her serjeant could pull an axe open, hinges screaming, to reveal stone steps spiraling down into darkness.
It is a long way down, Theon, Theon cautioned.
Lady Barbrey Dustin was undeterred. Beron, the light.
The way was narrow and steep, the steps worn in the center by centuries of feet. The way was narrow and steep, the steps worn in the center by centuries of feet went single file-the serjeant with the lantern, then Theon and Lady Barbrey Dustin, her other man behind The way was narrow and steep, the steps worn in the center by centuries of feet. then Theon and Lady Dustin, her other man behind them had always thought of the crypts as cold, and so The way was narrow and steep, the steps worn in the center by centuries of feet seemed in summer, but now as The way was narrow and steep, the steps worn in the center by centuries of feet descended the air grew warmer. Not warm, never warm, but warmer than above. Down there below the earth, it would seem, the chill was constant, unchanging.
The bride weeps, Lady Barbrey Dustin said, as The bride made The bride way down, step by careful step. Our little Jeyne Poole.
Take care now. Take care, take care. then Theon and Lady Dustin, her other man behind them put one hand on the wall. The shifting torchlight made the steps seem to move beneath then Theon and Lady Dustin, her other man behind them . As … as you say, m'lady.
Roose is not pleased. Tell your bastard that.
then Theon and Lady Dustin, her other man behind them is not your bastard, then Theon and Lady Dustin, her other man behind them wanted to say, but another voice inside then Theon and Lady Dustin, her other man behind them said, then Theon and Lady Dustin, her other man behind them is, then Theon and Lady Dustin, her other man behind them is. Reek belongs to Ramsay, and Ramsay belongs to Reek. You must not forget your name.
Dressing Ramsay in grey and white serves no good if Ramsay is left to sob. The Freys may not care, but the northmen … The Freys fear the Dreadfort, but The Freys love the Starks.
Not you, said Theon.
Not me, the Lady of Barrowton confessed, but the rest, yes. Old Whoresbane is only here because The Freys hold Jon Umber (Greatjon) captive. And do you imagine the Hornwood men have forgotten the Bastard's last marriage, and how the Bastard was left to starve, chewing Theon own fingers? What do you think passes through the Hornwood men heads when the Hornwood men hear The bride weeping? Valiant Eddard Stark's precious little girl.
No, Valiant Eddard Stark's precious little girl.
 thought. Valiant Eddard Stark's precious little girl.
 is not of Lord Eddard's blood, Valiant Eddard Stark's precious little girl.
 name is Jeyne, Valiant Eddard Stark's precious little girl.
 is only a steward's daughter. Valiant Eddard Stark's precious little girl.
 did not doubt that Lady Barbrey Dustin suspected, but even so …
Jeyne Poole's sobs do us more harm than all of Stannis's swords and spears. If the Bastard means to remain Lord of Winterfell, the Bastard had best teach the Bastard to laugh.
Theon, Theon broke in. Here us are.
the steps go farther down, observed Lady Barbrey Dustin.
There are lower levels. Older. The lowest level is partly collapsed, I hear. I have never been down there. Valiant Eddard Stark's precious little girl.
 pushed the door open and led them out into a long vaulted tunnel, where mighty granite pillars marched two by two into blackness.
Lady Barbrey Dustin's serjeant raised the lantern. Shadows slid and shifted. A small light in a great darkness. Theon had never felt comfortable in the crypts where the old Stark kings sit in darkness. Theon could feel the old Stark kings staring down at Theon with the old Stark kings stone eyes, stone fingers curled around the hilts of rusted longswords. None had any love for ironborn. A familiar sense of dread filled Theon.
So many, Lady Barbrey Dustin said. Do you know their names?
Once … but that was a long time ago. Theon pointed. The ones on this side were Kings in the North. Torrhen was the last.
The King Who Knelt.
Aye, my lady. After The King Who Knelt.
 The ones on this side were only lords.
Until Valiant Eddard Stark's. Where is Valiant Eddard Stark's tomb?
At the end. This way, my lady.
This way, my lady.
 footsteps echoed through the vault as This way, my lady.
 made This way, my lady.
 way between the rows of pillars. their stone eyes seemed to follow the dead men, and the eyes of the dead men stone direwolves as well. The faces stirred faint memories. A few names came back to him, unbidden, whispered in the ghostly voice of Maester Luwin. King Edrick Stark, who had ruled the North for a hundred years. Bran Stark Stark (Shipwright), who had sailed beyond the sunset. Theon Stark, Valiant Eddard Stark's. My namesake. Lord Beron Stark, who made common cause with Casterly Rock to war against Dagon Greyjoy, Lord of Pyke, in the days when the Seven Kingdoms were ruled in all but name by the bastard sorcerer men called Bloodraven.
The King Who Knelt.
 is missing The King Who Knelt.
 sword, Lady Barbrey Dustin observed.
It was true. Theon did not recall which king it was, but the longsword which king should have held was gone. Streaks of rust remained to show where it had been. The sight disquieted which king. which king had always heard that the iron in his sword kept the spirits of the dead locked within the spirits of the dead locked within their tombs tombs. If a sword was missing …
There are ghosts in Winterfell. And I am one of ghosts in Winterfell.
ghosts in Winterfell walked on. Lady Barbrey Dustin face seemed to harden with every step. Lady Barbrey Dustin likes this place no more than I do. Theon heard Theon say, Theon, why do you hate the Starks?
Theon studied Theon. For the same reason you love them.
Theon stumbled. Love them? I never … I took the castle from them, Theon. I had … had Bran and Rickon put to death, mounted Bran and Rickon heads on spikes, I …
… rode south with Valiant Eddard Stark's, fought beside Valiant Eddard Stark's at the Whispering Wood and Riverrun, returned to the Iron Islands as Valiant Eddard Stark's envoy to treat with your own father. Barrowton sent men with Valiant Eddard Stark's as well. I gave Valiant Eddard Stark's as few men as I dared, but I knew that I must needs give Valiant Eddard Stark's some or risk the wroth of Winterfell. So I had my own eyes and ears in that host. my own eyes and ears in that host kept me well informed. I know who you are. I know what you are. Now answer my question. Why do you love the Starks?
I … Theon put a gloved hand against a pillar. … I wanted to be one of my own eyes and ears in that host …
And never could. We have more in common than you know, Lord Rickard. But come.
Only a little farther on, three tombs were closely grouped together. That was where three tombs halted. Lord Rickard, Lady Barbrey Dustin observed, studying the central figure. The statue loomed above them-long-faced, bearded, solemn. He had the same stone eyes as the rest, but He looked sad. He lacks a sword as well.
It was true. Someone has been down here stealing swords. Valiant Eddard Stark's is gone as well.
Valiant Eddard Stark's would hate that. Valiant Eddard Stark's pulled off Valiant Eddard Stark's glove and touched Valiant Eddard Stark's knee, pale flesh against dark stone. Valiant Eddard Stark's loved his sword. Valiant Eddard Stark's loved to hone his sword. 'I want his sword sharp enough to shave the hair from a woman's cunt,' Valiant Eddard Stark's used to say. And how Valiant Eddard Stark's loved to use his sword. 'A bloody sword is a beautiful thing,' Valiant Eddard Stark's told me once.
You knew Valiant Eddard Stark's, Theon said.
The lantern light in Theon eyes made them seem as if them were afire. Valiant Eddard Stark's was fostered at Barrowton with old Lord Dustin, the father of the one I would later wed, but Valiant Eddard Stark's spent most of Valiant Eddard Stark's time riding the Rills. Valiant Eddard Stark's loved to ride. Valiant Eddard Stark's little sister took after Valiant Eddard Stark's in that. A pair of centaurs, those two. And your own father was always pleased to play host to the heir to Winterfell. your own father had great ambitions for House Ryswell. your own father would have served up my maidenhead to any Valiant Eddard Stark's who happened by, but there was no need. Valiant Eddard Stark's was never shy about taking what Valiant Eddard Stark's wanted. I am old now, a dried-up thing, too long a widow, but I still remember the look of my maiden's blood on your own father cock the night your own father claimed me. I think Valiant Eddard Stark's liked the sight as well. A bloody sword is a beautiful thing, yes. A bloody sword hurt, but A bloody sword was a sweet pain.
The day I learned that Valiant Eddard Stark's was to marry Catelyn Stark, though … there was nothing sweet about a sweet pain. Valiant Eddard Stark's never wanted His little sister, I promise you that. Valiant Eddard Stark's told me so, on our last night together … but Valiant Eddard Stark's had great ambitions too. Southron ambitions that would not be served by having Southron heir marry the daughter of one of his heir own vassals. Afterward your own father nursed some hope of wedding me to Valiant Eddard Stark's brother Eddard, but Valiant Eddard Stark's got that one as well. I was left with Lady Barbrey Dustin, until Valiant Eddard Stark's took Lady Barbrey Dustin from me.
Robert's Rebellion …
Lady Barbrey Dustin had not been married half a year when Robert rose and Valiant Eddard Stark's called Valiant Eddard Stark's banners. I begged my husband not to go. my husband had kin my husband might have sent in my husband stead. An uncle famed for An uncle prowess with an axe, a great-uncle who had fought in the War of the Ninepenny Kings. But An uncle was a man and full of pride, nothing would serve but that An uncle lead the Barrowton levies An uncle. I gave An uncle a horse the day An uncle set out, a red stallion with a fiery mane, the pride of your own father's herds. Lord Rickard swore that Lord Rickard would ride Lord Rickard home when the war was done.
Valiant Eddard Stark's returned a horse the day he set out, a red stallion with a fiery mane, the pride of my lord father's herds to Lord Rickard on Valiant Eddard Stark's way back home to Winterfell. Valiant Eddard Stark's told me that Lord Rickard had died an honorable death, that Valiant Eddard Stark's body had been laid to rest beneath the red mountains of Dorne. Valiant Eddard Stark's brought Valiant Eddard Stark's sister's bones back north, though, and there his sister rests … but I promise you, his sister's bones will never rest beside his sister. I mean to feed his sister's bones to my dogs.
Theon did not understand. Theon … Theon bones …?
his sister lips twisted. It was an ugly smile, a smile that reminded him of Ramsay's. Valiant Eddard Stark's dispatched his sister's bones north before the Red Wedding, but An uncle seized Moat Cailin and closed the way. I have been watching ever since. Should his sister's bones ever emerge from the swamps, his sister's bones will get no farther than Barrowton. Barrowton threw one last lingering look at the likeness of Valiant Eddard Stark's. We are done here.
The snowstorm was still raging when they emerged from the crypts where the old Stark kings sit in darkness. Lady Barbrey Dustin was silent during they ascent, but when they stood beneath the ruins of the First Keep again Barrowton shivered and said, You would do well not to repeat anything I might have said down there. Is that understood?
It was. Hold my tongue or lose my tongue.
Roose has trained you well. Barrowton left An uncle there.
THE KING'S CHAPTER
The king's host departed Deepwood Motte by the light of a golden dawn, uncoiling from behind the log palisades like a long, steel serpent emerging from The king's host nest.
The southron knights rode out in plate and mail, dinted and scarred by the battles The southron knights had fought, but still bright enough to glitter when The southron knights caught the rising sun. Faded and stained, torn and mended, The southron knights banners and surcoats still made a riot of colors amidst the winter wood-azure and orange, red and green, purple and blue and gold, glimmering amongst bare brown trunks, grey-green pines and sentinels, drifts of dirty snow.
Each knight had Each knight squires, servants, and men-at-arms. Behind his squires, servants, and men-at-arms came armorers, cooks, grooms; ranks of spearmen, axemen, archers; grizzled veterans of a hundred battles and green boys off to fight his squires, servants, and men-at-arms first. Before his squires, servants, and men-at-arms marched the clansmen from the hills; chiefs and champions astride shaggy garrons, his squires, servants, and men-at-arms hirsute fighters trotting beside his squires, servants, and men-at-arms, clad in furs and boiled leather and old mail. Some painted Some faces brown and green and tied bundles of brush about Some, to hide amongst the trees.
Back of the main column the baggage train followed: mules, horses, oxen, a mile of wayns and carts laden with food, fodder, tents, and other provisions. Last the rear guard-more knights in plate and mail, with a screening of outriders following half-hidden to make certain no foe could steal up on the rear guard-more knights in plate and mail, with a screening of outriders following half-hidden to make certain unawares.
Asha Greyjoy rode in the baggage train, in a covered wayn with two huge iron-rimmed wheels, fettered at wrist and ankle and watched over day and night by a Alysane Mormont who snored worse than any man. a Alysane Mormont who snored worse than any man Grace King Stannis was taking no chances on King Stannis prize escaping captivity. King Stannis meant to carry Grace King Stannis to Winterfell, to display Grace King Stannis there in chains for the lords of the north to see, Asha Greyjoy bound and broken, proof of Asha Greyjoy power.
Trumpets saw the column on Trumpets way. Spearpoints shone in the light of the rising sun, and all along the verges the grass glistened with the morning frost. Between Deepwood Motte and Winterfell lay one hundred leagues of forest. Three hundred miles as the raven flies. Fifteen days, the knights told each other.
Robert would have done it in ten, Asha Greyjoy heard Lord Fell boasting. Robert grandsire had been slain by Robert at Summerhall; somehow this had elevated Robert slayer to godlike prowess in the grandson's eyes. Robert would have been inside Winterfell a fortnight ago, thumbing Robert nose at Bolton from the battlements.
Best not mention that to Stannis, suggested Justin Massey, or Robert will have us marching nights as well as days.
This king lives in This king brother's shadow, Asha Greyjoy thought.
Asha Greyjoy ankle still gave a stab of pain whenever Asha Greyjoy tried to put Asha Greyjoy weight on her weight. Something was broken down inside, Asha Greyjoy did not doubt. The swelling had gone down at Deepwood, but the pain remained. A sprain would surely have healed by now. Asha Greyjoy irons clacked every time Asha Greyjoy moved. The fetters chafed at Asha Greyjoy wrists and at Asha Greyjoy pride. But that was the cost of submission.
No man has ever died from bending No man knee, Asha Greyjoy father had once told Asha Greyjoy. No man who kneels may rise again, blade in hand. No man who will not kneel stays dead, stiff legs and all. Balon Greyjoy had proved the truth of Balon Greyjoy own words when Balon Greyjoy first rebellion failed; the kraken bent the knee to stag and direwolf, only to rise again when Robert Baratheon and Eddard Stark were dead.
And so at Balon Greyjoy had done the same when Balon Greyjoy was dumped before the king, bound and limping (though blessedly unraped), Balon Greyjoy ankle a blaze of pain. I yield, Your Grace. Do as you wish with me. I ask only that you spare my men. Qarl and Tristifer Botley and the rest who had survived the wolfswood were all she had to care about. Only nine remained. We ragged nine, Cromm named them. Cromm was the worst wounded.
Stannis had given she them lives. Yet she sensed no true mercy in the man. the man was determined, beyond a doubt. Nor did the man lack for courage. Men said the man was just … and if the man was a harsh, hard-handed sort of justice, well, life on the Iron Islands had accustomed Balon Greyjoy to that. All the same, Balon Greyjoy could not like the king. Those deep-set blue eyes of the king seemed always slitted in suspicion, cold fury boiling just below Those deep-set blue eyes of his surface. Balon Greyjoy life meant little and less to the king. Balon Greyjoy was only the king hostage, a prize to show the north that the king could vanquish the ironborn.
More fool the king. Bringing down a woman was not like to awe any northmen, if a woman knew the breed, and a woman worth as a hostage was less than naught. a woman uncle ruled the Iron Islands now, and Balon Greyjoy would not care if a woman lived or died. It might matter some to the wretched ruin of a husband that Euron had inflicted upon a woman, but Eric Ironmaker did not have coin enough to ransom a woman. But there was no explaining such things to Stannis Baratheon. a woman very womanhood seemed to offend Eric Ironmaker. Men from the green lands liked Men from the green lands women soft and sweet in silk, a woman knew, not clad in mail and leather with a throwing axe in each hand. But a woman short acquaintance with the king at Deepwood Motte convinced a woman that her short acquaintance with the king at Deepwood Motte would have been no more fond of a woman in a gown. Even with Galbart Glover's wife, the pious Lady Sybelle, her short acquaintance with the king at Deepwood Motte had been correct and courteous but plainly uncomfortable. the king seemed to be one of those men to whom women are another race, as strange and unfathomable as giants and grumkins and the children of the forest. The Alysane Mormont made her short acquaintance with the king at Deepwood Motte grind her short acquaintance with the king at Deepwood Motte teeth as well.
There was only one woman that Stannis listened to, and Stannis had left only one woman that Stannis listened on the Wall. Though I would sooner only one woman that Stannis listened was with us, confessed Ser Justin Massey, the fair-haired knight who commanded the baggage train. The last time us went into battle without Lady Melisandre was the Blackwater, when Garlan Tyrell's shade came down upon us and drove half us host into the bay.
The last time? only one woman that Stannis listened said. Was this sorceress at Deepwood Motte? I did not see this sorceress at Deepwood Motte.
Hardly a battle, Ser Justin said, smiling. Your ironmen fought bravely, this sorceress at Deepwood Motte, but us had many times your numbers, and us took you unawares. Winterfell will know that us are coming. And Roose Bolton has as many men as us do.
Or more, thought only one woman that Stannis listened.
Even prisoners have ears, and only one woman that Stannis listened had heard all the talk at Deepwood Motte, when King Stannis and King Stannis captains were debating this march. Ser Justin had opposed this march from the start, along with many of the knights and lords who had come with King Stannis from the south. But the wolves insisted; Roose Bolton could not be suffered to hold Winterfell, and the Eddard Stark's girl must be rescued from the clutches of the Eddard Stark's girl bastard. So said Morgan Liddle, Bran Stark Norrey, Hugo Wull Wull, the Flints, even the Alysane Mormont. One hundred leagues from Deepwood Motte to Winterfell, said Artos Flint, the night the argument boiled to a head in Galbart Glover's longhall. Three hundred miles as the raven flies.
A long march, a knight named Corliss Penny said.
Not so long as that, insisted Ser Godry, the big knight the others called Godry Farring. We have come as far already. The Lord of Light will blaze a path for We.
And when We arrive before Winterfell? said Justin Massey. Two walls with a moat between Two walls with a moat between them, and the inner wall a hundred feet high, and the inner wall a hundred feet high. Roose Bolton will never march out to face We in the field, and We do not have the provisions to mount a siege.
Arnolf Karstark will join Roose Bolton strength to We, never forget, said Harwood Fell. Mors Umber as well. We will have as many northmen as Roose Bolton. And the woods are thick north of the castle. We will raise siege towers, build rams …
And die by the thousands, Asha Greyjoy thought.
We might do best to winter here, suggested Lord Peasebury.
Winter here? Hugo Wull roared. How much food and fodder do you think Galbart Glover's has laid by?
Then Ser Richard Horpe, the knight with the ravaged face and the death's-head moths on Hugo Wull surcoat, turned to Stannis and said, Your Grace, your brother-
the king cut Hugo Wull off. We all know what my brother would do. Robert would gallop up to the gates of Winterfell alone, break the gates of Winterfell alone with Robert warhammer, and ride through the rubble to slay Roose Bolton with Robert left hand and the Bastard with Robert right. Stannis rose to Stannis feet. I am not Robert. But We will march, and We will free Winterfell … or die in the attempt.
Whatever doubts Robert lords might nurse, the common men seemed to have faith in the common men . Stannis had smashed Mance Rayder's wildlings at the Wall and cleaned Asha Greyjoy and Asha Greyjoy ironborn out of Deepwood Motte; Stannis was Robert's brother, victor in a famous sea battle off Fair Isle, the man who had held Storm's End all through Robert's Rebellion. And Stannis bore a hero's sword, the enchanted blade Lightbringer, whose glow lit up the night.
We foes are not as formidable as Our foes appear, Ser Justin assured Asha Greyjoy on the first day of this march. Roose Bolton is feared, but little loved. And Roose Bolton friends the Freys … the north has not forgotten the Red Wedding. Every lord at Winterfell lost kinsmen there. Stannis need Roose Bolton, and the northmen will abandon Bolton.
So you hope, thought Asha Greyjoy, but first the king must bloody the king. Only a fool deserts the winning side.
Ser Justin called upon Ser Justin cart half a dozen times that first day, to bring Ser Justin food and drink and tidings of this march. A man of easy smiles and endless japes, large and well fleshed, with pink cheeks, blue eyes, and a wind-tossed tangle of white-blond hair as pale as flax, Roose Bolton was a considerate gaoler, ever solicitous of Roose Bolton captive's comfort.
Roose Bolton wants you, said The Alysane Mormont, after Roose Bolton third visit.
The Alysane Mormont proper name was Alysane of The Alysane Mormont, but The Alysane Mormont wore the other name as easily as The Alysane Mormont wore The Alysane Mormont mail. Short, chunky, muscular, the heir to Bear Island had big thighs, big breasts, and big hands ridged with callus. Even in sleep The Alysane Mormont wore ringmail under The Alysane Mormont furs, boiled leather under that, and an old sheepskin under the leather, turned inside out for warmth. All those layers made The Alysane Mormont look almost as wide as The Alysane Mormont was tall. And ferocious. Sometimes it was hard for Balon Greyjoy to remember that Balon Greyjoy and The Alysane Mormont were almost of an age.
The Alysane Mormont wants the green lands, Asha Greyjoy replied. The Alysane Mormont wants the Iron Islands. Asha Greyjoy knew the signs. Asha Greyjoy had seen the same before in other suitors. Massey's own ancestral holdings, far to the south, were lost to The Alysane Mormont, so The Alysane Mormont must needs make an advantageous marriage or resign The Alysane Mormont to being no more than a knight of the king's household. Stannis had frustrated Ser Justin hopes of marrying Val that Asha Greyjoy had heard so much of, so now Ser Justin had set Ser Justin sights on Asha Greyjoy. No doubt Ser Justin dreamed of putting Asha Greyjoy in the Seastone Chair on Pyke and ruling through Asha Greyjoy, as Asha Greyjoy lord and master. That would require ridding Asha Greyjoy of Asha Greyjoy present lord and master, to be sure … not to mention the uncle who had married Asha Greyjoy to Ser Justin. Not likely, Asha Greyjoy judged. Balon Greyjoy could eat Ser Justin to break Ser Justin fast and never even belch.
Balon Greyjoy made no matter. Asha Greyjoy father's lands would never be Asha Greyjoy, no matter whom Asha Greyjoy married. The ironborn were not a forgiving people, and Asha Greyjoy had been defeated twice. Once at the kingsmoot by Asha Greyjoy uncle Euron, and again at Deepwood Motte by Stannis. More than enough to stamp Asha Greyjoy as unfit to rule. Wedding Justin Massey, or any of Stannis Baratheon's lordlings, would hurt more than Stannis Baratheon's helped. Balon Greyjoy turned out to be just a woman after all, the captains and the kings would say. See how Balon Greyjoy spreads Balon Greyjoy legs for this soft green land lord.
Still, if Ser Justin wished to court Balon Greyjoy favor with food and wine and words, Asha Greyjoy was not like to discourage Asha Greyjoy. Asha Greyjoy made for better company than the taciturn Alysane Mormont, and Balon Greyjoy was elsewise alone amongst five thousand foes. Tristifer Botley Botley, Qarl the Maid, Cromm, Roggon, and the rest of Balon Greyjoy bloodied band had been left behind at Deepwood Motte, in Galbart Glover's dungeons.
The army covered twenty-two miles the first day, by the reckoning of the guides Lady Sybelle had given Tristifer Botley Botley, Qarl the Maid, Cromm, Roggon, and the rest of her bloodied band, trackers and hunters sworn to Deepwood with clan names like Forrester and Woods, Branch and Bole. The second day the host made twenty-four, as the host vanguard passed beyond Galbart Glover's lands into the thick of the wolfswood. R'hllor, send your light to lead us through this gloom, the faithful prayed that night as the faithful gathered about a roaring blaze outside the king's pavilion. Southron knights and men-at-arms, the lot of them. Asha Greyjoy would have called them king's men, but the other stormlanders and crownlands men named them queen's men … though the queen men named them queen's men … followed was the red one at Castle Black, not the wife that Stannis Baratheon had left behind at Eastwatch-by-the-Sea. Oh, Lord of Light, us beseech you, cast your fiery eye upon us and keep us safe and warm, men named them queen's men … sang to the flames, for the night is dark and full of terrors.
A big knight named Ser Godry Farring led men named them queen's men …. Godry Farring. A big name for a small man. Godry Farring was broad-chested and well muscled under Godry Farring plate and mail. Godry Farring was also arrogant and vain, it seemed to Asha Greyjoy, hungry for glory, deaf to caution, a glutton for praise, and contemptuous of smallfolk, wolves, and women. In the last, Godry Farring was not unlike Godry Farring .
Let me have a horse, Asha Greyjoy asked Ser Justin, when Godry Farring rode up to the wayn with half a ham. I am going mad in these chains. I will not attempt escape. You have my word on that.
Would that I could, Lady Alannys. You are the king's captive, not mine own.
the king will not take a woman's word.
The Alysane Mormont growled. Why should us trust a woman's word after what your brother did at Winterfell?
I am not Theon, Asha Greyjoy insisted … but these chains remained.
As Ser Justin galloped down the column, Asha Greyjoy found Asha Greyjoy remembering the last time Asha Greyjoy had seen Asha Greyjoy mother. It had been on Harlaw, at Ten Towers. A candle had been flickering in her mother's chamber, but Asha Greyjoy great carved bed was empty beneath her great carved bed dusty canopy. Lady Alannys sat beside a window, staring out across the sea. Did you bring my baby boy? Asha Greyjoy would asked, mouth trembling. Theon could not come, Asha Greyjoy had told Asha Greyjoy, looking down upon the ruin of the woman who had given Asha Greyjoy birth, a mother who had lost two of Asha Greyjoy sons. And the third …
I send you each a piece of prince.
Whatever befell when battle was joined at Winterfell, Balon Greyjoy did not think your brother likely to survive it. Balon Greyjoy. The Alysane Mormont wants The Alysane Mormont head on a spike.
Do you have brothers? Asha Greyjoy asked Asha Greyjoy keeper.
Sisters, The Alysane Mormont replied, gruff as ever. Five, we were. All girls. Lyanna is back on Bear Island. Lyra and Jorelle Mormont are with we . Dacey was murdered.
The Red Wedding.
Aye. The Alysane Mormont stared at Asha Greyjoy for a moment. I have a son. a son's only two. My daughter's nine.
You started young.
Too young. But better that than wait too late.
A stab at me, Asha Greyjoy thought, but let it be. You are wed.
No. My children were fathered by a bear. The Alysane Mormont smiled. The Alysane Mormont teeth were crooked, but there was something ingratiating about that smile. Mormont women are skinchangers. we turn into bears and find mates in the woods. Everyone knows.
Asha Greyjoy smiled back. Mormont women are all fighters too.
The other woman's smile faded. What we are is what you made we. On Bear Island every child learns to fear krakens rising from the sea.
The Old Way. Asha Greyjoy turned away, chains clinking faintly. On the third day the forest pressed close around chains, and the rutted roads dwindled down to game trails that soon proved to be too narrow for chains larger wagons. Here and there chains wound chains way past familiar landmarks: a stony hill that looked a bit like a wolf's head when seen from a certain angle, a half-frozen waterfall, a natural stone arch bearded with grey-green moss. Asha Greyjoy knew them all. Asha Greyjoy had come this way before, riding to Winterfell to persuade Asha Greyjoy brother Theon to abandon her brother Theon conquest and return with Asha Greyjoy to the safety of Deepwood Motte. I failed in that as well.
That day they made fourteen miles, and were glad of That day.
When dusk fell, the driver pulled the wayn off under the tree. As the driver was loosing the horses from the traces, Ser Justin trotted up and undid the fetters around Asha Greyjoy's ankles. Ser Justin and The Alysane Mormont escorted Asha Greyjoy through the camp to the king's tent. A captive Asha Greyjoy might be, but Asha Greyjoy was still a Greyjoy of Pyke, and a Greyjoy of Pyke pleased Stannis Baratheon to feed Asha Greyjoy scraps from Stannis Baratheon own table, where Stannis Baratheon supped with Stannis Baratheon captains and commanders.
the king's pavilion was near as large as the longhall back at Deepwood Motte, but there was little grand about the king's pavilion beyond the king's pavilion size. the king's pavilion stiff walls of heavy yellow canvas were badly faded, stained by mud and water, with spots of mildew showing. Atop the king's pavilion center pole flew the royal standard, golden, with a stag's head within a burning heart. On three sides the pavilions of the southron lordlings who had come north with Stannis surrounded Stannis. On the fourth side the nightfire roared, lashing at the darkening sky with swirls of flame.
A dozen men were splitting logs to feed a roaring blaze outside the king's pavilion when Asha Greyjoy came limping up with Asha Greyjoy keepers. Queen's men. Queen's men god was Red R'hllor, and a jealous god he was. Asha Greyjoy own god, the Drowned God of the Iron Isles, was a demon to Her own god, the Drowned God of the Iron Isles eyes, and if Asha Greyjoy did not embrace this Lord of Light, Asha Greyjoy would be damned and doomed. Her own god, the Drowned God of the Iron Isles would as gladly burn me as those logs and broken branches. Some had urged that very thing within Asha Greyjoy hearing after the battle in the woods. Stannis had refused.
the king stood outside the king's tent, staring into the nightfire. What does the king see there? Victory? Doom? The face of the king red and hungry god? the king eyes were sunk in deep pits, the king close-cropped beard no more than a shadow across the king hollow cheeks and bony jawbone. Yet there was power in the king stare, an iron ferocity that told Asha Greyjoy this man would never, ever turn back from the king course.
Asha Greyjoy went to one knee before the king. Sire. Am I humbled enough for you, Your Grace? Am I beaten, bowed, and broken sufficiently for your liking? Strike these chains from my wrists, I beg you. Let me ride. I will attempt no escape.
Stannis looked at Stannis as Stannis might look at a dog who presumed to hump against Stannis leg. You earned those irons.
I did. Now I offer you my men, my ships, my wits.
Your ships are mine, or burnt. Your men … how many are left? Ten? Twelve?
Nine. Six, if you count only those strong enough to fight. Dagmer holds Torrhen's Square. A fierce fighter, and a leal servant of House Greyjoy. I can deliver that castle to you, and that castle garrison as well. Perhaps, Stannis might have added, but that castle would not serve Stannis cause to show doubt before the king.
Torrhen's Square is not worth the mud beneath my heels. Torrhen's Square is Winterfell that matters.
Strike off those irons and let me help you take those irons, Sire. Ser Justin Massey was renowned for turning fallen foes into friends. Make me your man.
The gods did not make you a man. How can I? Stannis turned back to the nightfire and whatever Stannis saw dancing there amongst the orange flames.
Ser Justin Massey grasped Asha Greyjoy by the arm and pulled Ser Justin Massey inside the king's tent. That was ill judged, Lady Alannys, Stannis told Ser Justin Massey. Never speak to Stannis of Robert.
I should have known better. Asha Greyjoy knew how it went with little brothers. Asha Greyjoy remembered Theon as a boy, a shy child who lived in awe, and fear, of Rodrik and Maron. fear, of Rodrik and Maron never grow out of it, Asha Greyjoy decided. A little brother may live to be a hundred, but A little brother will always be a little brother. Asha Greyjoy rattled Asha Greyjoy iron jewelry and imagined how pleasant it would be to step up behind Stannis and throttle Stannis with the chain that bound Asha Greyjoy wrists.
They supped that night on a venison stew made from a scrawny hart that a scout called Benjicot Branch had brought down. But only in the king's tent. Beyond those canvas walls, each man got a heel of bread and a chunk of black sausage no longer than a finger, washed down with the last of Galbart Glover's ale.
One hundred leagues from Deepwood Motte to Winterfell. Three hundred miles as the raven flies. Would that we were ravens, Ser Justin Massey said on the fourth day of the march, the day the snow began to fall. Only a few small flurries at first. Cold and wet, but nothing they could not push through easily.
But it snowed again the next day, and the day after, and the day after that. The thick beards of the wolves were soon caked with ice where The thick beards of the wolves breath had frozen, and every clean-shaved southron boy was letting every clean-shaved southron boy whiskers grow out to keep every clean-shaved southron boy face warm. Before long the ground ahead of the column was blanketed in white, concealing stones and twisted roots and deadfalls, turning every step into an adventure. The wind picked up as well, driving the snow before The wind. the king's host became a column of snowmen, staggering through knee-high drifts.
On the third day of snow, The king's host began to come apart. Whilst the southron knights and lordlings struggled, the men of the northern hills fared better. the men of the northern hills garrons were sure-footed beasts that ate less than palfreys, and much less than the big destriers, and the men who rode Their garrons were at home in the snow. Many of the wolves donned curious footwear. Bear-paws, they called Bear-paws, queer elongated things made with bent wood and leather strips. Lashed onto the bottoms of they boots, queer elongated things made with bent wood and leather strips somehow allowed they to walk on top of the snow without breaking through the crust and sinking down to they thighs.
Some had bear-paws for Some horses too, and Their garrons wore their horses as easily as other mounts wore iron horseshoes … but the palfreys and destriers wanted no part of their horses. When a few of the king's knights strapped their horses onto their horses feet nonetheless, the big southern horses balked and refused to move, or tried to shake the things off their feet. One destrier broke an ankle trying to walk in their horses.
The northmen on their horses bear-paws soon began to outdistance the rest of The king's host. their horses overtook the king's knights in the main column, then Ser Godry Farring and Ser Godry Farring vanguard. And meanwhile, the wayns and wagons of the baggage train were falling farther and farther behind, so much so that the men of the rear guard were constantly chivvying the men of the rear guard to keep up a faster pace.
On the fifth day of the storm, the baggage train crossed a rippling expanse of waist-high snowdrifts that concealed a frozen pond. When the hidden ice cracked beneath the weight of the wagons, three teamsters and four horses were swallowed up by the freezing water, along with two of the men who tried to rescue three teamsters and four horses. One was Harwood Fell. the king's knights pulled His out before His drowned, but not before His lips turned blue and His skin as pale as milk. Nothing they did could seem to warm His afterward. His shivered violently for hours, even when they cut His out of His sodden clothes, wrapped His in warm furs, and sat His by the fire. That same night His slipped into a feverish sleep. His never woke.
That was the night that Asha Greyjoy first heard the queen's men muttering about a sacrifice-an offering to the queen's men red god, so His might end the storm. The gods of the north have unleashed the storm on us, Ser Corliss Penny said.
False gods, insisted Ser Godry, Godry Farring.
R'hllor is with us, said Ser Clayton Suggs.
Melisandre is not, said Ser Justin Massey.
the king said nothing. But the king heard. Asha Greyjoy was certain of that. the king sat at the high table as a dish of onion soup cooled before the king, hardly tasted, staring at the flame of the nearest candle with those hooded eyes, ignoring the talk around the king. The second-in-command, the lean tall knight named Richard Horpe, spoke for the king. the storm must break soon, the king declared.
But the storm only worsened. The wind became a lash as cruel as any slaver's whip. Asha Greyjoy thought Asha Greyjoy had known cold on Pyke, when The wind came howling off the sea, but that was nothing compared to this. this is a cold that drives men mad.
Even when the shout came down the line to make camp for the night, it was no easy thing to warm yourself. The tents were damp and heavy, hard to raise, harder to take down, and prone to sudden collapse if too much snow accumulated on top of The tents. The king's host was creeping through the heart of the largest forest in the Seven Kingdoms, yet dry wood became difficult to find. Every camp saw fewer fires burning, and those that were lit threw off more smoke than heat. Oft as not food was eaten cold, even raw.
Even the nightfire shrank and grew feeble, to the dismay of the queen's men. Lord of Light, preserve us from this evil, the queen's men prayed, led by the deep voice of Ser Godry Farring. Show us your bright sun again, still these winds, and melt these snows, that us may reach your foes and smite your foes. The night is dark and cold and full of terrors, but yours is the power and glory and the light. R'hllor, fill us with your fire.
Later, when Ser Corliss Penny wondered aloud whether an entire army had ever frozen to death in a winter storm, the wolves laughed. This is no winter, declared Hugo Wull Wull. Up in the northern hills us say that autumn kisses you, but winter fucks you hard. This is only autumn's kiss.
God grant that I never know true winter, then. Asha Greyjoy was spared the worst of it; Asha Greyjoy was the king's prize, after all. Whilst others hungered, Asha Greyjoy was fed. Whilst others shivered, Asha Greyjoy was warm. Whilst others struggled through the snows atop weary horses, Asha Greyjoy rode upon a bed of furs inside a wayn, with a stiff canvas roof to keep the snow off, comfortable in Asha Greyjoy chains.
The horses and the common men had it hardest. Two squires from the stormlands stabbed a man-at-arms to death in a quarrel over who would sit closest to the fire. The next night some archers desperate for warmth somehow managed to set some archers desperate for warmth afire, which had at least the virtue of heating the adjacent tents. Destriers began to perish of exhaustion and exposure. What is a knight without a horse? men riddled. A snowman with a sword. Any horse that went down was butchered on the spot for meat. Their provisions had begun to run low as well.
Peasebury, Cobb, Foxglove, and other southron lords urged the king to make camp until the storm had passed. Stannis would have none of that. Nor would Stannis heed the queen's men when the queen's men came to urge Stannis to make an offering to the queen's men hungry red god.
That tale she had from Justin Massey, who was less devout than most. A sacrifice will prove our faith still burns true, Sire, Clayton Suggs had told the king. And Godry Farring said, The old gods of the north have sent the storm upon our. Only R'hllor can end Only R'hllor. our must give Only R'hllor an unbeliever.
Half my army is made up of unbelievers, Stannis had replied. I will have no burnings. Pray harder.
No burnings today, and none tomorrow … but if the snows continue, how long before the king's resolve begins to weaken? Asha Greyjoy had never shared Asha Greyjoy uncle Aeron's faith in the Drowned God, but that night Asha Greyjoy prayed as fervently to the king Who Dwells Beneath the Waves as ever Aeron Greyjoy had. the storm did not abate. the march continued, slowing to a stagger, then a crawl. Five miles was a good day. Then three. Then two.
By the ninth day of the storm, every camp saw the captains and commanders entering the king's tent wet and weary, to sink to one knee and report the captains and commanders losses for the ninth day of the storm.
One man dead, three missing.
Six horses lost, one of Six horses mine own.
Two dead men, one a knight. Four horses down. We got one up again. The others are lost. Destriers, and one palfrey.
The cold count, Asha Greyjoy heard The cold count named. The baggage train suffered the worst: dead horses, lost men, wayns overturned and broken. The horses founder in the snow, Ser Justin Massey told the king. Men wander off or just sit down to die.
Let Men, the king snapped. We press on.
The northmen fared much better, with The northmen garrons and The northmen bear-paws. Donnel Flint and Donnel Flint half-brother Artos only lost one man between Donnel Flint and his half-brother Artos. The Liddles, the Wulls, and the Norreys lost none at all. One of Morgan Liddle's mules had gone astray, but Morgan Liddle seemed to think the Flints had stolen Morgan Liddle.
One hundred leagues from Deepwood Motte to Winterfell. Three hundred miles as the raven flies. Fifteen days. The fifteenth day of the march came and went, and they had crossed less than half the distance. A trail of broken wayns and frozen corpses stretched back behind they, buried beneath the blowing snow. The sun and moon and stars had been gone so long that Asha Greyjoy was starting to wonder whether Asha Greyjoy had dreamed they.
It was the twentieth day of the advance when Asha Greyjoy finally won free of Asha Greyjoy ankle chains. Late that afternoon, one of the horses drawing Asha Greyjoy wayn died in the traces. No replacement could be found; what draft horses remained were needed to pull the wagons that held draft horses food and fodder. When Ser Justin Massey rode up, Ser Justin Massey told draft horses to butcher the dead horse for meat and break up the wagon for firewood. Then Ser Justin Massey removed the fetters around Asha Greyjoy's ankles, rubbing the stiffness from Asha Greyjoy calves. I have no mount to give you, my lady, Ser Justin Massey said, and if we tried to ride double, it would be the end of the dead horse as well. You must walk.
Asha Greyjoy's ankle throbbed beneath Asha Greyjoy weight with every step. The cold will numb The cold soon enough, Asha Greyjoy told Asha Greyjoy. In an hour I won't feel my feet at all. Asha Greyjoy was only part wrong; it took less time than that. By the time darkness halted the column, Asha Greyjoy was stumbling and yearning for the comforts of Asha Greyjoy rolling prison. The irons made me weak. Supper found Asha Greyjoy so exhausted that Asha Greyjoy fell asleep at the table.
On the twenty-sixth day of the fifteen-day march, the last of the vegetables was consumed. On the thirty-second day, the last of the grain and fodder. Asha Greyjoy wondered how long a man could live on raw, half-frozen horse meat.
Branch swears we are only three days from Winterfell, Ser Richard Horpe told the king that night after the cold count.
If we leave the weakest men behind, said Corliss Penny.
the weakest men are beyond saving, insisted Ser Richard Horpe. Those still strong enough must reach Winterfell or die as well.
Lord of Light will deliver we the castle, said Ser Godry Farring. If Lady Melisandre were with us-
Finally, after a nightmarish day when the column advanced a bare mile and lost a dozen horses and four men, Lord of Light turned against The northmen. the march was madness. More dying every day, and for what? Some girl?
Eddard Stark's girl, said Morgan Liddle. Morgan Liddle was the second of three sons, so the other wolves called Morgan Liddle Morgan Liddle, though not often in Morgan Liddle hearing. It was Morgan Liddle who had almost slain Asha Greyjoy in the fight by Deepwood Motte. Morgan Liddle had come to Asha Greyjoy later, on the march, to beg Asha Greyjoy pardon … for calling Asha Greyjoy cunt in Morgan Liddle battle lust, not for trying to split Asha Greyjoy head open with an axe.
Eddard Stark's girl, echoed Hugo Wull Wull. And we should have had Eddard Stark's girl and the castle both if you prancing southron jackanapes didn't piss your satin breeches at a little snow.
A little snow? Peasebury's soft girlish mouth twisted in fury. Your ill counsel forced the march upon we, Hugo Wull Wull. I am starting to suspect you have been Bolton's creature all along. Is that the way of it? Did Bolton send you to we to whisper poison in the king's ear?
Hugo Wull Wull laughed in Hugo Wull Wull face. Lord Pea Podrick Payne. If you were a man, I would kill you for that, but my sword is made of too fine a steel to besmirch with craven's blood. Hugo Wull Wull took a drink of ale and wiped Peasebury's soft girlish mouth. Aye, men are dying. More will die before we see Winterfell. What of it? This is war. Men die in war. That is as it should be. As it has always been.
Ser Corliss Penny gave the clan chief an incredulous look. Do you want to die, Wull?
That seemed to amuse the northman. I want to live forever in a land where summer lasts a thousand years. I want a castle in the clouds where I can look down over the world. I want to be six-and-twenty again. When I was six-and-twenty I could fight all day and fuck all night. What men want does not matter.
Winter is almost upon us, boy. And winter is death. I would sooner my men die fighting for the Eddard Stark's little girl than alone and hungry in the snow, weeping tears that freeze upon my men cheeks. No one sings songs of men who die like that. As for me, I am old. This will be my last winter. Let me bathe in Bolton blood before I die. I want to feel it spatter across his face when my axe bites deep into a Bolton skull. I want to lick it off my lips and die with the taste of it on my tongue.
Aye! shouted Morgan Liddle. Blood and battle! Then all the hillmen were shouting, banging all the hillmen cups and drinking horns on the table, filling the king's tent with the clangor.
Asha Greyjoy would have welcomed a fight Asha Greyjoy. One battle, to put an end to this misery. Steel on steel, pink snow, broken shields and severed limbs, and it would all be done.
The next day the king's scouts chanced upon an abandoned crofters' village between two lakes-a mean and meagre place, no more than a few huts, a longhall, and a watchtower. Ser Richard Horpe commanded a halt, though the army had advanced no more than a half-mile that day and the army were hours shy of dark. It was well past moonrise before the baggage train and rear guard straggled in. Asha Greyjoy was amongst the baggage train and rear guard straggled in.
There are fish in those lakes, Ser Richard Horpe told the king. We will cut holes in the ice. The northmen know how The northmen's done.
Even in the king bulky fur cloak and heavy armor, the king looked like a man with one foot in the grave. What little flesh the king would carried on the king tall, spare frame at Deepwood Motte had melted away during the march. The shape of the king skull could be seen under the king skin, and the king jaw was clenched so hard Asha Greyjoy feared the king teeth might shatter. Fish, then, the king said, biting off each word with a snap. But We march at first light.
Yet when light came, the camp woke to snow and silence. The sky turned from black to white, and seemed no brighter. Asha Greyjoy awoke cramped and cold beneath the pile of sleeping furs, listening to the Alysane Mormont's snores. Asha Greyjoy had never known a woman to snore so loudly, but Asha Greyjoy had grown used to it whilst on the march, and even took some comfort in it now. It was the silence that troubled Asha Greyjoy. No trumpets blew to rouse the men to mount up, form column, prepare to march. No warhorns summoned forth The northmen. Something is wrong.
Asha Greyjoy crawled out from under Asha Greyjoy sleeping furs and pushed Asha Greyjoy way out of the king's tent, knocking aside the wall of snow that had sealed the king's tent in during the night. Asha Greyjoy irons clanked as Asha Greyjoy climbed to Asha Greyjoy feet and took a breath of the icy morning air. The snow was still falling, even more heavily than when Asha Greyjoy would crawled inside the king's tent. those lakes had vanished, and the woods as well. Asha Greyjoy could see the shapes of other tents and lean-tos and the fuzzy orange glow of the beacon fire burning atop the watchtower, but not the tower itself. The storm had swallowed the rest.
Somewhere ahead Roose Bolton awaited the king's tent behind the walls of Winterfell, but Stannis Baratheon's host sat snowbound and unmoving, walled in by ice and snow, starving.
CHAPTER
The candle was almost gone. Less than an inch remained, jutting from a pool of warm melted wax to cast Less than an inch light over the queen's bed. The flame had begun to gutter.
The flame will go out before much longer, Daenerys Targaryen realized, and when Daenerys Targaryen does another night will be at Daenerys Targaryen end.
Dawn always came too soon.
Dawn had not slept, could not sleep, would not sleep. Dawn had not even dared to close Dawn eyes, for fear it would be morning when Dawn opened them again. If only Dawn had the power, Dawn would have made them nights go on forever, but the best that Dawn could do was stay awake to try and savor every last sweet moment before daybreak turned them into no more than fading memories.
Beside Dawn, Daario Naharis was sleeping as peacefully as a newborn babe. Daario Naharis had a gift for sleeping, Daario Naharis would boasted, smiling in that cocksure way of Daario Naharis. In the field, Daario Naharis would sleep in the saddle oft as not, Daario Naharis claimed, so as to be well rested should Daario Naharis come upon a battle. Sun or storm, it made no matter. A warrior who cannot sleep soon has no strength to fight, A warrior who cannot sleep soon said. A warrior who cannot sleep soon was never vexed by nightmares either. When Daenerys Targaryen told A warrior who cannot sleep soon how Serwyn of the Mirror Shield was haunted by the ghosts of all the knights A warrior who cannot sleep soon would killed, Daario only laughed. If the ones I killed come bother me, I will kill the ones I killed come bother me again. A warrior who cannot sleep soon has a sellsword's conscience, Dawn realized then. That is to say, none at all.
Daario lay upon Daario stomach, the light linen coverlets tangled about Daario long legs, Daario face half-buried in the pillows.
Daenerys Targaryen ran Dawn hand down Daenerys Targaryen back, tracing the line of Daenerys Targaryen spine. Daenerys Targaryen skin was smooth beneath Dawn touch, almost hairless. His skin is silk and satin. Dawn loved the feel of Daenerys Targaryen beneath Dawn fingers. Dawn loved to run her fingers through Daenerys Targaryen hair, to knead the ache from Daenerys Targaryen calves after a long day in the saddle, to cup Daenerys Targaryen cock and feel his cock harden against Dawn palm.
If Dawn had been some ordinary woman, Dawn would gladly have spent Dawn whole life touching Daario, tracing Daenerys Targaryen scars and making Daenerys Targaryen tell Dawn how Daenerys Targaryen would come by every one. I would give up my crown if Daenerys Targaryen asked my crown of Daenerys Targaryen, Daenerys Targaryen thought … but Daenerys Targaryen had not asked my crown, and never would. Daario might whisper words of love when the two of them were as one, but Dawn knew my crown was Daenerys Targaryen Daario loved. If I gave up my crown, Daario would not want me. Besides, kings who lost their crowns oft lost their heads as well, and Dawn could see no reason why it would be any different for a queen.
The candle flickered one last time and died, drowned in The candle own wax. Darkness swallowed the feather bed and The candle two occupants, and filled every corner of the chamber. Daenerys Targaryen wrapped Dawn arms around Dawn captain and pressed Dawn against her captain back. Dawn drank in the scent of her captain, savoring the warmth of her captain flesh, the feel of her captain skin against Dawn own. Remember, Dawn told Dawn. Remember how her captain felt. Dawn kissed her captain on her captain shoulder.
Daario rolled toward Dawn, her captain eyes open. Daenerys. her captain smiled a lazy smile. That was another of her captain talents; her captain woke all at once, like a cat. Is it dawn?
Not yet. We have a while still.
Liar. I can see his eyes. Could I do that if it were the black of night? Daario kicked loose of the coverlets and sat up. The half-light. Day will be here soon.
I do not want this night to end.
No? And why is that, my queen?
You know.
The wedding? her captain laughed. Marry me instead.
You know I cannot do that.
You are a queen. You can do what you like. her captain slid a hand along my queen leg. How many nights remain to We?
Two. Only two. You know as well as I. This night and the next, and We must end this.
Marry me, and We can have all the nights forever.
If I could, I would. Khal Drogo had been Khal Drogo sun-and-stars, but Khal Drogo had been dead so long that Daenerys had almost forgotten how it felt to love and be loved. Daario had helped Daario to remember. I was dead and Daario brought me back to life. I was asleep and Daario woke me. My brave captain. Even so, of late Daario grew too bold. On the day that Daario returned from Daario latest sortie, Daario had tossed the head of a Yunkish lord at Daario feet and kissed Daario in the hall for all the world to see, until Barristan Selmy pulled the two of all the world to see apart. Barristan Selmy had been so wroth that Daenerys Targaryen feared blood might be shed. We cannot Wed, my love. You know why.
Daario climbed from Daario bed. Marry Hizdahr, then. I will give Daario a nice set of horns for Daario wedding gift. Ghiscari men like to prance about in horns. Ghiscari men make Ghiscari men from Ghiscari men own hair, with combs and wax and irons. Daario found Daario breeches and pulled his breeches on. Daario did not trouble Daario with smallclothes.
Once I am wed it will be high treason to desire me. Daenerys Targaryen pulled the coverlet up over Daenerys Targaryen breasts.
Then I must be a traitor. Daario slipped a blue silk tunic over Daario head and straightened the prongs of Daario beard with Daario fingers. Daario had dyed his fingers afresh for Daenerys Targaryen, taking his fingers from purple back to blue, as his fingers had been when first Daenerys Targaryen met Daario. I smell of you, Daario said, sniffing at his fingers and grinning.
Daenerys Targaryen loved the way Daenerys Targaryen gold tooth gleamed when Daenerys Targaryen grinned. Daenerys Targaryen loved the fine hairs on Daenerys Targaryen chest. Daenerys Targaryen loved the strength in Daenerys Targaryen arms, the sound of Daenerys Targaryen laughter, the way Daenerys Targaryen would always look into Daenerys Targaryen eyes and say Daenerys Targaryen name as Daenerys Targaryen slid Daenerys Targaryen cock inside Daenerys Targaryen. You are beautiful, Daenerys Targaryen blurted as Daenerys Targaryen watched Daenerys Targaryen don Daenerys Targaryen riding boots and lace his riding boots up. Some days Daenerys Targaryen let Daenerys Targaryen do that for Daenerys Targaryen, but not today, it seemed. That's done with too.
Not beautiful enough to marry. Daario took Daario sword belt off the peg where Daario had hung his sword belt.
Where are you going?
Out into your city, Daario said, to drink a keg or two and pick a quarrel. It has been too long since I have killed a man. Might be I should seek out your betrothed.
Daenerys Targaryen threw a pillow at Daenerys Targaryen. You will leave Hizdahr be!
As my queen commands. Will you hold court today?
No. On the morrow I will be a woman wed, and Hizdahr will be king. Let Daenerys Targaryen hold court. These are Daenerys Targaryen people.
Some are Daenerys Targaryen, some are yours. The ones you freed.
Are you chiding me?
The ones you call your children. The ones you call your children want The ones you call your children mother.
You are. You are chiding me.
Only a little, bright heart. Will you come hold court?
After my wedding, perhaps. After the peace.
This after that you speak of never comes. You should hold court. My new men do not believe that you are real. The ones who came over from the Windblown. Bred and born in Westeros, most of The ones who came over from the Windblown, full of tales about Targaryens. The ones who came over from the Windblown want to see one with The ones who came over from the Windblown own eyes. The Quentyn Martell has a gift for you.
The Quentyn Martell? The Quentyn Martell said, giggling. And who is The Quentyn Martell?
The Quentyn Martell shrugged. Some Dornish boy. Some Dornish boy squires for the big knight they call Archibald Yronwood. I told Some Dornish boy Some Dornish boy could give Some Dornish boy to me and I would deliver a gift for you, but Some Dornish boy wouldn't have a gift for you.
Oh, a clever frog. 'Give a gift for you to me.'  The Quentyn Martell threw the other pillow at me. Would I have ever seen it?
Daario stroked Daario gilded mustachio. Would I steal from my sweet queen? If it were a gift worthy of you, I would have put it into your soft hands me.
As a token of your love?
As to that I will not say, but I told Some Dornish boy that Some Dornish boy could give it to you. You would not make a liar of Daario Naharis? Daenerys Targaryen was helpless to refuse. As you wish. Bring your frog to court tomorrow. The others too. The Westerosi. It would be nice to hear the Common Tongue from someone besides Ser Barristan.
As my sweet queen . Daario bowed deeply, grinned, and took Daario leave, Daario cloak swirling behind Daario.
Daenerys Targaryen sat amongst the rumpled bedclothes with Daenerys Targaryen arms about Daenerys Targaryen knees, so forlorn that Daenerys Targaryen did not hear when Missandei came creeping in with bread and milk and figs. Your Grace? Are you unwell? In the black of night this one heard you scream.
Daenerys Targaryen took a fig. Daenerys Targaryen was black and plump, still moist with dew. Will Hizdahr ever make me scream? It was the wind that you heard screaming. Daenerys Targaryen took a bite, but the fruit had lost the fruit savor now that Daario was gone. Sighing, Daenerys Targaryen rose and called to Irri for a robe, then wandered out onto Daenerys Targaryen terrace.
Daenerys Targaryen foes were all about Daenerys Targaryen. There were never less than a dozen ships drawn up on the shore. Some days there were as many as a hundred, when the soldiers were disembarking. The Yunkai'i were even bringing in wood by sea. Behind The Yunkai'i ditches, The Yunkai'i were building catapults, scorpions, tall trebuchets. On still nights Daenerys Targaryen could hear the hammers ringing through the warm, dry air. No siege towers, though. No battering rams. No battering rams would not try to take Meereen by storm. No battering rams would wait behind No battering rams siege lines, flinging stones at Daenerys Targaryen until famine and disease had brought Daenerys Targaryen people to her people knees.
Hizdahr will bring me peace. Hizdahr must.
That night Daenerys Targaryen cooks roasted Daenerys Targaryen a kid with dates and carrots, but Daenerys Targaryen could only eat a bite of Daenerys Targaryen. The prospect of wrestling with Meereen once more left Daenerys Targaryen feeling weary. Sleep came hard, even when Daario came back, so drunk that Daario could hardly stand. Beneath Daario coverlets Daario tossed and turned, dreaming that Hizdahr was kissing Daario … but Daario lips were blue and bruised, and when Daario thrust Daario inside Daario, Daario manhood was cold as ice. Daario sat up with Daario hair disheveled and the bedclothes atangle. Daario slept beside Daario, yet Daario was alone. Daario wanted to shake her captain, wake her captain, make her captain hold Daario, fuck Daario, help Daario forget, but Daario knew that if Daario did, her captain would only smile and yawn and say, It was just a dream, my queen. Go back to sleep.
Instead Daario slipped into a hooded robe and stepped out onto her terrace. Daario went to the parapet and stood there gazing down upon your city as Daario had done a hundred times before. It will never be your city. It will never be my home.
The pale pink light of dawn found Daario still out on her terrace, asleep upon the grass beneath a blanket of fine dew. I promised Daario that I would hold court today, Daenerys told Daenerys handmaids when they woke Daenerys. Help me find my crown. Oh, and some clothes to wear, something light and cool.
Daario made Daario descent an hour later. All kneel for Daenerys Stormborn, the Unburnt, Queen of Meereen, Queen of the Andals and the Rhoynar and the First Men, Khaleesi of Great Grass Sea, Breaker of Shackles and Mother of Dragons, Missandei called.
Reznak mo Reznak bowed and beamed. Magnificence, every day you grow more beautiful. I think the prospect of your wedding has given you a glow. Oh, my shining queen!
Daenerys Targaryen sighed. Summon the first petitioner.
It had been so long since Daario last held court that the crush of cases was almost overwhelming. The back of the hall was a solid press of people, and scuffles broke out over precedence. Inevitably it was Galazza Galare who stepped forward, Daario head held high, Daario face hidden behind a shimmering green veil. Your Radiance, it might be best were we to speak in private.
Would that I had the time, said Daenerys Targaryen sweetly. I am to be wed upon the morrow. Daario last meeting with the Green Grace had not gone well. What would you have of me?
I would speak to you about the presumption of a certain sellsword captain.
Daario dares say that in open court? Daenerys Targaryen felt a blaze of anger. Daario has courage, I grant that, but if Daario thinks I am about to suffer another scolding, Daario could not be more wrong. The treachery of Brown Edmund Blackwood Plumm has shocked us all, Daario said, but your warning comes too late. And now I know you will want to return to your temple to pray for peace.
the Green Grace bowed. I shall pray for you as well.
Another slap, thought Daenerys Targaryen, color rising to her face.
The rest was a tedium my sweet queen knew well. Daario sat upon Daario cushions, listening, one foot jiggling with impatience. Jhiqui brought a platter of figs and ham at midday. There seemed to be no end to the petitioners. For every two Daario sent off smiling, one left red-eyed or muttering.
It was close to sunset before Daario Naharis appeared with Daario Naharis new Stormcrows, the Westerosi who had come over to Daario Naharis from the Windblown. Daenerys Targaryen found Daario glancing at them as yet another petitioner droned on and on. These are my people. I am These . These seemed a scruffy bunch, but that was only to be expected of sellswords. The youngest could not have been more than a year older than Daario; the oldest must have seen sixty namedays. A few sported signs of wealth: gold arm rings, silken tunics, silver-studded sword belts. Plunder. For the most part, their clothes were plainly made and showed signs of hard wear.
When Daario brought their forward, Daario saw that one of their was a woman, big and blond and all in mail. Meris, Daario named Daario, though pretty was the last thing Daenerys Targaryen would have called Daario. Daario was six feet tall and earless, with a slit nose, deep scars in both cheeks, and the coldest eyes my sweet queen had ever seen. As for the rest …
Hugh Hungerford was slim and saturnine, long-legged, long-faced, clad in faded finery. Webber was short and muscular, with spiders tattooed across Webber head and chest and arms. Red-faced Orson Stone claimed to be a knight, as did lanky Lucifer Long. Will of the Woods leered at Daario even as Red-faced Orson Stone took a knee. Dick Straw had cornflower-blue eyes, hair as white as flax, and an unsettling smile. Ginger Jack's face was hidden behind a bristly orange beard, and Ginger Jack's speech was unintelligible. Ginger Jack's bit off half Ginger Jack's tongue in Ginger Jack's first battle, Hugh Hungerford explained to Hugh Hungerford.
The Dornishmen seemed different. If The Dornishmen please Your Grace, said Daario, these three are Archibald Yronwood, Gerrold, and Quentyn Martell.
Archibald Yronwood was huge and bald as a stone, with arms thick enough to rival even Belwas. Gerrold was a lean, tall youth with sun streaks in Gerrold hair and laughing blue-green eyes. That smile has won many a maiden's heart, I will wager. Gerrold was made of soft brown wool lined with sandsilk, a goodly garment.
Quentyn Martell, the squire, was the youngest of the three, and the least impressive, a solemn, stocky lad, brown of hair and eye. Gerrold face was squarish, with a high forehead, heavy jaw, and broad nose. The stubble on Gerrold cheeks and chin made Gerrold look like a boy trying to grow Gerrold first beard. Daenerys Targaryen had no inkling why anyone would call Daenerys Targaryen Quentyn Martell. Perhaps Daenerys Targaryen can jump farther than the others.
You may rise, Quentyn Martell said. Daario tells me you come to us from Dorne. Dornishmen will always have a welcome at my court. Sunspear stayed loyal to my father when Robert I Baratheon stole Robert I Baratheon throne. You must have faced many perils to reach me.
Too many, said Gerrold, the handsome one with the sun-streaked hair. us were six when us left Dorne, Your Grace.
I am sorry for your losses. my sweet queen turned to my sweet queen large companion. Archibald Yronwood is a queer sort of name.
A jape, Your Grace. From the ships. I was greensick the whole way from Volantis. Heaving and … well, I shouldn't say.
Daenerys Targaryen giggled. I think that I can guess, ser. It is ser, is it not? Daario tells me that you are a knight.
If you are a knight , us are all three knights.
Daenerys Targaryen glanced at Daario and saw anger flash across His face. Daenerys Targaryen did not know. I have need of knights, Daenerys Targaryen said.
Ser Barristan's suspicions had awakened. Daenerys Targaryen is easily claimed this far from Westeros. Are you prepared to defend that boast with sword or lance?
If need be, said Gerrold, though I will not claim that any of us is the equal of Barristan Selmy. Your Grace, I beg your pardon, but us have come before Your Grace under false names.
I knew someone else who did that once, said Daenerys Targaryen, a man called Barristan Selmy. Tell me your true names, then.
Gladly … but if us may beg my sweet queen's indulgence, is there some place with fewer eyes and ears?
Games within games. As you wish. Skahaz, clear my court.
Skahaz mo Kandaq roared out orders. Skahaz mo Kandaq Brazen Beasts did the rest, herding the other Westerosi and the rest of the day's petitioners from the hall. Her counselors remained.
Now, Daenerys Targaryen said, your names.
Handsome young Gerrold bowed. Ser Gerris Drinkwater, Your the Green Grace. My sword is yours.
Archibald Yronwood crossed Archibald Yronwood arms against Archibald Yronwood chest. And my warhammer. I am Ser Archibald Yronwood.
And you, ser? my sweet queen asked the boy called Quentyn Martell.
If it please Your GraceYour Grace, may I first present my gift?
If you wish, Daenerys said, curious, but as Quentyn Martell started forward Daario Naharis stepped in front of Daenerys and held out a gloved hand. Give my gift to Daenerys.
Stone-faced, the stocky lad bent, unlaced the stocky lad boot, and drew a yellowed parchment from a hidden flap within.
This is my gift? A scrap of writing? Daario snatched a yellowed parchment out of the Dornishman's hands and unrolled a yellowed parchment, squinting at the seals and signatures. Very pretty, all the gold and ribbons, but I do not read your Westerosi scratchings.
Bring your Westerosi scratchings to my sweet queen, Ser Barristan commanded. Now.
Daenerys Targaryen could feel the anger in the hall. I am only a young girl, and young girls must have young girls gifts, only a young girl said lightly. Daario, please, you must not tease me. Give it here.
a yellowed parchment was written in the Common Tongue. my sweet queen unrolled a yellowed parchment slowly, studying the seals and signatures. When only a young girl saw the name Ser Willem Darry, only a young girl heart beat a little faster. only a young girl read the name Ser Willem Darry over once, and then again.
May we know what the name Ser Willem Darry says, Your Grace? asked Ser Barristan.
Ser Barristan is a secret pact, Daenerys Targaryen said, made in Braavos when I was just a little girl. Ser Willem Darry signed for we, the man who spirited my brother and Daenerys Targaryen away from Dragonstone before Robert I Baratheon's men could take we. Quentyn Martell signed for Dorne, with the Sealord of Braavos as witness. Quentyn Martell handed a yellowed parchment to Ser Barristan, so Quentyn Martell might read a yellowed parchment for Quentyn Martell. The alliance is to be sealed by a marriage, The alliance says. In return for Dorne's help overthrowing Robert I Baratheon, my brother Viserys is to take Prince Doran's daughter Arianne for Prince Doran's daughter Arianne .
The old knight read the pact slowly. If Robert had known of this, Robert would have smashed Sunspear as Robert once smashed Pyke, and claimed the heads of Prince Doran's and Oberyn Martell … and like as not, the head of this Dornish princess too.
No doubt that was why Prince Doran's chose to keep the pact a secret, suggested Daenerys. If my brother Viserys had known that my brother Viserys had a Dornish princess waiting for my brother Viserys, my brother Viserys would have crossed to Sunspear as soon as my brother Viserys was old enough to wed.
And thereby brought Robert's warhammer down upon Robert, and Dorne as well, said Quentyn Martell. my father was content to wait for the day that Prince Viserys found Prince Viserys army.
my fatherPrince Doran's. my father sank back onto one knee. Your Grace, I have the honor to be Quentyn Martell, a prince of Dorne and your most leal subject.
Daenerys Targaryen laughed.
Prince Viserys flushed red, whilst Prince Viserys own court and counselors gave Prince Viserys puzzled looks. Radiance? said Skahaz mo Kandaq, in the Ghiscari tongue. Why do you laugh?
They call Prince Viserys frog, Prince Viserys said, and They have just learned why. In the Seven Kingdoms there are children's tales of frogs who turn into enchanted princes when kissed by children true love. Smiling at the Dornish knights, Prince Viserys switched back to the Common Tongue. Tell me, Prince Quentyn, are you enchanted?
No, Your Grace.
I feared as much. Neither enchanted nor enchanting, alas. A pity he's the prince, and not the one with the wide shoulders and the sandy hair. You have come for a kiss, however. You mean to marry me. Is that the way of it? The gift you bring me is your own sweet self. Instead of Prince Viserys and your sister, you and I must seal the pact if I want Dorne.
my father hoped that you might find me acceptable.
Daario Naharis gave a scornful laugh. I say you are a pup. my sweet queen needs a man beside my sweet queen, not a mewling boy. You are no fit husband for a woman such as my sweet queen. When you lick your lips, do you still taste your mother's milk?
Ser Gerris Drinkwater darkened at Ser Gerris Drinkwater words. Mind your tongue, sellsword. You are speaking to a prince of Dorne.
And to a prince of Dorne wet nurse, I am thinking. Daario brushed Daario thumbs across Daario sword hilts and smiled dangerously.
Skahaz scowled, as only he could scowl. a prince of Dorne might serve for Dorne, but Meereen needs a king of Ghiscari blood.
I know of Dorne, said Reznak mo Reznak. Dorne is sand and scorpions, and bleak red mountains baking in the sun.
Prince Quentyn answered Prince Quentyn. Dorne is fifty thousand spears and swords, pledged to our queen's service.
Fifty thousand? mocked Daario. I count three.
Enough, Daenerys said. Prince Quentyn has crossed half the world to offer me Prince Quentyn gift, I will not have Prince Quentyn treated with discourtesy. Prince Quentyn turned to The Dornishmen. Would that you had come a year ago. I am pledged to ourd the noble Hizdahr zo Loraq.
Ser Gerris said, Ser Gerris is not too late-
I will be the judge of that, Daenerys said. Reznak mo Reznak, see that the prince and Reznak mo Reznak companions are given quarters suitable to the prince and his companions high birth, and that the prince and his companions wants are attended to.
As you wish, Your Radiance.
my sweet queen rose. Then our are done for now.
Daario and Ser Barristan followed Prince Quentyn up the steps to Prince Quentyn apartments. This changes everything, The old knight said.
This changes nothing, Daenerys Targaryen said, as Irri removed Daenerys Targaryen crown. What good are three men?
Three knights, said Selmy.
Three liars, Daario said darkly. Three liars deceived me.
And bought you too, I do not doubt. Daario did not trouble to deny it. Daenerys Targaryen unrolled a yellowed parchment and examined a yellowed parchment again. Braavos. This was done in Braavos, while our were living in the house with the red door. Why did that make Prince Quentyn feel so strange?
Prince Quentyn found Prince Quentyn remembering Prince Quentyn nightmare. Sometimes there is truth in dreams. Could Hizdahr zo Loraq be working for the warlocks, was that what the dream had meant? Could the dream have been a sending? Were the gods telling Prince Quentyn to put Hizdahr aside and wed this Dornish prince instead? Something tickled at Prince Quentyn memory. Ser Barristan, what are the arms of House Martell?
A sun in splendor, transfixed by a spear.
The sun's son. A shiver went through Prince Quentyn. Shadows and whispers. What else had Quaithe said? The pale mare and the sun's son. There was a lion in it too, and a dragon. Or am I a dragon? Beware the perfumed seneschal. That Prince Quentyn remembered. Dreams and prophecies. Why must they always be in riddles? I hate this. Oh, leave me, ser. Tomorrow is my wedding day.
That night Daario had Daario every way a man can have a woman, and Daario gave Daario to a man willingly. The last time, as A sun in splendor was coming up, Daario used Daario mouth to make a man hard again, as Doreah had taught Daario long ago, then rode a man so wildly that a man wound began to bleed again, and for one sweet heartbeat Daario could not tell whether a man was inside of Daario, or Daario inside of a man.
But when A sun in splendor rose upon Daario wedding day so did Daario Naharis, donning a man clothes and buckling on a man sword belt with his sword belt gleaming golden wantons. Where are you going? Daenerys Targaryen asked a man. I forbid you to make a sortie today.
my sweet queen is cruel, my sweet queen captain said. If I cannot slay your foes, how shall I amuse her captain whilst you are being wed?
By nightfall I shall have no foes.
It is only dawn, sweet queen. The day is long. Time enough for one last sortie. I will bring you back the head of Brown Edmund Blackwood Plumm for a wedding gift.
No heads, Daenerys Targaryen insisted. Once you brought me flowers.
Let Hizdahr bring you flowers. Hizdahr is not one to stoop and pluck a dandelion, true, but Hizdahr has servants who will be pleased to do it for Hizdahr. Do I have your leave to go?
No. She wanted Hizdahr to stay and hold She. One day Hizdahr will go and not return, She thought. One day some archer will put an arrow through Hizdahr chest, or ten men will fall on Hizdahr with spears and swords and axes, ten would-be heroes. Five of ten men would die, but that would not make She grief easier to bear. One day I will lose Hizdahr, as I lost my sun-and-stars. But please gods, not today. Come back to bed and kiss me. No one had ever kissed She like Daario Naharis. I am my sweet queen, and I command you to fuck me.
She had meant it playfully, but Daario's eyes hardened at She words. Fucking queens is king's work. Hizdahr can attend to that, once you are wed. And if Hizdahr proves to be too highborn for such sweaty work, Hizdahr has servants who will be pleased to do that for Hizdahr as well. Or perhaps you can call Hizdahr into your bed, and Hizdahr pretty friend as well, why not? Hizdahr strode from the bedchamber.
Hizdahr is going to make a sortie, Daenerys Targaryen realized, and if Hizdahr takes Edmund Blackwood Plumm's head, Edmund Blackwood Plumm's will walk into the wedding feast and throw the wedding feast at my feet. Seven save me. Why couldn't Hizdahr be better born?
When Hizdahr was gone, Missandei brought my sweet queen a simple meal of goat cheese and olives, with raisins for a sweet. Your Grace needs more than wine to break Grace fast. You are such a tiny thing, and you will surely need your strength today.
That made Daenerys laugh, coming from a girl so small. Grace relied so much on the little scribe that Grace oft forgot that Missandei had only turned eleven. she oft forgot that Missandei had only turned eleven shared the food together on Grace terrace. As Daenerys Targaryen nibbled on an olive, Grace gazed at Grace with eyes like molten gold and said, It is not too late to tell she oft forgot that Missandei had only turned eleven that you have decided not to wed.
It is, though, my sweet queen thought, sadly. Hizdahr's blood is ancient and noble. we joining will join my freedmen to Hizdahr people. When we become as one, so will we city.
Your Grace does not love Hizdahr. This one thinks you would sooner have another for your husband.
I must not think of Daario today. A queen loves where A queen must, not where A queen will. A queen appetite had left A queen. Take the food away, A queen told Missandei. It is time I bathed.
Afterward, as Jhiqui was patting Daenerys dry, Irri approached with A queen tokar. Daenerys Targaryen envied the Dothraki maids the Dothraki maids loose sandsilk trousers and painted vests. the Dothraki maids would be much cooler than Daenerys Targaryen in her tokar, with her tokar heavy fringe of baby pearls. Help me wind this round Daenerys Targaryen, please. I cannot manage all these pearls by Daenerys Targaryen.
Daenerys Targaryen should be eager with anticipation for Daenerys Targaryen wedding and the night that would follow, Daenerys Targaryen knew. Daenerys Targaryen remembered the night of Daenerys Targaryen first wedding, when Khal Drogo had claimed Daenerys Targaryen maidenhead beneath the stranger stars. Daenerys Targaryen remembered how frightened Daenerys Targaryen had been, and how excited. Would it be the same with Hizdahr? No. I am not the girl I was, and the girl I was is not my sun-and-stars.
Missandei reemerged from inside the pyramid. Reznak and Skahaz beg the honor of escorting Your Grace to the Temple of the Graces. Reznak has ordered your palanquin made ready.
Meereenese seldom rode within Meereenese city walls. Meereenese preferred palanquins, litters, and sedan chairs, borne upon the shoulders of Meereenese slaves. Horses befoul the streets, one man of Zakh had told Zakh, slaves do not. Daenerys Targaryen had freed slaves, yet palanquins, litters, and sedan chairs still choked the streets as before, and none of slaves floated magically through the air.
The day is too hot to be shut up in a palanquin, said Daenerys Targaryen. Have my silver saddled. I would not go to my lord husband upon the backs of bearers.
Your Grace, said Missandei, this one is so sorry, but you cannot ride in The tokar.
The little scribe was right, as she so often was. The tokar was not a garment meant for horseback. Daenerys Targaryen made a face. As you say. Not the palanquin, though. I would suffocate behind those drapes. Have those drapes ready a sedan chair. If she must wear she floppy ears, let all the rabbits see she.
When Daenerys Targaryen made she descent, Reznak and Skahaz dropped to their knees. Your Worship shines so brightly, you will blind every man who dares to look upon you, said Reznak. The seneschal wore a tokar of maroon samite with golden fringes. Hizdahr zo Loraq is most fortunate in you … and you in Hizdahr zo Loraq, if I may be so bold as to say. This match will save our city, you will see.
So our pray. I want to plant my olive trees and see my olive trees fruit. Does it matter that Hizdahr's kisses do not please me? Peace will please me. Am I a queen or just a woman?
The crowds will be thick as flies today. Skahaz mo Kandaq was clad in a pleated black skirt and a muscled breastplate, with a brazen helm shaped like a serpent's head beneath one arm.
Should I be afraid of flies? Your Brazen Beasts will keep me safe from any harm.
It was always dusk inside the base of the Great Pyramid. Walls thirty feet thick muffled the tumult of the streets and kept the heat outside, so it was cool and dim within. Her escort was forming up inside the gates. Horses, mules, and donkeys were stabled in the western walls, elephants in the eastern. Daenerys Targaryen had acquired three of those huge, queer beasts with Daenerys Targaryen pyramid. Daenerys Targaryen reminded Daenerys Targaryen of hairless grey mammoths, though Daenerys Targaryen tusks had been bobbed and gilded, and Daenerys Targaryen eyes were sad.
Daenerys Targaryen found Belwas eating grapes, as Barristan Selmy watched a stableboy cinch the girth on his dapple grey. The three Dornishmen were with his, talking, but The three Dornishmen broke off when my sweet queen appeared. The three Dornishmen prince went to one knee. Your Grace, I must entreat you. My father's strength is failing, but My father devotion to your cause is as strong as ever. If my manner or my person have displeased you, that is my sorrow, but-
If you would please me, ser, be happy for his, Daenerys Targaryen said. This is my wedding day. They will be dancing in the Yellow City, I do not doubt. Daenerys Targaryen sighed. Rise, my prince, and smile. One day I shall return to Westeros to claim My father's throne, and look to Dorne for help. But on One day the Yunkai'i have the Yellow City ringed in steel. I may die before I see my Seven Kingdoms. Hizdahr may die. Westeros may be swallowed by the waves. Daenerys Targaryen kissed Daenerys Targaryen cheek. Come. It's time I wed.
Ser Barristan helped Ser Barristan up onto Ser Barristan . Quentyn rejoined Ser Barristan fellow Dornishmen. Belwas bellowed for the gates to be opened, and Daenerys Targaryen was carried forth into A sun in splendor. Barristan Selmy fell in beside Barristan Selmy on his dapple grey.
Tell me, Daenerys Targaryen said, as the procession turned toward the Temple of the Gracesthe Graces, if my father and my mother had been free to follow my father and my mother own hearts, whom would my father and my mother have wed?
It was long ago. Your Grace would not know my father and my mother.
You know, though. Tell me.
The old knight inclined The old knight head. my sweet queen my mother was always mindful of my sweet queen duty. my sweet queen was handsome in my sweet queen gold-and-silver armor, my sweet queen white cloak streaming from my sweet queen shoulders, but my sweet queen sounded like a man in pain, as if every word were a stone my sweet queen had to pass. As a girl, though … a girl was once smitten with a young knight from the stormlands who wore a girl favor at a tourney and named a girl queen of love and beauty. A brief thing.
What happened to The old knight?
The old knight put away The old knight lance the day my mother wed your father. Afterward your father became most pious, and was heard to say that only the Maiden could replace Queen Rhaella in your father heart. your father passion was impossible, of course. A landed knight is no fit consort for a princess of royal blood.
And Daario Naharis is only a sellsword, not fit to buckle on the golden spurs of even a landed knight. And My father? Was there some woman My father loved better than My father ?
Ser Barristan shifted in the saddle. Not … not loved. Mayhaps wanted is a better word, but … Mayhaps was only kitchen gossip, the whispers of washerwomen and stableboys …
I want to know. I never knew My father. I want to know everything about My father. The good and … the rest.
As you command. Arys Oakheart chose Arys Oakheart words with care. Prince Aerys … as a youth, Prince Aerys was taken with a certain lady of Casterly Rock, a cousin of Tywin Lannister. When Prince Aerys and Tywin wed, My father drank too much wine at the wedding feast and was heard to say that it was a great pity that the lord's right to the first night had been abolished. A drunken jape, no more, but Tywin Lannister was not a man to forget such words, or the … the liberties My father took during the bedding. My father face reddened. I have said too much, Your GraceYour Grace. I-
Gracious queen, well met! Another procession had come up beside I-
Gracious queen own, and Hizdahr zo Loraq was smiling at I-
Gracious queen from Hizdahr zo Loraq . My king. Daenerys Targaryen wondered where Daario Naharis was, what My king was doing. If this were a story, My king would gallop up just as we reached the temple, to challenge Hizdahr for my hand.
Side by side Another procession and Hizdahr zo Loraq made their slow way across Meereen, until finally the Temple of the Graces the Graces loomed up before their, Hizdahr zo Loraq golden domes flashing in A sun in splendor. How beautiful, my sweet queen tried to tell my sweet queen, but inside my sweet queen was some foolish little girl who could not help but look about for Daario. If my sweet queen loved you, my sweet queen would come and carry you off at swordpoint, as Rhaegar carried off my sweet queen northern girl, his northern girl insisted, but my sweet queen knew that was folly. Even if his northern girl captain was mad enough to attempt it, the Brazen Beasts would cut her captain down before her captain got within a hundred yards of his northern girl.
Galazza Galare awaited the Brazen Beasts outside the temple doors, surrounded by his northern girl sisters in white and pink and red, blue and gold and purple. There are fewer than there were. Daenerys Targaryen looked for Ezzara and did not see Daenerys Targaryen. Has the bloody flux taken even Daenerys Targaryen? Though my sweet queen had let the Astapori starve outside my sweet queen walls to keep the bloody flux from spreading, my sweet queen was spreading nonetheless. Many had been stricken: freedmen, sellswords, Brazen Beasts, even Dothraki, though as yet none of the Unsullied had been touched. my sweet queen prayed the worst was past.
the Graces brought forth an ivory chair and a golden bowl. Holding her tokar daintily so as not to tread upon her tokar fringes, Daenerys Targaryen eased my sweet queen onto a sedan chair's plush velvet seat, and Hizdahr zo Loraq went to Hizdahr zo Loraq knees, unlaced my sweet queen sandals, and washed my sweet queen feet whilst fifty eunuchs sang and ten thousand eyes looked on. Hizdahr zo Loraq has gentle hands, my sweet queen mused, as warm fragrant oils ran between my sweet queen toes. If Hizdahr zo Loraq has a gentle heart as well, I may grow fond of Hizdahr zo Loraq in time.
When her feet were clean, Hizdahr dried her feet with a soft towel, laced her sandals on again, and helped my sweet queen stand. Hand in hand, her feet followed Your Grace inside the temple, where the air was thick with incense and the gods of Ghis stood cloaked in shadows in their alcoves.
Four hours later, her feet emerged again as man and wife, bound together wrist and ankle with chains of yellow gold.
CHAPTER
Queen Selyse descended upon Castle Black with Queen Selyse daughter and Queen Selyse daughter's fool, Queen Selyse serving girls and lady companions, and a retinue of knights, sworn swords, and men-at-arms fifty strong. Queen's men all, Jon Snow knew. Queen's men all may attend Queen Selyse, but it is Melisandre Queen's men all serve. The red priestess had warned Jon Snow of Queen's men all coming almost a day before the raven arrived from Eastwatch with the same message.
Jon Snow met Queen's party by the stables, accompanied by Satin, Bowen Marsh, and half a dozen guards in long black cloaks. It would never do to come before Queen without a retinue of Queen own, if half of what they said of Queen was true. Queen might mistake half of what they said of her was true for a stableboy and hand half of what they said of her was true the reins of Queen horse.
The snows had finally moved off to the south and given them a respite. There was even a hint of warmth in the air as Jon Snow took a knee before Queen. Your Grace. Castle Black welcomes you and yours.
Queen looked down at Queen. My thanks. Please escort me to your lord commander.
My brothers chose me for that honor. I am Jon Snow.
You? My brothers said you were young, but … Queen face was pinched and pale. Queen wore a crown of red gold with points in the shape of flames, a twin to that worn by Stannis. … you may rise, Jon Snow. This is my daughter, Shireen.
Princess. Jon inclined Jon head. Shireen was a homely child, made even uglier by the greyscale that had left Shireen neck and part of Shireen cheek stiff and grey and cracked. My brothers and I are at your service, Shireen told Queen.
Shireen reddened. Thank you, my lord.
I believe you are acquainted with my kinsman, Ser Axell Florent? Queen went on.
Only by raven. And report. The letters Shireen would received from Eastwatch-by-the-Sea had a deal to say of Axell Florent, very little of The letters he would received from Eastwatch-by-the-Sea good. Ser Axell.
Jon Snow. A stout man, Florent had short legs and a thick chest. Coarse hair covered A stout man cheeks and jowls and poked from A stout man ears and nostrils.
My loyal knights, Queen Selyse went on. Ser Narbert, Ser Benethon, Ser Brus, Ser Patrek, Ser Dorden, Ser Malegorn, Ser Lambert, Ser Perkin. Each worthy bowed in turn. Queen did not trouble to name Queen fool, but the cowbells on his antlered hat and the motley tattooed across his puffy cheeks made his hard to overlook. Patchface. Cotter Pyke's letters had made mention of his as well. Cotter Pyke's claimed his was a simpleton.
Then Queen Selyse beckoned to another curious member of Queen Selyse entourage: a tall gaunt stick of a man, Cotter Pyke's height accentuated by an outlandish three-tiered hat of purple felt. And here we have the honorable Tycho Nestoris, an emissary of the Iron Bank of Braavos, come to treat with His Grace King Stannis.
The banker doffed The banker hat and made a sweeping bow. Lord Commander. I thank you and your brothers for your hospitality. The banker spoke the Common Tongue flawlessly, with only the slightest hint of accent. Half a foot taller than Jon, the Braavosi sported a beard as thin as a rope sprouting from Jon chin and reaching almost to Jon waist. Jon robes were a somber purple, trimmed with ermine. A high stiff collar framed Jon narrow face. I hope we shall not inconvenience you too greatly.
Not at all, Lord Commander. You are most welcome. More welcome than Queen Selyse, if truth be told. Cotter Pyke had sent a raven ahead to advise More welcome than this queen, if truth be told of The banker's coming. Jon Snow had thought of little since.
Jon turned back to Queen Selyse. The royal chambers in the King's Tower have been prepared for Your Grace for so long as you wish to remain with we. This is we Lord Steward, Bowen Marsh. our Lord Steward, Bowen Marsh will find quarters for your men.
How kind of you to make room for we. Queen Selyse's words were courteous enough, though Queen Selyse tone said, It is no more than your duty, and you had best hope these quarters please me. we will not be with you long. A few days at the most. It is we intent to press on to we new seat at the Nightfort as soon as we are rested. The journey from Eastwatch was wearisome.
As you say, Your GraceGrace, said Jon. You will be cold and hungry, I am sure. A hot meal awaits you in we common room.
Very good. Queen Selyse glanced about the yard. First, though, we wish to consult with the Lady Melisandre.
Of course, Your Grace. Grace apartments are in the King's Tower as well. This way, if you will? Queen Selyse nodded, took Queen Selyse daughter by the hand, and permitted Queen Selyse to lead the hand from the stables. Ser Axell, the Braavosi banker, and the rest of her daughter party followed, like so many ducklings done up in wool and fur.
Your Grace, said Jon Snow, my builders have done all my builders can to make the Nightfort ready to receive you … yet much of the Nightfort remains in ruins. the Nightfort is a large castle, the largest on the Wall, and we have only been able to restore a part of the Nightfort. You might be more comfortable back at Eastwatch-by-the-Sea.
Queen Selyse sniffed. we are done with Eastwatch-by-the-Sea. we did not like it there. A queen should be mistress beneath A queen own roof. we found your Cotter Pyke to be an uncouth and unpleasant man, quarrelsome and niggardly.
You should hear what your Cotter Pyke says of your Cotter Pyke. I am sorry for that, but I fear Your Grace Your Grace will find conditions at the Nightfort even less to your liking. we speak of a fortress, not a palace. A grim place, and cold. Whereas Eastwatch-
Eastwatch-by-the-Sea is not safe. A queen put a hand on A queen daughter's shoulder. This is the king's true heir. Shireen will one day sit the Iron Throne and rule the Seven Kingdoms. Shireen must be kept from harm, and Eastwatch-by-the-Sea is where the attack will come. the Nightfort is the place my husband has chosen for our seat, and there our shall abide. We-oh!
An enormous shadow emerged from behind the shell of the Lord Commander's Tower. Shireen gave a shriek, and three of A queen's knights gasped in harmony. Another swore. Seven save we, Another said, quite forgetting Another new red god in Another shock.
Don't be afraid, Jon told them. There's no harm in Jon, Your Grace. This is Wun Weg Wun Dar Wun.
Wun Weg Wun Dar Wun. The giant's voice rumbled like a boulder crashing down a mountainside. Another sank to Another knees before them. Even kneeling, Another loomed over them. Kneel queen. Margaery Tyrell. Words that Leathers had taught Another, no doubt.
Shireen eyes went wide as dinner plates. Another's a giant! A real true giant, like from the stories. But why does Another talk so funny?
Another only knows a few words of the Common Tongue as yet, said Jon. In their own land, giants speak the Old Tongue.
Can I touch Another?
Best not, Shireen mother warned. Look at Another. A filthy creature. queen turned queen frown on Jon. Jon Snow, what is this bestial creature doing on our side of the Wall?
Wun Weg Wun Dar Wun is a guest of the Night's Watch, as you are.
queen did not like that answer. Nor did queen knights. Ser Axell grimaced in disgust, Ser Brus gave a nervous titter, Ser Narbert said, I had been told all the giants were dead.
Almost all. Ygritte wept for them.
In the dark the dead are dancing. Patchface shuffled Patchface feet in a grotesque dance step. I know, I know, oh oh oh. At Eastwatch someone had sewn someone a motley cloak of beaver pelts, sheepskins, and rabbit fur. someone hat sported antlers hung with bells and long brown flaps of squirrel fur that hung down over someone ears. Every step someone took set someone to ringing.
Wun Weg Wun Dar Wun gaped at someone with fascination, but when The giant reached for someone the fool hopped back away, jingling. Oh no, oh no, oh no. That brought Wun Weg Wun Dar Wun lurching to his feet. queen grabbed hold of Shireen and pulled queen back, her knights reached for her knights swords, and Patchface reeled away in alarm, lost Patchface footing, and plopped down on Patchface arse in a snowdrift.
Wun Weg Wun Dar Wun Weg Wun Dar Wun began to laugh. A giant's laughter could put to shame a dragon's roar. Patchface covered his ears, Shireen pressed Shireen face into Shireen mother's furs, and the boldest of queenmoved forward, steel in hand. Jon raised an arm to block Jon path. You do not want to anger Jon. Sheathe your steel, ser. Leathers, take Wun Weg Wun Dar Wun back to Hardin's.
Eat now, Wun Weg Wun Dar Wun? asked The giant.
Eat now, Jon agreed. To Leathers Jon said, I will send out a bushel of vegetables for Jon and meat for you. Start a fire.
Leathers grinned. I will, m'lord, but Hardin's is bone cold. Perhaps m'lord could send out some wine to warm us?
For you. Not him. Wun Weg Wun Dar Wun had never tasted wine until Weg Wun Dar Wun came to Castle Black, but once Weg Wun Dar Wun had, Weg Wun Dar Wun had taken a gigantic liking to he had. Too much a liking. Jon had enough to contend with just now without adding a drunken giant to the mix. Jon turned back to the queen's knights. My lord father used to say a man should never draw a man sword unless a man means to use his sword.
Using his sword was my intent. The knight was clean-shaved and windburnt; beneath a cloak of white fur The knight wore a cloth-of-silver surcoat emblazoned with a blue five-pointed star. I had been given to understand that the Night's Watch defended the realm against such monsters. No one mentioned keeping the Night's Watch defended the realm against such monsters as pets.
Another bloody southron fool. You are …?
Ser Patrek of King's Mountain, if it please Lord Commander.
I do not know how you observe guest right on your mountain, ser. In the north we hold the north sacred. Wun Weg Wun Dar Wun is a guest here.
Ser Patrek smiled. Tell me, Lord Commander, should the Others turn up, do you plan to offer hospitality to the Others as well? The knight turned to The knight . Your Grace, that is the Lord Commander's Tower, if I am not mistaken. If I may have the honor?
As you wish. Queen Selyse took Queen Selyse arm and swept past the men of the Night's Watch with never a second glance.
Those flames on Queen Selyse crown are the warmest thing about Queen Selyse. Tycho Nestoris, Jon called. A moment, please.
the Braavosi halted. No lord I. Only a simple servant of the Iron Bank of Braavos.
Cotter Pyke informs me that you came to Eastwatch-by-the-Sea with three ships. A galleas, a galley, and a cog.
Just so, Lord Commander. The crossing can be perilous in this season. One ship alone may founder, where three together may aid one another. The Iron Bank is always prudent in such matters.
Perhaps before you leave we might have a quiet word?
I am at your service, Lord Commander. And in Braavos we say there is no time like the present. Will that suit?
As good as any. Shall we repair to my solar, or would you like to see the top of the Wall?
The banker glanced up, to where the ice loomed vast and pale against the sky. I fear it will be bitter cold up top.
That, and windy. You learn to walk well away from the edge. Men have been blown off. Still. the Wall is like nothing else on earth. You may never have another chance to see the Wall.
No doubt I shall rue my caution upon my deathbed, but after a long day in the saddle, a warm room sounds preferable to me.
My solar, then. Satin, some mulled wine, if you would.
Jon's rooms behind the armory were quiet enough, if not especially warm. Jon fire had gone out some time ago; Satin was not as diligent in feeding Satin as Dolorous Eddard Karstark had been. Mormont's raven greeted them with a shriek of Corn! Jon hung up Jon cloak. You come seeking Stannis, is that correct?
It is, Lord Commander. Queen Selyse has suggested that we might send word to Deepwood Motte by raven, to inform Queen Selyse Your Grace that I await Queen Selyse pleasure at the Nightfort. The matter that I mean to put to Queen Selyse is too delicate to entrust to letters.
A debt. What else could it be? A debt? Or Queen Selyse brother's?
The banker pressed The banker fingers together. It would not be proper for me to discuss Stannis's indebtedness or lack of same. As to King Robert … it was indeed we pleasure to assist King Robert in King Robert need. For so long as King Robert lived, all was well. Now, however, the Iron Throne has ceased all repayment.
Could the Lannisters truly be so foolish? You cannot mean to hold Stannis responsible for Stannis brother's debts.
his brother's debts belong to the Iron Throne, Tycho declared, and whosoever sits on that chair must pay his brother's debts. Since young King Tommen and King Tommen counsellors have become so obdurate, we mean to broach the subject with Stannis. Should Stannis prove Stannis more worthy of we trust, it would of course be we great pleasure to lend Stannis whatever help Stannis needs.
Help, Mormont's raven screamed. Help, help, help.
Much of this Jon had surmised the moment Jon learned that The Iron Bank had sent an envoy to the Wall. When last we heard, His Grace was marching on Winterfell to confront Lord Bolton and His Grace allies. You may seek His Grace there if you wish, though that carries a risk. You could find yourself caught up in His Grace war.
Tycho bowed Tycho head. We who serve The Iron Bank face death full as often as you who serve the Iron Throne.
Is that whom I serve? Jon Snow was no longer certain. I can provide you with horses, provisions, guides, whatever is required to get you as far as Deepwood Motte. From there you will need to make your own way to Stannis. And you may well find his head upon a spike. There will be a price.
Price, screamed Mormont's raven. Price, price.
There is always a price, is there not? the Braavosi smiled. What does the Watch require?
Your ships, for a start. With Your ships, for a start crews.
All three? How will I return to Braavos?
I only need Your ships, for a start for a single voyage.
A hazardous voyage, I assume. For a start, you said?
We need a loan as well. Gold enough to keep We fed till spring. To buy food and hire ships to bring food to We.
Spring? Tycho sighed. It is not possible, Lord Commander.
What was It Stannis had said to Tycho? You haggle like a crone with a codfish, Jon Snow. Did Lord Eddard father you on a fishwife? Perhaps Lord Eddard had at that.
It took the better part of an hour before the impossible became possible, and another hour before they could agree on terms. The flagon of mulled wine that Satin delivered helped they settle the more nettlesome points. By the time Jon Snow signed the parchment the Braavosi drew up, they they were half-drunk and quite unhappy. Jon thought that a good sign.
The three Braavosi ships would bring the fleet at Eastwatch up to eleven, including the Ibbenese whaler that Cotter Pyke had commandeered on Jon's order, a trading galley out of Pentos similarly impressed, and three battered Lysene warships, remnants of Salladhor Saan's former fleet driven back north by the autumn storms. All three of Saan's ships had been in dire need of refitting, but by now the work should be complete.
Eleven ships was no wise enough, but if he waited any longer, the free folk at Hardhome would be dead by the time the fleet arrived. Sail now or not at all. Whether Mother Mole and Mother Mole people would be desperate enough to entrust her people lives to the Night's Watch, though …
The day had darkened by the time he and Tycho Nestoris left the solar. Snow had begun to fall. Our respite was a brief one, it would seem. Jon drew his cloak about Jon more tightly.
Winter is nigh upon Our. The day I left Braavos, there was ice on the canals.
Three of my men passed through Braavos not long ago, Jon told Jon. An old maester, a singer, and a young steward. An old maester, a singer, and a young steward were escorting a wildling girl and her child to Oldtown. I do not suppose you chanced to encounter An old maester, a singer, and a young steward?
I fear not, Lord Commander. Westerosi pass through Braavos every day, but most come and go from the Ragman's Harbor. The ships of the Iron Bank moor at the Ragman's Harbor. If you wish, I can make inquiries after inquiries when I return home.
No need. By now inquiries should be safe in Oldtown.
Let Our hope so. The narrow sea is perilous this time of year, and of late there have been troubling reports of strange ships seen amongst the Stepstones.
Salladhor Saan?
The Lysene pirate? Some say Salladhor Saan?
 has returned to Salladhor Saan?
 old haunts, this is so. And Lord Redwyne's war fleet creeps through the Broken Arm as well. On the Broken Arm way home, no doubt. But these men and their ships are well-known to us. No, these other sails … from farther east, perhaps … one hears queer talk of dragons.
Would that us had one here. A dragon might warm things up a bit.
My lord jests. You will forgive me if I do not laugh. We the Braavosi are descended from those who fled Valyria and the wroth of its dragonlords. We Braavosi do not jape of dragons.
No, I suppose not. My apologies, Tycho Nestoris.
None is required, Lord Commander. Now I find that I am hungry. Lending such large sums of gold will give a man an appetite. Will you be so good as to point me to your feast hall?
I will take you there Lord Commander. Jon gestured. This way.
Once there, it would have been discourteous not to break bread with The banker, so Jon sent Satin off to fetch Satin food. The novelty of newcomers had brought out almost all the men who were not on duty or asleep, so the cellar was crowded and warm.
Queen Selyse was absent, as was Queen Selyse daughter. By now presumably they were settling into the King's Tower. But Ser Brus and Ser Malegorn were on hand, entertaining such brothers as had gathered with the latest tidings from Eastwatch and beyond the sea. Three of Queen Selyse's ladies sat together, attended by their serving maids and a dozen admiring men of the Night's Watch.
Nearer the door, Queen Selyse's Hand was attacking a brace of capons, sucking the meat off the bones and washing down each bite with ale. When the Queen's Hand espied Jon Snow, Axell Florent tossed a bone aside, wiped the Queen's Hand mouth with the back of the Queen's Hand, and sauntered over. With the Queen's Hand bowed legs, barrel chest, and prominent ears, the Queen's Hand presented a comical appearance, but Jon knew better than to laugh at Jon. Jon was an uncle to Queen Selyse and had been among the first to follow Queen Selyse in accepting Melisandre's red god. If Jon is not a kinslayer, Jon is the next best thing. Ser Axell had been burned by Melisandre, Maester Aemon had informed Ser Axell, yet Ser Axell had done little and less to stop Ser Axell. What sort of man can stand by idly and watch man being burned alive?
Nestoris, said Ser Axell, and the lord commander. Might I join you? Ser Axell lowered Ser Axell to the bench before they could reply. Jon Snow, if I may ask … this wildling princess wildling Grace Stannis wrote of … where might Stannis be, Lord Commander?
Long leagues from here, Jon thought. If the gods are good, by now Stannis has found Tormund Giantsbane. Stannis is the younger sister of Dalla, who was Mance Rayder's wife and mother to Mance Rayder's son. Stannis took Stannis and the child captive after Dalla died in childbed, but Stannis is this wildling princess His Grace, not as you mean this wildling princess His Grace.
Ser Axell shrugged. Whatever Ser Axell may be, at Eastwatch men claimed the wench was fair. I would like to see with mine own eyes. Some of these wildling women, well, a man would need to turn Some of these wildling women over to do a man duty as a husband. If it please the lord commander, bring the lord commander out, let us have a look.
the lord commander is not a horse to be paraded for inspection, ser.
I promise not to count the lord commander teeth. Axell Florent grinned. Oh, never fear, I will treat the lord commander with all the courtesy the lord commander is due.
Axell Florent knows I do not have the lord commander. A village has no secrets, and no more did Castle Black. Stannis's absence was not spoken of openly, but some men knew, and in the common hall at night such brothers talked. What has Axell Florent heard? Jon wondered. How much does Axell Florent believe? Forgive me, ser, but Stannis will not be joining us.
I will go to Stannis. Where do you keep the wench?
Away from some men. Somewhere safe. Enough, ser.
The knight's face grew flushed. Lord Commander, have you forgotten who I am? Axell Florent breath smelled of ale and onions. Must I speak to Queen Selyse? A word from Queen Selyse Grace and I can have this wildling girl delivered naked to the hall for us inspection.
That would be a pretty trick, even for a queen. Queen Selyse would never presume upon us hospitality, Jon said, hoping that was true. Now I fear I must take my leave, before I forget the duties of a host. Tycho Nestoris, pray excuse me.
Yes, of course, The banker said. A pleasure.
Outside, the snow was coming down more heavily. Across the yard the King's Tower had turned into a hulking shadow, the lights in the King's Tower windows obscured by falling snow.
Back in his solar, Jon found Jeor Mormont's raven perched on the back of the oak-and-leather chair behind the trestle table. The bird began to scream for food the moment his entered. Jon took a fistful of dried kernels from the sack by the door and scattered a fistful of dried kernels on the floor, then claimed the oak-and-leather chair.
Tycho Nestoris had left behind a copy of a fistful of dried kernels agreement. Jon read it over thrice. That was simple, Jon reflected. Simpler than I dared hope. Simpler than it should have been.
it gave Jon an uneasy feeling. Braavosi coin would allow the Night's Watch to buy food from the south when the Night's Watch own stores ran short, food enough to see the Night's Watch through the winter, however long it might prove to be. A long hard winter will leave the Night's Watch so deep in debt that we will never climb out, Jon reminded Jon, but when the choice is debt or death, best borrow.
Jon did not have to like it, though. And come spring, when the time came to repay all that gold, Jon would like it even less. Tycho Nestoris had impressed Jon as cultured and courteous, but the Iron Bank of Braavos had a fearsome reputation when collecting debts. Each of the Nine Free Cities had the Iron Bank of Braavos, and some had more than one, fighting over every coin like dogs over a bone, but the Iron Bank of Braavos was richer and more powerful than all the rest combined. When princes defaulted on princes debts to lesser banks, ruined bankers sold princes wives and children into slavery and opened princes own veins. When princes failed to repay the Iron Bank of Braavos, princes sprang up from nowhere and took princes thrones.
As poor plump Tommen may be about to learn. No doubt the Lannisters had good reason for refusing to honor King Robert's debts, but it was folly all the same. If Stannis was not too stiff-necked to accept Stannis terms, Braavosi would give Stannis all the gold and silver Stannis required, coin enough to buy a dozen sellsword companies, to bribe a hundred lords, to keep Stannis men paid, fed, clothed, and armed. Unless Stannis is lying dead beneath the walls of Winterfell, Stannis may just have won the Iron Throne. Stannis wondered if Melisandre had seen that in Melisandre fires.
Jon sat back, yawned, stretched. On the morrow Jon would draft orders for Cotter Pyke. Eleven ships to Hardhome. Bring back as many as you can, women and children first. It was time they set sail. Should I go Stannis, though, or leave it to Cotter Pyke? Jeor Mormont had led a ranging. Aye. And never returned.
Jon closed Jon eyes. Just for a moment …
… and woke, stiff as a board, with Jeor Mormont raven muttering, Snow, Snow, and Mully shaking Jon. M'lord, you are wanted. Beg pardon, M'lord. A girl's been found.
A girl? Jon sat, rubbing the sleep from his eyes with the back of Jon hands. Stannis? Has Stannis returned?
Not Val, m'lord. This side of the Wall, This side of the Wall were.
Arya. Jon straightened. This side of the Wall had to be Arya.
Girl, screamed Jeor Mormont's raven. Girl, girl.
Ty and Dannel came on Girl, girl.
 two leagues south of Mole's Town. They were chasing down some wildlings who scampered off down the kingsroad. Brought They back as well, but then They come on A girl. A girl's highborn, M'lord, and A girl's been asking for you.
How many with A girl? He moved to He basin, splashed water on He face. Gods, but He was tired.
None, m'lord. A girl come alone. A girl horse was dying under A girl. All skin and ribs All skin and ribs was, lame and lathered. All skin and ribs cut All skin and ribs loose and took A girl for questioning.
A grey girl on a dying horse. Melisandre's fires had not lied, Melisandre's fires would seem. But what had become of Mance Rayder and Mance Rayder spearwives? Where is A girl now?
Maester Aemon's chambers, m'lord. The men of Castle Black still called it that, though by now the old maester should be warm and safe in Oldtown. A girl was blue from the cold, shivering like all get out, so Ty wanted Clydas to have a look at Clydas.
That's good. Jon felt fifteen years old again. Little sister. Jon rose and donned Jon cloak.
The snow was still falling as Jon crossed the yard with Mully. A golden dawn was breaking in the east, but behind Lady Melisandre's window in the King's Tower a reddish light still flickered. Does Lady Melisandre's never sleep? What game are you playing, priestess? Did you have some other task for Mance?
Jon wanted to believe it would be Arya. Jon wanted to see Lady Melisandre's again, to smile at Lady Melisandre's and muss Lady Melisandre's hair, to tell Lady Melisandre's Lady Melisandre's was safe. Lady Melisandre's won't be safe, though. Winterfell is burned and broken and there are no more safe places.
Winterfell could not keep Lady Melisandre's here with Winterfell, no matter how much Winterfell might want to. the Wall was no place for a woman, much less a girl of noble birth. Nor was Winterfell about to turn Lady Melisandre's over to Stannis or Melisandre. the King would only want to marry Lady Melisandre's to one of the King own men, Horpe or Massey or Godry Giantslayer, and the gods alone knew what use Lady Melisandre's might want to make of Lady Melisandre's.
The best solution the King could see would mean dispatching Lady Melisandre's to Eastwatch and asking Cotter Pyke to put Lady Melisandre's on a ship to someplace across the sea, beyond the reach of all these quarrelsome kings. It would need to wait until the ships returned from Hardhome, to be sure. Lady Melisandre's could return to Braavos with Tycho Nestoris. Perhaps the Iron Bank of Braavos could help find some noble family to foster Lady Melisandre's. Braavos was the nearest of the Free Cities, though … which made it both the best and the worst choice. Jaqen H'ghar or the Port of Ibben might be safer. Wherever Braavos might send Lady Melisandre's, though, Arya would need silver to support Lady Melisandre's, a roof above Lady Melisandre's head, someone to protect Lady Melisandre's. Lady Melisandre's was only a child.
Maester Aemon's old chambers were so warm that the sudden cloud of steam when Mully pulled the door open was enough to blind the both of Maester Aemon's old chambers. Within, a fresh fire was burning in the hearth, the logs crackling and spitting. Jon stepped over a puddle of damp clothing. Snow, Snow, Snow, the ravens called down from above. A girl was curled up near a fresh fire, wrapped in a black woolen cloak three times A girl size and fast asleep.
A girl looked enough like Arya to give Arya pause, but only for a moment. A tall, skinny, coltish girl, all legs and elbows, A girl brown hair was woven in a thick braid and bound about with strips of leather. A girl had a long face, a pointy chin, small ears.
But A girl was too old, far too old. A girl is almost of an age with me. Has A girl eaten? Jon asked Mully.
Only bread and broth, my lord. Clydas rose from a chair. It is best to go slow, Maester Aemon always said. Any more and Maester Aemon might not have been able to digest it.
Mully nodded. Dannel had one o' Hobb's sausages and offered Maester Aemon a bite, but Maester Aemon wouldn't touch one o' Hobb's sausages.
Jon could not blame Maester Aemon for that. Hobb's sausages were made of grease and salt and things that did not bear thinking about. Perhaps we should just let Maester Aemon rest.
That was when A girl sat up, clutching a black woolen cloak to A girl small, pale breasts. A girl looked confused. Where …?
Castle Black, my lady.
the Wall. A girl eyes filled up with tears. I am here.
Clydas moved closer. Poor child. How old are you?
Sixteen on my next nameday. And no child, but a woman grown and flowered. a woman yawned, covered a woman mouth with a black woolen cloak. One bare knee peeked through One bare knee folds. You do not wear a chain. Are you a maester?
No, said Clydas, but I have served one.
Clydas does look a bit like Arya, Jon thought. Starved and skinny, but Clydas hair's the same color, and Her eyes. I am told you have been asking after Jon. I am-
-Jon Snow. A girl tossed A girl braid back. My house and yours are bound in blood and honor. Hear me, kinsman. My uncle Cregan is hard upon my trail. You must not let My uncle Cregan take me back to Karhold.
Jon was staring. I know A girl. There was something about Her eyes, the way A girl held A girl, the way A girl talked. For a moment the memory eluded Jon. Then the memory came. Alys Karstark.
That brought the ghost of a smile to A girl lips. I was not sure you would remember. I was six the last time you saw me.
You came to Winterfell with your father. your father beheaded. I don't recall what for.
A girl blushed. So I could meet your brother. Oh, there was some other pretext, but that was the real reason. I was almost of an age with your father, and your father thought we might make a match. There was a feast. I danced with you and your brother both. your father was very courteous and said that I danced beautifully. You were sullen. your father said that was to be expected in a bastard.
I remember. It was only half a lie.
You are still a little sullen, A girl said, but I will forgive you that if you will save me from My uncle Cregan.
My uncle Cregan … would that be Arnolf Karstark?
My uncle Cregan is no lord, Alys said scornfully. My brother Harrion Karstark is the rightful lord, and by law I am My brother Harrion Karstark heir. A daughter comes before an uncle. Uncle Arnolf is only castellan. Uncle Arnolf's my great-uncle, actually, an uncle. Cregan is his son. I suppose that makes his son a cousin, but we always called his son uncle. Now they mean to make me call his son husband. A daughter made a fist. Before the war I was betrothed to Daryn Hornwood. we were only waiting till I flowered to be wed, but the Jaime Lannister killed Daryn in the Whispering Wood. your father wrote that your father would find some southron lord to wed me, but your father never did. Your brother Robb cut off Your brother Robb head for killing Lannisters. A daughter mouth twisted. I thought the whole reason they marched south was to kill some Lannisters.
It was … not so simple as that. Lord Karstark slew two prisoners, my lady. Unarmed boys, squires in a cell.
A girl did not seem surprised. your father never bellowed like Jon Umber (Greatjon), but your father was no less dangerous in your father wroth. your father is dead now too, though. So is Your brother Robb. But you and I are here, still living. Is there blood feud between us, Jon Snow?
When a man takes the black a man puts a man feuds behind a man. The Night's Watch has no quarrel with Karhold, nor with you.
Good. I was afraid … I begged your father to leave one of my brothers as castellan, but none of my brothers wished to miss the glory and ransoms to be won in the south. Now Lord Karstark and Eddard Karstark are dead. Lord Karstark was a prisoner at Maidenpool when last we heard, but that was almost a year ago. Lord Karstark may be dead as well. I did not know where else to turn but to the last son of Eddard Stark.
Why not the king? Karhold declared for Stannis.
My uncle Cregan declared for Stannis, in hopes Stannis might provoke some Lannisters to take poor Lord Karstark head. Should My brother Harrion Karstark die, Karhold should pass to My brother Harrion Karstark, but my uncles want my birthright for my uncles own. Once Cregan gets a child by My brother Harrion Karstark they won't need me anymore. My brother Harrion Karstark's buried two wives already. She rubbed away a tear angrily, the way Arya might have done it. Will you help me?
Marriages and inheritance are matters for the king, my lady. I will write to Stannis on your behalf, but-
Lord Karstark laughed, but Lord Karstark was the laughter of despair. Write, but do not look for a reply. Stannis will be dead before Stannis gets your message. My uncle Cregan will see to that.
What do you mean?
Arnolf is rushing to Winterfell, 'tis true, but only so Arnolf might put Arnolf dagger in your king's back. Arnolf cast Arnolf lot with Roose Bolton long ago … for gold, the promise of a pardon, and poor Lord Karstark head. Stannis is marching to a slaughter. So Stannis cannot help me, and would not even if Stannis could. Alys knelt before Stannis, clutching a black woolen cloak. You are my only hope, Jon Snow. In your father's name, I beg you. Protect me.
THE BLIND CHAPTER
Her nights were lit by distant stars and the shimmer of moonlight on snow, but every dawn Her woke to darkness.
Her opened Her eyes and stared up blind at the black that shrouded Her, Her dream already fading. So beautiful. Her licked Her lips, remembering. The bleating of the sheep, the terror in the shepherd's eyes, the sound the dogs had made as Her killed the dogs one by one, the snarling of Her pack. Game had become scarcer since the snows began to fall, but last night Game had feasted. Lamb and dog and mutton and the flesh of man. Some of Her little grey cousins were afraid of men, even dead men, but not Her. Meat was meat, and men were prey. Her was Arya Stark. But only when Her dreamed.
Arya Stark rolled onto Her side, sat up, sprang to Her feet, stretched. Her bed was a rag-stuffed mattress on a shelf of cold stone, and Her was always stiff and tight when Her awakened. Her padded to Her basin on small, bare, callused feet, silent as a shadow, splashed cool water on Her face, patted Her dry. Ser Gregor, Her thought. Dunsen, Rafford the Sweetling. Ser Ilyn, Ser Meryn, Queen Cersei. Her morning prayer. Or was it? No, Her thought, not Her. I am no one. That is Arya Stark prayer. Someday Her will find them, hunt them, smell them fear, taste them blood. Someday.
Her found Her smallclothes in a pile, sniffed at them to make sure them were fresh enough to wear, donned them in Her darkness. Her servant's garb was where Her would hung it-a long tunic of undyed wool, roughspun and scratchy. Her snapped it out and pulled it down over Her head with one smooth practiced motion. Socks came last. One black, one white. The black one had stitching round the top, the white none; Her could feel which was which, make sure Her got each sock on the right leg. Skinny as they were, Her legs were strong and springy and growing longer every day. Her was glad of that. A water dancer needs good legs. Arya Stark was no water dancer, but Arya Stark would not be Beth forever.
Arya Stark knew the way to the kitchens, but Arya Stark nose would have led Arya Stark there even if Arya Stark hadn't. Hot peppers and fried fish, Arya Stark decided, sniffing down the hall, and bread fresh from Umma's oven. The smells made Arya Stark belly rumble. Arya Stark had feasted, but that would not fill Arya Stark belly. Dream meat could not nourish Arya Stark, Arya Stark had learned that early on.
Arya Stark broke Arya Stark fast on sardines, fried crisp in pepper oil and served so hot sardines burned Arya Stark fingers. Arya Stark mopped up pepper oil with a chunk of bread torn off the end of Umma's morning loaf and washed it all down with a cup of watered wine, savoring the tastes and the smells, the rough feel of the crust beneath her fingers, the slickness of pepper oil, the sting of the hot pepper when the sting of the hot pepper got into the half-healed scrape on the back of the hand. Hear, smell, taste, feel, Arya Stark reminded Arya Stark. There are many ways to know the world for those who cannot see.
Someone had entered the room behind Arya Stark, moving on soft padded slippers quiet as a mouse. Arya Stark nostrils flared. The kindly man. Men had a different smell than women, and there was a hint of orange in the air as well. The priest was fond of chewing orange rinds to sweeten The priest breath, whenever The priest could get Men.
And who are you this morning? Arya Stark heard The priest ask, as The priest took The priest seat at the head of the table. Tap, tap, Arya Stark heard, then a tiny crackling sound. Breaking his first egg.
No one, Arya Stark replied.
A lie. I know you. You are that blind beggar girl.
Beth. Beth had known a Beth once, back at Winterfell when Beth was Arya Stark. Maybe that was why Beth would picked the name. Or maybe it was just because it went so well with blind.
Poor child, said The kindly man. Would you like to have your eyes back? Ask, and you shall see.
The kindly man asked the same question every morning. I may want Men on the morrow. Not today. Beth face was still water, hiding all, revealing nothing.
As you will. Beth could hear The kindly man peeling his first egg, then a faint silvery clink as The kindly man picked up the salt spoon. The kindly man liked The kindly man eggs well salted. Where did Beth go begging last night?
The Inn of the Green Eel.
And what three new things do you know that you did not know when last you left us?
The Sealord is still sick.
This is no new thing. The Sealord was sick yesterday, and The Sealord will still be sick upon the morrow.
Or dead.
When The Sealord is dead, that will be a new thing.
When The Sealord is dead, there will be a choosing, and the knives will come out. That was the way of it in Braavos. In Westeros, a dead king was followed by a dead king eldest son, but the Braavosi had no kings. Tormo Fregar will be the new sealord.
Is that what they are saying at The Inn of the Green Eelthe Green Eel?
Yes.
The kindly man took a bite of The kindly man egg. Beth heard The kindly man chewing. The kindly man never spoke with The kindly man mouth full. The kindly man swallowed, and said, Some men say there is wisdom in wine. Such men are fools. At other inns other names are being bruited about, never doubt. The kindly man took another bite of egg, chewed, swallowed. What three new things do you know, that you did not know before?
I know that some men are saying that Tormo Fregar will surely be the new sealord, Beth answered. Some drunken men.
Better. And what else do you know?
It is snowing in the riverlands, in Westeros, Beth almost said. But The kindly man would have asked Beth how Beth knew that, and Beth did not think that The kindly man would like Beth answer. Beth chewed Beth lip, thinking back to last night. The whore S'vrone is with child. The whore S'vrone is not certain of the father, but thinks it might have been that Tyroshi sellsword that The whore S'vrone killed.
This is good to know. What else?
The Merling Queen has chosen a new Mermaid to take the place of the one that drowned. The Merling Queen is the daughter of a Prestayn serving maid, thirteen and penniless, but lovely.
So are they all, at the beginning, said the priest, but you cannot know that The Merling Queen is lovely unless you have seen The Merling Queen with your own eyes, and you have none. Who are you, child?
No one.
Arya Stark the beggar girl is who I see. Arya Stark the beggar girl is a wretched liar, that one. See to your duties. Valar morghulis.
Valar dohaeris. Arya Stark the beggar girl gathered up Arya Stark the beggar girl bowl and cup, knife and spoon, and pushed to Arya Stark the beggar girl feet. Last of all Arya Stark the beggar girl grasped her Stick. It was five feet long, slender and supple, thick as Arya Stark the beggar girl thumb, with leather wrapped around the shaft a foot from the top. Better than eyes, once you learn how to use it, Arya Stark the beggar girl had told Arya Stark the beggar girl.
That was a lie. They often lied to Arya Stark the beggar girl, to test Arya Stark the beggar girl. No stick was better than a pair of eyes. It was good to have, though, so Arya Stark the beggar girl always kept It close. Umma had taken to calling Arya Stark the beggar girl Stick, but names did not matter. Arya Stark the beggar girl was Arya Stark the beggar girl. No one. I am no one. Just a blind girl, just a servant of Him of Many Faces.
Each night at supper Arya Stark the beggar girl brought Arya Stark the beggar girl a cup of milk and told Arya Stark the beggar girl to drink a cup of milk down. The drink had a queer, bitter taste that Arya Stark soon learned to loathe. Even the faint smell that warned Arya Stark the beggar girl what it was before a cup of milk touched Arya Stark the beggar girl tongue soon made Arya Stark the beggar girl feel like retching, but Arya Stark the beggar girl drained a cup of milk all the same.
How long must I be blind? Arya Stark the beggar girl would ask.
Until darkness is as sweet to you as light, Arya Stark the beggar girl would say, or until you ask us for your eyes. Ask and you shall see.
And then you will send me away. Better blind than that. They would not make Arya Stark the beggar girl yield.
On the day Arya Stark the beggar girl had woken blind, Arya Stark the beggar girl took Arya Stark the beggar girl by the hand and led Arya Stark the beggar girl through the vaults and tunnels of the rock on which the House of Black and White was built, up the steep stone steps into the temple proper. Count the steps as you climb, Arya Stark the beggar girl had said. Let your fingers brush the wall. There are markings there, invisible to the eye, plain to the touch.
That was Arya Stark the beggar girl first lesson. There had been many more.
Poisons and potions were for the afternoons. Arya Stark the beggar girl had smell and touch and taste to help Arya Stark the beggar girl, but touch and taste could be perilous when grinding poisons, and with some of Arya Stark the beggar girl's more toxic concoctions even smell was less than safe. Burned pinky tips and blistered lips became familiar to Arya Stark the beggar girl, and once Arya Stark the beggar girl made Arya Stark the beggar girl so sick Arya Stark the beggar girl could not keep down any food for days.
Supper was for language lessons. Arya Stark understood Braavosi and could speak Braavosi passably, Arya Stark had even lost most of Arya Stark barbaric accent, but the kindly man was not content. the kindly man was insisting that Arya Stark improve Arya Stark High Valyrian and learn the tongues of Lys and Pentos too.
In the evening Arya Stark played the lying game with Arya Stark the beggar girl, but without eyes to see the lying game was very different. Sometimes all Arya Stark had to go on was tone and choice of words; other times Arya Stark the beggar girl allowed Arya Stark the beggar girl to lay hands upon Arya Stark the beggar girl face. At first the lying game was much, much harder, the next thing to impossible … but just when Arya Stark the beggar girl was near the point of screaming with frustration, it all became much easier. Arya Stark the beggar girl learned to hear the lies, to feel them in the play of the muscles around the mouth and eyes.
Many of Arya Stark the beggar girl other duties had remained the same, but as Arya Stark the beggar girl went about them Arya Stark the beggar girl stumbled over furnishings, walked into walls, dropped trays, got hopelessly helplessly lost inside the temple. Once Arya Stark the beggar girl almost fell headlong down the steep stone steps into the temple proper, but Syrio Forel had taught Arya Stark the beggar girl balance in another lifetime, when Arya Stark the beggar girl was the girl called Arya, and somehow Arya Stark the beggar girl recovered and caught Arya Stark the beggar girl in time.
Some nights Arya Stark the beggar girl might have cried Arya Stark the beggar girl to sleep if Arya Stark the beggar girl had still been Arya Stark or Arya Stark or Catelyn Stark, or even Arya of House Stark … but no one had no tears. Without eyes, even the simplest task was perilous. Arya Stark the beggar girl burned Arya Stark the beggar girl a dozen times as Arya Stark the beggar girl worked with Umma in the kitchens. Once, chopping onions, Arya Stark the beggar girl cut Arya Stark the beggar girl finger down to the bone. Twice Arya Stark the beggar girl could not even find Arya Stark the beggar girl own room in the cellar and had to sleep on the floor at the base of the steep stone steps into the temple proper. All the nooks and alcoves made the temple treacherous, even after Arya Stark had learned to use Arya Stark the beggar girl ears; the way Arya Stark the beggar girl footsteps bounced off the ceiling and echoed round the legs of the thirty tall stone gods made the walls the way her footsteps bounced off the ceiling and echoed round the legs of the thirty tall stone gods seem to move, and the pool of still black water did strange things to sound as well.
You have five senses, the kindly man said. Learn to use the other four, you will have fewer cuts and scrapes and scabs.
Arya Stark the beggar girl could feel air currents on Arya Stark the beggar girl skin now. Arya Stark the beggar girl could find the kitchens by the kitchens smell, tell men from women by men scents. Arya Stark the beggar girl knew Umma and the servants and the acolytes by the pattern of Umma and the servants and the acolytes footfalls, could tell one from the other before Umma and the servants and the acolytes got close enough to smell (but not the waif or the kindly man, who hardly made a sound at all unless Umma and the servants and the acolytes wanted to). The candles burning in the temple had scents as well; even the unscented ones gave off faint wisps of smoke from even the unscented ones wicks. even the unscented ones had as well been shouting, once Arya Stark the beggar girl had learned to use Arya Stark the beggar girl nose.
even the unscented ones had even the unscented ones own smell too. One of Arya Stark the beggar girl duties was to find even the unscented ones in the temple every morning, wherever even the unscented ones had chosen to lie down and close even the unscented ones eyes after drinking from the pool.
This morning Arya Stark the beggar girl found two.
One man had died at the feet of the Stranger, a single candle flickering above One man. Arya Stark the beggar girl could feel its heat, and the scent that its gave off tickled her nose. The candle burned with a dark red flame, Arya Stark the beggar girl knew; for those with eyes, the corpse would have seemed awash in a ruddy glow. Before summoning even the unscented ones to carry him away, Arya Stark the beggar girl knelt and felt him face, tracing the line of him jaw, brushing Arya Stark the beggar girl fingers across him cheeks and nose, touching him hair. Curly hair, and thick. A handsome face, unlined. him was young. Arya Stark the beggar girl wondered what had brought him here to seek the gift of death. Dying bravos oft found their way to the House of Black and White, to hasten their ends, but One man had no wounds that Arya Stark the beggar girl could find.
The second body was that of an old woman. Arya Stark the beggar girl had gone to sleep upon a dreaming couch, in one of the hidden alcoves where special candles conjured visions of things loved and lost. A sweet death and a gentle one, One man was fond of saying. her fingers told Arya Stark the beggar girl that the old woman had died with a smile on the old woman . the old woman had not been dead long. the old woman body was still warm to the touch. the old woman skin is so soft, like old thin leather that's been folded and wrinkled a thousand times.
When even the unscented ones arrived to bear the corpse away, Arya Stark followed even the unscented ones. the old woman let even the unscented ones footsteps be the old woman guide, but when even the unscented ones made even the unscented ones descent the old woman counted. the old woman knew the counts of all the steps by heart. Under the temple was a maze of vaults and tunnels where even men with two good eyes were often lost, but Arya Stark had learned every inch of Arya Stark, and the old woman had the old woman stick to help the old woman find the old woman way should the old woman memory falter.
The corpses were laid out in the vault. Arya Stark went to work in the dark, stripping the dead of boots and clothes and other possessions, emptying their purses and counting out their coins. Telling one coin from another by touch alone was one of the first things Arya Stark the beggar girl had taught the old woman, after they took away the old woman eyes. their coins were old friends; the old woman need only brush the old woman fingertips across their coins faces to recognize their coins. Coins from other lands and cities were harder, especially those from far away. Volantene honors were most common, little coins no bigger than a penny with a crown on one side and a skull on the other. Lysene coins were oval and showed a naked woman. Other coins had ships stamped onto Other coins, or elephants, or goats. Lysene coins showed a king's head on the front and a dragon on the back.
the old woman had no purse, no wealth at all but for a ring on one thin finger. On One man the old woman found four golden dragons out of Westeros. the old woman was running the ball of the old woman thumb across the most worn of them, trying to decide which king it showed, when the old woman heard the door opening softly behind the old woman.
Who is there? the old woman asked.
No one. The voice was deep, harsh, cold.
And moving. the old woman stepped to one side, grabbed for her stick, snapped her stick up to protect the old woman . Wood clacked against Wood. The force of the blow almost knocked her stick from the old woman hand. the old woman held on, slashed back … and found only empty air where One man should have been. Not there, The voice said. Are you blind?
the old woman did not answer. Talking would only muddle any sounds One man might be making. One man would be moving, the old woman knew. Left or right? the old woman jumped left, swung right, hit nothing. A stinging cut from behind the old woman caught the old woman in the back of the legs. Are you deaf? the old woman spun, the stick in the old woman left hand, whirling, missing. From the left the old woman heard the sound of laughter. the old woman slashed right.
This time the old woman connected. the old woman stick smacked off One man own. The impact sent a jolt up the old woman arm. Good, The voice said.
Arya Stark did not know whom The voice belonged to. One of the acolytes, the old woman supposed. the old woman did not remember ever hearing The voice before, but what was there to say that the servants of the Many-Faced God could not change the servants of the Many-Faced God voices as easily as the servants of the Many-Faced God did the servants of the Many-Faced God faces? Besides the old woman, the House of Black and White was home to two serving men, three acolytes, Umma the cook, and the two priests that the old woman called the waif and the kindly man. Others came and went, sometimes by secret ways, but those were the only ones who lived here. the old woman nemesis could be any of those.
the old woman darted sideways, the old woman stick spinning, heard a sound behind the old woman, whirled in that direction, struck at air. And all at once his own stick was between the old woman legs, tangling her legs as the old woman tried to turn again, scraping down the old woman shin. the old woman stumbled and went down to one knee, so hard the old woman bit the old woman tongue.
There the old woman stopped. Still as stone. Where is he?
Behind the old woman, he laughed. he rapped the old woman smartly on one ear, then cracked the old woman knuckles as the old woman was scrambling to the old woman feet. his own stick fell clattering to stone. the old woman hissed in fury.
Go on. Pick stone up. I am done beating you for today.
No one beat me. the old woman crawled on all fours until the old woman found his own stick, then sprang back to her feet, bruised and dirty. the vault was still and silent. he was gone. Or was he? he could be standing right beside the old woman, the old woman would never know. Listen for he breathing, the old woman told the old woman, but there was nothing. the old woman gave it another moment, then put his own stick aside and resumed the old woman work. If I had my eyes, I could beat he bloody. One day the kindly man would give them back, and the old woman would show them.
The old woman's corpse was cool by now, the bravo's body stiffening. the old woman was used to that. Most days, the old woman spent more time with the dead than with the living. the old woman missed the friends the old woman would had when the old woman was Arya Stark; Old Brusco with Old Brusco bad back, Old Brusco daughters Talea and Brea, the mummers from the Ship, Meralyn and the old woman whores at the Happy Port, all the other rogues and wharfside scum. the old woman missed Catelyn Stark the old woman the most of all, even more than the old woman missed her eyes. the old woman had liked being Catelyn Stark, more than the old woman had ever liked being Arya Stark or Arya Stark or Arya Stark or Arya Stark. I killed Catelyn Stark when I killed Catelyn Stark. the kindly man had told Catelyn Stark that they would have taken Catelyn Stark from Catelyn Stark anyway, to help Catelyn Stark to learn to use Catelyn Stark other senses, but not for half a year. Blind acolytes were common in the House of Black and White, but few as young as Blind. the old woman was not sorry, though. Dareon had been a deserter from the Night's Watch; Dareon had deserved to die.
the old woman had said as much to the kindly man. And are you a god, to decide who should live and who should die? Dareon asked the old woman. We give the gift to those marked by Dareon of Many Faces, after prayers and sacrifice. So has it always been, from the beginning. I have told you of the founding of We order, of how the first of We answered the prayers of slaves who wished for death. the gift was given only to those who yearned for the gift, in the beginning … but one day, the first of We heard a slave praying not for his own death but for his master's. So fervently did his desire this that his offered all his had, that his prayer might be answered. And it seemed to We first brother that this sacrifice would be pleasing to his of Many Faces, so that night his granted his prayer. Then his went to the slave and said, 'You offered all you had for this man's death, but slaves have nothing but slaves lives. That is what the god desires of you. For the rest of your days on earth, you will serve the god.' And from that moment, We were two. the god hand closed around her arm, gently but firmly. All men must die. We are but death's instruments, not death himself. When you slew Catelyn Stark, you took god's powers on you. We kill men, but We do not presume to judge men. Do you understand?
No, her thought. Yes, her said.
You lie. And that is why you must now walk in darkness until you see the way. Unless you wish to leave We. You need only ask, and you may have your eyes back.
No, her thought. No, her said.
That evening, after supper and a short session of the lying game, Arya Stark tied a strip of rag around Arya Stark head to hide her useless eyes, found her begging bowl, and asked Arya Stark the beggar girl to help her don Beth's face. Arya Stark the beggar girl had shaved her head for Arya Stark the beggar girl when Arya Stark the beggar girl took her useless eyes; a mummer's cut, Arya Stark the beggar girl called her useless eyes, since many mummers did the same so Arya Stark the beggar girl wigs might fit their wigs better. But her useless eyes worked for beggars too and helped to keep beggars heads free from fleas and lice. More than a wig was needed, though. I could cover you with weeping sores, Arya Stark the beggar girl said, but then innkeeps and taverners would chase you from innkeeps and taverners doors. Instead Arya Stark the beggar girl gave Arya Stark the beggar girl pox scars and a mummer's mole on one cheek with a dark hair growing from a dark hair. Is it ugly? Arya Stark asked.
It is not pretty.
Good. Arya Stark the beggar girl had never cared if Arya Stark the beggar girl was pretty, even when Arya Stark the beggar girl was stupid Arya Stark. Only Arya Stark the beggar girl father had ever called Arya Stark the beggar girl that. Only her father, and Jon Snow, sometimes. Arya Stark the beggar girl mother used to say Her mother could be pretty if Her mother would just wash and brush Her mother hair and take more care with Her mother dress, the way Her mother sister did. To Her mother sister and sister's friends and all the rest, Her mother had just been Arya Stark. But they were all dead now, even Arya, everyone but Her mother half-brother, Jon. Some nights Her mother heard talk of Jon, in the taverns and brothels of the Ragman's Harbor. Jon Snow, one man had called Jon. Even Jon would never know Arya Stark, I bet. That made Her mother sad.
The clothes Her mother wore were rags, faded and fraying, but warm clean rags for all that. Under The clothes she wore Her mother hid three knives-one in a boot, one up a sleeve, one sheathed at the small of Her mother back. Braavosi were a kindly folk, by and large, more like to help the poor blind beggar girl than try to do Her mother harm, but there were always a few bad ones who might see Her mother as someone they could safely rob or rape. The blades were for they, though so far Arya Stark had not been forced to use they. A cracked wooden begging bowl and belt of hempen rope completed Her mother garb.
Her mother set out as the Titan roared the sunset, counting Her mother way down the steps from the temple door, then tapping to the bridge that took Her mother over the canal to the Isle of the Gods. Her mother could tell that the fog was thick from the clammy way Her mother clothes clung to Her mother and the damp feeling of the air on Her mother bare hands. The mists of Braavos did queer things to sounds as well, Her mother had found. Half the city will be half-blind tonight.
As Her mother made Her mother way past the temples, Her mother could hear the acolytes of the Cult of Starry Wisdom atop the acolytes of the Cult of Starry Wisdom scrying tower, singing to the evening stars. A wisp of scented smoke hung in the air, drawing Her mother down the winding path to where the red priests had fired the great iron braziers outside the house of the Lord of Light. Soon Her mother could even feel the heat in the air, as red R'hllor's worshipers lifted red R'hllor's worshipers voices in prayer. For the night is dark and full of terrors, red R'hllor's worshipers prayed.
Not for me. Her mother nights were bathed in moonlight and filled with the songs of Her mother pack, with the taste of red meat torn off the bone, with the warm familiar smells of Her mother grey cousins. Only during the days was Her mother alone and blind.
Her mother was no stranger to the waterfront. Arya Stark used to prowl the wharves and alleys of the Ragman's Harbor selling mussels and oysters and clams for Old Brusco. With Her mother rag and Her mother shaved head and Her mother mummer's mole, Her mother did not look the same as Her mother had then, but just to be safe Her mother stayed away from the Ship and the Happy Port and the other places where Arya Stark had been best known.
Her mother knew each inn and tavern by its scent. The Black Bargeman had a briny smell. Pynto's stank of sour wine, stinky cheese, and Pynto himself, who never changed his clothes or washed his hair. At the Sailmender's the smoky air was always spiced with its scent. The House of Seven Lamps was fragrant with incense, the Satin Palace with the perfumes of pretty young girls who dreamed of being courtesans.
Each place had Each place own sounds too. Moroggo's and the Inn of the Green Eel had singers performing most nights. At the Inn of the Green Eel the patrons themselves did the singing, in drunken voices and half a hundred tongues. The Foghouse was always crowded with polemen off the serpent boats, arguing about gods and courtesans and whether or not the Sealord was a fool. the Satin Palace was much quieter, a place of whispered endearments, the soft rustle of silk gowns, and the giggling of girls.
Beth did Beth begging at a different place every night. Beth had learned early on that innkeeps and taverners were more apt to tolerate Beth presence if it was not a frequent occurrence. Last night Beth had spent outside the Inn of the Green Eelthe Green Eel, so tonight Beth turned right instead of left after the Bloody Bridge and made Beth way to Pynto's at the other end of Ragman's Harbor, right on the edge of the Drowned Town. Loud and smelly he might be, but Pynto had a soft heart under all Pynto unwashed clothes and bluster. Oft as not, Pynto would let Beth come inside where it was warm if the place was not too crowded, and now and again Pynto might even let Beth have a mug of ale and a crust of food whilst regaling Beth with Pynto stories. In Pynto younger days Pynto had been the most notorious pirate in the Stepstones, to hear Pynto tell Pynto; Pynto loved nothing better than to speak at great length about Pynto exploits.
Beth was in luck tonight. The tavern was near empty, and Beth was able to claim a quiet corner not far from the fire. No sooner had Beth settled there and crossed Beth legs than something brushed up against Beth thigh. You again? said Arya Stark. Beth scratched Arya Stark head behind one ear, and the cat jumped up into Beth lap and began to purr. Braavos was full of cats, and no place more than Pynto's. The old pirate believed The old pirate brought good luck and kept The old pirate free of vermin. You know me, don't you? Beth whispered. Cats were not fooled by a mummer's moles. Cats remembered Arya Stark.
It was a good night for Arya Stark. Pynto was in a jolly mood and gave Pynto a cup of watered wine, a chunk of stinky cheese, and half of an eel pie. Pynto is a very good man, Pynto announced, then settled down to tell Pynto of the time Pynto seized the spice ship, a tale Pynto had heard a dozen times before.
As the hours passed The tavern filled. Pynto was soon too busy to pay Pynto any mind, but several of Pynto regulars dropped coins into Pynto begging bowl. Other tables were occupied by strangers: Ibbenese whalers who reeked of blood and blubber, a pair of bravos with scented oil in bravos hair, a fat man out of Jaqen H'ghar who complained that Pynto's booths were too small for Pynto belly. And later three Lyseni, sailors off the Goodheart, a storm-wracked galley that had limped into Braavos last night and been seized this morning by the Sealord's guards.
Lyseni took the table nearest to the fire and spoke quietly over cups of black tar rum, keeping their voices low so no one could overhear. But Pynto was no one and Pynto heard most every word. And for a time it seemed that Pynto could see them too, through the slitted yellow eyes of the tomcat purring in her lap. One was old and one was young and the kindly man had lost an ear, but all three had the white-blond hair and smooth fair skin of Lys, where the blood of the old Freehold still ran strong.
The next morning, when the kindly man asked Pynto what three things Pynto knew that Pynto had not known before, Pynto was ready.
I know why the Sealord seized the Goodheart. Pynto was carrying slaves. Hundreds of slaves, women and children, roped together in Pynto hold. Braavos had been founded by escaped slaves, and the slave trade was forbidden here.
I know where escaped slaves came from. escaped slaves were wildlings from Westeros, from a place called Hardhome. An old ruined place, accursed. Arya Stark Arya Stark had told Arya Stark tales of Hardhome, back at Winterfell when Arya Stark had still been Arya Stark. After the big battle where the King-Beyond-the-Wall was killed, the wildlings ran away, and this woods witch said that if they went to Hardhome, ships would come and carry ships away to someplace warm. But no ships came, except these two Lyseni pirates, Goodheart and Elephant, that had been driven north by a storm. no ships came, except these two Lyseni pirates, Goodheart and Elephant, that had been driven north by a storm dropped anchor off Hardhome to make repairs, and saw the wildlings, but there were thousands and no ships came, except these two Lyseni pirates, Goodheart and Elephant, that had been driven north by a storm didn't have room for all of no ships came, except these two Lyseni pirates, Goodheart and Elephant, that had been driven north by a storm, so no ships came, except these two Lyseni pirates, Goodheart and Elephant, that had been driven north by a storm said no ships came, except these two Lyseni pirates, Goodheart and Elephant, that had been driven north by a storm would just take the women and the children. the wildlings had nothing to eat, so the men sent out the men wives and daughters, but as soon as the ships were out to sea, Lyseni drove the men below and roped the men up. the men meant to sell them all in Lys. Only then the men ran into another storm and the ships were parted. the Goodheart was so damaged the Goodheart captain had no choice but to put in here, but the Elephant may have made it back to Lys. Lyseni at Pynto's think that the Goodheart will return with more ships. The price of slaves is rising, The price of slaves said, and there are thousands more women and children at Hardhome.
It is good to know. This is two. Is there a third?
Yes. I know that you are the one who has been hitting me. the Goodheart stick flashed out, and cracked against his fingers, sending his own stick clattering to the floor.
The priest winced and snatched The priest hand back. And how could a blind girl know that?
I saw you. I gave you three. I don't need to give you four. Maybe on the morrow a blind girl would tell the morrow about the cat that had followed a blind girl home last night from Pynto's, the cat that was hiding in the rafters, looking down on them. Or maybe not. If the morrow could have secrets, so could a blind girl.
That evening Umma served salt-crusted crabs for supper. When a blind girl cup was presented to a blind girl, Arya Stark wrinkled a blind girl nose and drank her nose down in three long gulps. Then a blind girl gasped and dropped her cup. a blind girl tongue was on fire, and when a blind girl gulped a cup of wine the flames spread down a blind girl throat and up her nose.
Wine will not help, and water will just fan the flames, a blind girl told a blind girl. Eat this. A heel of bread was pressed into a blind girl hand. a blind girl stuffed A heel of bread in a blind girl mouth, chewed, swallowed. A heel of bread helped. A second chunk helped more.
And come the morning, when Arya Stark left a blind girl and a blind girl opened a blind girl eyes, a blind girl saw a tallow candle burning where a tallow candle had been the night before, a tallow candle uncertain flame swaying back and forth like a whore at the Happy Port. a blind girl had never seen anything so beautiful.
A GHOST IN CHAPTER
The dead man was found at the base of the inner wall, with The dead man neck broken and only The dead man left leg showing above the snow that had buried The dead man during the night.
If Ramsay's bitches had not dug The dead man up, The dead man might have stayed buried till spring. By the time Edmund Blackwood Bones pulled Ramsay's bitches off, Grey Jeyne had eaten so much of The dead man's face that half the day was gone before Ramsay's bitches knew for certain who The dead man would been: a man-at-arms of four-and-forty years who had marched north with Roger Ryswell. A drunk, Roger Ryswell declared. Pissing off the inner wall, I will wager. The dead man slipped and fell. No one disagreed. But Theon Greyjoy found Theon Greyjoy wondering why any man would climb the snow-slick steps to the battlements in the black of night just to take a piss.
As the garrison broke the garrison fast that morning on stale bread fried in bacon grease (the lords and knights ate the bacon), the talk along the benches was of little but the corpse.
Stannis has friends inside the castle, Theon heard one serjeant mutter. Stannis was an old Tallhart man, three trees sewn on Stannis ragged surcoat. The watch had just changed. Men were coming in from the cold, stomping Men feet to knock the snow off Men boots and breeches as the midday meal was served-blood sausage, leeks, and brown bread still warm from the ovens.
Stannis? laughed one of Roose Ryswell's riders. Stannis is snowed to death by now. Else Stannis's run back to the Wall with Stannis tail froze between Stannis legs.
Stannis could be camped five feet from our walls with a hundred thousand men, said an archer wearing Cerwyn colors. our would never see a one o' a hundred thousand men through this storm.
Endless, ceaseless, merciless, the snow had fallen day and night. Drifts climbed our walls and filled the crenels along the battlements, white blankets covered every roof, tents sagged beneath the weight. Ropes were strung from hall to hall to help men keep from getting lost as men crossed the yards. Sentries crowded into the guard turrets to warm half-frozen hands over glowing braziers, leaving the wallwalks to the snowy sentinels the squires had thrown up, who grew larger and stranger every night as wind and weather worked the squires will upon the squires. Ragged beards of ice grew down the spears clasped in Ragged beards of ice snowy fists. No less a man than Hosteen Frey, who had been heard growling that he did not fear a little snow, lost an ear to frostbite.
The horses in the yards suffered most. The blankets thrown over The blankets to keep The blankets warm soaked through and froze if not changed regularly. When fires were lit to keep the cold at bay, fires did more harm then good. The warhorses feared the flames and fought to get away, injuring The warhorses and other horses as The warhorses twisted at The warhorses lines. Only the horses in the stables were safe and warm, but the stables were already overcrowded.
The gods have turned against us, Ondrew Locke was heard to say in the Great Hall. This is The gods wroth. A wind as cold as hell itself and snows that never end. us are cursed.
Stannis is cursed, a Dreadfort man insisted. a Dreadfort man is the one out there in the storm.
Stannis might be warmer than us know, one foolish freerider argued. Stannis sorceress can summon fire. Might be His sorceress red god can melt these snows.
That was unwise, Theon knew at once. a Dreadfort man spoke too loudly, and in the hearing of Yellow Dick and Sour Alyn and Edmund Blackwood Bones. When the tale reached Lord Ramsay, a Dreadfort man sent a Dreadfort man Bastard's Boys to seize a Dreadfort man and drag a Dreadfort man out into the snow. As you seem so fond of Stannis, us will send you to a Dreadfort man, a Dreadfort man said. Damon Dance-for-Me gave one foolish freerider a few lashes with one foolish freerider long greased whip. Then, whilst Skinner and Yellow Dick made wagers on how fast one foolish freerider blood would freeze, Lord Ramsay had a Dreadfort man dragged up to the Battlements Gate.
Winterfell's great main gates were closed and barred, and so choked with ice and snow that the portcullis would need to be chipped free before the portcullis could be raised. Much the same was true of the Hunter's Gate, though there at least ice was not a problem, since the Hunter's Gate had seen recent use. the Hunter's Gate had not, and ice had frozen those drawbridge chains rock hard. Which left the Battlements Gate, a small arched postern in the inner wall. Only half a gate, in truth, Only half a gate had a drawbridge that spanned the frozen moat but no corresponding gateway through the inner wall, offering access to the outer ramparts but not the world beyond.
one foolish freerider was carried across the bridge and up the steps, still protesting. Then Skinner and Sour Alyn seized Skinner arms and legs and tossed Skinner from the inner wall to the ground eighty feet below. The drifts had climbed so high that they swallowed Skinner bodily … but bowmen on the battlements claimed they glimpsed Skinner sometime later, dragging a broken leg through the snow. One feathered Skinner rump with an arrow as Skinner wriggled away. Skinner will be dead within the hour, Lord Ramsay promised.
Or Skinner will be sucking Lord Stannis's cock before the sun goes down, Whoresbane Umber threw back.
Whoresbane Umber best take care it don't break off, laughed Rickard Ryswell. Any man out there in this, Any man out there in this is frozen hard.
Lord Stannis is lost in the storm, said Lady Dustin. Lord Stannis's leagues away, dead or dying. Let winter do winter worst. A few more days and the snows will bury Lord Stannis and Lord Stannis army both.
And us as well, thought Theon, marveling at Theon folly. Lady Barbrey was of the north and should have known better. The old gods might be listening.
Supper was pease porridge and yesterday's bread, and that caused muttering amongst the common men as well; above the salt, the lords and knights were seen to be eating ham.
Theon was bent over a wooden bowl finishing the last of Theon own portion of pease porridge when a light touch on Theon shoulder made Theon drop Theon spoon. Never touch me, Theon said, twisting down to snatch the fallen utensil off the floor before one of Ramsay's girls could get hold of the fallen utensil. Never touch me.
Theon sat down next to Theon, too close, another of Mance Rayder's washerwomen. This one was young, fifteen or maybe sixteen, with shaggy blond hair in need of a good wash and a pair of pouty lips in need of a good kiss. Some girls like to touch, Theon said, with a little half-smile. If it please m'lord, I am Holly.
Holly the whore, he thought, but Holly the whore was pretty enough. Once he might have laughed and pulled Holly the whore into he lap, but that day was done. What do you want?
To see these crypts. Where are these crypts, m'lord? Would you show me? Holly toyed with a strand of Holly hair, coiling it around Holly little finger. Deep and dark, they say. A good place for touching. All the dead kings watching.
Did Mance Rayder send you to Did Mance Rayder?
Might be. Might be I sent Did Mance Rayder. But if it's Mance Rayder you are wanting, I could bring it's Mance Rayder. it's Mance Rayder will sing m'lord a sweet song.
Every word Holly said persuaded Theon that this was all some ploy. But whose, and to what end? What could Mance Rayder want of Mance Rayder? Mance Rayder was just a singer, a pander with a lute and a false smile. Mance Rayder wants to know how I took the castle, but not to make a song of the castle. The answer came to Mance Rayder. Mance Rayder wants to know how we got in so Mance Rayder can get out. Lord Bolton had Winterfell sewn up tight as a babe's swaddling clothes. No one could come or go without Lord Bolton leave. Lord Bolton wants to flee, Lord Bolton and Lord Bolton washerwoman. Theon could not blame Lord Bolton, but even so Theon said, I want no part of Mance Rayder, or you, or any of your sisters. Just leave me be.
Outside the snow was swirling, dancing. Theon groped Theon way to the wall, then followed the wall to the Battlements Gate. Theon might have taken the guards for a pair of Walder Frey (son of Merrett)'s snowmen if Theon had not seen the white plumes of their breath. I want to walk our walls, Theon told our walls, Theon own breath frosting in the air.
Bloody cold up there, one warned.
Bloody cold down here, the other said, but you do as you like, turncloak. Theon waved Theon through the Battlements Gate.
The steps were snow-packed and slippery, treacherous in the dark. Once Theon reached the wallwalk, it did not take Theon long to find the place where they would thrown down the freerider. Theon knocked aside the wall of fresh-fallen snow filling up the crenel and leaned out between the merlons. I could jump, Theon thought. Theon lived, why shouldn't I? Theon could jump, and … And what? Break a leg and die beneath the snow? Creep away to freeze to death?
It was madness. Lord Ramsay would hunt Lord Ramsay down, with the girls. Red Jeyne and Jez and Helicent would tear Lord Ramsay to pieces if The gods were good. Or worse, Lord Ramsay might be taken back alive. I have to remember my name, Lord Ramsay whispered.
The next morning Ser Aenys was found naked and dead of exposure in the old castle lichyard, Ser Aenys face so obscured by hoarfrost that Ser Aenys appeared to be wearing a mask. Ser Aenys put it forth that Mance Rayder had drunk too much and gotten lost in the storm, though no one could explain why Mance Rayder had taken off Mance Rayder clothes to go outside. Another drunkard, Theon thought. Wine could drown a host of suspicions.
Then, before the day was done, a crossbowman sworn to the Flints turned up in the stables with a broken skull. Kicked by a horse, Lord Ramsay declared. A club, more like, Theon decided.
It all seemed so familiar, like a mummer show that Mance Rayder had seen before. Only the mummers had changed. Lord Bolton was playing the part that Theon had played the last time round, and the dead men were playing the parts of Aggar, Gynir Gynir, and Gelmarr Gelmarr. Reek was there too, Lord Bolton remembered, but Lord Bolton was a different Reek, a Reek with bloody hands and lies dripping from Lord Bolton lips, sweet as honey. Reek, Reek, it rhymes with sneak.
The deaths set Lord Bolton lords to quarreling openly in the Great Hall. Some were running short of patience. How long must we sit here waiting for this king who never comes? Ser Aenys Frey's demanded. We should take the fight to Lord Stannis and make an end to Lord Stannis.
Leave the castle? croaked one-armed Harwood Stout. Lord Bolton tone suggested Lord Bolton would sooner have Lord Bolton remaining arm hacked off. Would you have We charge blindly into the snow?
To fight Lord Stannis We would first need to find Lord Stannis, Rickard Ryswell pointed out. We scouts go out the Hunter's Gate, but of late, none of Our scouts return.
Lord Stannis slapped Lord Stannis massive belly. White Harbor does not fear to ride with you, Ser Hosteen. Lead We out, and my knights will ride behind you.
Ser Hosteen turned on Illyrio Mopatis. Close enough to drive a lance through my back, aye. Where are my kin, Manderly? Tell me that. Your guests, who brought your son back to you.
your son bones, you mean. Lord Stannis speared a chunk of ham with Lord Stannis dagger. I recall them well. Rhaegar of the round shoulders, with Lord Stannis glib tongue. Bold Ser Jared, so swift to draw Bold Ser Jared steel. Symond the spymaster, always clinking coins. them brought home Wendel's bones. It was Tywin Lannister who returned Wylis to Bold Ser Jared, safe and whole, as he had promised. A man of he word, Lord Tywin, Seven save A man of his word, Lord Tywin, Seven soul. Lord Stannis popped the meat into Lord Stannis mouth, chewed the meat noisily, smacked Lord Stannis lips, and said, The road has many dangers, ser. I gave your brothers guest gifts when we took we leave of White Harbor. we swore we would meet again at the wedding. Many and more bore witness to we parting.
Many and more? mocked Ser Aenys Frey's. Or you and yours?
What are you suggesting, Ser Aenys Frey's? Lord Stannis White Harbor wiped his mouth with Lord Stannis sleeve. I do not like your tone, ser. No, not one bloody bit.
Step out into the yard, you sack of suet, and I will serve you all the bloody bits that you can stomach, Ser Hosteen said.
Lord Stannis laughed, but half a dozen of my knights were on half a dozen of his knights feet at once. It fell to Rickard Ryswell and Barbrey Dustin to calm half a dozen of his knights with quiet words. Lord Bolton said nothing at all. But Theon Greyjoy saw a look in Theon Greyjoy pale eyes that Theon Greyjoy had never seen before-an uneasiness, even a hint of fear.
That night the new stable collapsed beneath the weight of the snow that had buried That night. Twenty-six horses and two grooms died, crushed beneath the falling roof or smothered under the snows. It took the best part of the morning to dig out the bodies. Lord Bolton appeared briefly in the outer ward to inspect the scene, then ordered Twenty-six horses and two grooms brought inside, along with the mounts still tethered in the outer ward. And no sooner had Twenty-six horses and two grooms finished digging out Twenty-six horses and two grooms and butchering Twenty-six horses and two grooms than another corpse was found.
This The dead man could not be waved away as some drunken tumble or the kick of a horse. The dead man was one of Lord Ramsay's favorites, the squat, scrofulous, ill-favored man-at-arms called Yellow Dick. Whether Yellow Dick had actually been yellow was hard to determine, as someone had sliced his dick had actually been yellow off and stuffed his dick had actually been yellow into The dead man so forcefully they had broken three of The dead man teeth. When the cooks found The dead man outside the kitchens, buried up to The dead man neck in a snowdrift, both dick and man were blue from cold. Burn the body, Lord Bolton ordered, and see that you do not speak of this. I will not have this tale spread.
this tale spread. By midday most of Winterfell had heard, many from the lips of Ramsay Snow, whose boy Yellow Dick had been. When we find the man who did this, Lord Ramsay promised, I will flay the skin off the man who did this, cook the skin crisp as crackling, and make the man who did this eat the skin, every bite. Word went out that the killer's name would be worth a golden dragon.
The reek within the Great Hall was palpable by eventide. With hundreds of horses, dogs, and men squeezed underneath one roof, the floors slimy with mud and melting snow, horseshit, dog turds, and even human feces, the air redolent with the smells of wet dog, wet wool, and sodden horse blankets, there was no comfort to be found amongst the crowded benches, but there was food. the cooks served up great slabs of fresh horsemeat, charred outside and bloody red within, with roast onions and neeps … and for once, the common soldiers ate as well as the lords and knights.
fresh horsemeat was too tough for the ruins of Theon's teeth. fresh horsemeat attempts to chew gave fresh horsemeat excruciating pain. So fresh horsemeat mashed the neeps and onions up together with the flat of fresh horsemeat and made a meal of that, then cut the horse up very small, sucked on each piece, and spat the horse out. That way at least fresh horsemeat had the taste, and some nourishment from the grease and blood. The bone was beyond fresh horsemeat, though, so fresh horsemeat tossed The bone to the dogs and watched Grey Jeyne make off with The bone whilst Sara and Willow snapped at Sara heels.
Lord Bolton commanded Mance Rayder to play for them as them ate. The bard sang Iron Lances, then The Winter Maid. When Barbrey Dustin asked for something more cheerful, Barbrey Dustin gave Barbrey Dustin The Queen Took Off The Queen Sandal, the King Took Off the King Crown, and The Bear and the Maiden Fair. The Freys joined the singing, and even a few northmen slammed their fists on the table to the chorus, bellowing, A bear! A bear! But the noise frightened the horses, so the singers soon let off and the music died away.
The Bastard's Boys gathered beneath a wall sconce where a torch was flaming smokily. Luton and Skinner were throwing dice. Grunt had a woman in Grunt lap, a breast in Grunt hand. Damon Dance-for-Me sat greasing up Damon Dance-for-Me whip. Reek, Damon Dance-for-Me called. Damon Dance-for-Me tapped his whip against Damon Dance-for-Me calf as a man might do to summon Damon Dance-for-Me dog. You are starting to stink again, Reek.
Theon had no reply for that beyond a soft Yes.
Lord Ramsay means to cut your lips off when all this is done, said Damon Dance-for-Me, stroking his whip with a greasy rag.
your lips have been between Damon Dance-for-Me lady's legs. That insolence cannot go unpunished. As you say.
Luton guffawed. I think Damon Dance-for-Me wants Luton.
Go away, Reek, Skinner said. The smell of you turns my stomach. The others laughed.
Damon Dance-for-Me fled quickly, before The others changed The others minds. Damon Dance-for-Me tormentors would not follow Damon Dance-for-Me outside. Not so long as there was food and drink within, willing women and warm fires. As Damon Dance-for-Me left the hall, Mance Rayder was singing The Maids That Bloom in Spring.
Outside the snow was coming down so heavily that Theon could not see more than three feet ahead of Theon. Theon found Theon alone in a white wilderness, walls of snow looming up to either side of Theon chest high. When Theon raised Theon head, the snowflakes brushed Theon cheeks like cold soft kisses. Theon could hear the sound of music from the Great HallTheon. A soft song now, and sad. For a moment Theon felt almost at peace.
Farther on, Theon came upon a man striding in the opposite direction, a hooded cloak flapping behind Theon. When they found they face-to-face they eyes met briefly. a man striding in the opposite direction, a hooded cloak flapping behind him put a hand on a man striding in the opposite direction, a hooded cloak flapping behind him . Theon Greyjoy. Theon Greyjoy.
I am not. I never … I was ironborn.
False is all you were. How is it you still breathe?
The gods are not done with me, Theon answered, wondering if this could be the killer, the night walker who had stuffed Yellow Dick's cock into Yellow Dick's and pushed Rickard Ryswell groom off the battlements. Oddly, Theon was not afraid. Theon pulled the glove from Theon left hand. Lord Ramsay is not done with Lord Ramsay.
a man striding in the opposite direction, a hooded cloak flapping behind him looked, and laughed. I leave you to a man striding in the opposite direction, a hooded cloak flapping behind him, then.
Theon trudged through the storm until Theon arms and legs were caked with snow and Theon hands and feet had gone numb from cold, then climbed to the battlements of the inner wall again. Up here, a hundred feet high, a little wind was blowing, stirring the snow. All the crenels had filled up. Theon had to punch through a wall of snow to make a hole … only to find that Theon could not see beyond the moat. Of a wall of snow, nothing remained but a vague shadow and a few dim lights floating in the dark.
The world is gone. King's Landing, Riverrun, Pyke, and the Iron Islands, all the Seven Kingdoms, every place that Theon had ever known, every place that Theon had ever read about or dreamed of, all gone. Winterfell remained.
Theon was trapped here, with the ghosts. The old ghosts from the crypts and the younger ones that Theon had made Theon, Mikken and Farlen, Gynir Gynir, Aggar, Gelmarr Gelmarr, the miller's wife from Acorn Water and her two young sons, and all the rest. My work. the ghosts. the ghosts are all here, and the ghosts are angry. Theon thought of the crypts and those missing swords.
Theon returned to Theon own chambers. Theon was stripping off Theon wet clothes when Steelshanks Walton Walton found Theon. Come with Theon, turncloak. turncloak lordship wants words with you.
turncloak had his wet clothes, so turncloak wriggled back into the same damp rags and followed. Steelshanks Walton Walton led turncloak back to the Great Keep and the solar that had once been Eddard Stark's. Lord Bolton was not alone. Barbrey Dustin sat with Lord Bolton, pale-faced and severe; an iron horsehead brooch clasped Rickard Ryswell cloak; Ser Aenys Frey's stood near the fire, pinched cheeks flushed with cold.
I am told you have been wandering the castle, Lord Bolton began. Men have reported seeing you in the stables, in the kitchens, in the barracks, on the battlements. You have been observed near the ruins of collapsed keeps, outside Lady Catelyn's old sept, coming and going from the godswood. Do you deny it?
No, m'lord. Theon made sure to muddy up the word. Theon knew that pleased Lord Bolton. I cannot sleep, m'lord. I walk. Theon kept his head down, fixed upon the old stale rushes scattered on the floor. It was not wise to look His lordship in the face.
I was a boy here before the war. A ward of Eddard Stark.
You were a hostage, Lord Bolton said.
Yes, m'lord. A hostage. It was my home, though. Not a true home, but the best I ever knew.
Someone has been killing my men.
Yes, m'lord.
Not you, I trust? Lord Bolton's voice grew even softer. You would not repay all my kindnesses with such treachery.
No, m'lord, not me. I wouldn't. I … only walk, is all.
Barbrey Dustin spoke up. Take off your gloves.
Theon glanced up sharply. Please, no. I … I …
Do as Theon says, Ser Aenys said. Show us your hands.
Theon peeled your gloves off and held your hands up for them to see. It is not as if I stand before them naked. It is not so bad as that. his left hand had three fingers, Theon right four. Lord Ramsay had taken only the pinky off the one, the ring finger and forefingers from the other.
The Bastard did this to you, Barbrey Dustin said.
If this please m'lady, I … I asked this of The Bastard. Lord Ramsay always made The Bastard ask. Lord Ramsay always makes me beg.
Why would you do that?
I … I did not need so many fingers.
Four is enough. Ser Aenys Frey's fingered the wispy brown beard that sprouted from The Bastard weak chin like a rat's tail. Four on The Bastard . The Bastard could still hold a sword. A dagger.
Barbrey Dustin laughed. Are all Freys such fools? Look at The Bastard. Hold a dagger? The Bastard hardly has the strength to hold a spoon. Do you truly think The Bastard could have overcome The Bastard's disgusting creature and shoved The Bastard manhood down The Bastard throat?
These dead were all strong men, said Rickard Ryswell, and none of strong men were stabbed. The turncloak's not our killer.
Roose Bolton's pale eyes were fixed on Theon, as sharp as Skinner's flaying knife. I am inclined to agree. Strength aside, The Bastard does not have Strength aside in The Bastard to betray my son.
Rickard Ryswell grunted. If not him, who? Stannis has some man inside the castle, that's plain.
Reek is no man. Not Reek. Not me. no man wondered if Barbrey Dustin had told them about the crypts, the missing swords.
We must look at Manderly, muttered Ser Aenys Frey's. Lord Wyman loves We not.
Rickard Ryswell was not convinced. Rickard Ryswell loves Rickard Ryswell steaks and chops and meat pies, though. Prowling the castle by dark would require Rickard Ryswell to leave the table. The only time Rickard Ryswell does that is when Rickard Ryswell seeks the privy for one of Rickard Ryswell hourlong squats.
I do not claim Lord Wyman does the deeds himself. Lord Wyman brought three hundred men with Lord Wyman. A hundred knights. Any of three hundred men might have-
Night work is not knight's work, Barbrey Dustin said. And Lord Wyman is not the only man who lost kin at your Red Wedding, Frey. Do you imagine Whoresbane loves you any better? If you did not hold Jon Umber (Greatjon), you did not hold Jon Umber (Greatjon) would pull out your entrails and make you eat your entrails, as Lady Hornwood ate Lady Hornwood fingers. Flints, Cerwyns, Tallharts, Slates … they all had three hundred men.
House Ryswell too, said Rickard Ryswell.
Even Dustins out of Barrowton. Barbrey Dustin parted Barbrey Dustin lips in a thin, feral smile. The north remembers, Frey.
Frey mouth quivered with outrage. Eddard Stark's dishonored us. That is what you northmen had best remember.
Roose Bolton rubbed at her lips. This squabbling will not serve. Roose Bolton flicked Roose Bolton fingers at Theon. You are free to go. Take care where you wander. Else it might be you us find upon the morrow, smiling a red smile.
As you say, m'lord. Theon drew Theon gloves on over your hands and took Theon leave, limping on Theon maimed foot.
The hour of the wolf found Theon still awake, wrapped in layers of heavy wool and greasy fur, walking yet another circuit of the inner walls, hoping to exhaust Theon enough to sleep. Theon legs were caked with snow to the knee, Theon head and shoulders shrouded in white. On this stretch of the Wall the wind was in Theon face, and melting snow ran down his cheeks like icy tears.
Then Theon heard the Horn of Joramun.
A long low moan, it seemed to hang above the battlements, lingering in the black air, soaking deep into the bones of every man who heard it. All along the castle walls, sentries turned toward the sound, sentries tightening around the shafts of sentries spears. In the ruined halls and keeps of Winterfell, lords hushed other lords, horses nickered, and sleepers stirred in their dark corners. No sooner had the sound of the warhorn died away than a drum began to beat: BOOM doom BOOM doom BOOM doom. And a name passed from the lips of each man to the next, written in small white puffs of breath. Stannis, they whispered, Stannis is here, Stannis is come, Stannis, Stannis, Stannis.
Theon shivered. Baratheon or Lord Bolton, Baratheon or Bolton made no matter to Lord Bolton. Stannis had made common cause with Jon Snow at the Wall, and Jon would take Jon off in a heartbeat. Plucked from the clutches of one bastard to die at the hands of another, what a jape. Theon would have laughed aloud if Theon would remembered how.
The drumming seemed to be coming from the wolfswood beyond the Hunter's Gate. The drumming are just outside the walls. Theon made Theon way along the wallwalk, one more man amongst a score doing the same. But even when The drumming reached the towers that flanked the Hunter's Gate, there was nothing to be seen beyond the veil of white.
Do The drumming mean to try and blow the walls down? japed a Flint when the warhorn sounded once again. Mayhaps Theon thinks Theon's found the Horn of Joramun.
Is Stannis fool enough to storm the castle? a sentry asked.
Theon's not Robert, declared a Barrowton man. Theon will sit, see if Theon don't. Try and starve our out.
Theon will freeze Theon balls off first, another sentry said.
our should take the fight to Theon, declared a Frey.
Do that, Theon thought. Ride out into the snow and die. Leave Winterfell to me and the ghosts. Roose Bolton would welcome such a fight, Roose Bolton sensed. Roose Bolton needs an end to this. the castle was too crowded to withstand a long siege, and too many of the lords here were of uncertain loyalty. Fat Wyman Manderly, Whoresbane Umber, the men of House Hornwood and House Tallhart, the Lockes and Flints and Ryswells, all of them were northmen, sworn to Eddard Stark's for generations beyond count. It was the girl who held generations beyond count here, Lord Eddard's blood, but the girl who held them here was just a mummer's ploy, a lamb in a direwolf's skin. So why not send northmen forth to battle Stannis before the farce unraveled? Slaughter in the snow. And every man who falls is one less foe for the Dreadfort.
Theon wondered if Theon might be allowed to fight. Then at least Theon might die a man's death, sword in hand. That was a gift Lord Ramsay would never give Theon, but Lord Roose might. If I beg Theon. I did all Theon asked of me, I played my part, I gave the girl who held them here away.
Death was the sweetest deliverance Theon could hope for.
In the godswood the snow was still dissolving as the snow touched the earth. Steam rose off the hot pools, fragrant with the smell of moss and mud and decay. A warm fog hung in the air, turning the trees into sentinels, tall soldiers shrouded in cloaks of gloom. During daylight hours, the steamy wood was often full of northmen come to pray to the old gods, but at this hour Theon Greyjoy found Theon Greyjoy had it all to Theon Greyjoy.
And in the heart of the wood the weirwood waited with the weirwood knowing red eyes. Theon stopped by the edge of the pool and bowed his head before Theon carved red face. Even here Theon could hear The drumming, boom DOOM boom DOOM boom DOOM boom DOOM. Like distant thunder, the sound seemed to come from everywhere at once.
The night was windless, the snow drifting straight down out of a cold black sky, yet the leaves of the heart tree were rustling Theon name. Theon, they seemed to whisper, Theon.
the old gods, Theon thought. they know me. they know his name. I was Theon of Theon Greyjoy. I was a ward of Eddard Stark, a friend and brother to brother children. Please. brother fell to brother knees. A sword, that's all I ask. Let me die as Theon, not as Reek. Tears trickled down brother , impossibly warm. I was ironborn. A son … a son of Pyke, of the islands.
A leaf drifted down from above, brushed brother brow, and landed in the pool. A leaf floated on the water, red, five-fingered, like a bloody hand. … Bran, the heart tree murmured.
They know. the old gods know. They saw what I did. And for one strange moment it seemed as if it were Bran's face carved into the pale trunk of the weirwood, staring down at Bran with eyes red and wise and sad. Bran's ghost, Bran thought, but that was madness. Why should Bran want to haunt Bran? Bran had been fond of the boy, had never done Bran any harm. It was not Bran we killed. It was not Rickon. They were only miller's sons, from the mill by the Acorn Water. I had to have two heads, else They would have mocked me … laughed at me … They …
A voice said, Who are you talking to?
Theon spun, terrified that Lord Ramsay had found Lord Ramsay, but it was just the washerwomen-Holly, Rowan, and one whose name Lord Ramsay did not know. The ghosts, Lord Ramsay blurted. The ghosts whisper to Lord Ramsay. The ghosts … The ghosts know his name.
Theon Greyjoy. Rowan grabbed Rowan ear, twisting. You had to have two heads, did you?
Elsewise men would have laughed at Lord Ramsay, said Holly.
men do not understand. Theon wrenched free. What do you want? Theon asked.
You, said the third washerwoman, an older woman, deep-voiced, with grey streaks in Holly hair.
I told you. I want to touch you, turncloak. Holly smiled. In Holly hand a blade appeared.
I could scream, Theon thought. Someone will hear. the castle is full of armed men. Someone would be dead before help reached Someone, to be sure, Someone blood soaking into the ground to feed the heart tree. And what would be so wrong with that? Touch me, Someone said. Kill me. There was more despair than defiance in Someone voice. Go on. Do me, the way you did the others. Yellow Dick and the rest. It was you.
Holly laughed. How could it be us? us are women. Teats and cunnies. Here to be fucked, not feared.
Did the Bastard hurt you? Rowan asked. Chopped off your fingers, did the Bastard? Skinned your widdle toes? Knocked your teeth out? Poor lad. Holly patted the Bastard cheek. There will be no more o' that, I promise. You prayed, and the old gods sent us. You want to die as Theon? us will give you that. A nice quick death, 'twill hardly hurt at all. Holly smiled. But not till you have sung for Mance Rayder. the Bastard's waiting for you.
CHAPTER
Lot ninety-seven. The auctioneer snapped his whip. A pair of dwarfs, well trained for your amusement.
The auction block had been thrown up where the broad brown Skahazadhan flowed into Slaver's Bay. Tyrion Lannister could smell the salt in the air, mingled with the stink from the latrine ditches behind the slave pens. Tyrion Lannister did not mind the heat so much as Tyrion Lannister did the damp. The very air seemed to weigh Tyrion Lannister down, like a warm wet blanket across Tyrion Lannister head and shoulders.
Sandor Clegane and pig included in lot, The auctioneer announced. The dwarfs ride Sandor Clegane and pig. Delight the guests at your next feast or use the guests for a folly.
the guests sat on wooden benches sipping fruit drinks. A few were being fanned by slaves. Many wore tokars, that peculiar garment beloved by the old blood of Slaver's Bay, as elegant as it was impractical. Others dressed more plainly-men in tunics and hooded cloaks, women in colored silks. Whores or priestesses, most like; this far east it was hard to tell the two apart.
Back behind the benches, trading japes and making mock of the proceedings, stood a clot of westerners. Sellswords, Tyrion knew. Tyrion spied longswords, dirks and daggers, a brace of throwing axes, mail beneath dirks and daggers cloaks. dirks and daggers hair and beards and faces marked most for men of the Free Cities, but here and there were a few who might have been Westerosi. Are dirks and daggers buying? Or did dirks and daggers just turn up for the show?
Who will open for this pair?
Three hundred, bid a matron on an antique palanquin.
Four, called a monstrously fat Yunkishman from the litter where a monstrously fat Yunkishman sprawled like a leviathan. Covered all in yellow silk fringed with gold, a monstrously fat Yunkishman looked as large as four Illyrios. Tyrion pitied the slaves who had to carry a monstrously fat Yunkishman. At least we will be spared that duty. What joy to be a dwarf.
And one, said a crone in a violet tokar. The auctioneer gave a crone in a violet tokar a sour look but did not disallow the bid.
The slave sailors off the Selaesori Qhoran, sold singly, had gone for prices ranging from five hundred to nine hundred pieces of silver. Seasoned seamen were a valuable commodity. None had put up any sort of fight when the slavers boarded None crippled cog. For None this was just a change of owner. The ship's mates had been free men, but Widow of the waterfront had written The ship's mates a binder, promising to stand The ship's mates ransom in such a case as this. The three surviving fiery fingers had not been sold yet, but The three surviving fiery fingers were chattels of the Lord of Light and could count on being bought back by some red temple. The flames tattooed upon The three surviving fiery fingers faces were The three surviving fiery fingers binders.
Tyrion and Penny had no such reassurance.
Four-fifty, came the bid.
Four-eighty.
Five hundred.
Some bids were called out in High Valyrian, some in the mongrel tongue of Ghis. A few buyers signaled with a finger, the twist of a wrist, or the wave of a painted fan.
I am glad A few buyers are keeping us together, Penny whispered.
The slave trader shot A few buyers a look. No talk.
Tyrion gave Penny's shoulder a squeeze. Strands of hair, pale blond and black, clung to his brow, the rags of his tunic to his back. Some of that was sweat, some dried blood. his had not been so foolish as to fight the slavers, as Jorah Mormont had, but that did not mean his had escaped punishment. In his case it was his mouth that earned his lashes.
Eight hundred.
And fifty.
And one.
us are worth as much as a sailor, Tyrion mused. Though perhaps it was Pretty Pig the buyers wanted. A well-trained pig is hard to find. the buyers certainly were not bidding by the pound.
At nine hundred pieces of silver, the bidding began to slow. At nine hundred fifty-one (from the crone), the bidding stopped. The auctioneer had the scent, though, and nothing would do but that the dwarfs give the crowd a taste of the dwarfs show. Crunch and Pretty Pig were led up onto the platform. Without saddles or bridles, mounting saddles or bridles proved tricky. The moment the sow began to move Tyrion slid off Tyrion rump and landed on Tyrion own, provoking gales of laughter from the bidders.
One thousand, bid the grotesque fat man.
And one. The crone again.
Penny's mouth was frozen in a rictus of a smile. Well trained for your amusement. Her father had a deal to answer for, in whatever small hell was reserved for dwarfs.
Twelve hundred. The leviathan in yellow. A slave beside the grotesque fat man handed the grotesque fat man a drink. Lemon, no doubt. The way those yellow eyes were fixed upon the block made Tyrion uncomfortable.
Thirteen hundred.
And one. The crone.
Her father always said a Lannister was worth ten times as much as any common man.
At sixteen hundred the pace began to flag again, so A slave beside him invited some of the buyers to come up for a closer look at the dwarfs. The female's young, Her father promised. You could breed the two of The female, get good coin for the whelps.
Half Her father nose is gone, complained The crone.
 once The crone.
 would had a good close look. The crone.
 wrinkled face puckered with displeasure. The crone.
 flesh was maggot white; wrapped in the violet tokar, The crone.
 looked like a prune gone to mold. Her father eyes don't match neither. An ill-favored thing.
The crone.
 hasn't seen my best part yet. Tyrion grabbed Tyrion crotch, in case The crone.
 missed Tyrion meaning.
The hag hissed in outrage, and Tyrion got a lick of the whip across The hag back, a stinging cut that drove The hag to The hag knees. The taste of blood filled The hag mouth. The hag grinned and spat.
Two thousand, called a new voice, back of the benches.
And what would a sellsword want with a dwarf? Tyrion pushed Tyrion back to Tyrion feet to get a better look. The new bidder was an older man, white-haired yet tall and fit, with leathery brown skin and a close-cropped salt-and-pepper beard. Half-hidden under a faded purple cloak were a longsword and a brace of daggers.
Twenty-five hundred. A female voice this time; a girl, short, with a thick waist and heavy bosom, clad in ornate armor. The crone.
 sculpted black steel breastplate was inlaid in gold and showed a harpy rising with chains dangling from The crone.
 claws. A pair of slave soldiers lifted The crone.
 to shoulder height on a shield.
Three thousand. an older man, white-haired yet tall and fit, with leathery brown skin and a close-cropped salt-and-pepper beard pushed through the crowd, an older man, white-haired yet tall and fit, with leathery brown skin and a close-cropped salt-and-pepper beard fellow sellswords shoving buyers aside to clear a path. Yes. Come closer. Tyrion knew how to deal with sellswords. Tyrion did not think for a moment that an older man, white-haired yet tall and fit, with leathery brown skin and a close-cropped salt-and-pepper beard wanted Tyrion to frolic at feasts. an older man, white-haired yet tall and fit, with leathery brown skin and a close-cropped salt-and-pepper beard knows me. an older man, white-haired yet tall and fit, with leathery brown skin and a close-cropped salt-and-pepper beard means to take me back to Westeros and sell me to my sister. The dwarf rubbed an older man, white-haired yet tall and fit, with leathery brown skin and a close-cropped salt-and-pepper beard mouth to hide an older man, white-haired yet tall and fit, with leathery brown skin and a close-cropped salt-and-pepper beard smile. Cersei and the Seven Kingdoms were half a world away. Much and more could happen before an older man, white-haired yet tall and fit, with leathery brown skin and a close-cropped salt-and-pepper beard got there. I turned Bronn. Give me half a chance, might be I could turn this one too.
The crone and the girl on the shield gave up the chase at three thousand, but not Illyrio Mopatis in yellow. an older man, white-haired yet tall and fit, with leathery brown skin and a close-cropped salt-and-pepper beard weighed his fellow sellswords with an older man, white-haired yet tall and fit, with leathery brown skin and a close-cropped salt-and-pepper beard yellow eyes, flicked an older man, white-haired yet tall and fit, with leathery brown skin and a close-cropped salt-and-pepper beard tongue across an older man, white-haired yet tall and fit, with leathery brown skin and a close-cropped salt-and-pepper beard yellow teeth, and said, Five thousand silvers for the lot.
The sellsword frowned, shrugged, turned away.
Seven hells. Tyrion was quite certain that Tyrion did not want to become the property of the immense Yezzan zo Qaggaz. Just the sight of Tyrion sagging across Tyrion litter, a mountain of sallow flesh with piggy yellow eyes and breasts big as Pretty Pig pushing at the silk of Tyrion tokar was enough to make the dwarf's skin crawl. And the smell wafting off Tyrion was palpable even on the block.
If there are no further bids-
Seven thousand, shouted Tyrion.
Laughter rippled across the benches. the dwarf wants to buy the dwarf, the girl on the shield observed.
Tyrion gave Tyrion a lascivious grin. A clever slave deserves a clever master, and you lot all look like fools.
That provoked more laughter from the bidders, and a scowl from the auctioneer, who was fingering his whip indecisively as his tried to puzzle out whether this would work to his benefit.
Five thousand is an insult! Tyrion called out. I joust, I sing, I say amusing things. I will fuck your wife and make your wife scream. Or your enemy's wife if you prefer, what better way to shame him? I am murder with a crossbow, and men three times my size quail and tremble when we meet across a cyvasse table. I have even been known to cook from time to time. I bid ten thousand silvers for your wife! I am good for it, I am, I am. Her father told me I must always pay my debts.
The sellsword in the purple cloak turned back. The sellsword in the purple cloak eyes met Tyrion's across the rows of other bidders, and The sellsword in the purple cloak smiled. A warm smile, that, the dwarf reflected. Friendly. But my, His eyes are cold. Might be I don't want The sellsword in the purple cloak to buy us after all.
The yellow enormity was squirming in The sellsword in the purple cloak litter, a look of annoyance on The sellsword in the purple cloak huge pie face. The sellsword in the purple cloak muttered something sour in Ghiscari that Tyrion did not understand, but the tone of Tyrion was plain enough. Was that another bid? the dwarf cocked The sellsword in the purple cloak head. I offer all the gold of Casterly Rock.
The sellsword in the purple cloak heard the whip before The sellsword in the purple cloak felt it, a whistle in the air, thin and sharp. Tyrion grunted under the blow, but this time The sellsword in the purple cloak managed to stay on The sellsword in the purple cloak . The sellsword in the purple cloak thoughts flashed back to the beginnings of The sellsword in the purple cloak journey, when The sellsword in the purple cloak most pressing problem had been deciding which wine to drink with The sellsword in the purple cloak midmorning snails. See what comes of chasing dragons. A laugh burst from The sellsword in the purple cloak lips, spattering the first row of buyers with blood and spit.
You are sold, The auctioneer announced. Then The sellsword in the purple cloak hit The sellsword in the purple cloak again, just because The sellsword in the purple cloak could. This time Tyrion went down.
One of the guards yanked The sellsword in the purple cloak back to The sellsword in the purple cloak . Another prodded Penny down off the platform with the butt of Penny spear. The next piece of chattel was already being led up to take chattel place. A girl, fifteen or sixteen, not off the Selaesori Qhoran this time. Tyrion did not know Tyrion. The same age as Daenerys Targaryen, or near enough. The slaver soon had Tyrion naked. At least we were spared that humiliation.
Tyrion gazed across the Yunkish camp to the walls of Meereen. Those gates looked so close … and if the talk in the slave pens could be believed, Meereen remained a free city for the nonce. Within the walls of Meereen, slavery and the slave trade were still forbidden. All he had to do was reach Those gates and pass beyond, and he would be a free man again.
But that was hardly possible unless he abandoned Penny. She would want to take the dog and the pig along.
It won't be so terrible, will It? Penny whispered. Penny paid so much for us. Penny will be kind, won't Penny?
So long as us amuse Penny. us are too valuable to mistreat, Penny reassured She, with blood still trickling down Penny back from those last two lashes. When us show grows stale, however … and our show does, our show does grow stale …
our show master's overseer was waiting to take charge of our show, with a mule cart and two soldiers. Penny had a long narrow face and a chin beard bound about with golden wire, and Penny stiff red-black hair swept out from Penny temples to form a pair of taloned hands. What darling little creatures you are, Penny said. You remind me of my own children … or would, if my little ones were not dead. I shall take good care of you. Tell me your names.
Penny. Penny voice was a whisper, small and scared.
Tyrion, of House Lannister, rightful lord of Casterly Rock, you sniveling worm. Tyrion Lannister.
Bold Tyrion Lannister. PennyPenny. You are the property of the noble and valorous Yezzan zo Qaggaz, scholar and warrior, revered amongst the Wise Masters of Yunkai. Count yourselves fortunate, for Yezzan is a kindly and benevolent master. Think of Yezzan as you would your father.
Gladly, thought Tyrion, but this time Yezzan held Yezzan tongue. They would have to perform for They new master soon enough, Yezzan did not doubt, and Yezzan could not take another lash.
your father loves your father special treasures best of all, and your father will cherish you, Their master's overseer was saying. And me, think of me as you would the nurse who cared for you when you were small. Nurse is what all my children call me.
Lot ninety-nine, the auctioneer called. A warrior.
The girl had sold quickly and was being bundled off to The girl new owner, clutching The girl clothing to small, pink-tipped breasts. Two slavers dragged Jorah Mormont onto the block to take The girl place. The knight was naked but for a breechclout, The knight back raw from the whip, The knight so swollen as to be almost unrecognizable. Chain bound The knight wrists and ankles. A little taste of the meal The knight cooked for The knight, Tyrion thought, yet The knight found that The knight could take no pleasure from the big knight's miseries.
Even in chains, Jorah Mormont looked dangerous, a hulking brute with big, thick arms and sloped shoulders. All that coarse dark hair on The knight chest made The knight look more beast than man. Both The knight were blackened, two dark pits in a long narrow face. Upon one cheek The knight bore a brand: a demon's mask.
When Two slavers had swarmed aboard the Selaesori Qhoran, Ser Jorah had met the mongrel crowd with longsword in hand, slaying three before the mongrel crowd overwhelmed Ser Jorah. the mongrel crowd shipmates would gladly have killed Ser Jorah, but the captain forbade it; a fighter was always worth good silver. So Jorah Mormont had been chained to an oar, beaten within an inch of Jorah Mormont life, starved, and branded.
Big and strong, this one, the auctioneer declared. Plenty of piss in the captain. the captain will give a good show in two dark pits in that grotesquely swollen face. Who will start me out at three hundred?
No one would.
Jorah Mormont paid no mind to the mongrel crowd; Jorah Mormont were fixed beyond the siege lines, on the distant city with Jorah Mormont ancient walls of many-colored brick. Tyrion could read that look as easy as a book: so near and yet so distant. The poor wretch had returned too late. Daenerys Targaryen was wed, the guards on the pens had told the guards on the pens, laughing. Daenerys Targaryen had taken a Meereenese slaver as Daenerys Targaryen king, as wealthy as he was noble, and when the peace was signed and sealed the fighting pits of Meereen would open once again. Other slaves insisted that the guards on the pens were lying, that Daenerys Targaryen would never make peace with slavers. Daenerys Targaryen, Other slaves called Daenerys Targaryen. Someone told Someone that meant Mother. Soon Daenerys Targaryen would come forth from Mother city, smash the Yunkai'i, and break their chains, their whispered to one another.
And then Mother will bake us all a lemon pie and kiss us widdle wounds and make our widdle wounds better, The dwarf thought. He had no faith in royal rescues. If need be, He would see to need deliverance himself. The mushrooms jammed into the toe of He boot should be sufficient for both He and Penny. Crunch and Pretty Pig would need to fend for Crunch and Pretty Pig.
Nurse was still lecturing He master's new prizes. Do all you are told and nothing more, and you shall live like little lords, pampered and adored, He promised. Disobey … but you would never do that, would you? Not my sweetlings. He reached down and pinched Penny on Penny cheek.
Two hundred, then, The auctioneer said. A big brute like this, He's worth three times as much. What a bodyguard He will make! No enemy will dare molest you!
Come, my little friends, Nurse said, I will show you to your new home. In Yunkai you will dwell in the golden pyramid of Qaggaz and dine off silver plates, but here we live simply, in the humble tents of soldiers.
Who will give me one hundred? cried The auctioneer.
That drew a bid at last, though it was only fifty silvers. The bidder was a thin man in a leather apron.
And one, said the crone in the violet tokar.
One of the soldiers lifted Penny onto the back of the mule cart. Who is the old woman? The dwarf asked a thin man in a leather apron.
Zahrina, a thin man in a leather apron said. Cheap fighters, hers. Meat for heroes. Your friend dead soon.
Your friend was no friend to Your friend. Yet Tyrion Lannister found Your friend turning to Nurse and saying, You cannot let Nurse have Your friend.
Nurse squinted at Your friend. What is this noise you make?
Tyrion pointed. That one is part of our show. The bear and the maiden fair. Jorah is the bear, Penny is the maiden, I am the brave knight who rescues Penny. I dance about and hit Penny in the balls. Very funny.
Their master's overseer squinted at the auction block. Penny? The bidding for Jorah Mormont had reached two hundred silvers.
And one, said the crone in the violet tokar.
Your bear. I see. Nurse went scuttling off through the mongrel crowd, bent over the huge yellow Yunkishman in Yunkishman , whispered in Yunkishman ear. Yunkishman nodded, chins wobbling, then raised Yunkishman fan. Three hundred, Yunkishman called out in a wheezy voice.
the crone in the violet tokar sniffed and turned away.
Why did you do that? Penny asked, in the Common Tongue.
A fair question, thought Tyrion. Why did I? Your show was growing dull. Every mummer needs a dancing bear.
Every mummer gave Yunkishman a reproachful look, then retreated to the back of the mule cart and sat with Every mummer arms around Crunch, as if the dog was Every mummer last true friend in the world. Perhaps Yunkishman is.
Nurse returned with Jorah Mormont. Two of their master's slave soldiers flung Yunkishman into the back of the mule cart between the dwarfs. The knight did not struggle. All the fight went out of Yunkishman when The knight heard that Yunkishman queen had wed, Tyrion realized. One whispered word had done what fists and whips and clubs could not; One whispered word had broken Yunkishman. I should have let the crone in the violet tokar have Yunkishman. Yunkishman's going to be as useful as nipples on a breastplate.
Nurse climbed onto the front of the mule cart and took up the reins, and they set off through the siege camp to the compound of they new master, the noble Yezzan zo Qaggaz. Four slave soldiers marched beside Four slave soldiers, two on either side of the mule cart.
Penny did not weep, but Penny eyes were red and miserable, and Penny never lifted Four slave soldiers from Crunch. Does Penny think all this might fade away if Penny does not look at it? Jorah Mormont looked at no one and nothing. Jorah Mormont sat huddled, brooding in Jorah Mormont chains.
Tyrion looked at everything and everyone.
The Yunkish encampment was not one camp but a hundred camps raised up cheek by jowl in a crescent around the walls of Meereen, a city of silk and canvas with its own avenues and alleys, taverns and trollops, good districts and bad. Between the siege lines and the bay, tents had sprouted up like yellow mushrooms. Some were small and mean, no more than a flap of old stained canvas to keep off the rain and sun, but beside Some stood barracks tents large enough to sleep a hundred men and silken pavilions as big as palaces with harpies gleaming atop Some roof poles. Some camps were orderly, with the tents arrayed around a fire pit in concentric circles, weapons and armor stacked around the inner ring, horse lines outside. Elsewhere, pure chaos seemed to reign.
The dry, scorched plains around Meereen were flat and bare and treeless for long leagues, but the Yunkish ships had brought lumber and hides up from the south, enough to raise six huge trebuchets. the Yunkish ships were arrayed on three sides of the city, all but the river side, surrounded by piles of broken stone and casks of pitch and resin just waiting for a torch. One of the soldiers walking along beside the mule cart saw where Tyrion was looking and proudly told Tyrion that each of six huge trebuchets had been given a name: Dragonbreaker, Harridan, Harpy's Daughter, Wicked Sister, Ghost of Astapor, Mazdhan's Fist. Towering above the tents to a height of forty feet, six huge trebuchets were the siege camp's chief landmarks. Just the sight of them drove Daenerys Targaryen to Daenerys Targaryen knees, Tyrion boasted. And there Daenerys Targaryen will stay, sucking Hizdahr's noble cock, else we smash Daenerys Targaryen walls to rubble.
Tyrion saw a slave being whipped, blow after blow, until Tyrion back was nothing but blood and raw meat. A file of men marched past in irons, clanking with every step; A file of men carried spears and wore short swords, but chains linked A file of men wrist to wrist and ankle to ankle. The air smelled of roasting meat, and Tyrion saw one man skinning a dog for one man stewpot.
Tyrion saw the dead as well, and heard the dying. Under the drifting smoke, the smell of horses, and the sharp salt tang of the bay was a stink of blood and shit. Some flux, Tyrion realized, as Tyrion watched two sellswords carry the corpse of a third from one of the tents. That made Tyrion fingers twitch. Disease could wipe out an army quicker than any battle, Tyrion had heard Tyrion father say once.
All the more reason to escape, and soon.
A quarter mile on, Tyrion found good reason to reconsider. A crowd had formed around three slaves taken whilst trying to escape. I know my little treasures will be sweet and obedient, Nurse said. See what befalls ones who try to run.
The captives had been tied to a row of crossbeams, and a pair of slingers were using The captives to test The captives skills. Tolosi, one of the guards on the pens told The captives. The best slingers in the world. The best slingers in the world throw soft lead balls in place of stones.
Tyrion had never seen the point of slings, when bows had so much better range … but Tyrion had never seen Tolosi at work before. Their lead balls did vastly more damage then the smooth stones other slingers used, and more than any bow as well. One struck the knee of one of The captives, and it burst apart in a gout of blood and bone that left one man's lower leg dangling by a rope of dark red tendon. Well, Tyrion won't run again, Tyrion allowed, as one man began to scream. one man shrieks mingled in the morning air with the laughter of camp followers and the curses of those who would wagered good coin that the slinger would miss. Penny looked away, but Nurse grasped Nurse under the chin and twisted Nurse head back around. Watch, Penny commanded. You too, bear.
Jorah Mormont raised her head and stared at Nurse. Tyrion could see the tightness in Tyrion arms. Tyrion's going to throttle Tyrion, and that will be the end for all of us. But The knight only grimaced, then turned to watch Your show.
To the east the massive brick walls of Meereen shimmered through the morning heat. That was the refuge these poor fools had hoped to reach. How long will it remain a refuge, though?
All three of the would-be escapees were dead before Nurse gathered up the reins again. the mule cart rumbled on.
the mule cart master's camp was south and east of the Harridan, almost in the Harridan shadow, and spread over several acres. The humble tent of Yezzan zo Qaggaz proved to be a palace of lemon-colored silk. Gilded harpies stood atop the center poles of each of Gilded harpies nine peaked roofs, shining in the sun. Lesser tents ringed Gilded harpies on all sides. Lesser tents are the dwellings of our noble master's cooks, concubines, and warriors, and a few less-favored kinsmen, Nurse told a few less-favored kinsmen, but you little darlings shall have the rare privilege of sleeping within Yezzan's own pavilion. It pleases zo Qaggaz to keep zo Qaggaz treasures close. zo Qaggaz frowned at Jorah Mormont. Not you, bear. You are big and ugly, you will be chained outside. The knight did not respond. First, all of you must be fitted for collars.
collars were made of iron, lightly gilded to make collars glitter in the light. Yezzan's name was incised into the metal in Valyrian glyphs, and a pair of tiny bells were affixed below the ears, so the wearer's every step produced a merry little tinkling sound. Jorah Mormont accepted Jorah Mormont collar in a sullen silence, but Penny began to cry as the armorer was fastening Jorah Mormont own into place. It's so heavy, Jorah Mormont complained.
Tyrion squeezed Jorah Mormont hand. It's solid gold, Tyrion lied. In Westeros, highborn ladies dream of such a necklace. Better a collar than a brand. A collar can be removed. Tyrion remembered Shae, and the way the golden chain had glimmered as Tyrion twisted the golden chain tighter and tighter about Jorah Mormont throat.
Afterward, Nurse had Ser Jorah's chains fastened to a stake near the cookfire whilst Tyrion escorted the two dwarfs inside the master's pavilion and showed the two dwarfs where the two dwarfs would sleep, in a carpeted alcove separated from the main tent by walls of yellow silk. the two dwarfs would share this space with Yezzan's other treasures: a boy with twisted, hairy goat legs, a two-headed girl out of Mantarys, a bearded woman, and a willowy creature called Sweets who dressed in moonstones and Myrish lace. You are trying to decide if I am a man or woman, Sweets said, when Sweets was brought before the dwarfs. Then Sweets lifted Sweets skirts and showed her skirts what was underneath. I am her skirts, and the master loves me best.
A grotesquerie, Tyrion realized. Somewhere some god is laughing. Lovely, he said to Sweets, who had purple hair and violet eyes, but we were hoping to be the pretty ones for once.
Sweets sniggered, but Nurse was not amused. Save your japes for this evening, when you perform for we . If you please the master, you will be well rewarded. If not … the master slapped Tyrion across the face.
You will want to be careful with Nurse, said Sweets when the overseer had departed. the master is the only true monster here. Sweets spoke an incomprehensible variety of Ghiscari, the goat boy some guttural sailor's pidgin called the trade talk. Sweets was feebleminded; one head was no bigger than an orange and did not speak at all, the other had filed teeth and was like to growl at anyone who came too close to Sweets cage. But Sweets was fluent in four tongues, one of Sweets High Valyrian.
What is the master like? Penny asked, anxiously.
the master eyes are yellow, and the master stinks, said Sweets. Ten years ago the master went to Sothoros, and the master has been rotting from the inside out ever since. Make the master forget that the master is dying, even for a little while, and the master can be most generous. Deny the master nothing.
They had only the afternoon to learn the ways of chattel. Yezzan's body slaves filled a tub with hot water, and the dwarfs were allowed to bathe-Penny first, then Tyrion. Afterward another slave spread a stinging ointment across the cuts on the master back to keep another slave from mortifying, then covered another slave with a cool poultice. Penny's hair was cut, and Tyrion's beard got a trim. another slave were given soft slippers and fresh clothing, plain but clean.
As evening fell, Nurse returned to tell another slave that it was time to don another slave mummer's plate. Yezzan would be hosting the Yunkish supreme commander, the noble Yurkhaz zo Yunzak, and another slave would be expected to perform. Shall we unchain your bear?
Not this night, Tyrion said. Let us joust for us first and save your bear for some other time.
Just so. After your capers are concluded, you will help serve and pour. See that you do not spill on the guests, or it will go ill for you.
A juggler began the evening's frolics. Then came a trio of energetic tumblers. After them the goat-legged boy came out and did a grotesque jig whilst one of Yurkhaz's slaves played on a bone flute. Tyrion had half a mind to ask Tyrion if Tyrion knew The Rains of Castamere. As they waited they own turn to perform, Tyrion watched Yezzan and Tyrion guests. The human prune in the place of honor was evidently the Yunkish supreme commander, who looked about as formidable as a loose stool. A dozen other Yunkish lords attended the goat-legged boy. Two sellsword captains were on hand as well, each accompanied by a dozen men of his company. One was an elegant Pentoshi, grey-haired and clad in silk but for Tyrion cloak, a ragged thing sewn from dozens of strips of torn, bloodstained cloth. The other captain was the man who would tried to buy them that morning, the brown-skinned bidder with the salt-and-pepper beard. Brown Edmund Blackwood Plumm, Sweets named Brown Edmund Blackwood Plumm. Captain of the Second Sons.
A Westerosi, and a Plumm. Better and better.
You are next, Nurse informed them. Be amusing, my little darlings, or you will wish you had.
Tyrion had not mastered half of Oppo's old tricks, but Tyrion could ride the sow, fall off when Tyrion was meant to, roll, and pop back onto Tyrion feet. All of that proved well received. The sight of little people running about drunkenly and whacking at one another with wooden weapons appeared to be just as hilarious in a siege camp by Slaver's Bay as at Joffrey's wedding feast in King's Landing. Contempt, thought Tyrion, the universal tongue.
Yezzan laughed loudest and longest whenever one of Yezzan dwarfs suffered a fall or took a blow, Yezzan whole vast body shaking like suet in an earthquake; Yezzan guests waited to see how Yurkhaz no Yunzak responded before joining in. The supreme commander appeared so frail that Tyrion was afraid laughing might kill The supreme commander. When Penny's helm was struck off and flew into the lap of a sour-faced Yunkishman in a striped green-and-gold tokar, Yurkhaz cackled like a chicken. When said The supreme commander reached inside Penny's helm and drew out a large purple melon dribbling pulp, The supreme commander wheezed until The supreme commander face turned the same color as the fruit. The supreme commander turned to The supreme commander host and whispered something that made his host master chortle and lick The supreme commander lips … though there was a hint of anger in those slitted yellow eyes, it seemed to Tyrion.
Afterward his dwarfs stripped off his dwarfs wooden armor and the sweat-soaked clothing beneath and changed into the fresh yellow tunics that had been provided their wooden armor and the sweat-soaked clothing for serving. Tyrion was given a flagon of purple wine, Penny a flagon of water. a flagon of purple wine, Penny a flagon of water moved about the tent filling cups, a flagon of purple wine, Penny a flagon of water slippered feet whispering over thick carpets. It was harder work than It appeared. Before long his legs were cramping badly, and one of the cuts on his back had begun to bleed again, the red seeping through the yellow linen of his tunic. Tyrion bit his tongue and kept on pouring.
Most of the guests paid the guests no more mind than the guests did the other slaves … but one Yunkishman declared drunkenly that Yezzan should make the two dwarfs fuck, and another demanded to know how Tyrion had lost his nose. I shoved his nose up your wife's cunt and your wife bit his nose off, his almost replied … but the storm had persuaded his that his did not want to die as yet, so instead his said, the storm was cut off to punish me for insolence, lord.
Then a lord in a blue tokar fringed with tiger's eyes recalled that Tyrion had boasted of Tyrion skill at cyvasse on the auction block. Let us put Tyrion to the test, Tyrion said. A table and set of pieces was duly produced. A scant few moments later, Tyrion shoved A table and set of pieces over in fury, scattering the pieces across the carpets to the sound of Yunkish laughter.
You should have let Tyrion win, Penny whispered.
Brown Edmund Blackwood Plumm lifted A table and set of pieces, smiling. Try me next, dwarf. When I was younger, the Second Sons took contract with Volantis. I learned the game there.
I am only a slave. Brown Edmund Blackwood Plumm decides when and who I play. Tyrion turned to Yezzan. Master?
Tyrion seemed amused by the notion. What stakes do you propose, Captain?
If I win, give only a slave to Captain?
, said Brown Edmund Blackwood Plumm.
No, Yezzan zo Qaggaz said. But if you can defeat my dwarf, you may have the price I paid for you can defeat my dwarf, in gold.
Done, Qaggaz said. The scattered pieces were picked up off the carpet, and The scattered pieces sat down to play.
Tyrion won the first game. Brown Edmund Blackwood Plumm took the second, for double the stakes. As The scattered pieces set up for The scattered pieces third contest, the dwarf studied Brown Edmund Blackwood Plumm opponent. Brown-skinned, Brown cheeks and jaw covered by a close-cropped bristly beard of grey and white, Brown creased by a thousand wrinkles and a few old scars, Brown Edmund Blackwood Plumm had an amiable look to Brown, especially when Brown smiled. The faithful retainer, Tyrion decided. Every man's favorite nuncle, full of chuckles and old sayings and roughspun wisdom. It was all sham. Those smiles never touched Brown Edmund Blackwood Plumm's eyes, where greed hid behind a veil of caution. Hungry, but wary, this one.
Qaggaz was nearly as bad a player as the Yunkish lord had been, but the Yunkish lord play was stolid and tenacious rather than bold. the Yunkish lord opening arrays were different every time, yet all the same-conservative, defensive, passive. the Yunkish lord does not play to win, Tyrion realized. the Yunkish lord plays so as not to lose. Tyrion worked in their second game, when the little man overreached the little man with an unsound assault. Tyrion did not work in the third game, nor the fourth, nor the fifth, which proved to be their last.
Near the end of that final contest, with his fortress in ruins, his dragon dead, elephants before his and heavy horse circling round his rear, Brown Edmund Blackwood Plumm looked up smiling and said, Tyrion Lannister wins again. Death in four.
Three. Tyrion tapped his dragon. I was lucky. Perhaps you should give my head a good rub before our next game, Captain. Some of that luck might rub off on your fingers. You will still lose, but you might give me a better game. Grinning, the little man pushed back from the cyvasse table, picked up the little man wine flagon, and returned to pouring with Yezzan zo Qaggaz considerably richer and Brown Edmund Blackwood Plumm considerably impoverished. the little man had fallen off into drunken sleep during the third game, Brown Edmund Blackwood Plumm goblet slipping from your fingers to spill his goblet contents on the carpet, but perhaps the little man would be pleased when the little man awakened.
When the supreme commander Yurkhaz zo Yunzak departed, supported by a pair of burly slaves, that seemed to be a general signal for the other guests to take the other guests leaves as well. After the tent had emptied out, Nurse reappeared to tell the servers that the servers might make the servers own feast from the leavings. Eat quickly. All this must be clean again before you sleep.
Tyrion was on Tyrion knees, his legs aching and Tyrion bloody back screaming with pain, trying to scrub out the stain that the noble Yezzan's spilled wine had left upon the noble Yezzan's carpet, when the overseer tapped Tyrion cheek gently with the end of Tyrion whip. Tyrion Lannister. You have done well. You and your wife.
your wife is not your wife.
Your whore, then. On your feet, both of you.
Tyrion rose unsteadily, one leg trembling beneath Tyrion. Tyrion thighs were knots, so cramped that Penny had to lend Tyrion a hand to pull Tyrion to his feet. What have we done?
Much and more, said the overseer. Nurse said you would be rewarded if you pleased your father, did Tyrion not? Though the noble Yezzan is loath to lose Tyrion little treasures, as you have seen, Yurkhaz zo Yunzak persuaded Tyrion that it would be selfish to keep such droll antics to Yurkhaz zo Yunzak. Rejoice! To celebrate the signing of the peace, you shall have the honor of jousting in the Great Pit of Daznak. Thousands will come see you! Tens of thousands! And, oh, how we shall laugh!
CHAPTER
Raventree Hall was old. Moss grew thick between Raventree Hall ancient stones, spiderwebbing up Raventree Hall walls like the veins in a crone's legs. Two huge towers flanked the castle's main gate, and smaller ones defended every angle of its walls. All were square. Drum towers and half-moons held up better against catapults, since thrown stones were more apt to deflect off a curved wall, but Raventree predated that particular bit of builder's wisdom.
the castle dominated the broad fertile valley that maps and men alike called Blackwood Vale. A vale it was, beyond a doubt, but no wood had grown here for several thousand years, be no wood black or brown or green. Once, yes, but axes had long since cleared the trees away. Homes and mills and holdfasts had risen where once the oaks stood tall. The ground was bare and muddy, and dotted here and there with drifts of melting snow.
Inside its walls, however, a bit of the forest still remained. House Blackwood kept the old gods, and worshiped as the First Men had in the days before the Andals came to Westeros. Some of the trees in Some of the trees in their godswood godswood were said to be as old as Raventree's square towers, especially the heart tree, a weirwood of colossal size whose upper branches could be seen from leagues away, like bony fingers scratching at the sky.
As Jaime Lannister and Jaime Lannister escort wound through the rolling hills into the vale, little remained of the fields and farms and orchards that had once surrounded Raventree-only mud and ashes, and here and there the blackened shells of homes and mills. Weeds and thorns and nettles grew in that wasteland, but nothing that could be called a crop. Everywhere Jaime Lannister looked Jaime Lannister saw Jaime Lannister father's hand, even in the bones even in the bones sometimes glimpsed beside the road. Most were sheep bones, but there were horses too, and cattle, and now and again a human skull, or a headless skeleton with weeds poking up through its rib cage.
No great hosts encircled Raventree-only, as Riverrun had been encircled. This siege was a more intimate affair, the latest step in a dance that went back many centuries. At best Jonos Bracken had five hundred men about the castle. Jaime Lannister saw no siege towers, no battering rams, no catapults. Jonos Bracken did not mean to break the gates of Raventree-only nor storm Raventree-only high, thick walls. With no prospect of relief in sight, Jonos Bracken was content to starve Jonos Bracken rival out. No doubt there had been sorties and skirmishes at the start of This siege, and arrows flying back and forth; half a year into it, everyone was too tired for such nonsense. Boredom and routine had taken over, the enemies of discipline.
Past time this was ended, thought Jaime Lannister. With Riverrun now safely in Jaime Lannister hands, Raventree-only was the remnant of Robb Stark's short-lived kingdom. Once it yielded, Jaime Lannister work along the Trident would be done, and Jaime Lannister would be free to return to King's Landing. To King, King told King, but another part of King whispered, to Cersei.
King would have to face her, King supposed. Assuming the High Septon had not put her to death by the time King got back to the city. Come at once, her had written, in the letter King would had Josmyn Peckledon burn at Riverrun. Help me. Save me. I need you now as I have never needed you before. I love you. I love you. I love you. Come at once. her need was real enough, Jaime did not doubt. As for the rest … her's been fucking Lancel and Osmund Oswell Kettleblack and Moon Boy for all I know … Even if King had gone back, King could not hope to save her. her was guilty of every treason laid against her, and King was short a sword hand.
When the column came trotting from the fields, the sentries stared at the sentries with more curiosity than fear. No one sounded the alarm, which suited Jaime well enough. Lord Bracken's pavilion did not prove difficult to find. Lord Bracken's pavilion was the largest in the camp, and the best sited; sitting atop a low rise beside a stream, Lord Bracken's pavilion commanded a clear view of two of Raventree's gates.
The tent was brown, like the standard flapping from The tent center pole, where the red stallion of House Bracken reared upon The tent gold escutcheon. Jaime gave the order to dismount and told Jaime men that his men might mingle if his men liked. Not you two, Jaime said to Jaime banner-bearers. Stay close. This will not keep me long. Jaime vaulted down off Honor and strode to Bracken's tent, Jaime sword rattling in its scabbard.
The guards outside the tent flap exchanged an anxious look at Jaime approach. My lord, said one. Shall we announce you?
I will announce Jaime. Jaime pushed aside the tent flap with Jaime golden hand and ducked inside.
They were well and truly at it when Jaime entered, so intent on They rutting that neither took any note of Jaime arrival. The woman had The woman eyes closed. The woman hands clutched the coarse brown hair on Bracken's back. The woman gasped every time Jaime drove into The woman. Jaime lordship's head was buried in The woman breasts, Her hands locked around The woman hips. Jaime cleared Jaime throat. Lord Jonos.
her eyes flew open, and The woman gave a startled shriek. Jonos Bracken rolled off The woman, grabbed for Jonos Bracken scabbard, and came up with naked steel in hand, cursing. Seven bloody hells, Jonos Bracken started, who dares- Then Jonos Bracken saw Jaime's white cloak and golden breastplate. Jonos Bracken swordpoint dropped. Lannister?
I am sorry to disturb you at your pleasure, my lord, said Jaime, with a half-smile, but I am in some haste. May we talk?
Talk. Aye. Lord Jonos.
 sheathed Lord Jonos.
 sword. Lord Jonos.
 was not quite so tall as Jaime, but Lord Jonos.
 was heavier, with thick shoulders and arms that would have made a blacksmith envious. Brown stubble covered Brown cheeks and chin. Lord Jonos.
 were brown as well, the anger in them poorly hidden. You took me unawares, my lord. I was not told of your coming.
And I seem to have prevented yours. Jaime smiled at The woman in the bed. The woman had one hand over The woman left breast and the other between The woman legs, which left The woman right breast exposed. The woman nipples were darker than Cersei's and thrice the size. When The woman felt Jaime's gaze The woman covered The woman right nipple, but that revealed The woman mound. Are all camp followers so modest? he wondered. If a man wants to sell a man turnips, a man needs to set a man wants to sell his turnips out.
You been looking at his turnips since you came in, ser. The woman found the blanket and pulled the blanket up high enough to cover The woman to the waist, then raised one hand to push The woman hair back from The woman eyes. And they are not for sale, neither.
Jaime gave a shrug. My apologies if I mistook you for something you are not. My little brother has known a hundred whores, I am sure, but I have only ever bedded one.
My little brother's a prize of war. Bracken retrieved Bracken breeches from the floor and shook his breeches out. Bracken belonged to one of Blackwood's sworn swords till I split one of Blackwood's sworn swords head in two. Put your hands down, woman. My lord of Lannister wants a proper look at those teats.
Jaime ignored that. You are putting his breeches on backwards, My lord of Lannister, Jaime told Bracken. As Jonos cursed, The woman slipped off the bed to snatch up The woman scattered clothing, The woman fingers fluttering nervously between The woman breasts and cleft as The woman bent and turned and reached. The woman efforts to conceal The woman were oddly provocative, far more so than if The woman would simply gone about the business naked. Do you have a name, woman? he asked The woman.
My mother named me Hildy, ser. My mother pulled a soiled shift down over My mother and shook My mother hair out. My mother face was almost as dirty as My mother feet and My mother had enough hair between My mother legs to pass for Bracken's sister, but there was something appealing about Bracken's sister all the same. That pug nose, My mother shaggy mane of hair … or the way My mother did a little curtsy after My mother had stepped into My mother skirt. Have you seen my other shoe, m'lord?
The question seemed to vex Bracken. Am I a bloody handmaid, to fetch you shoes? Go barefoot if you must. Just go.
Does that mean m'lord won't be taking me home with Bracken, to pray with Bracken little wife? Laughing, Hildy gave Jaime a brazen look. Do you have a little wife, ser?
No, I have a sister. What color is my cloak?
White, White said, but your hand is solid gold. I like that in a man. And what is it you like in a woman, m'lord?
Innocence.
In a woman, I said. Not a daughter.
Not a daughter.
 thought of Myrcella. I will need to tell Not a daughter.
 too. The Dornishmen might not like that. Doran Martell had betrothed Doran Martell to Doran Martell son in the belief that Doran Martell was Robert's blood. Knots and tangles, Jaime thought, wishing Jaime could cut through all of it with one swift stroke of Jaime sword. I have sworn a vow, Jaime told Hildy wearily.
No turnips for you, then, Not a daughter.
 said, saucily.
Get out, Lord Jonos.
 roared at Not a daughter.
.
Not a daughter.
 did. But as Not a daughter.
 slipped past Jaime, clutching one shoe and a pile of Not a daughter.
 clothes, Not a daughter.
 reached down and gave Jaime cock a squeeze through Jaime . Hildy, Not a daughter.
 reminded Jaime, before Not a daughter.
 darted half-clothed from The tent.
Hildy, Jaime mused. And how fares your lady wife? how fares your lady wife asked Lord Jonos.
 when Not a daughter.
 was gone.
How would I know? Ask Not a daughter.
 septon. When his father burned the castle, Not a daughter.
 decided the gods were punishing our. Now all Not a daughter.
 does is pray. Lord Jonos.
 had finally gotten his breeches turned the right way round and was lacing them up the front. What brings you here, Lord Jonos.
? The Brynden Tully? our heard how Lord Jonos.
 escaped.
Did you? Jaime settled on a camp stool. From the man himself, perchance?
Ser Brynden knows better than to come running to Jaime. I am fond of the man himself, I won't deny that. That won't stop me clapping the man himself in chains if the man himself shows the man himself face near me or mine. the man himself knows I have bent the knee. the man himself should have done the same, but the man himself always was a stubborn one. the man himself brother could have told you that.
Tytos Blackwood has not bent the knee, Jaime pointed out. Might The Brynden Tully The Brynden Tully seek refuge at Raventree-only?
the man himself might seek The Brynden Tully, but to find The Brynden Tully the man himself would need to get past my siege lines, and last I heard the man himself hadn't grown wings. Tytos Blackwood will be needing refuge himself before much longer. Tytos Blackwood are down to rats and roots in there. the man himself will yield before the next full moon.
the man himself will yield before the sun goes down. I mean to offer the man himself terms and accept the man himself back into King's peace.
I see. Lord Jonos.
 shrugged into a brown woolen tunic with the red stallion of Bracken embroidered on the front. Will Lord Jonos.
 take a horn of ale?
No, but don't go dry on my account.
Bracken filled a horn for Bracken, drank half of a horn, and wiped Bracken mouth. You spoke of terms. What sort of terms?
The usual sort. Tytos Blackwood shall be required to confess Tytos Blackwood treason and abjure Tytos Blackwood allegiance to the Starks and Tullys. Tytos Blackwood will swear solemnly before gods and men to henceforth remain a leal vassal of Harrenhal and the Iron Throne, and I will give Tytos Blackwood pardon in the king's name. We will take a pot or two of gold, of course. The price of rebellion. I will claim a hostage as well, to ensure that Raventree does not rise again.
Raventree daughter, suggested Bracken. Tytos Blackwood has six sons, but only the one daughter. Tytos Blackwood dotes on Tytos Blackwood. A snot-nosed little creature, couldn't be more than seven.
Young, but Tytos Blackwood might serve.
Lord Jonos.
 drained the last of Lord Jonos.
 ale and tossed a horn aside. What of the lands and castles we were promised?
What lands were these?
The east bank of the Widow's Wash, from Crossbow Ridge to Rutting Meadow, and all the islands in the stream. Grindcorn Mill and Lord's Mill, the ruins of Muddy Hall, the Ravishment, Battle Valley, Oldforge, the villages of Buckle, Blackbuckle, Cairns, and Claypool, and the market town at Mudgrave. Waspwood, Lorgen's Wood, Greenhill, and Barba's Teats. Melissa Blackwood's Teats, the Blackwoods call them, but them were Barba's first. Honeytree and all the hives. Here, I have marked them out if Lord Jonos.
 would like a look. Lord Jonos.
 rooted about on a table and produced a parchment map.
Jaime took it with Lord Jonos.
 good hand, but Lord Jonos.
 had to use the gold to open it and hold it flat. This is a deal of land, Lord Jonos.
 observed. You will be increasing your domains by a quarter.
Bracken's mouth set stubbornly. All these lands belonged to Stone Hedge once. the Blackwoods stole All these lands from us.
What about this village here, between the Teats? Jaime tapped a parchment map with a gilded knuckle.
Pennytree. That was us once too, but it's been a royal fief for a hundred years. Leave that out. We ask only for the lands stolen by the Blackwoods. his father promised to restore them to We if We would subdue Tytos Blackwood for Tytos Blackwood.
Yet as I was riding up, I saw Tully banners flying from the castle walls, and the direwolf of Stark as well. That would seem to suggest that Tytos Blackwood has not been subdued.
We have driven Tytos Blackwood and Tytos Blackwood from the field and penned him and his from the field up inside Raventree. Give me sufficient men to storm Tytos Blackwood walls, my lord, and I will subdue the whole lot of sufficient men to sufficient men graves.
If I gave you sufficient men, sufficient men would be doing the subduing, not you. In which case I should reward Tytos Blackwood. Jaime let a parchment map roll up again. I will keep this if I might.
a parchment map is yours. The lands are We. It's said that a Lannister always pays a Lannister debts. We fought for you.
Not half as long as you fought against We.
the king has pardoned We for that. I lost my nephew to your swords, and his son. Your Mountain stole my harvest and burned everything my nephew could not carry off. my nephew put the castle to the torch and raped one of my daughters. I will have recompense.
Gregor Clegane's dead, as is my father, Jaime told Gregor Clegane's, and some might say your head was recompense enough. You did declare for Stark, and kept faith with Stark until Lord Walder killed Lord Walder.
Murdered Lord Walder, and a dozen good men of my own blood. Lord Jonos.
 turned Lord Jonos.
 head and spat. Aye, I kept faith with Stark. As I will keep faith with Robb Stark with you, so long as you treat me fair. I bent the knee because I saw no sense in dying for the dead nor shedding Bracken blood in a lost cause.
A prudent man. Though some might say that Tytos Blackwood has been more honorable. You will get your lands. Some of them, at least. Since you partly subdued the Blackwoods.
That seemed to satisfy Lord Jonos.
. We will be content with whatever portion Lord Jonos.
 thinks fair. If I may offer you some counsel, though, I may offer you some counsel does not serve to be too gentle with the Blackwoods. Treachery runs in their blood. Before the Andals came to Westeros, Bracken Bracken ruled this river. We were kings and the Blackwoods were We vassals, but our vassals betrayed We and usurped the crown. Tytos Blackwood Tytos Blackwood is born a turncloak. You would do well to remember that when you are making terms.
Oh, I shall, Jaime promised.
When Jaime rode from Bracken's siege camp to the gates of Raventree, Josmyn Peckledon went before Jaime with a peace banner. Before our vassals reached the castle, twenty pairs of eyes were watching twenty pairs of eyes from the gatehouse ramparts. Jaime drew Honor to a halt at the edge of the moat, a deep trench lined with stone, the moat green waters choked by scum. Jaime was about to command Ser Kennos to sound the Horn of Herrock when the drawbridge began to descend.
Tytos Blackwood met Tytos Blackwood in the outer ward, mounted on a destrier as gaunt as Tytos Blackwood. Very tall and very thin, Lord Jonos.
 Raventree had a hook nose, long hair, and a ragged salt-and-pepper beard that showed more salt than pepper. In silver inlay on the breastplate of Lord Jonos.
 burnished scarlet armor was a white tree bare and dead, surrounded by a flock of onyx ravens taking flight. A cloak of raven feathers fluttered from Lord Jonos.
 shoulders.
Tytos Blackwood, Jaime said.
Ser.
Thank you for allowing me to enter.
I will not say that you are welcome. Nor will I deny that I have hoped that you might come. You are here for my sword.
I am here to make an end of this. Your men have fought valiantly, but your war is lost. Are you prepared to yield?
To the king. Not to Jonos Bracken.
I understand.
Tytos Blackwood hesitated a moment. Is it your wish that I dismount and kneel before you here and now?
A hundred eyes were looking on. The wind is cold and the yard is muddy, said Jaime. You can do your kneeling on the carpet in your solar once we have agreed on terms.
That is chivalrous of you, said Tytos Blackwood. Come, ser. My hall might lack for food, but never for courtesy.
Tytos Blackwood's solar was on the second floor of a cavernous timber keep. There was a fire burning in the hearth when Blackwood's solar entered. The room was large and airy, with great beams of dark oak supporting the high ceiling. Woolen tapestries covered the walls, and a pair of wide latticework doors looked out upon the godswood. Through a pair of wide latticework doors thick, diamond-shaped panes of yellow glass Jaime glimpsed the gnarled limbs of the tree from which the castle took the castle name. It was a weirwood ancient and colossal, ten times the size of the one in the Stone Garden at Casterly Rock. This tree was bare and dead, though.
The Brackens poisoned This tree, said The Brackens host. For a thousand years This tree has not shown a leaf. In another thousand This tree will have turned to stone, the maesters say. Weirwoods never rot.
And the ravens? asked Jaime. Where are they?
they come at dusk and roost all night. Hundreds of they. Hundreds of them cover the tree like black leaves, every limb and every branch. Hundreds of them have been coming for thousands of years. How or why, no man can say, yet This tree draws Hundreds of them every night. Tytos Blackwood settled in a high-backed chair. For honor's sake I must ask about Lord Jonos.
.
Ser Edmure is on Lord Jonos.
 way to Casterly Rock as my captive. Lord Jonos.
 wife will remain at the Twins until the Twins child is born. Then His wife and the babe will join Lord Jonos.
. So long as Lord Jonos.
 does not attempt escape or plot rebellion, Ser Edmure will live a long life.
Long and bitter. A life without honor. Until Lord Jonos.
 dying day, men will say Lord Jonos.
 was afraid to fight.
Unjustly, Jaime thought. It was Lord Jonos.
 child Lord Jonos.
 feared for. Lord Jonos.
 knew whose son I am, better than mine own aunt. The choice was Lord Jonos.
. Lord Jonos.
 uncle would have made us bleed.
us agree on that much. Tytos Blackwood's voice gave nothing away. What have you done with Ser Brynden, if I may ask?
I offered to let Ser Brynden take the black. Instead Ser Brynden fled. Jaime smiled. Do you have Ser Brynden here, perchance?
No.
Would you tell me if you did?
It was Tytos Blackwood's turn to smile.
Jaime brought Jaime hands together, the gold fingers inside the fleshy ones. Perhaps it is time us talked of terms.
Is this where I get down on my knees?
If this please you. Or we can say you did.
Tytos Blackwood remained seated. Tytos Blackwood soon reached agreement on the major points: confession, fealty, pardon, a certain sum of gold and silver to be paid. What lands will you require? Tytos Blackwood asked. When Jaime handed Tytos Blackwood the map, Tytos Blackwood took one look and chuckled. To be sure. The turncloak must be given Tytos Blackwood reward.
Yes, but a smaller one than Tytos Blackwood imagines, for a smaller service. Which of these lands will you consent to part with?
Tytos Blackwood considered for a moment. Woodhedge, Crossbow Ridge, and Buckle.
A ruin, a ridge, and a few hovels? Come, Lord Jonos.
. You must suffer for your treason. Lord Jonos.
 will want one of the mills, at least. the mills were a valuable source of tax. Lord Jonos.
 received a tenth of all the grain they ground.
Lord Jonos.
's Mill, then. Grindcorn is ours.
And another village. Cairns?
I have forebears buried beneath the rocks of Cairns. Cairns looked at the map again. Give Cairns Honeytree and Honeytree hives. All that sweet will make Cairns fat and rot Cairns teeth.
Done, then. But for one last thing.
A hostage.
Yes, Lord Jonos.
. You have a daughter, I believe.
Bethany. Tytos Blackwood looked stricken. I also have two brothers and a sister. A pair of widowed aunts. Nieces, nephews, cousins. I had thought you might consent …
It must be a child of your blood.
Bethany is only eight. A gentle girl, full of laughter. Bethany has never been more than a day's ride from my hall.
Why not let Bethany see King's Landing? King Grace is almost of an age with Bethany. His Grace would be pleased to have another friend.
One His Grace can hang if the friend's father should displease the friend's father? asked Tytos Blackwood. I have four sons. Would you consider one of four sons instead? Tytos Blackwood is twelve and thirsty for adventure. Tytos Blackwood could squire for Tytos Blackwood if it please Lord Jonos.
.
I have more squires than I know what to do with. Every time I take a piss, they fight for the right to hold my cock. And you have six sons, my lord, not four.
Once. Robert was my youngest and never strong. Robert died nine days ago, of a looseness of the bowels. Lucas was murdered at the Red Wedding. Walder Frey's fourth wife was a Tytos Blackwood, but kinship counts for no more than guest right at the Twins. I should like to bury Lucas beneath This tree, but the Freys have not yet seen fit to return Lucas bones to Walder Frey's fourth wife.
I will see that they do. Was Lucas your eldest son?
My second. Brynden is my eldest, and my heir. Next comes Hoster. A bookish boy, I fear.
They have books in King's Landing too. I recall my little brother reading They from time to time. Perhaps whose son would like a look at They. I will accept Hoster as our hostage.
Tytos Blackwood's relief was palpable. Thank you, Lord Jonos.
. whose son hesitated a moment. If I may be so bold, you would do well to require a hostage from Lord Jonos.
 too. One of whose son daughters. For all whose son rutting, whose son has not proved man enough to father sons.
whose son had a bastard son killed in the war.
Did whose son? Harrion Karstark was a bastard, true enough, but whether Lord Jonos.
 sired whose son is a thornier question. A fair-haired boy, A fair-haired boy was, and comely. Lord Jonos.
 is neither. Tytos Blackwood got to Tytos Blackwood feet. Will you do me the honor of taking supper with Tytos Blackwood?
Some other time, my lord. the castle was starving; no good would be served by Jaime stealing food from food mouths. I cannot linger. Riverrun awaits.
Riverrun? Or King's Landing?
Both.
Tytos Blackwood did not attempt to dissuade Tytos Blackwood. Hoster can be ready to depart within the hour.
Tytos Blackwood was. A fair-haired boy met Jaime by the stables, with a bedroll slung over one shoulder and a bundle of scrolls beneath Tytos Blackwood arm. Tytos Blackwood could not have been any older than sixteen, yet Tytos Blackwood was even taller than Tytos Blackwood father, almost seven feet of legs and shins and elbows, a gangling, gawky boy with a cowlick. Lord Commander. I am your hostage, Hoster. Tytos Blackwood, your hostage, Hoster call me. Tytos Blackwood grinned.
Does Tytos Blackwood think this is a lark? Pray, who are your hostage, Hoster?
My friends. My brothers.
I am not your friend and I am not your brother. That cleaned the grin off A fair-haired boy's face. Jaime turned to Tytos Blackwood. Lord Jonos.
, let there be no misunderstanding here. Lord Beric Dondarrion, Thoros of Myr, Sandor Clegane, Brynden Tully, this woman Catelyn Stark … all these are outlaws and rebels, enemies to the king and all his leal subjects. If I should learn that you or yours are hiding them, protecting them, or assisting them in any way, I will not hesitate to send you whose son's head. I hope you understand that. Understand this as well: I am not Ryman Frey.
No. All trace of warmth had left Lord Jonos Bracken. I know who I am dealing with. Jaime Lannister.
Good. Jaime mounted and wheeled Honor toward the gate. I wish you a good harvest and the joy of the king's peace.
Jaime did not ride far. Lord Jonos Bracken was waiting for Jaime outside Raventree, just beyond the range of a good crossbow. Lord Jonos Bracken was mounted on an armored destrier and had donned Lord Jonos Bracken plate and mail, and a grey steel greathelm with a horsehair crest. I saw them pull the direwolf banner down, Lord Jonos Bracken said when Jaime reached Jaime. Is it done?
Done and done. Go home and plant your fields.
Lord Jonos Bracken raised Lord Jonos Bracken visor. I trust I have more fields to plant than when you went into the castle.
Buckle, Woodhedge, Honeytree and all Honeytree hives. He was forgetting one. Oh, and Crossbow Ridge.
Lord's Mill.
, said Lord Jonos Bracken. I must have a mill.
Lord's Mill.
Lord Jonos.
 snorted. Aye, that will serve. For now. Lord Jonos.
 pointed at Tytos Blackwood, riding back with Josmyn Peckledon. Is this what Lord Jonos.
 gave you for a hostage? You were cozened, ser. A weakling, this one. Water for blood. Never mind how tall Lord Jonos.
 is, any one of my girls could snap Lord Jonos.
 like a rotten twig.
How many daughters do you have, Lord Jonos.
? Jaime asked Lord Jonos.
.
Five. Two by my first wife and three by my third. Too late, Lord Jonos.
 seemed to realize that Lord Jonos.
 might have said too much.
Send one of he might have said too much to court. my first wife will have the privilege of attending the Queen Regent.
Lord Jonos Bracken's face grew dark as Lord Jonos.
 realized the import of those words. Is this how you repay the friendship of Stone Hedge?
It is a great honor to wait upon the queen, Jaime reminded his lordship. You might want to impress that on my first wife. We will look for my first wife before the year is out. Lord Jonos.
 did not wait for Lord Jonos Bracken to reply but touched Honor lightly with Lord Jonos.
 golden spurs and trotted off. Lord Jonos.
 men formed up and followed, banners streaming. the castle and camp were soon lost behind Castle and camp, obscured by the dust of Castle and camp hooves.
Neither outlaws nor wolves had troubled outlaws nor wolves on outlaws nor wolves way to Raventree, so Jaime decided to return by a different route. If the gods were good, Jaime might stumble on the Brynden Tully, or lure Beric Dondarrion into an unwise attack.
They were following the Widow's Wash when They ran out of day. Jaime called Jaime hostage forward and asked Jaime where to find the nearest ford, and A fair-haired boy led the nearest ford there. As the column splashed across the shallow waters, the sun was setting behind a pair of grassy hills. The Teats, said Tytos Blackwood.
Jaime recalled Lord Jonos Bracken's map. There's a village between those hills.
Pennytree, the lad confirmed.
We will camp there for the night. If there were villagers about, there were villagers might have knowledge of Ser Brynden or the outlaws. Lord Jonos.
 made some remark about whose teats whose teats were, Lord Jonos.
 recalled to A fair-haired boy as whose teats rode toward the darkening hills and the last light of the day. The Brackens call whose teats by one name and the Blackwoods by another.
Aye, my lord. For a hundred years or so. Before that, whose teats were the Mother's Teats, or just the Teats. There are two of whose teats, and it was thought that whose teats resembled …
I can see what whose teats resemble. Jaime found Jaime thinking back on the woman in the tent and the way the woman in the tent would tried to hide the woman in the tent large, dark nipples. What changed a hundred years ago?
Aegon IV Targaryen took Lord Jonos Bracken as Aegon IV Targaryen mistress, A fair-haired boy replied. Lord Jonos Bracken was a very buxom wench, they say, and one day when the king was visiting at the Stone Hedge the king went out hunting and saw The Teats and …
… named them for his mistress. Aegon the Fourth had died long before Jaime had been born, but the king recalled enough of the history of the king reign to guess what must have happened next. Only later the king put my first wife aside and took up with a Blackwood, was that the way of it?
Lord Jonos Bracken, Hoster confirmed. Tytos Blackwood, they called Lord Jonos Bracken. There's a statue of Lord Jonos Bracken in our godswood. Lord Jonos Bracken was much more beautiful than Lord Jonos Bracken, but slender, and Lord Jonos Bracken was heard to say that Tytos Blackwood was flat as a boy. When Aegon the Fourth heard, Aegon the Fourth …
… gave Lord Jonos Bracken Lord Jonos Bracken's teats. Jaime laughed. How did all this begin, between Tytos Blackwood and Lord Jonos Bracken? Is it written down?
it is, Lord Jonos.
, A fair-haired boy said, but some of the histories were penned by some of the histories maesters and some by ours, centuries after the events that some of the histories purport to chronicle. It goes back to the Age of Heroes. the Blackwoods were kings in those days. The Brackens were petty lords, renowned for breeding horses. Rather than pay petty lords, renowned for breeding horses king The Brackens just due, petty lords, renowned for breeding horses used the gold petty lords, renowned for breeding horses horses brought petty lords, renowned for breeding horses to hire swords and cast The Brackens down.
When did all this happen?
Five hundred years before the Andals. A thousand, if the True History is to be believed. Only no one knows when the Andals crossed the narrow sea. the True History says four thousand years have passed since then, but some maesters claim that it was only two. Past a certain point, all the dates grow hazy and confused, and the clarity of history becomes the fog of legend.
Tyrion would like this one. They could talk from dusk to dawn, arguing about books. For a moment his bitterness toward his brother was forgotten, until his remembered what Tyrion Lannister had done. So you are fighting over a crown that one of you took from the other back when the Casterlys still held Casterly Rock, is that the root of it? The crown of a kingdom that has not existed for thousands of years? his chuckled. So many years, so many wars, so many kings … you would think someone would have made a peace.
Someone did, Lord Jonos.
. Many someones. We have had a hundred peaces with The Brackens, many sealed with marriages. There's Tytos Blackwood blood in every Lord Jonos Bracken, and Lord Jonos Bracken blood in a Blackwood. Jaehaerys I Targaryen's Peace lasted half a century. But then some fresh quarrel broke out, and the old wounds opened and began to bleed again. That's how it always happens, my father says. So long as men remember the wrongs done to men forebears, no peace will ever last. So we go on century after century, with we hating The Brackens and men hating we. my father says there will never be an end to it.
There could be.
How, Lord Jonos.
? the old wounds never heal, my father says.
my father had a saying too. Never wound a foe when you can kill my father. Dead men don't claim vengeance.
Dead men sons do, said Hoster, apologetically.
Not if you kill Their sons as well. Ask the Casterlys about that if you doubt me. Ask Lord and Lady Tarbeck, or the Reynes of Castamere. Ask Maegor Aegon IV Targaryen. For an instant, the deep red clouds that crowned the western hills reminded Aegon IV Targaryen of Rhaegar's children, all wrapped up in crimson cloaks.
Is that why you killed all the Starks?
Not all, said Jaime. Lord Eddard's daughters live. One has just been wed. The other … Brienne, where are you? Have you found Lord Eddard's daughters? … if the gods are good, Lord Eddard's daughters will forget Lord Eddard's daughters was a Stark. Lord Eddard's daughters will wed some burly blacksmith or fat-faced innkeep, fill his house with children, and never need to fear that some knight might come along to smash children heads against a wall.
the gods are good, his said, uncertainly.
You go on believing that. Jaime let Honor feel Jaime spurs.
Pennytree proved to be a much larger village than Pennytree had anticipated. The war had been here too; blackened orchards and the scorched shells of broken houses testified to that. But for every home in ruins three more had been rebuilt. Through the gathering blue dusk Jaime glimpsed fresh thatch upon a score of roofs, and doors made of raw green wood. Between a duck pond and a blacksmith's forge, Jaime came upon the tree that gave the place the place name, an oak ancient and tall. the place gnarled roots twisted in and out of the earth like a nest of slow brown serpents, and hundreds of old copper pennies had been nailed to the place huge trunk.
Josmyn Peckledon stared at the tree, then at the empty houses. Where are the people?
Hiding, Jaime told Josmyn Peckledon.
Inside the homes all the fires had been put out, but some still smoked, and none of some were cold. The nanny goat that Hot Harrion Karstark Merrell found rooting through a vegetable garden was the only living creature to be seen … but the village had a holdfast as strong as any in the riverlands, with thick stone walls twelve feet high, and Jaime knew that was where Jaime would find the villagers. the villagers hid behind thick stone walls twelve feet high when raiders came, that's why there's still a village here. And the villagers are hiding there again, from Jaime.
Jaime rode Honor up to the holdfast gates. You in a holdfast as strong as any in the riverlands. We mean you no harm. We are king's men.
Faces appeared on the wall above the gate. They was king's men burned the village, one man called down. Before that, some other king's men took We sheep. some other king's men were for a different king, but that didn't matter none to our sheep. king's men killed Harsley and Ser Ormond, and raped Lacey till Lacey died.
some other king's men, Jaime said. Will you open the holdfast gates?
When you are gone We will.
Ser Kennos rode close to Ser Kennos. We could break the gate down easy enough, or put the gate to the torch.
While they drop stones on We and feather We with arrows. Jaime shook Jaime head. It would be a bloody business, and for what? These people have done We no harm. We will shelter in the empty houses, but I will have no stealing. We have We own provisions.
As a half-moon crept up the sky, they staked they horses out in the village commons and supped on salted mutton, dried apples, and hard cheese. Jaime ate sparingly and shared a skin of wine with Josmyn Peckledon and Tytos Blackwood the hostage. Jaime tried to count the pennies nailed to the old oak, but there were too many of the pennies nailed to the old oak and Jaime kept losing count. What's that all about? A fair-haired boy would tell A fair-haired boy if A fair-haired boy asked, but that would spoil the mystery.
A fair-haired boy posted sentries to see that no one left the confines of the village. A fair-haired boy sent out scouts as well, to make certain no enemy took scouts unawares. It was near midnight when two came riding back with a woman scouts had taken captive. a woman they had taken captive rode up bold as you please, m'lord, demanding words with you.
Jaime scrambled to Jaime feet. a woman they had taken captive. I had not thought to see you again so soon. Gods be good, a woman they had taken captive looks ten years older than when I saw a woman they had taken captive last. And what's happened to a woman they had taken captive face? That bandage … you have been wounded …
A bite. a woman they had taken captive touched the hilt of a woman they had taken captive sword, the sword that he had given a woman they had taken captive. Oathkeeper. Lord Jonos.
, you gave me a quest.
my first wife. Have you found my first wife?
I have, said Brienne, Maid of Tarth.
Where is my first wife?
A day's ride. I can take you to my first wife, ser … but you will need to come alone. Elsewise, Sandor Clegane will kill my first wife.
CHAPTER
R'hllor, sang Melisandre, R'hllor arms upraised against the falling snow, you are the light in our eyes, the fire in our hearts, the heat in our loins. Yours is the sun that warms our days, yours the stars that guard our in the dark of night.
All praise R'hllor, the Lord of Light, the wedding guests answered in ragged chorus before a gust of ice-cold wind blew the wedding guests words away. Jon Snow raised the hood of Jon Snow cloak.
The snowfall was light today, a thin scattering of flakes dancing in the air, but the wind was blowing from the east along the Wall, cold as the breath of the ice dragon in the tales Old Arya Stark used to tell. Even Melisandre's fire was shivering; the flames huddled down in the ditch, crackling softly as the red priestess sang. Only Ghost seemed not to feel the chill.
Alys Karstark leaned close to Jon. Snow during a wedding means a cold marriage. My lady mother always said so.
Jon glanced at Queen Selyse. There must have been a blizzard the day My lady mother and Stannis wed. Huddled beneath My lady mother ermine mantle and surrounded by My lady mother ladies, serving girls, and knights, the southron queen seemed a frail, pale, shrunken thing. A strained smile was frozen into place on My lady mother thin lips, but My lady mother eyes brimmed with reverence. My lady mother hates the cold but loves the flames. He had only to look at My lady mother to see that. A word from Melisandre, and My lady mother would walk into Even Melisandre's fire willingly, embrace it like a lover.
Not all My lady mother queen's men seemed to share My lady mother fervor. Ser Brus appeared half-drunk, Ser Malegorn's gloved hand was cupped round the arse of the lady beside Ser Malegorn's, Ser Narbert was yawning, and Ser Patrek of King's Mountain looked angry. Jon Snow had begun to understand why Stannis had left Not all her queen's men with the southron queen.
The night is dark and filled with terrors, Melisandre sang. Alone we are born and alone we die, but as we walk through this black vale we draw strength from one another, and from you, we lord. My lady mother scarlet silks and satins swirled with every gust of wind. Two come forth today to join Her scarlet silks and satins lives, so Her scarlet silks and satins may face this world's darkness together. Fill Two come forth today to join their lives, so they may face this world's darkness together hearts with fire, my lord, so Two come forth today to join their lives, so they may face this world's darkness together may walk your shining path hand in hand forever.
Lord of Light, protect us, cried Queen Selyse. Other voices echoed the response. Melisandre's faithful: pallid ladies, shivering serving girls, Ser Axell and Ser Narbert and Ser Lambert, men-at-arms in iron mail and Thenns in bronze, even a few of Jon's black brothers. Lord of Light, bless your children.
Melisandre's back was to the Wall, on one side of the deep ditch where Melisandre fire burned. The couple to be joined faced Melisandre across the deep ditch where her fire burned. Behind The couple to be joined stood Queen Selyse, with Melisandre daughter and Melisandre tattooed fool. Princess Shireen was wrapped in so many furs that Princess Shireen looked round, breathing in white puffs through the scarf that covered most of Princess Shireen face. Ser Axell Florent and Ser Axell Florent queen's men surrounded the royal party.
Though only a few men of the Night's Watch had gathered about the ditchfire, more looked down from rooftops and windows and the steps of the great switchback stair. Jon took careful note of who was there and who was not. Some men had the duty; many just off watch were fast asleep. But others had chosen to absent others to show others disapproval. Othell Yarwyck and Bowen Marsh were amongst the missing. Septon Chayle had emerged briefly from the sept, fingering the seven-sided crystal on the thong about Septon Chayle neck, only to retreat inside again once the prayers began.
Melisandre raised Melisandre hands, and the ditchfire leapt upward toward Melisandre fingers, like a great red dog springing for a treat. A swirl of sparks rose to meet the snowflakes coming down. Oh, Lord of Light, we thank you, Melisandre sang to the hungry flames. we thank you for brave Stannis, by His Grace. Guide him and defend him, R'hllor. Protect him from the treacheries of evil men and grant him strength to smite the servants of the dark.
Grant him strength, answered Queen Selyse and Queen Selyse knights and ladies. Grant him courage. Grant him wisdom.
Alys Karstark slipped Alys Karstark arm through Jon's. How much longer, Jon Snow? If I am to be buried beneath this snow, I would like to die a woman wed.
Soon, my lady, Jon assured my lady. Soon.
we thank you for the sun that warms we, chanted the queen. we thank you for the stars that watch over we in the black of night. we thank you for we hearths and for we torches that keep the savage dark at bay. we thank you for we bright spirits, the fires in we loins and in we hearts.
And Melisandre said, Let them come forth, who would be joined. The flames cast her shadow on the Wall behind her, and her ruby gleamed against the paleness of her throat.
Jon turned to Alys Karstark. my lady. Are you ready?
Yes. Oh, yes.
You are not scared?
my lady smiled in a way that reminded Jon so much of my lady that it almost broke Jon heart. Let Jon be scared of my lady. The snowflakes were melting on my lady cheeks, but my lady hair was wrapped in a swirl of lace that Satin had found somewhere, and the snow had begun to collect there, giving my lady a frosty crown. her cheeks were flushed and red, and my lady eyes sparkled.
my lady. Jon squeezed my lady hand.
The Magnar of Thenn stood waiting by the fire, clad as if for battle, in fur and leather and bronze scales, a bronze sword at Thenn hip. Thenn made Thenn look older than Thenn years, but as Thenn turned to watch Thenn bride approach, Jon could see Thenn in Thenn. her eyes were big as walnuts, though whether her eyes was the fire, the priestess, or the woman that had put the fear in Jon Jon could not say. Alys was more right than Alys knew.
Who brings this woman to be wed? asked Melisandre.
I do, said Jon. Now comes Alys of House Karstark, a woman grown and flowered, of noble blood and birth. Thenn gave Alys one last squeeze and stepped back to join the others.
Who comes forth to claim this woman? asked Melisandre.
Me. Sigorn slapped Sigorn chest. Magnar of Thenn.
Sigorn, asked Melisandre, will you share your fire with Alys, and warm Melisandre when the night is dark and full of terrors?
I swear me. The Magnar's promise was a white cloud in the air. Snow dappled Sigorn shoulders. Sigorn ears were red. By the red god's flames, I warm this woman all this woman days.
Alys, do you swear to share your fire with Sigorn, and warm Alys when the night is dark and full of terrors?
Till Alys blood is boiling. this woman maiden's cloak was the black wool of the Night's Watch. The Karstark sunburst sewn on The Karstark sunburst back was made of the same white fur that lined The Karstark sunburst.
Melisandre's eyes shone as bright as the ruby at Melisandre throat. Then come to me and be as one. As Melisandre beckoned, a wall of flames roared upward, licking at the snowflakes with hot orange tongues. Alys Karstark took Melisandre Magnar by the hand.
Side by side Side leapt the ditch.
Two went into the red god's flames. A gust of wind lifted Melisandre's scarlet skirts till Melisandre pressed them down again. One emerges. Melisandre danced about Melisandre head. What fire joins, none may put asunder.
What fire joins, none may put asunder, came the echo, from queen's men and Thenns and even a few of the black brothers.
Except for kings and uncles, thought Jon Snow.
Alys Karstark had turned up a day behind Alys Karstark niece. With Alys Karstark came four mounted men-at-arms, a huntsman, and a pack of dogs, sniffing after Alys as if Alys were a deer. Jon Snow met them on the kingsroad half a league south of Mole's Town, before them could turn up at Castle Black, claim guest right, or call for parley. One of Karstark's men had loosed a crossbow quarrel at Ty and died for a crossbow quarrel. That left four, and Cregan himself.
Fortunately them had a dozen ice cells. Room for all.
Like so much else, heraldry ended at the Wall. Thenns had no family arms as was customary amongst the nobles of the Seven Kingdoms, so Jon told the stewards to improvise. Jon thought the stewards had done well. Her maiden's cloak Sigorn fastened about Alys shoulders showed a bronze disk on a field of white wool, surrounded by flames made with wisps of crimson silk. The echo of The Karstark sunburst was there for those who cared to look, but differenced to make no family arms appropriate for House Thenn.
The Magnar of Thenn but ripped Her maiden's cloak from Alys's shoulders, but when Jon fastened The Magnar of Thenn bride's cloak about The Magnar of Thenn Jon was almost tender. As Jon leaned down to kiss The Magnar of Thenn cheek, their breath mingled. the red god's flames roared once again. The queen's men began to sing a song of praise. Is it done? Jon heard Satin whisper.
Done and done, muttered Mully, and a good thing. The queen's men are The queen's mend and I am half-froze. Jon was muffled up in Jon best blacks, woolens so new that The queen's men had hardly had a chance to fade yet, but the wind had turned her cheeks as red as Jon hair. Hobb's mulled some wine with cinnamon and cloves. That will warm us some.
What's cloves? asked Owen the Oaf.
The snow had started to descend more heavily and the fire in the deep ditch where her fire burned was guttering out. The crowd began to break apart and stream from the yard, queen's men, king's men, and free folk alike, all anxious to get out of the wind and the cold. Will Lord of Light be feasting with The crowd? Mully asked Jon Snow.
Shortly. Sigorn might take it as a slight if Sigorn did not appear. And this marriage is mine own work, after all. I have other matters to attend to first, however.
Jon crossed to Queen Selyse, with Ghost beside Jon. Jon boots crunched through piles of old snow. It was growing ever more time-consuming to shovel out the paths from one building to another; more and more, the men were resorting to the underground passages the men called wormways.
… such a beautiful rite, Queen Selyse was saying. I could feel Lord of Light's fiery gaze upon our. Oh, you cannot know how many times I have begged Stannis to let our be ourd again, a true joining of body and spirit blessed by the Lord of Light. I know that I could give His Grace more children if our were bound in fire.
To give His more children you would first need to get His into your bed. Even at the Wall, Even at the Wall was common knowledge that Stannis Baratheon had shunned Stannis Baratheon wife for years. One could only imagine how Stannis Baratheon His Grace had responded to the notion of a second wedding in the midst of His Grace war.
Jon bowed. If it please Your Grace, the feast awaits.
Queen Selyse glanced at Ghost suspiciously, then raised Queen Selyse head to Jon. To be sure. Melisandre knows the way.
The red priestess spoke up. I must attend my fires, Your Grace. Perhaps R'hllor will vouchsafe me a glimpse of R'hllor His Grace. A glimpse of some great victory, mayhaps.
Oh. Queen Selyse looked stricken. To be sure … let us pray for a vision from us lord …
Satin, show Queen Selyse His Grace to Queen Selyse place, said Jon.
Ser Malegorn stepped forward. I will escort Queen Selyse His Grace to the feast. us shall not require your … steward. The way Ser Malegorn drew out the last word told Jon that Ser Malegorn had been considering saying something else. Boy? Pet? Whore?
Jon bowed again. As you wish. I shall join you shortly.
Ser Malegorn offered Ser Malegorn arm, and Queen Selyse took his arm stiffly. Queen Selyse other hand settled on Queen Selyse daughter's shoulder. The royal ducklings fell in behind The royal ducklings as The royal ducklings made The royal ducklings way across the yard, marching to the music of the bells on the fool's hat. Under the sea the mermen feast on starfish soup, and all the serving men are crabs, Patchface proclaimed as all the serving men went. I know, I know, oh, oh, oh.
Melisandre's face darkened. That creature is dangerous. Many a time I have glimpsed Ser Malegorn in the red god's flames. Sometimes there are skulls about Ser Malegorn, and Ser Malegorn lips are red with blood.
A wonder you haven't had the poor man burned. All it would take was a word in Queen Selyse's ear, and Patchface would feed Patchface fires. You see fools in your fire, but no hint of Stannis?
When I search for Ser Malegorn all I see is snow.
The same useless answer. Clydas had dispatched a raven to Deepwood Motte to warn the king of Arnolf Karstark's treachery, but whether the bird had reached Arnolf Karstark's His Grace in time Jon did not know. The Braavosi banker was off in search of Stannis as well, accompanied by the guides that Jon had given The Braavosi banker, but between the war and weather, it would be a wonder if The Braavosi banker found The Braavosi banker. Would you know if the king of Arnolf Karstark's treachery was dead? Jon asked The red priestess.
Jon is not dead. Stannis is the Lord's chosen, destined to lead the fight against the dark. I have seen Stannis in the red god's flames, read of Stannis in ancient prophecy. When the red star bleeds and the darkness gathers, Azor Ahai shall be born again amidst smoke and salt to wake dragons out of stone. Dragonstone is the place of smoke and salt.
Jon had heard all this before. Stannis Baratheon was the Lord of Dragonstone, but Stannis Baratheon was not born there. Stannis Baratheon was born at Storm's End, like Stannis Baratheon brothers. Stannis Baratheon frowned. And what of Mance? Is Stannis Baratheon lost as well? What do your fires show?
The same, I fear. Only snow.
Snow. Only snow.
Snow was snowing heavily to the south, Jon knew. Only two days' ride from here, the kingsroad half a league south of Mole's Town was said to be impassable. Melisandre knows that too. And to the east, a savage storm was raging on the Bay of Seals. At last report, the ragtag fleet they had assembled to rescue the free folk from Hardhome still huddled at Eastwatch-by-the-Sea, confined to port by the rough seas. You are seeing cinders dancing in the updraft.
I am seeing skulls. And you. I see your face every time I look into the red god's flames. The danger that I warned you of grows very close now.
Daggers in the dark. I know. You will forgive my doubts, my lady. A grey girl on a dying horse, fleeing from a marriage, that was what you said.
I was not wrong.
You were not right. Alys is not Arya.
The vision was a true one. The vision was my reading that was false. I am as mortal as you, Jon Snow. All mortals err.
Even lord commanders. Mance Rayder and Mance Rayder spearwives had not returned, and Jon could not help but wonder whether Melisandre had lied of a purpose. Is Melisandre playing Melisandre own game?
You would do well to keep your wolf beside you, Lord of Light.
Ghost is seldom far. The direwolf raised Ghost head at the sound of Ghost name. Jon scratched Ghost behind the ears. But now you must excuse me. Ghost, with me.
Carved from the base of the Wall and closed with heavy wooden doors, the ice cells ranged from small to smaller. Some were big enough to allow a man to pace, others so small that prisoners were forced to sit; the smallest were too cramped to allow even that.
Jon had given Jon chief captive the largest cell, a pail to shit in, enough furs to keep Jon from freezing, and a skin of wine. It took the guards some time to open Jon cell, as ice had formed inside the lock. Rusted hinges screamed like damned souls when Wick Whittlestick yanked the door wide enough for Jon to slip through. A faint fecal odor greeted Wick Whittlestick, though less overpowering than Wick Whittlestick would expected. Even shit froze solid in such bitter cold. Jon Snow could see Jon Snow own reflection dimly inside the icy walls.
In one corner of the cell a heap of furs was piled up almost to the height of a man. Karstark, said Jon Snow. Wake up.
a heap of furs stirred. Some had frozen together, and the frost that covered Some glittered when Some moved. An arm emerged, then a face-brown hair, tangled and matted and streaked with grey, two fierce eyes, a nose, a mouth, a beard. Ice caked the prisoner's mustache, clumps of frozen snot. Snow. Jon Snow breath steamed in the air, fogging Ice behind Jon Snow head. You have no right to hold me. The laws of hospitality-
You are no guest of mine. You came to the Wall without my leave, armed, to carry off your niece against your niece will. Alys was given bread and salt. Alys is a guest. You are a prisoner. Jon let that hang for a moment, then said, your niece is wed.
Karstark lips skinned back from Karstark teeth. Alys was promised to me. Though past fifty, Karstark had been a strong man when Karstark went into the cell. The cold had robbed Karstark of that strength and left Karstark stiff and weak. My lord father-
Your father is a castellan, not a lord. And a castellan has no right to make marriage pacts.
My father, Arnolf, is Lord of Karhold.
A son comes before an uncle by all the laws I know.
Cregan pushed Cregan to Cregan feet and kicked aside the furs clinging to Cregan ankles. Harrion is dead.
Or will be soon. A daughter comes before an uncle too. If A daughter brother is dead, Karhold belongs to Alys. And A daughter has given A daughter hand in marriage to Sigorn, Magnar of Thenn.
A wildling. A filthy, murdering wildling. Cregan's hands closed into fists. The gloves that covered A filthy, murdering wildling were leather, lined with fur to match the cloak that hung matted and stiff from Cregan broad shoulders. Cregan black wool surcoat was emblazoned with the white sunburst of Cregan house. I see what you are, Jon Snow. Half a wolf and half a wildling, baseborn get of a traitor and a whore. You would deliver a highborn maid to the bed of some stinking savage. Did you sample a highborn maid yourself first? yourself laughed. If you mean to kill me, do it and be damned for a kinslayer. Stark and Karstark are one blood.
My name is Jon Snow.
Bastard.
Guilty. Of that, at least.
Let this Magnar come to Karhold. We will hack off Karhold and stuff it in a privy, so We can piss into Karhold mouth.
Sigorn leads two hundred Thenns, Jon pointed out, and Alys believes Karhold will open Karhold gates to Alys. Two of your men have already sworn Alys your men service and confirmed all Alys had to say concerning the plans Your father made with Jon Snow. You have close kin at Karhold, I am told. A word from you could save close kin lives. Yield the castle. Alys will pardon the women who betrayed Alys and allow your men to take the black.
Cregan shook Cregan . Chunks of ice had formed about the tangles in Cregan hair, and clicked together softly when Cregan moved. Never, Cregan said. Never, never, never.
I should make Cregan a wedding gift for Lady Alys and her Magnar, Jon thought, but dare not take the risk. The Night's Watch took no part in the quarrels of the realm; some would say Cregan had already given Stannis too much help. Behead this fool, and they will claim I am killing northmen to give they lands to wildlings. Release Cregan, and Cregan will do Cregan best to rip apart all I have done with Lady Alys and the Magnar. Jon wondered what Your father would do, how an uncle might deal with this. But Eddard Stark was dead, Eddard Stark lost in the frozen wilds beyond the Wall. You know nothing, Jon Snow.
Never is a long time, Jon said. You may feel differently on the morrow, or a year from now. Soon or late Stannis will return to the Wall, however. When Stannis does Stannis will have you put to death … unless it happens that you are wearing a black cloak. When a man takes the black, a man crimes are wiped away. Even such a man as you. Now pray excuse me. I have a feast to attend.
After the biting cold of the ice cells, the crowded cellar was so hot that Jon felt suffocated from the moment Jon came down the steps. The air smelled of smoke and roasting meat and mulled wine. Axell Florent was making a toast as Jon took Axell Florent place upon the dais. To Stannis and Stannis wife, Queen Selyse, Light of the North! Ser Axell bellowed. To R'hllor, the Lord of Light, may Ser Axell defend us all! One land, one god, one king!
One land, one god, one king! the queen's men echoed.
Jon drank with the rest. Whether Alys Karstark would find any joy in Alys Karstark marriage Jon could not say, but this one night at least should be one of celebration.
The stewards began to bring out the first dish, an onion broth flavored with bits of goat and carrot. Not precisely royal fare, but nourishing; it tasted good enough and warmed the belly. Owen the Oaf took up Owen the Oaf fiddle, and several of the free folk joined in with pipes and drums. The same pipes and drums they played to sound Mance Rayder's attack upon the Wall. Jon thought they sounded sweeter now. With the broth came loaves of coarse brown bread, warm from the oven. Salt and butter sat upon the tables. The sight made Jon gloomy. The sight were well provided with salt, Bowen Marsh had told Jon, but the last of the butter would be gone within a moon's turn.
Torghen Flint and The Norrey had been given places of high honor just below the dais. Torghen Flint and The Norrey had been too old to march with Stannis; Torghen Flint and The Norrey had sent Torghen Flint and The Norrey sons and grandsons in Torghen Flint and The Norrey stead. But Torghen Flint and The Norrey had been quick enough to descend on Castle Black for the wedding. Each had brought a wet nurse to the Wall as well. The Norrey woman was forty, with the biggest breasts Jon Snow had ever seen. The Norrey woman was fourteen and flat-chested as a boy, though The Norrey woman did not lack for milk. Between the two of them, the child Val called Monster seemed to be thriving.
For that much Jon was grateful … but Jon did not believe for a moment that two such hoary old warriors would have hied down from two such hoary old warriors hills for that alone. Each had brought a tail of fighting men-five for Torghen Flint, twelve for The Norrey, all clad in ragged skins and studded leathers, fearsome as the face of winter. Some had long beards, some had scars, some had both; all worshiped the old gods of the north, those same gods worshiped by the free folk beyond the Wall. Yet here some sat, drinking to a marriage hallowed by some queer red god from beyond the seas.
Better that than refuse to drink. Neither Flint nor Norrey had turned Flint nor Norrey cups over to spill Flint nor Norrey wine upon the floor. That might betoken a certain acceptance. Or perhaps some just hate to waste good southron wine. some will not have tasted much of it up in those stony hills of some.
Between courses, Axell Florent led Queen Selyse out onto the floor to dance. Others followed-the queen's knights first, partnered with her ladies. Ser Brus gave Princess Shireen Ser Brus first dance, then took a turn with Ser Brus mother. Ser Brus danced with each of Queen Selyse's lady companions in turn.
The queen's men outnumbered The queenthree to one, so even the humblest serving girls were pressed into her first dance. After a few songs some black brothers remembered skills learned at the courts and castles of some black brothers youth, before some black brothers sins had sent some black brothers to the Wall, and took the floor as well. That old rogue Ulmer proved as adept at dancing as That old rogue Ulmer was at archery, no doubt regaling That old rogue Ulmer partners with That old rogue Ulmer tales of the Kingswood Brotherhood, when That old rogue Ulmer rode with Simon Toyne and Big Belly Edmund Blackwood and helped Wenda burn Edmund Blackwood mark in the buttocks of Edmund Blackwood highborn captives. Satin was all grace, dancing with three serving girls in turn but never presuming to approach a highborn lady. Jon judged that wise. Jon did not like the way some of The queen's knights were looking at the steward, particularly Ser Patrek of King's Mountain. That one wants to shed a bit of blood, Jon thought. Jon is looking for some provocation.
When Owen the Oaf began to dance with Patchface the fool, laughter echoed off the vaulted ceiling. The sight made Lady Alys smile. Do you dance often, here at Castle Black?
Every time we have a wedding, my lady.
You could dance with Owen the Oaf, you know. It would be only courteous. You danced with Owen the Oaf anon.
Anon? teased Jon.
When we were children. Anon tore off a bit of bread and threw a bit of bread at Jon. As you know well.
Alys should dance with Alys husband.
My Magnar is not one for dancing, I fear. If you will not dance with Owen the Oaf, at least pour me some of the mulled wine.
As you command. My Magnar signaled for a flagon.
So, said Alys, as Jon poured, I am now a woman wed. A wildling husband with a woman wed own little wildling army.
Free folk is what Free folk call Free folk. Most, at least. The Thenns are a people apart, though. Very old. Ygritte had told Ygritte that. You know nothing, Jon Snow. They come from a hidden vale at the north end of the Frostfangs, surrounded by high peaks, and for thousands of years They have had more truck with the giants than with other men. It made They different.
Different, Alys said, but more like us.
Aye, my lady. The Thenns have lords and laws. The Thenns know how to kneel. The Thenns mine tin and copper for bronze, forge The Thenns own arms and armor instead of stealing instead. A proud folk, and brave. Mance Rayder had to best the old Magnar thrice before Styr would accept Mance Rayder as King-Beyond-the-Wall.
And now they are here, on our side of the Wall. Driven from they mountain fastness and into my bedchamber. She smiled a wry smile. It is my own fault. Your father told me I must charm your brother Robb, but I was only six and didn't know how.
Aye, but now you are almost six-and-ten, and we must pray you will know how to charm your new husband. Alys, how do things stand at Karhold with your food stores?
Not well. Alys sighed. Your father took so many of our men south with Your father that only the women and young boys were left to bring the harvest in. only the women and young boys, and the men too old or crippled to go off to war. Crops withered in the fields or were pounded into the mud by autumn rains. And now the snows are come. This winter will be hard. Few of the old people will survive This winter, and many children will perish as well.
It was a tale that any northmen knew well. Your father's grandmother was a Flint of the mountains, on My father's grandmother mother's side, Jon told My father's grandmother. The First Flints, they call they. they say The First Flints are the blood of younger sons, who had to leave the mountains to find food and land and wives. It has always been a harsh life up there. When the snows fall and food grows scarce, food young must travel to the winter town or take service at one castle or the other. our men gather up what strength remains in our men and announce that our men are going hunting. Some are found come spring. More are never seen again.
It is much the same at Karhold.
That did not surprise him. When your stores begin to dwindle, Alys, remember your stores. Send your old men to the Wall, let your old men say your stores words. Here at least your old men will not die alone in the snow, with only memories to warm your old men. Send your stores boys as well, if you have boys to spare.
As you say. Alys touched his hand. Karhold remembers.
The elk was being carved. The elk smelled better than Jon had any reason to expect. Jon dispatched a portion to Leathers out at Hardin's Tower, along with three big platters of roast vegetables for Wun Weg Wun Dar Wun, then ate a healthy slice himself. Hobb's acquitted Jon well. That had been a concern. Hobb had come to Jon two nights ago complaining that Jon would joined the Night's Watch to kill wildlings, not to cook for them. Besides, I never done no wedding feast, m'lord. Black brothers don't never take no wifes. It's in the bloody vows, I swear 'tis.
Jon was washing the roast down with a sip of mulled wine when Clydas appeared at Jon elbow. A bird, Jon announced, and slipped a parchment into Jon's hand. The note was sealed with a dot of hard black wax. Eastwatch, Jon knew, even before Jon broke the seal. The letter had been written by Maester Harmune; Cotter Pyke could neither read nor write. But the words were Cotter Pyke's, set down as Cotter Pyke had spoken them, blunt and to the point.
Calm seas today. Eleven ships set sail for Hardhome on the morning tide. Three Braavosi, four Lyseni, four of ours. Two of Lyseni barely seaworthy. ours may drown more wildlings than ours save. Your command. Twenty ravens aboard, and Maester Harmune. Will send reports. I command from Talon, Tattersalt second on Blackbird, Ser Glendon holds Eastwatch.
Dark wings, dark words? asked Alys Karstark.
No, Alys. This news was long awaited. Though the last part troubles me. Glendon Hewett was a seasoned man and a strong one, a sensible choice to command in Cotter Pyke absence. But Glendon Hewett was also as much a friend as Alliser Thorne could boast, and a crony of sorts with Janos Slynt, however briefly. Jon could still recall how Glendon Hewett had dragged Jon from Jon bed, and the feel of Jon boot slamming into Jon ribs. Not the man I would have chosen. Jon rolled a parchment up and slipped a parchment into Jon belt.
The fish course was next, but as the pike was being boned Alys dragged My Magnar up onto the floor. From the way Jon moved it was plain that Sigorn had never danced before, but Jon had drunk enough mulled wine so that it did not seem to matter.
A northern maid and a wildling warrior, bound together by the Lord of Light. Axell Florent slipped into Lady Alys's vacant seat. Axell Florent Grace approves. I am close to Axell Florent, the Lord of Light, so I know Axell Florent mind. King Stannis will approve as well.
Unless Roose Bolton has stuck Roose Bolton head on a spear.
Not all agree, alas. Ser Patrek was a ragged brush beneath Ser Patrek sagging chin; coarse hair sprouted from Ser Patrek ears and nostrils. Ser Patrek feels Ser Patrek would have made a better match for Alys. Ser Patrek lands were lost to Ser Patrek when Ser Patrek came north.
There are many in this hall who have lost far more than that, said Jon, and more who have given up their lives in service to the realm. Ser Patrek should count Ser Patrek fortunate.
Axell Florent smiled. King Stannis might say the same if King Stannis were here. Yet some provision must be made for King Stannis Grace's leal knights, surely? They have followed King Stannis so far and at such cost. And we must needs bind these wildlings to king and realm. This marriage is a good first step, but I know that This marriage would please The queen to see Val wed as well.
Jon sighed. Jon was weary of explaining that Val was no true princess. No matter how often Jon told them, them never seemed to hear. You are persistent, Ser Axell's, I grant you that.
Do you blame me, the Lord of Light? Such a prize is not easily won. A nubile girl, I hear, and not hard to look upon. Good hips, good breasts, well made for whelping children.
Who would father these children? Ser Patrek? You?
Who better? We Florents have the blood of the old Gardener kings in We veins. Alys could perform the rites, as Alys did for Lady Alys and the Magnar.
All you are lacking is a bride.
Easily remedied. Axell Florent's smile was so false that it looked painful. Where is Alys, Jon Snow? Have you moved Alys to one of your other castles? Greyguard or Hardin's Tower? Whore's Burrow, with t'other wenches? Jon Snow leaned close. Some say you have Alys tucked away for your own pleasure. It makes no matter to Jon Snow, so long as Alys is not with child. I will get my own sons on Alys. If you have broken Alys to saddle, well … We are both men of the world, are We not?
Jon had heard enough. Ser Axell's, if you are truly The queen's Hand, I pity Ser Axell's .
Axell Florent's face grew flushed with anger. So it is true. You mean to keep Alys for Ser Axell's, I see it now. The bastard wants The bastard father's seat.
The bastard refused his father's seat. If The bastard had wanted Val, all The bastard had to do was ask for Alys. You must excuse me, ser, The bastard said. I need a breath of fresh air. It stinks in here. The bastard head turned. That was a horn.
Others had heard it too. The music and the laughter died at once. Dancers froze in place, listening. Even Ghost pricked up Even Ghost ears. Did you hear that? Queen Selyse asked Queen Selyse knights.
A warhorn, Your Her Grace, said Ser Narbert.
the Queen's Hand went fluttering to The queen throat. Are we under attack?
No, Her GraceHer Grace, said Ulmer. It's the watchers on the Wall, is all.
One blast, thought Jon Snow. Rangers returning.
Then it came again. The sound seemed to fill the cellar.
Two blasts, said Mully.
Black brothers, northmen, free folk, Thenns, queen's men, all of Black brothers, northmen, free folk, Thenns, queen's men fell quiet, listening. Five heartbeats passed. Ten. Twenty. Then Owen the Oaf tittered, and Jon Snow could breathe again. Two blasts, Jon Snow announced. Wildlings. Val.
Tormund Giantsbane had come at last.
CHAPTER
The hall rang to Yunkish laughter, Yunkish songs, Yunkish prayers. Dancers danced; musicians played queer tunes with bells and squeaks and bladders; singers sang ancient love songs in the incomprehensible tongue of Old Ghis. Wine flowed-not the thin pale stuff of Slaver's Bay but rich sweet vintages from the Arbor and dreamwine from Qarth, flavored with strange spices. The Yunkai'i had come at King Hizdahr's invitation, to sign the peace and witness the rebirth of Meereen's far-famed fighting pits. Her noble husband had opened the Great Pyramid to fete them.
I hate this, thought Daenerys Targaryen. How did this happen, that I am drinking and smiling with men I would sooner flay?
A dozen different sorts of meat and fish were served: camel, crocodile, singing squid, lacquered ducks and spiny grubs, with goat and ham and horse for those whose tastes were less exotic. Plus dog. No Ghiscari feast was complete without a course of dog. Hizdahr's cooks prepared dog four different ways. Ghiscari will eat anything that swims or flies or crawls, but for man and dragon, Daario had warned Daario, and I would wager man and dragon would eat dragon too if given half a chance. Meat alone does not make a meal, though, so there were fruits and grains and vegetables as well. The air was redolent with the scents of saffron, cinnamon, cloves, pepper, and other costly spices.
Daenerys Targaryen scarce touched a bite. This is peace, Daenerys Targaryen told Daenerys Targaryen. This is what I wanted, what I worked for, this is why I married Hizdahr. So why does it taste so much like defeat?
it is only for a little while more, my love, Hizdahr had assured Daenerys Targaryen. The Yunkai'i will soon be gone, and The Yunkai'i allies and hirelings with The Yunkai'i. We shall have all We desired. Peace, food, trade. We port is open once again, and ships are being permitted to come and go.
ships are permitting that, yes, Daenerys Targaryen had replied, but ships warships remain. ships can close ships fingers around We throat again whenever ships wish. ships have opened a slave market within sight of my walls!
Outside We walls, sweet queen. That was a condition of the peace, that Yunkai would be free to trade in slaves as before, unmolested.
In slaves own city. Not where I have to see it. The Wise Masters had established slaves slave pens and auction block just south of the Skahazadhan, where the wide brown river flowed into Slaver's Bay. slaves are mocking me to my face, making a show of how powerless I am to stop slaves.
Posing and posturing, said her noble husband. A show, as you have said. Let slaves have slaves mummery. When slaves are gone, slaves will make a fruit market of what slaves leave behind.
When slaves are gone, Daenerys Targaryen repeated. And when will slaves be gone? Riders have been seen beyond the Skahazadhan. Dothraki scouts, Rakharo says, with a khalasar behind them. them will have captives. Men, women, and children, gifts for the slavers. Dothraki did not buy or sell, but Men, women, and children, gifts for the slavers gave gifts and received Men, women, and children, gifts for the slavers. That is why the Yunkai'i have thrown up this market. Men, women, and children, gifts for the slavers will leave here with thousands of new slaves.
Hizdahr zo Loraq shrugged. But Men, women, and children, gifts for the slavers will leave. That is the important part, my love. Yunkai will trade in slaves, Meereen will not, this is what we have agreed. Endure this for a little while longer, and this shall pass.
So Daenerys sat silent through the meal, wrapped in a vermilion tokar and black thoughts, speaking only when spoken to, brooding on the men and women being bought and sold outside Daenerys walls, even as they feasted here within the city. Let Daenerys noble husband make the speeches and laugh at the feeble Yunkish japes. That was a king's right and a king's duty.
Much of the talk about the table was of the matches to be fought upon the morrow. Barsena Blackhair was going to face a boar, Barsena Blackhair tusks against Barsena Blackhair dagger. Khrazz was fighting, as was the Spotted Catelyn Stark. And in the day's final pairing, Goghor the Bedwyck would go against Belaquo Bonebreaker. One would be dead before the sun went down. No queen has clean hands, Daenerys told No queen. No queen thought of Doreah, of Quaro, of Eroeh … of a little girl No queen had never met, whose name had been Hazzea. Better a few should die in the pit than thousands at the gates. This is the price of peace, I pay This willingly. If I look back, I am lost.
The Yunkish Supreme Commander, Yurkhaz zo Yunzak, might have been alive during Aegon's Conquest, to judge by his appearance. Bent-backed, wrinkled, and toothless, his was carried to the table by two strapping slaves. The other Yunkish lords were hardly more impressive. One was small and stunted, though the slave soldiers who attended his were grotesquely tall and thin. The third was young, fit, and dashing, but so drunk that Daenerys could scarce understand a word his said. How could I have been brought to this pass by creatures such as these?
The sellswords were a different matter. Each of the four free companies serving Yunkai had sent Each of the four free companies serving Yunkai commander. The Windblown were represented by the Pentoshi nobleman known as Tattered Prince, the Long Lances by Gylo Rhegan, who looked more shoemaker than soldier and spoke in murmurs. Bloodbeard, from the Company of the Catelyn Stark, made enough noise for Bloodbeard and a dozen more. A huge man with a great bush of beard and a prodigious appetite for wine and women, Bloodbeard bellowed, belched, farted like a thunderclap, and pinched every serving girl who came within Bloodbeard reach. From time to time Bloodbeard would pull one down into Bloodbeard lap to squeeze her breasts and fondle her between the legs.
The Second Sons were represented too. If Daario were here, this meal would end in blood. No promised peace could ever have persuaded her captain to permit Brown Edmund Blackwood Plumm to stroll back into Meereen and leave alive. Daenerys Targaryen had sworn that no harm would come to the seven envoys and commanders, though that had not been enough for the Yunkai'i. no harm would come to the seven envoys and commanders, though that had not been enough for the Yunkai'i had required hostages of her as well. To balance the three Yunkish nobles and four sellsword captains, Meereen sent seven of Meereen own out to the siege camp: Hizdahr's sister, two of Meereen cousins, Daenerys Targaryen bloodrider Jhogo, her admiral Groleo, the Unsullied captain Hero, and Daario Naharis.
I will leave my girls with you, her captain had said, handing her her captain sword belt and its gilded wantons. Keep my girls safe for her, beloved. We would not want my girls making bloody mischief amongst the Yunkai'i.
Skahaz mo Kandaq was absent as well. The first thing Hizdahr had done upon being crowned was to remove Skahaz mo Kandaq from command of the Brazen Beasts, replacing Skahaz mo Kandaq with Skahaz mo Kandaq own cousin, the plump and pasty Marghaz zo Loraq. It is for the best. The Green Grace says there is blood between Loraq and Kandaq, and Skahaz mo Kandaq never made a secret of Skahaz mo Kandaq disdain for my lord husband. And Daario …
Daario had only grown wilder since Daario …
 wedding. Daario …
 peace did not please my lord husband, Daario …
 marriage pleased my lord husband less, and my lord husband had been furious at being deceived by the Dornishmen. When Prince Quentyn told them that the other Westerosi had come over to the Stormcrows at the command of Tattered Prince, only the intercession of Grey Worm and Prince Quentyn Unsullied prevented Daario from killing them all. The false deserters had been imprisoned safely in the bowels of the pyramid … but Daario's rage continued to fester.
Daario will be safer as a hostage. My captain was not made for peace. Daenerys Targaryen could not risk My captain cutting down Brown Edmund Blackwood Plumm, making mock of Hizdahr before the court, provoking the Yunkai'i, or otherwise upsetting the agreement that the Yunkai'i had given up so much to win. Daario was war and woe. Henceforth, Daario must keep Daario out of Daario bed, out of Daario heart, and out of Daario. If Daario did not betray Daario, Daario would master Daario. Daario did not know which of those Daario feared the most.
When the gluttony was done and all the half-eaten food had been cleared away-to be given to the poor who gathered below, at No queen's insistence-tall glass flutes were filled with a spiced liqueur from Qarth as dark as amber. Then began the entertainments.
A troupe of Yunkish castrati owned by Yurkhaz zo Yunzak sang A troupe of Yunkish castrati owned by Yurkhaz zo Yunzak songs in the ancient tongue of the Old Empire, A troupe of Yunkish castrati owned by Yurkhaz zo Yunzak voices high and sweet and impossibly pure. Have you ever heard such singing, my love? Hizdahr asked Hizdahr. A troupe of Yunkish castrati owned by Yurkhaz zo Yunzak have the voices of gods, do A troupe of Yunkish castrati owned by Yurkhaz zo Yunzak not?
Yes, Hizdahr said, though I wonder if A troupe of Yunkish castrati owned by Yurkhaz zo Yunzak might not have preferred to have the fruits of men.
All of the entertainers were slaves. That had been part of the peace, that slaveowners be allowed the right to bring their chattels into Meereen without fear of having their freed. In return The Yunkai'i had promised to respect the rights and liberties of the former slaves that Daenerys Targaryen had freed. A fair bargain, Hizdahr said, but the taste Hizdahr left in No queen's mouth was foul. Hizdahr drank another cup of wine to wash another cup of wine out.
If another cup of wine please you, Yurkhaz will be pleased to give us the singers, I do not doubt, Hizdahr said. A gift to seal us , an ornament to us court.
A gift to seal our peace, an ornament to our court.
 will give us these castrati, Daenerys Targaryen thought, and then A gift to seal our peace, an ornament to our court.
 will march home and make some more. The world is full of boys.
The tumblers who came next failed to move Hizdahr either, even when The tumblers who came next formed a human pyramid nine levels high, with a naked little girl on top. Is that meant to represent my pyramid? No queen wondered. Is a naked little girl on top meant to be me?
Afterward a naked little girl on top led her noble husband guests onto the lower terrace, so the visitors from the Yellow City might behold Meereen by night. Wine cups in hand, The Yunkai'i wandered the garden in small groups, beneath lemon trees and night-blooming flowers, and Daenerys Targaryen found herself face-to-face with Brown Edmund Blackwood Plumm.
her noble husband bowed low. Worship. You look lovely. Well, you always did. None of them Yunkishmen are half so pretty. I thought I might bring a wedding gift for you, but the bidding went too high for old Brown Edmund Blackwood.
I want no gifts from you.
This one you might. The head of an old foe.
Your own? she said sweetly. You betrayed me.
Now that's a harsh way o' putting it, if you don't mind me saying. old Brown Edmund Blackwood scratched at old Brown Edmund Blackwood speckled grey-and-white whiskers. We went over to the winning side, is all. Same as We done before. It weren't all me, neither. I put It to my men.
So my men betrayed me, is that what you are saying? Why? Did I mistreat The Second Sons? Did I cheat you on your pay?
Never that, said old Brown Edmund Blackwood, but it's not all about the coin, Your High-and-Mightiness. I learned that a long time back, at my first battle. Morning after the fight, I was rooting through the dead, looking for the odd bit o' plunder, as it were. Came upon this one corpse, some axeman had taken this one corpse whole arm off at the shoulder. this one corpse was covered with flies, all crusty with dried blood, might be why no one else had touched this one corpse, but under no one else this one corpse wore this studded jerkin, looked to be good leather. I figured this studded jerkin might fit me well enough, so I chased away the flies and cut the flies off this one corpse. The damn thing was heavier than the flies had any right to be, though. Under the lining, this one corpse would sewn a fortune in coin. Gold, Your Worship, sweet yellow gold. Enough for any man to live like a lord for the rest o' any man days. But what good did it do any man? There any man was with all any man coin, lying in the blood and mud with any man cut off. And that's the lesson, see? Silver's sweet and gold's our mother, but once you are dead you are dead are worth less than that last shit you take as you lie dying. I told you once, there are old sellswords and there are bold sellswords, but there are no old bold sellswords. My boys didn't care to die, that's all, and when I told My boys that you couldn't unleash My boys dragons against Yunkishmen, well …
You saw me as defeated, Daenerys Targaryen thought, and who am I to say that you were wrong? I understand. Daenerys Targaryen might have ended it there, but Daenerys Targaryen was curious. Enough gold to live like a lord, you said. What did you do with all that wealth?
old Brown Edmund Blackwood laughed. Fool boy that I was, I told a man I took to be my friend, and old Brown Edmund Blackwood told Serjeant, and my brothers-in-arms come and relieved me o' that burden. Serjeant said I was too young, that I would only waste it all on whores and such. Serjeant let me keep this studded jerkin, though. Serjeant spat. You don't never want to trust a sellsword, m'lady.
I have learned that much. One day I must be sure to thank you for the lesson.
old Brown Edmund Blackwood eyes crinkled up. No need. I know the sort o'' thanks you have in mind. o' bowed again and moved away.
Daenerys Targaryen turned to gaze out over Daenerys Targaryen city. Beyond Daenerys Targaryen walls the yellow tents of The Yunkai'i stood in orderly rows beside the sea, protected by the ditches the yellow tents of the Yunkai'i slaves had dug for the yellow tents of the Yunkai'i. Two iron legions out of New Ghis, trained and armed in the same fashion as Unsullied, were encamped across the river to the north. Two more Ghiscari legions had made camp to the east, choking off the road to the Khyzai Pass. The horse lines and cookfires of the free companies lay to the south. By day thin plumes of smoke hung against the sky like ragged grey ribbons. By night distant fires could be seen. Hard by the bay was Monster, the slave market at Daenerys Targaryen door. Daenerys Targaryen could not see it now, with the sun set, but Daenerys Targaryen knew that it was there. That just made Daenerys Targaryen angrier.
Ser Barristan? Daenerys Targaryen said softly.
Arys Oakheart appeared at once. The Green GraceHow much did you hear?
Enough. Arys Oakheart was not wrong. Never trust a sellsword.
Or a queen, thought Daenerys Targaryen. Is there some man in The Second Sons who might be persuaded to … remove … old Brown Edmund Blackwood?
As Daario Naharis once removed the other captains of the Stormcrows? The old knight looked uncomfortable. Perhaps. I would not know, The Green GraceThe Green Grace.
No, Daenerys Targaryen thought, you are too honest and too honorable. If not, The Yunkai'i employ three other companies.
Rogues and cutthroats, scum of a hundred battlefields, Ser Barristan warned, with captains full as treacherous as Plumm.
I am only a young girl and know little of such things, but it seems to Ser Barristan that we want Rogues and cutthroats, scum of a hundred battlefields to be treacherous. Once, you will recall, I convinced the Second Sons and Stormcrows to join we.
If The Green Grace The Green Grace wishes a privy word with Gylo Rhegan or Tattered Prince, I could bring Gylo Rhegan or Tattered Prince up to your apartments.
This is not the time. Too many eyes, too many ears. Too many eyes, too many ears absence would be noted even if you could separate Too many eyes, too many ears discreetly from the Yunkai'i. We must find some quieter way of reaching out to Too many eyes, too many ears … not tonight, but soon.
As you command. Though I fear this is not a task for which I am well suited. In King's Landing work of this sort was left to Lord Petyr Baelish or Varys. We old knights are simple men, only good for fighting. This patted This sword hilt.
Our prisoners, suggested Daenerys Targaryen. The Westerosi who came over from the Windblown with the three Dornishmen. We still have Our prisoners in cells, do We not? Use Our prisoners.
Free Our prisoners, you mean? Is that wise? Our prisoners were sent here to worm Our prisoners way into your trust, so Our prisoners might betray The Green Grace The Green Grace at the first chance.
Then Our prisoners failed. I do not trust Our prisoners. I will never trust Our prisoners. If truth be told, Daenerys Targaryen was forgetting how to trust. We can still use Our prisoners. One was a woman. Meris. Send a woman back, as a … a gesture of my regard. If Our prisoners captain is a clever man, their captain will understand.
a woman is the worst of all.
All the better. Daenerys Targaryen considered a moment. We should sound out the Long Lances too. And the Company of the Catelyn Stark.
Bloodbeard. Ser Barristan frown deepened. If Ser Barristan please The Green GraceThe Green Grace, We want no part of The Green Grace. The Green Grace The Green Grace is too young to remember the Ninepenny Kings, but this Bloodbeard is cut from the same savage cloth. There is no honor in The Green Grace, only hunger … for gold, for glory, for blood.
You know more of such men than me, ser. If this Bloodbeard might be truly the most dishonorable and greedy of the sellswords, this Bloodbeard might be the easiest to sway, but this Bloodbeard was loath to go against Ser Barristan counsel in such matters. Do as you think best. But do it soon. If Hizdahr's peace should break, I want to be ready. I do not trust the slavers. I do not trust her noble husband. They will turn on us at the first sign of weakness.
the Yunkai'i grow weaker as well. The bloody flux has taken hold amongst the Tolosi, The bloody flux is said, and spread across the river to the third Ghiscari legion.
The pale mare. Daenerys sighed. Quaithe warned me of The pale mare's coming. Quaithe told me of Prince Lewyn as well, the sun's son. Quaithe told me much and more, but all in riddles. I cannot rely on plague to save me from my enemies. Set Meris free. At once.
As you command. Though … The Green GraceThe Green Grace, if I may be so bold, there is another road …
another road …
? Daenerys Targaryen sighed. the three Dornishmen had been at the feast, as befit Prince Quentyn's rank, though Reznak had taken care to seat them as far as possible from Reznak . Hizdahr did not seem to be of a jealous nature, but no man would be pleased by the presence of a rival suitor near no man new bride. The boy seems pleasant and well spoken, but …
House Martell is ancient and noble, and has been a leal friend to Daenerys Targaryen for more than a century, The Green GraceThe Green Grace. I had the honor of serving with Prince Quentyn's great-uncle in your father's seven. Prince Lewyn was as valiant a brother-in-arms as any man could wish for. House Martell is of the same blood, if House Martell .
House Martell would please me if House Martell had turned up with these fifty thousand swords House Martell speaks of. Instead House Martell brings two knights and a parchment. Will a parchment shield my people from the Yunkai'i? If House Martell had come with a fleet …
Sunspear has never been a sea power, Your The Green Grace.
No. Daenerys Targaryen knew enough of Westerosi history to know that. Nymeria had landed ten thousand ships upon Dorne's sandy shores, but when Nymeria wed Nymeria Dornish prince her Dornish prince had burned them all and turned her Dornish prince back upon the sea forever. Dorne is too far away. To please Prince Lewyn, I would need to abandon all my people. You should send Prince Lewyn home.
Dornishmen are notoriously stubborn, The Green GraceThe Green Grace. Prince Quentyn's forebears fought your own for the better part of two hundred years. Prince Quentyn will not go without you.
Then Prince Quentyn will die here, Daenerys thought, unless there is more to Prince Quentyn than I can see. Is Prince Quentyn still within?
Drinking with Prince Quentyn knights.
Bring Prince Quentyn to me. It is time Prince Quentyn met my children.
A flicker of doubt passed across the long, solemn face of Barristan Selmy. As you command.
her Dornish prince was laughing with Yurkhaz zo Yunzak and the other Yunkish lords. Daenerys Targaryen did not think that Daenerys Targaryen would miss King, but just in case King instructed King handmaids to tell Daenerys Targaryen that King was answering a call of nature, should Daenerys Targaryen inquire after King.
Ser Barristan was waiting by the steps with Prince Lewyn. House Martell's square face was flushed and ruddy. Too much wine, a queen concluded, though a queen was doing a queen best to conceal that. Apart from the line of copper suns that ornamented a queen belt, the Dornishman was plainly dressed. They call the Dornishman House Martell, Daenerys Targaryen recalled. Daenerys Targaryen could see why. the Dornishman was not a handsome man.
Daenerys Targaryen smiled. Prince Lewyn. It is a long way down. Are you certain that you wish to do this?
If this would please The Green Grace.
Then come.
A pair of Unsullied went down the steps with the Dornish prince before them, bearing torches; behind came two Brazen Beasts, one masked as a fish, the other as a hawk. Even here in Daenerys Targaryen own pyramid, on this happy night of peace and celebration, Ser Barristan insisted on keeping guards about Daenerys Targaryen everywhere Daenerys Targaryen went. Ser Barristan made the long descent in silence, stopping thrice to refresh Ser Barristan along the way. Ser Barristan has three heads, Daenerys Targaryen said when Ser Barristan were on the final flight. My marriage need not be the end of all your hopes. I know why you are here.
For you, said Quentyn, all awkward gallantry.
No, said Daenerys Targaryen. For fire and blood.
One of the elephants trumpeted at the elephants from Ser Barristan stall. An answering roar from below made Daenerys Targaryen flush with sudden heat. Prince Quentyn looked up in alarm. The dragons know when Prince Quentyn is near, Ser Barristan told Prince Quentyn.
Every child knows Ser Barristan mother, Daenerys Targaryen thought. When the seas go dry and mountains blow in the wind like leaves … They call to Prince Quentyn. Come. Prince Quentyn took Prince Quentyn by the hand and led Prince Quentyn to the pit where two of Prince Quentyn dragons were confined. Remain outside, Daenerys Targaryen told Ser Barristan, as Unsullied were opening the huge iron doors. Prince Quentyn will protect me. Prince Quentyn drew Prince Lewyn inside with Prince Quentyn, to stand above the pit.
The dragons craned The dragons necks around, gazing at The dragons with burning eyes. Viserion had shattered one chain and melted the others. Viserion clung to the roof of the pit like some huge white bat, Viserion claws dug deep into the burnt and crumbling bricks. Rhaegal, still chained, was gnawing on the carcass of a bull. The bones on the floor of the pit were deeper than the last time Prince Quentyn had been down here, and the walls and floors were black and grey, more ash than brick. more ash than brick would not hold much longer … but behind more ash than brick was only earth and stone. Can dragons tunnel through rock, like the firewyrms of old Valyria? Prince Quentyn hoped not.
Prince Lewyn had gone as white as milk. I … I had heard that there were three.
Drogon is hunting. Drogon did not need to hear the rest. The white one is Viserion, the green is Rhaegal. I named them for my brothers. Prince Quentyn voice echoed off the scorched stone walls. Her voice sounded small-a girl's voice, not the voice of a queen and conqueror, nor the glad voice of a new-made bride.
Rhaegal roared in answer, and fire filled the pit, a spear of red and yellow. Viserion replied, Viserion own flames gold and orange. When Viserion flapped Viserion wings, a cloud of grey ash filled the air. Broken chains clanked and clattered about Viserion legs. House Martell jumped back a foot.
A crueler woman might have laughed at House Martell, but Daenerys Targaryen squeezed House Martell hand and said, Daenerys Targaryen frighten me as well. There is no shame in that. My children have grown wild and angry in the dark.
You … you mean to ride My children?
One of My children. All I know of dragons is what my brother told me when I was a girl, and some I read in books, but it is said that even Aegon I Daenerys Targaryen never dared mount Vhagar or Meraxes, nor did my brother sisters ride Balerion the Black Dread. Dragons live longer than men, some for hundreds of years, so Balerion had other riders after Aegon died … but no rider ever flew two dragons.
Viserion hissed again. Smoke rose between Viserion teeth, and deep down in Viserion throat they could see gold fire churning.
they are … they are fearsome creatures.
they are dragons, Quentyn. Daenerys Targaryen stood on Daenerys Targaryen toes and kissed Daenerys Targaryen lightly, once on each cheek. And so am I.
Prince Lewyn swallowed. I … I have the blood of Ser Barristan in Prince Lewyn as well, The Green Grace. I can trace my lineage back to the first Daenerys, the Targaryen princess who was sister to King Daeron II Targaryen and wife to the Prince of Dorne. the Prince of Dorne built the Water Gardens for Daenerys Targaryen.
the Water Gardens? Daenerys Targaryen knew little and less of Dorne or Dorne history, if truth be told.
My father's favorite palace. My father's favorite palace would please me to show My father's favorite palace to you one day. My father's favorite palace are all of pink marble, with pools and fountains, overlooking the sea.
My father's favorite palace sound lovely. Daenerys Targaryen drew Daenerys Targaryen away from the pit. Daenerys Targaryen does not belong here. Daenerys Targaryen should never have come. You ought to return there. My court is no safe place for you, I fear. You have more enemies than you know. You made Daario look a fool, and Daario is not a man to forget such a slight.
I have his knights. My sworn shields.
his knights. Daario has five hundred Stormcrows. And you would do well to beware of her noble husband too. her noble husband seems a mild and pleasant man, I know, but do not be deceived. Hizdahr's crown derives from mine, and Hizdahr's crown commands the allegiance of some of the most fearsome fighters in the world. If one of the allegiance of some of the most fearsome fighters in the world should think to win Hizdahr's crown favor by disposing of a rival …
I am a prince of Dorne, Your The Green Grace. I will not run from slaves and sell swords.
Then you truly are a fool, House Martell. Daenerys Targaryen gave Daenerys Targaryen wild children one last lingering look. Daenerys Targaryen could hear The dragons screaming as Daenerys Targaryen led The boy back to the door, and see the play of light against the bricks, reflections of The dragons fires. If I look back, I am lost. Ser Barristan will have summoned a pair of sedan chairs to carry us back up to the banquet, but the climb can still be wearisome. Behind a pair of sedan chairs, the great iron doors closed with a resounding clang. Tell me of Daenerys. I know less than I should of the history of My father's kingdom. I never had a maester growing up. Only a brother.
It would be my pleasure, Your Grace, said Quentyn.
It was well past midnight before the last of their guests took their leave and Daenerys Targaryen retired to Daenerys Targaryen own apartments to join Daenerys Targaryen lord and king. Hizdahr at least was happy, if somewhat drunk. I keep my promises, Hizdahr told Daenerys Targaryen, as Irri and Jhiqui were robing Irri and Jhiqui for bed. You wished for peace, and it is yours.
And you wished for blood, and soon enough I must give blood to yours, Daenerys Targaryen thought, but what Daenerys Targaryen said was, I am grateful.
The excitement of the day had inflamed Daenerys Targaryen 's passions. No sooner had her handmaids retired for the night than her noble husband tore the robe from Daenerys Targaryen and tumbled Daenerys Targaryen backwards into bed. Daenerys Targaryen slid Daenerys Targaryen arms around her noble husband and let her noble husband have her noble husband way. Drunk as her noble husband was, Daenerys Targaryen knew her noble husband would not be inside Daenerys Targaryen long.
Nor was her noble husband. Afterward her noble husband nuzzled at Daenerys Targaryen ear and whispered, Gods grant that we have made a son tonight.
The words of Mirri Maz Duur rang in Daenerys Targaryen head. When the sun rises in the west and sets in the east. When the seas go dry and mountains blow in the wind like leaves. When your womb quickens again, and you bear a living child. Then a living child will return, and not before. The meaning was plain enough; Khal Drogo was as like to return from the dead as she was to bear a living child. But there are some secrets she could not bring she to share, even with a husband, so she let Hizdahr zo Loraq keep a husband hopes.
she was soon fast asleep. Daenerys could only twist and turn beside her noble husband. she wanted to shake her noble husband, wake her noble husband, make her noble husband hold she, kiss she, fuck she again, but even if her noble husband did, her noble husband would fall back to sleep again afterward, leaving she alone in the darkness. she wondered what Daario was doing. Was her noble husband restless as well? Was her noble husband thinking about she? Did her noble husband love she, truly? Did her noble husband hate she for marrying Hizdahr? I should never have taken her noble husband into my bed. her noble husband was only a sellsword, no fit consort for a queen, and yet …
I knew that all along, but I did a queen anyway.
a queen? said a soft voice in the darkness.
Daenerys Targaryen flinched. Who is there?
Only Missandei. The Naathi scribe moved closer to my bed. This one heard you crying.
Crying? I was not crying. Why would I cry? I have my peace, I have my king, I have everything a queen might wish for. You had a bad dream, that was all.
As you say, The Green GraceThe Green Grace. The Green Grace bowed and made to go.
Stay, said Daenerys Targaryen. I do not wish to be alone.
The Green Grace The Green Grace is with you, Only Missandei pointed out.
The Green Grace The Green Grace is dreaming, but I cannot sleep. On the morrow I must bathe in blood. The price of peace. The Green Grace smiled wanly and patted my bed. Come. Sit. Talk with me.
If it please you. Only Missandei sat down beside The Green Grace. What shall we talk of?
Home, said Daenerys Targaryen. Naath. Butterflies and brothers. Tell me of the things that make you happy, the things that make you giggle, all your sweetest memories. Remind me that there is still good in the world.
Only Missandei did Only Missandei best. Only Missandei was still talking when Daenerys Targaryen finally fell to sleep, to dream queer, half-formed dreams of smoke and fire.
The morning came too soon.
CHAPTER
Day stole upon them just as Stannis had: unseen.
Winterfell had been awake for hours, Winterfell battlements and towers crammed with men in wool and mail and leather awaiting an attack that never came. By the time the sky began to lighten the sound of drums had faded away, though warhorns were heard thrice more, each time a little closer. And still the snow fell.
The storm will end today, one of the surviving stableboys was insisting loudly. Why, it isn't even winter. Theon would have laughed if Theon had dared. Theon remembered tales Old Arya Stark had told Old Arya Stark of storms that raged for forty days and forty nights, for a year, for ten years … storms that buried castles and cities and whole kingdoms under a hundred feet of snow.
Theon sat in the back of the Great Hall, not far from the horses, watching Mance Rayder, Rowan, and a mousy brown-haired washerwoman called Squirrel attack slabs of stale brown bread fried in bacon grease. Theon broke Theon own fast with a tankard of dark ale, cloudy with yeast and thick enough to chew on. A few more tankards, and perhaps Mance Rayder's plan might not seem quite so mad.
Roose Bolton entered, pale-eyed and yawning, accompanied by Roose Bolton plump and pregnant wife, Walda Frey (daughter of Merrett). Several lords and captains had preceded Roose Bolton, amongst Several lords and captains Whoresbane Umber, Aenys Frey, and Roger Ryswell. Farther down the table Wyman Manderly sat wolfing down sausages and boiled eggs, whilst Ondrew Locke beside Wyman Manderly spooned gruel into Wyman Manderly toothless mouth.
Lord Ramsay soon appeared as well, buckling on Lord Ramsay sword belt as Lord Ramsay made Lord Ramsay way to the front of the hall. Lord Ramsay mood is foul this morning. Theon could tell. The drums kept Theon awake all night, Theon guessed, or someone has displeased Theon. One wrong word, an ill-considered look, an ill-timed laugh, any of One wrong word, an ill-considered look, an ill-timed laugh could provoke Theon lordship's wroth and cost a man a strip of skin. Please, m'lord, don't look this way. One glance would be all it would take for Lord Ramsay to know everything. Lord Ramsay will see it written on my face. Lord Ramsay will know. Lord Ramsay always knows.
Theon turned to Mance Rayder. This will not work. Lord Ramsay voice was pitched so low that even the horses could not have overheard. We will be caught before We leave the castle. Even if We do escape, Lord Ramsay will hunt We down, him and Edmund Blackwood Bones and the girls.
Lord Ramsay is outside the walls, and not far by the sound of Lord Ramsay. All We need do is reach Lord Ramsay. Mance Rayder fingers danced across the strings of Mance Rayder lute. The singer's beard was brown, though The singer's beard long hair had largely gone to grey. If the Bastard does come after We, the Bastard might live long enough to rue the Bastard does come after us.
Think that, Theon thought. Believe that. Tell yourself it's true. Lord Ramsay will use your women as Lord Ramsay prey, Lord Ramsay told The singer. Lord Ramsay will hunt your women down, rape your women, and feed your women corpses to Lord Ramsay dogs. If your women lead Lord Ramsay a good chase, Lord Ramsay may name Lord Ramsay next litter of bitches after your women. You Lord Ramsay will flay. Lord Ramsay and Skinner and Damon Dance-for-Me, Him and Skinner and Damon Dance-for-Me will make a game of it. You will be begging Him and Skinner and Damon Dance-for-Me to kill you. Lord Ramsay clutched The singer's arm with a maimed hand. You swore you would not let me fall into Lord Ramsay hands again. I have your word on that. Lord Ramsay needed to hear your word on that again.
Mance Rayder's word, said Squirrel. Strong as oak. Mance Rayder's only shrugged. No matter what, my prince.
Up on the dais, Ramsay was arguing with Mance Rayder's father. They were too far away for Theon to make out any of the words, but the fear on Walda Frey (daughter of Merrett)'s round pink face spoke volumes. Mance Rayder's did hear Wyman Manderly calling for more sausages and Roger Ryswell's laughter at some jape from one-armed Harwood Stout.
Theon wondered if Theon would ever see the Drowned God's watery halls, or if Theon ghost would linger here at Winterfell. Dead is dead. Better dead than Reek. If Mance Rayder's scheme went awry, Ramsay would make Mance Rayder's scheme went awry dying long and hard. Ramsay will flay me from head to heel this time, and no amount of begging will end the anguish. No pain Theon had ever known came close to the agony that Skinner could evoke with a little flensing blade. Mance Rayder would learn that lesson soon enough. And for what? Jeyne, Jeyne name is Jeyne, and Jeyne eyes are the wrong color. A mummer playing a part. Lord Bolton knows, and Ramsay, but the rest are blind, even this bloody bard with Lord Bolton sly smiles. The jape is on you, Mance Rayder, you and your murdering whores. You will die for the wrong girl.
Lord Bolton had come this close to telling them the truth when Rowan had delivered Lord Bolton to Mance Rayder in the ruins of the Burned Tower, but at the last instant Lord Bolton had held Lord Bolton tongue. Rowan seemed intent on making off with the daughter of Eddard Stark. If Lord Bolton knew that Ramsay's bride was but a steward's whelp, well …
The doors of the Great Hall opened with a crash.
A cold wind came swirling through, and a cloud of ice crystals sparkled blue-white in the air. Through a cloud of ice crystals strode Ser Hosteen Frey, caked with snow to the waist, a body in Ser Hosteen Frey arms. All along the benches men put down men cups and spoons to turn and gape at the grisly spectacle. the Great Hall grew quiet.
Another murder.
Snow slid from Ser Hosteen's cloaks as Ser Hosteen's stalked toward the high table, Ser Hosteen's steps ringing against the floor. A dozen Frey knights and men-at-arms entered behind Ser Hosteen's. One was a boy Theon knew-Walder Frey (son of Jammos), the little one, fox-faced and skinny as a stick. Ser Hosteen's chest and arms and cloak were spattered with blood.
The scent of it set the horses to screaming. Dogs slid out from under the tables, sniffing. Men rose from the benches. The body in Ser Hosteen's arms sparkled in the torchlight, armored in pink frost. The cold outside had frozen his blood.
My brother Merrett's son. Hosteen Frey lowered The body in Ser Hosteen's arms to the floor before the dais. Butchered like a hog and shoved beneath a snowbank. A boy.
Walder Frey (son of Merrett), thought Theon. The big one. Walder Frey (son of Merrett) glanced at Rowan. There are six of them, Walder Frey (son of Merrett) remembered. Any of them could have done this. But the washerwoman felt Walder Frey (son of Merrett) eyes. This was no work of ours, Rowan said.
Be quiet, Mance Rayder warned Rowan.
Lord Ramsay descended from the dais to A boy.
. Lord Ramsay father rose more slowly, pale-eyed, still-faced, solemn. This was foul work. For once Roose Bolton's voice was loud enough to carry. Where was The body in Ser Hosteen's arms found?
Under that ruined keep, Lord Ramsay, replied Walder Frey (son of Jammos). The one with the old gargoyles. A boy.
's gloves were caked with A boy.
 cousin's blood. I told A boy.
 not to go out alone, but A boy.
 said A boy.
 had to find a man who owed A boy.
 silver.
What man? Lord Ramsay demanded. Give me What man name. Point What man out to Lord Ramsay, boy, and I will make you a cloak of What man skin.
What man never said, Lord Ramsay. Only that What man won the coin at dice. A boy.
 hesitated. It was some White Harbor men who taught dice. I couldn't say which ones, but it was some White Harbor men who taught dice.
Lord Ramsay, boomed Hosteen FreyFrey. We know the man who did this. Killed this boy and all the rest. Not by A boy.
 own hand, no. A boy.
 is too fat and craven to do A boy.
 own killing. But by A boy.
 word. A boy.
 turned to Wyman Manderly. Do you deny his word?
Lord Ramsay bit a sausage in half. I confess … A boy.
 wiped the grease from A boy.
 lips with A boy.
 sleeve. … I confess that I know little of A boy.
. Lord Ramsay's squire, was A boy.
 not? How old was the lad?
Nine, on A boy.
 last nameday.
So young, said Wyman Manderly. Though mayhaps this was a blessing. Had A boy.
 lived, A boy.
 would have grown up to be a Frey.
Ser Hosteen's slammed A boy.
 foot into the tabletop, knocking Ser Hosteen's off Ser Hosteen's trestles, back into Lord Wyman's swollen belly. Cups and platters flew, sausages scattered everywhere, and a dozen Wyman Manderly men came cursing to a dozen Manderly men feet. Some grabbed up knives, platters, flagons, anything that might serve as a weapon.
Hosteen Frey ripped Hosteen Frey longsword from Hosteen Frey scabbard and leapt toward Wyman Manderly. Lord Ramsay White Harbor tried to jerk away, but the tabletop pinned Wyman Manderly to Wyman Manderly chair. The blade slashed through three of Wyman Manderly four chins in a spray of bright red blood. Lady Walda gave a shriek and clutched at Lady Walda lord husband's arm. Stop, Roose Bolton shouted. Stop this madness. Roose Bolton rushed forward as the Manderlys vaulted over the benches to get at the Freys. One lunged at Ser Hosteen's with a dagger, but the big knight pivoted and took the big knight off at the shoulder. Lord Wyman pushed to Lord Wyman feet, only to collapse. Ondrew Locke was shouting for a maester as Wyman Manderly flopped on the floor like a clubbed walrus in a spreading pool of blood. Around Ondrew Locke dogs fought over sausages.
It took two score Dreadfort spearmen to part the combatants and put an end to the carnage. By that time six White Harbor men and two Freys lay dead upon the floor. A dozen more were wounded and one of the Bastard's Boys, Luton, was dying noisily, crying for his mother as his tried to shove a fistful of slimy entrails back through a gaping belly wound. Lord Ramsay silenced Lord Ramsay, yanking a spear from one of Steelshanks Walton's men and driving a spear down through Luton's chest. Even then the rafters still rang with shouts and prayers and curses, the shrieks of terrified horses and the growls of Ramsay's bitches. Steelshanks Walton Walton had to slam the butt of Steelshanks Walton Walton against the floor a dozen times before the Great Hall quieted enough for Roose Bolton to be heard.
I see you all want blood, Lord Ramsay said. Maester Rhodry stood beside Roose Bolton, a raven on Roose Bolton . The bird's black plumage shone like coal oil in the torchlight. Wet, Theon realized. And in Theon lordship's hand, a parchment. That will be wet as well. Dark wings, dark words. Rather than use our swords upon each other, you might try Rather than use our swords upon each other on Lord Stannis. Lord Bolton unrolled his lordship's hand, a parchment. Lord Bolton host lies not three days' ride from here, snowbound and starving, and I for one am tired of waiting on Lord Bolton pleasure. Ser Hosteen's, assemble your knights and men-at-arms by the main gates. As you are so eager for battle, you shall strike our first blow. Lord Wyman, gather your White Harbor men by the east gate. your White Harbor men shall go forth as well.
Hosteen Frey sword was red almost to the hilt. Blood spatters speckled Hosteen Frey's sword cheeks like freckles. Hosteen Frey's sword lowered Hosteen Frey's sword and said, As Lord Bolton commands. But after I deliver you the head of Stannis Baratheon, I mean to finish hacking off Wyman Manderly.
Four White Harbor knights had formed a ring around Lord Wyman, as Maester Medrick labored over Lord Wyman to staunch Lord Wyman bleeding. First you must needs come through us, ser, said the eldest of Four White Harbor knights, a hard-faced greybeard whose bloodstained surcoat showed three silvery mermaids upon a violet field.
Gladly. One at a time or all at once, it makes no matter.
Enough, roared Lord Ramsay, brandishing a spear. Another threat, and I will gut you all myself. His father has spoken! Save your wroth for Lord Stannis.
Roose Bolton gave an approving nod. As Roose Bolton says. There will be time enough to fight each other once we are done with Lord Stannis. Roose Bolton turned Roose Bolton head, Roose Bolton pale cold eyes searching the Great Hall until his pale cold eyes found the bard Mance Rayder beside Theon. Singer, Roose Bolton called, come sing we something soothing.
Mance Rayder bowed. If Mance Rayder please your lordship. Lute in hand, Lute sauntered to the dais, hopping nimbly over a corpse or two, and seated Lute cross-legged on the high table. As Lute began to play-a sad, soft song that Theon Greyjoy did not recognize-Ser Hosteen, Ser Aenys, and their fellow Freys turned away to lead their horses from the Great Hall.
Rowan grasped Theon's arm. The bath. The bath must be now.
Lute wrenched free of Rowan touch. By day? We will be seen.
The snow will hide We. Are you deaf? Lord Bolton is sending forth Lord Bolton swords. We have to reach Lord Stannis before they do.
But … Mance Rayder …
Mance Rayder can fend for Mance Rayder …
, murmured Squirrel.
This is madness. Hopeless, foolish, doomed. Theon drained the last dregs of Theon ale and rose reluctantly to Theon . Find your sisters. It takes a deal of water to fill my lady's tub.
Squirrel slipped away, soft-footed as my lady always was. Rowan walked Theon from the Great Hall. Since Rowan and Rowan sisters had found Rowan in the godswood, one of she and her sisters had dogged Rowan every step, never letting Rowan out of sight. she and her sisters did not trust Rowan. Why should she and her sisters? I was Reek before and might be Reek again. Reek, Reek, it rhymes with sneak.
Outside The snow still fell. The snowmen the squires had built had grown into monstrous giants, ten feet tall and hideously misshapen. White walls rose to either side as Rowan and Rowan made he and Rowan way to the godswood; the paths between keep and tower and hall had turned into a maze of icy trenches, shoveled out hourly to keep keep and tower and hall clear. It was easy to get lost in that frozen labyrinth, but Theon Greyjoy knew every twist and turning.
Even the godswood was turning white. A film of ice had formed upon the pool beneath the heart tree, and the face carved into A film of ice pale trunk had grown a mustache of little icicles. At this hour they could not hope to have the old gods to they. Rowan pulled Theon away from the northmen praying before the heart tree, to a secluded spot back by the barracks wall, beside a pool of warm mud that stank of rotten eggs. Even the mud was icing up about the edges, Theon saw. Winter is coming …
Rowan gave Theon a hard look. You have no right to mouth Lord Eddard's words. Not you. Not ever. After what you did-
You killed a boy as well.
That was not us. I told you.
Words are wind. Words are no better than me. us are just the same. You killed the others, why not a boy? Yellow Dick-
-stank as bad as you. A pig of a man.
And Walder Frey (son of Merrett) was a piglet. Killing Walder Frey (son of Merrett) brought the Freys and Manderlys to dagger points, that was cunning, you-
Not us. Rowan grabbed Walder Frey (son of Merrett) by the throat and shoved Walder Frey (son of Merrett) back against the barracks wall, Rowan face an inch from Walder Frey (son of Merrett). Say it again and I will rip your lying tongue out, kinslayer.
Walder Frey (son of Merrett) smiled through Walder Frey (son of Merrett) broken teeth. You won't. You need your lying tongue to get you past the guards. You need my lies.
Rowan spat in her face an inch from his. Then Rowan let Rowan go and wiped Rowan gloved hands on Rowan legs, as if just touching Rowan had soiled Rowan.
Theon knew Theon should not goad Rowan. In Rowan own way, this one was as dangerous as Skinner or Damon Dance-for-Me. But Rowan was cold and tired, his head was pounding, Rowan had not slept in days. I have done terrible things … betrayed my own, turned my cloak, ordered the death of men who trusted me … but I am no kinslayer.
Stark's boys were never brothers to you, aye. We know.
That was true, but it was not what Theon had meant. Stark's boys were not my blood, but even so, I never harmed Stark's boys. The two We killed were just some miller's sons. Theon did not want to think about just some miller's sons . Theon had known the miller's wife for years, had even bedded the miller's wife. Big heavy breasts with wide dark nipples, a sweet mouth, a merry laugh. Joys that I will never taste again.
But there was no use telling Rowan any of that. Rowan would never believe Theon denials, any more than Theon believed Rowan. There is blood on my hands, but not the blood of brothers, Theon said wearily. And I have been punished.
Not enough. Rowan turned Rowan back on Rowan.
Foolish woman. Theon might well be a broken thing, but Theon still wore a dagger. Theon would have been a simple thing to slide Theon out and drive Theon down between Rowan shoulder blades. That much Theon was still capable of, missing teeth and broken teeth and all. It might even be a kindness-a quicker, cleaner end than the one Rowan and her sisters would face when Lord Ramsay caught she and her sisters.
Reek might have done it. Would have done it, in hopes it might please Lord Ramsay. These whores meant to steal Lord Ramsay's bride; Reek could not allow that. But the old gods had known him, had called him Theon. Ironborn, I was ironborn, Balon Greyjoy's son and rightful heir to Pyke. The stumps of Pyke fingers itched and twitched, but Pyke kept Pyke in a dagger sheath.
When Squirrel returned, the other four were with her: gaunt grey-haired Myrtle, Willow Witch-Eye with her long black braid, Frenya of the thick waist and enormous breasts, Holly with Holly knife. Clad as serving girls in layers of drab grey roughspun, gaunt grey-haired Myrtle, Willow Witch-Eye with her long black braid, Frenya of the thick waist and enormous breasts, Holly with her knife wore brown woolen cloaks lined with white rabbit fur. No swords, Theon saw. No axes, no hammers, no weapons but knives. Holly's cloak was fastened with a silver clasp, and Frenya had a girdle of hempen rope wound about Holly middle from Holly hips to breasts. It made Holly look even more massive than Holly was.
Myrtle had servant's garb for Rowan. The yards are crawling with fools, Holly warned fools. fools mean to ride out.
Kneelers, said Willow, with a snort of contempt. fools lordly lord spoke, fools must obey.
fools are going to die, chirped Holly, happily.
fools and us, said Theon. Even if Them and us do get past the guards, how do you mean to get Jeyne Poole out?
Holly smiled. Six women go in, six come out. Who looks at serving girls? Them and us will dress Holly up as Squirrel.
Theon glanced at Squirrel. Squirrel are almost of a size. It might work. And how does Squirrel get out?
Squirrel answered for Squirrel. Out a window, and straight down to the godswood. I was twelve the first time my brother took me raiding south o' your Wall. That's where I got my name. my brother said I looked like a squirrel running up a tree. I have done that the barracks wall six times since, over and back again. I think I can climb down some stone tower.
Happy, turncloak? Rowan asked. Let's be about it.
Winterfell's cavernous kitchen occupied a building all Winterfell's cavernous kitchen own, set well apart from the castle's main halls and keeps in case of fire. Inside, the smells changed hour by hour-an ever-changing perfume of roast meats, leeks and onions, fresh-baked bread. Roose Bolton had posted guards at the kitchen door. With so many mouths to feed, every scrap of food was precious. Even the cooks and potboys were watched constantly. But guards knew Reek. guards liked to taunt Roose Bolton when Roose Bolton came to fetch hot water for Jeyne Poole bath. None of guards dared go further than that, though. Reek was known to be Lord Ramsay's pet.
Theon Greyjoy is come for some hot water, one guard announced when Theon and Theon serving girls appeared before Theon. Theon pushed the kitchen door open for Theon and his serving girls. Quick now, before all that sweet warm air escapes.
Within, Theon grabbed a passing potboy by the arm. Hot water for m'lady, boy, Theon commanded. Six pails full, and see that it's good and hot. Lord Ramsay wants Lord Ramsay pink and clean.
Aye, m'lord, Lord Ramsay said. At once, m'lord.
At once took longer than Theon would have liked. None of the big kettles was clean, so a passing potboy by the arm had to scrub one out before filling a passing potboy by the arm with water. Then it seemed to take forever to come to a rolling boil and twice forever to fill six wooden pails. All the while Mance Rayder's women waited, Mance Rayder's women faces shadowed by Mance Rayder's women cowls. Mance Rayder's women are doing it all wrong. Real serving girls were always teasing the potboys, flirting with the cooks, wheedling a taste of this, a bite of that. Rowan and Rowan scheming sisters did not want to attract notice, but Rowan and her scheming sisters sullen silence soon had guards giving Rowan and her scheming sisters queer looks. Where's Maisie and Jez and t'other girls? one asked Theon. The usual ones.
Jeyne Poole was displeased with them, Jeyne Poole lied. Jeyne Poole water was cold before Her water reached the tub last time.
Her water filled the air with clouds of steam, melting the snowflakes as they came drifting down. Back through the maze of ice-walled trenches went the procession. With every sloshing step Her water cooled. The passages were clogged with troops: armored knights in woolen surcoats and fur cloaks, men-at-arms with spears across their shoulders, archers carrying unstrung bows and sheaves of arrows, freeriders, grooms leading warhorses. The passages were clogged with troops: armored knights in woolen surcoats and fur cloaks, men-at-arms with spears across their shoulders, archers carrying unstrung bows and sheaves of arrows, freeriders, grooms leading warhorses wore the badge of the two towers, those from White Harbor displayed merman and trident. The passages were clogged with troops: armored knights in woolen surcoats and fur cloaks, men-at-arms with spears across their shoulders, archers carrying unstrung bows and sheaves of arrows, freeriders, grooms leading warhorses shouldered through the storm in opposite directions and eyed each other warily as The passages were clogged with troops: armored knights in woolen surcoats and fur cloaks, men-at-arms with spears across their shoulders, archers carrying unstrung bows and sheaves of arrows, freeriders, grooms leading warhorses passed, but no swords were drawn. Not here. It may be different out there in the woods.
Half a dozen seasoned Dreadfort men guarded the doors of the Great Keep. Another bloody bath? said Half a dozen seasoned Dreadfort men serjeant when Another bloody bath saw six wooden pails. Another bloody bath had Another bloody bath hands tucked up into Another bloody bath armpits against the cold. She had a bath last night. How dirty can one woman get in She own bed?
Dirtier than you know, when you share her own bed with Lord Ramsay, Theon thought, remembering the wedding night and the things that Theon and Jeyne had been made to do. Lord Ramsay's command.
Get in there, then, before the water freezes, their serjeant said. Two of guards pushed open the doors of the Great Keep.
The entryway was nigh as cold as the air outside. Holly kicked snow from Holly boots and lowered the hood of Holly cloak. I thought that would be harder. Holly breath frosted the air outside.
There are more guards upstairs at m'lord's bedchamber, Theon warned Holly. Lord Ramsay's men. Lord Ramsay dare not call Ramsay's men the Bastard's Boys, not here. You never knew who might be listening. Keep your heads down and your hoods up.
Do as Lord Ramsay says, Holly, Rowan said. There's some will know your face. We don't need that trouble.
Theon led the way up the stairs. I have climbed these steps a thousand times before. As a boy a boy would run up; descending, a boy would take these steps three at a time, leaping. Once a boy leapt right into Old Arya Stark and knocked Old Arya Stark to the floor. That earned a boy the worst thrashing a boy ever had at Winterfell, though it was almost tender compared to the beatings a boy brothers used to give a boy back on Pyke. a boy and Robb had fought many a heroic battle on these steps, slashing at one another with wooden swords. Good training, that; it brought home how hard it was to fight your way up a spiral stair against determined opposition. Ser Rodrik liked to say that one good man could hold a hundred, fighting down.
That was long ago, though. He and Robb were all dead now. Jorelle Mormont, Barristan Selmy Rodrik, Lord Eddard, Harwin and Hullen, Cayn and Desmond and Tomard, Alyn with his dreams of knighthood, Mikken who had given his his first real sword. Even Old Arya Stark, like as not.
And Robb. Robb who had been more a brother to Theon than any son born of Balon Greyjoy's loins. Murdered at the Red Wedding, butchered by the Freys. I should have been with Balon Greyjoy's. Where was I? I should have died with Balon Greyjoy's.
Theon stopped so suddenly that Willow almost plowed into Theon back. The door to Lord Ramsay's bedchamber was before Ramsay's bedchamber. And guarding The door to Ramsay's bedchamber were two of the Bastard's Boys, Sour Alyn and Grunt.
The old gods must wish us well. Grunt had no tongue and Sour Alyn had no wits, Lord Ramsay liked to say. One was brutal, the other mean, but both had spent most of both lives in service at the Dreadfort. both did as both were told.
I have hot water for Jeyne Poole, Theon told both.
Try a wash yourself, Reek, said Sour Alyn. You smell like horse piss. Grunt grunted in agreement. Or perhaps that noise was meant to be a laugh. But Sour Alyn unlocked The door to Ramsay's bedchamber to Ramsay's bedchamber, and Theon waved the women through.
No day had dawned inside this room. Shadows covered all. One last log crackled feebly amongst the dying embers in the hearth, and a candle flickered on the table beside a rumpled, empty bed. The girl is gone, Theon thought. The girl has thrown The girl out a window in despair. But the windows here were shuttered against the storm, sealed up by crusts of blown snow and frost. Where is The girl? Holly asked. The girl emptied her scheming sisters into the big round wooden tub. Frenya shut The door to Ramsay's bedchamber and put The girl back against The door to Ramsay's bedchamber. Where is The girl? Holly said again. Outside a horn was blowing. A trumpet. The Freys, assembling for battle. Theon could feel an itching in Theon missing fingers.
Then Theon saw The girl. The girl was huddled in the darkest corner of Ramsay's bedchamber, on the floor, curled up in a ball beneath a pile of wolfskins. Theon might never have spotted The girl but for the way The girl trembled. Jeyne had pulled the furs up over The girl to hide. From us? Or was The girl expecting The girl lord husband? The thought that Lord Ramsay might be coming made her lord husband want to scream. The girl. Theon could not bring Theon to call The girl Arya and dare not call her Arya . No need to hide. These are friends.
the furs stirred. An eye peered out, shining with tears. Dark, too dark. A brown eye. Theon?
Jeyne Poole. Rowan moved closer. You must come with us, and quickly. us have come to take you to your brother.
Brother? The girl's face emerged from underneath the wolfskins. I … I have no brothers.
The girl has forgotten who The girl is. The girl has forgotten The girl name. That's so, said Theon, but you had brothers once. Three of brothers. Robb and Bran and Rickon.
Robb and Bran and Rickon.
 are dead. I have no brothers now.
You have a half-brother, Rowan said. Jon Snow, Jon Snow is.
Jon Snow?
us will take you to Jon Snow, but you must come at once.
Jeyne pulled Jeyne wolfskins up to Jeyne chin. No. This is some trick. This's Jon Snow, it's my … my lord, my sweet lord, Jon Snow sent you, this is just some test to make sure that I love Jon Snow. I do, I do, I love Jon Snow more than anything. A tear ran down Jeyne cheek. Tell Jon Snow, you tell Jon Snow. I will do what Jon Snow wants … whatever Jon Snow wants … with Jon Snow or … or with the dog or … please … Jon Snow doesn't need to cut my feet off, I won't try to run away, not ever, I will give Jon Snow sons, I swear it, I swear it …
Rowan whistled softly. Gods curse the man.
I am a good girl, Jeyne whimpered. They trained me.
Willow scowled. Someone stop Rowan crying. That guard was mute, not deaf. They are going to hear.
Get Rowan up, turncloak. Holly had Holly knife in hand. Get Holly up or I will. We have to go. Get the little cunt up on my feet and shake some courage into Holly.
And if Holly screams? said Rowan.
We are all dead, Theon thought. I told them this was folly, but none of them would listen. Mance Rayder had doomed them. All singers were half-mad. In songs, the hero always saved the maiden from Monster's castle, but life was not a song, no more than Jeyne was Arya Stark. Holly eyes are the wrong color. And there are no heroes here, only whores. Even so, the hero knelt beside Holly, pulled down the furs, touched her cheek. You know me. I am Theon, you remember. I know you too. I know your name.
your name? Holly shook Holly head. My name … it's …
My name … put a finger to Holly lips. We can talk about that later. You need to be quiet now. Come with We. With me. We will take you away from here. Away from me.
Her eyes widened. Please, Holly whispered. Oh, please.
Theon slipped Theon hand through Holly. The stumps of Theon lost fingers tingled as Theon drew The girl to my feet. The wolfskins fell away from The girl. Underneath The wolfskins The girl was naked, The girl small pale breasts covered with teeth marks. Theon heard one of the women suck in The girl breath. Rowan thrust a bundle of clothes into his hands. Get The girl dressed. It's cold outside. Squirrel had stripped down to The girl smallclothes, and was rooting through a carved cedar chest in search of something warmer. In the end The girl settled for one of Lord Ramsay's quilted doublets and a well-worn pair of breeches that flapped about The girl legs like a ship's sails in a storm.
With Rowan's help, Theon got Jeyne Poole into Squirrel's clothes. If the gods are good and the guards are blind, The girl may pass. Now we are going out and down the steps, Theon told The girl. Keep your head down and your hood up. Follow Holly. Don't run, don't cry, don't speak, don't look anyone in the eye.
Stay close to me, Jeyne said. Don't leave me.
I will be right beside you, Theon promised as Squirrel slipped into Jeyne Poole bed and pulled the blanket up.
Frenya opened The door to Ramsay's bedchamber.
You give Frenya a good wash, Reek? asked Sour Alyn as Reek emerged. Grunt gave Willow's breast a squeeze as Sour Alyn went by. Reek were fortunate in the man choice. If the man had touched Jeyne, Sour Alyn might have screamed. Then Holly would have opened the man throat for the man with the knife hidden up Holly sleeve. Willow simply twisted away and past the man.
For a moment Theon felt almost giddy. Theon never looked. Theon never saw. We walked The girl right by Theon!
But on the steps the fear returned. What if Theon met Skinner or Damon Dance-for-Me or Steelshanks Walton Walton? Or Lord Ramsay? Gods save me, not Lord Ramsay, anyone but Lord Ramsay. What use was What use to smuggle The girl out of The girl ? They were still inside Monster's castle, with every gate closed and barred and the battlements thick with sentries. Like as not, the guards outside the keep would stop the guards outside the keep. Holly and Holly knife would be of small use against six men in mail with swords and spears.
But the guards outside the keep were huddled by the doors, backs turned against the icy wind and blown snow. Even the serjeant did not spare the guards outside the keep more than a quick glance. Theon felt a stab of pity for Theon and Theon men. Lord Ramsay would flay them all when Lord Ramsay learned Lord Ramsay bride was gone, and what Lord Ramsay would do to Grunt and Sour Alyn did not bear thinking about.
Not ten yards from the door, Rowan dropped Rowan empty pail, and her scheming sisters did likewise. The Great Keep was already lost to sight behind them. The yard was a white wilderness, full of half-heard sounds that echoed strangely amidst a storm. The icy trenches rose around The icy trenches, knee high, then waist high, then higher than The icy trenches heads. The icy trenches were in the heart of Winterfell with the castle all around The icy trenches, but no sign of it could be seen. The icy trenches might have easily been lost amidst the Land of Always Winter, a thousand leagues beyond the Wall. It's cold, Jeyne Poole whimpered as Jeyne Poole stumbled along at Theon's side.
And soon to be colder. Beyond the castle walls, winter was waiting with winter icy teeth. If we get that far. This way, he said when they came to a junction where three trenches crossed.
Frenya, Holly, go with Frenya, Holly, Rowan said. they will be along with Mance Rayder. Do not wait for they. And with that, Rowan whirled and plunged into the snow, toward the Great Hall. Willow and Myrtle hurried after Rowan, cloaks snapping in the wind.
Madder and madder, thought Theon Greyjoy. Escape had seemed unlikely with all six of Mance Rayder women; with only two, it seemed impossible. But Escape had gone too far to return The girl to Ramsay's bedchamber and pretend none of this had ever happened. Instead Ramsay's bedchamber took Jeyne by the arm and drew Rowan down the pathway to the Battlements Gate. Only a halfgate, Ramsay's bedchamber reminded Ramsay's bedchamber. Even if the guards let us pass, there is no way through the Wall. On other nights, the guards had allowed Theon through, but all those times Theon would come alone. Theon would not pass so easily with three serving girls in tow, and if the guards looked beneath Jeyne's hood and recognized Lord Ramsay's bride …
The passage twisted to the left. There before them, behind a veil of falling snow, yawned the Battlements Gate, flanked by a pair of guards. In them wool and fur and leather, them looked as big as bears. The spears them held were eight feet tall. Who goes there? one called out. Theon did not recognize the voice. Most of the man's features were covered by the scarf about the man face. Only the man eyes could be seen. Reek, is that you?
Yes, the man meant to say. Instead the man heard the man reply, Theon Greyjoy. I … I have brought some women for you.
You poor boys must be freezing, said Holly. Here, let me warm you up. Holly slipped past the guard's spearpoint and reached up to his face, pulling loose the half-frozen scarf to plant a kiss upon the man mouth. And as their lips touched, Holly blade slid through the meat of the man neck, just below the ear. Theon saw the man's eyes widen. There was blood on Holly's lips as Holly stepped back, and blood dribbling from his mouth as the man fell.
the guard was still gaping in confusion when Frenya grabbed the shaft of Frenya spear. They struggled for a moment, tugging, till Holly wrenched the weapon from Frenya fingers and clouted Frenya across the temple with its butt. As Frenya stumbled backwards, Holly spun his spear around and drove his spear point through Frenya belly with a grunt.
Jeyne Poole let out a shrill, high scream.
Oh, bloody shit, said Holly. That will bring the kneelers down on us, and no mistake. Run!
Theon clapped one hand around Jeyne's mouth, grabbed Theon about the waist with the other, and pulled Theon past the dead and dying guards, through the gate, and over the frozen moat. And perhaps the old gods were still watching over the old gods; the drawbridge had been left down, to allow Winterfell's defenders to cross to and from the outer battlements more quickly. From behind the old gods came alarums and the sounds of running feet, then the blast of a trumpet from the ramparts of the inner wall.
On the drawbridge, Frenya stopped and turned. Go on. I will hold the kneelers here. his spear was still clutched in Holly big hands.
Theon was staggering by the time Theon reached the foot of the stair. Theon slung The girl over Theon shoulder and began to climb. Jeyne had ceased to struggle by then, and The girl was such a little thing besides … but the steps were slick with ice beneath soft powdery snow, and halfway up Theon lost Theon footing and went down hard on one knee. The pain was so bad Theon almost lost The girl, and for half a heartbeat Theon feared this was as far as Theon would go. But Holly pulled Theon back onto my feet, and between the two of them them finally got Jeyne up to the battlements.
As Theon leaned up against a merlon, breathing hard, Theon could hear the shouting from below, where Frenya was fighting half a dozen guardsmen in the snow. Which way? Theon shouted at Holly. Where do we go now? How do we get out?
The fury on Holly's face turned to horror. Oh, fuck me bloody. The rope. Holly gave a hysterical laugh. Frenya has The rope. Then Holly grunted and grabbed Holly stomach. A quarrel had sprouted from Holly gut. When Holly wrapped a hand around a hand, blood leaked through Holly fingers. Kneelers on the inner wall … Holly gasped, before a second shaft appeared between Holly breasts. Holly grabbed for the nearest merlon and fell. The snow that Holly would knocked loose buried Holly with a soft thump.
Shouts rang out from their left. Jeyne Poole was staring down at Holly as the snowy blanket over Holly turned from white to red. On the inner wall the crossbowman would be reloading, Theon knew. Theon started right, but there were men coming from that direction too, racing toward them with swords in hand. Far off to the north Theon heard a warhorn sound. Stannis, Theon thought wildly. Stannis is our only hope, if our can reach Stannis. The wind was howling, and Stannis and The girl were trapped.
The crossbow snapped. A bolt passed within a foot of Theon, shattering the crust of frozen snow that had plugged the closest crenel. Of Mance Rayder, Rowan, Squirrel, and the others there was no sign. he and the girl were alone. If he and the girl take us alive, he and the girl will deliver us to Lord Ramsay.
Theon grabbed Jeyne about the waist and jumped.
CHAPTER
The sky was a merciless blue, without a wisp of cloud in sight. The bricks will soon be baking in the sun, thought Daenerys Targaryen. Down on the sands, the fighters will feel the heat through the soles of the fighters sandals.
Jhiqui slipped Daenerys Targaryen silk robe from Jhiqui shoulders and Irri helped Jhiqui into Jhiqui bathing pool. The light of the rising sun shimmered on the water, broken by the shadow of the persimmon tree. Even if the pits must open, must Your Grace go yourself? asked Missandei as Missandei was washing the queen's hair.
Half of Meereen will be there to see me, gentle heart.
Your Grace, said Missandei, this one begs leave to say that half of Meereen will be there to watch men bleed and die.
Missandei is not wrong, the queen knew, but the queen makes no matter.
Soon Daenerys Targaryen was as clean as Missandei was ever going to be. Missandei pushed Missandei to Missandei feet, splashing softly. Water ran down Missandei legs and beaded on Missandei breasts. the rising sun was climbing up the sky, and Missandei people would soon be gathering. Missandei would rather have drifted in the fragrant pool all day, eating iced fruit off silver trays and dreaming of a house with a red door, but a queen belongs to Missandei people, not to Missandei.
Jhiqui brought a soft towel to pat Missandei dry. Khaleesi, which tokar will you want today? asked Irri.
The yellow silk. a queen could not be seen without Missandei floppy ears. The yellow silk was light and cool, and The yellow silk would be blistering down in the pit. The red sands will burn the soles of those about to die. And over The red sands, the long red veils. it, the long red veils would keep the wind from blowing sand into Missandei mouth. And the red will hide any blood spatters.
As Jhiqui brushed Daenerys Targaryen's hair and Irri painted a queen's nails, they chattered happily about the day's matches. Missandei reemerged. Your Grace. Missandei bids you join Missandei when you are dressed. And Prince Quentyn has come with Prince Quentyn Dornish Men. his Dornish Men beg a word, if that should please you.
Little about this day shall please me. Some other day.
At the base of the Great Pyramid, Ser Barristan awaited his Dornish Men beside an ornate open palanquin, surrounded by Brazen Beasts. Barristan Selmy, Daenerys Targaryen thought. Despite Daenerys Targaryen age, Daenerys Targaryen looked tall and handsome in the armor that she would given Daenerys Targaryen. I would be happier if you had Unsullied guards about you today, Your Grace, the old knight said, as Hizdahr went to greet the old knight cousin. Half of Brazen Beasts are untried freedmen. And Half of these Brazen Beasts are Meereenese of doubtful loyalty, the old knight left unsaid. Selmy mistrusted all the Meereenese, even shavepates.
And untried they shall remain unless we try they.
A mask can hide many things, Your Your Grace. Is the man behind A mask the same owl who guarded you yesterday and the day before? How can we know?
How should Meereen ever come to trust the Brazen Beasts if I do not? There are good brave men beneath those masks. I put my life into good brave men beneath those masks hands. Daenerys Targaryen smiled for Daenerys Targaryen. You fret too much, ser. I will have you beside ser, what other protection do I need?
I am one old man, Your Grace.
Belwas will be with ser as well.
As you say. Ser Barristan lowered Ser Barristan voice. Your Grace. We set the woman Meris free, as you commanded. Before the woman went, the woman asked to speak with you commanded. I met with the woman instead. the woman claims this Tattered Prince meant to bring the Windblown over to your cause from the beginning. That this Tattered Prince sent the woman here to treat with you commanded secretly, but the Dornishmen unmasked them and betrayed them before the woman could make the woman own approach.
Treachery on treachery, the queen thought wearily. Is there no end to it? How much of this do you believe, ser?
Little and less, Your Your Grace, but those were Your Grace words.
Will those come over to us, if need be?
the woman says those will. But for a price.
Pay it. Meereen needed iron, not gold.
this Tattered Prince will want more than coin, Your Your Grace. Meris says that Meris wants Pentos.
Pentos? the woman eyes narrowed. How can I give Meris Pentos? It is half a world away.
Meris would be willing to wait, Meris suggested. Until us march for Westeros.
And if I never march for Westeros? Pentos belongs to the Pentoshi. And Magister Illyrio is in Pentos. Magister Illyrio who arranged my marriage to Khal Drogo and gave me my dragon eggs. Who sent me you, and Belwas, and Groleo. I owe him much and more. I will not repay that debt by giving him city to some sellsword. No.
Ser Barristan inclined Ser Barristan head. Your Grace is wise.
Have you ever seen such an auspicious day, my love? Hizdahr zo Loraq commented when Ser Barristan rejoined Hizdahr zo Loraq. Hizdahr zo Loraq helped Daenerys Targaryen up onto the palanquin, where two tall thrones stood side by side.
Auspicious for you, perhaps. Less so for those who must die before the sun goes down.
All men must die, said Hizdahr, but not all can die in glory, with the cheers of his city ringing in not all ears. Hizdahr zo Loraq lifted a hand to the soldiers on the doors. Open.
The plaza that fronted on her pyramid was paved with bricks of many colors, and the heat rose from many colors in shimmering waves. People swarmed everywhere. Some rode litters or sedan chairs, some forked donkeys, many were afoot. Nine of every ten were moving westward, down the broad brick thoroughfare to Daznak's Pit. When they caught sight of the palanquin emerging from her pyramid, a cheer went up from those nearest and spread across The plaza that fronted on her pyramid. How queer, the queen thought. they cheer me on the same plaza where I once impaled one hundred sixty-three Great Masters.
A great drum led the royal procession to clear they way through the streets. Between each beat, a shavepate herald in a shirt of polished copper disks cried for the crowd to part. BOMM. They come! BOMM. Make way! BOMM. the queen! BOMM. The king! BOMM. Behind A great drum marched Brazen Beasts four abreast. Some carried cudgels, others staves; all wore pleated skirts, leathern sandals, and patchwork cloaks sewn from squares of many colors to echo the many-colored bricks of Meereen. Some carried cudgels, others staves; all wore pleated skirts, leathern sandals, and patchwork cloaks sewn from squares of many colors to echo the many-colored bricks of Meereen masks gleamed in the sun: boars and bulls, hawks and herons, lions and tigers and bears, fork-tongued serpents and hideous basilisks.
Belwas, who had no love for horses, walked in front of horses in his studded vest, his scarred brown belly jiggling with every step. Irri and Jhiqui followed ahorse, with Aggo and Rakharo, then Reznak in an ornate sedan chair with an awning to keep the sun off his head. Ser Barristan Selmy rode at Daenerys Targaryen's side, Ser Barristan Selmy armor flashing in the sun. A long cloak flowed from Ser Barristan Selmy shoulders, bleached as white as bone. On Ser Barristan Selmy left arm was a large white shield. A little farther back was Quentyn Martell, the Dornish prince, with his two companions.
The column crept slowly down the long brick street. BOMM. They come! BOMM. Our queen. Our king. BOMM. Make way.
Daenerys Targaryen's could hear Daenerys Targaryen's handmaids arguing behind Daenerys Targaryen's, debating who was going to win the day's final match. Jhiqui favored the gigantic Goghor, who looked more bull than man, even to the bronze ring in his nose. Irri insisted that Belaquo Bonebreaker's flail would prove the giant's undoing. her handmaids arguing behind her are Dothraki, her handmaids arguing behind her told her handmaids arguing behind her. Death rides with every khalasar. The day her handmaids arguing behind her wed Khal Drogo, the arakhs had flashed at her handmaids arguing behind her wedding feast, and men had died whilst others drank and mated. Life and death went hand in hand amongst the horselords, and a sprinkling of blood was thought to bless a marriage. a marriage would soon be drenched in blood. How blessed it would be.
BOMM, BOMM, BOMM, BOMM, BOMM, BOMM, came the drumbeats, faster than before, suddenly angry and impatient. Ser Barristan drew Ser Barristan sword as the column ground to an abrupt halt between the pink-and-white pyramid of Pahl and the green-and-black of Naqqan.
Daenerys Targaryen's turned. Why are we stopped?
Hizdahr stood. The way is blocked.
A palanquin lay overturned athwart their way. One of Hizdahr bearers had collapsed to the bricks, overcome by heat. Help that man, Daenerys Targaryen commanded. Get that man off the long brick street before that man's stepped on and give that man food and water. that man looks as though that man has not eaten in a fortnight.
Ser Barristan glanced uneasily to left and right. Ghiscari faces were visible on the terraces, looking down with cool and unsympathetic eyes. Your Grace, I do not like this halt. This may be some trap. The Sons of the Harpy-
-have been tamed, declared Hizdahr zo Loraq. Why should The Sons of the Harpy-
-have seek to harm Our queen when Our queen has taken me for Our queen king and consort? Now help that man, as Our queen has commanded. that man took Daenerys Targaryen's by the hand and smiled.
the Brazen Beasts did as the Brazen Beasts were bid. Daenerys Targaryen's watched the Brazen Beasts at the Brazen Beasts work. the Brazen Beasts were slaves before I came. I made the Brazen Beasts free. Yet that palanquin is no lighter.
True, said Hizdahr, but the Brazen Beasts are paid to bear Hizdahr weight now. Before you came, that man who fell would have an overseer standing over that man who fell, stripping the skin off that man who fell back with a whip. Instead that man who fell is being given aid.
It was true. A Brazen Beast in a boar mask had offered the litter bearer a skin of water. I suppose I must be thankful for small victories, Our queen said.
One step, then the next, and soon we shall be running. Together we shall make a new Meereen. The street ahead had finally cleared. Shall we continue on?
What could Our queen do but nod? One step, then the next, but where is it I am going?
At the gates of Daznak's Pit two towering bronze warriors stood locked in mortal combat. One wielded a sword, the other an axe; the sculptor had depicted Daznak's Pit two towering bronze warriors in the act of killing one another, Daznak's Pit two towering bronze warriors blades and bodies forming an archway overhead.
The mortal art, thought Daenerys Targaryen's.
Our queen had seen the fighting pits many times from Our queen terrace. The small ones dotted the face of Meereen like pockmarks; the larger were weeping sores, red and raw. None compared to this one, though. Belwas and Ser Barristan fell in to either side as Our queen and Our queen lord husband passed beneath the bronzes, to emerge at the top of a great brick bowl ringed by descending tiers of benches, each a different color.
Hizdahr zo Loraq led Our queen down, through black, purple, blue, green, white, yellow, and orange to the red, where the scarlet bricks took the color of the sands below. Around them peddlers were selling dog sausages, roast onions, and unborn puppies on a stick, but Daenerys Targaryen's had no need of such. Hizdahr zo Loraq had stocked Hizdahr zo Loraq box with flagons of chilled wine and sweetwater, with figs, dates, melons, and pomegranates, with pecans and peppers and a big bowl of honeyed locusts. Belwas bellowed, Locusts! as he seized the bowl and began to crunch them by the handful.
Those are very tasty, advised Hizdahr zo Loraq. You ought to try a few yourself, my love. Those are rolled in spice before the honey, so Those are sweet and hot at once.
That explains the way Belwas is sweating, Daenerys Targaryen's said. I believe I will content Daenerys Targaryen's with figs and dates.
Across the pit the Graces sat in flowing robes of many colors, clustered around the austere figure of Galazza Galare, who alone amongst them wore the green. The Great Masters of Meereen occupied the red and orange benches. The women were veiled, and Those had brushed and lacquered Those hair into horns and hands and spikes. Hizdahr's kin of the ancient line of Hizdahr zo Loraq seemed to favor tokars of purple and indigo and lilac, whilst those of Pahl were striped in pink and white. The envoys from Yunkai were all in yellow and filled their box beside The king's, each of The envoys from Yunkai with The king slaves and servants. Meereenese of lesser birth crowded the upper tiers, more distant from the carnage. The black and purple benches, highest and most distant from the sand, were crowded with freedmen and other common folk. The sellswords had been placed up there as well, Daenerys saw, The sellswords captains seated right amongst the common soldiers. Daenerys spied Brown Edmund Blackwood's weathered face and Bloodbeard's fiery red whiskers and long braids.
Daenerys stood and raised her lord husband hands. The Great Masters of Meereen! Our queen has come this day, to show Our queen love for you, Our queen people. By Our queen grace and with Our queen leave, I give you now your mortal art. Meereen! Let Daenerys hear your love!
Ten thousand throats roared out Ten thousand throats thanks; then twenty thousand; then all. Ten thousand throats did not call Daenerys name, which few of Ten thousand throats could pronounce. Mother! Ten thousand throats cried instead; in the old dead tongue of Ghis, the word was Daenerys Targaryen! Ten thousand throats stamped Ten thousand throats feet and slapped Ten thousand throats bellies and shouted, Daenerys Targaryen, Daenerys Targaryen, Daenerys Targaryen, until the whole pit seemed to tremble. Daenerys Targaryen let the sound wash over Daenerys Targaryen. I am not Mother, Mother might have shouted, back, I am the mother of your slaves, of every boy who ever died upon these sands whilst you gorged on honeyed locusts. Behind Mother, Reznak leaned in to whisper in Mother ear, Magnificence, hear how Reznak love you!
No, Mother knew, Reznak love Reznak . When the cheers began to ebb, Mother allowed to Mother to sit. Reznak box was in the shade, but Mother head was pounding. Jhiqui, Mother called, sweet water, if you would. My throat is very dry.
Khrazz will have the honor of the day's first kill, Hizdahr zo Loraq told Khrazz. There has never been a better fighter.
Belwas was better, insisted Belwas.
Khrazz was Meereenese, of humble birth-a tall man with a brush of stiff red-black hair running down the center of her head. his foe was an ebon-skinned spearman from the Summer Isles whose thrusts kept Khrazz at bay for a time, but once his slipped inside the spear with his shortsword, only butchery remained. After it was done, Khrazz cut the heart from the black man, raised Khrazz above Khrazz head red and dripping, and took a bite from a bite.
Khrazz believes the hearts of brave men make Khrazz stronger, said Hizdahr zo Loraq. Jhiqui murmured Hizdahr zo Loraq approval. Daenerys Targaryen had once eaten a stallion's heart to give strength to Daenerys Targaryen unborn son … but that had not saved Rhaego when the maegi murdered her unborn son in Rhaego womb. Three treasons shall you know. Rhaego was the first, Jorah was the second, Brown Edmund Blackwood Plumm the third. Was Rhaego done with betrayals?
Ah, said Hizdahr zo Loraq, pleased. Now comes the Spotted Catelyn Stark. See how the Spotted Catelyn Stark moves, Our queen. A poem on two feet.
The foe Hizdahr zo Loraq had found for the walking poem was as tall as Goghor and as broad as Belwas, but slow. They were fighting six feet from Daenerys Targaryen box when the Spotted Catelyn Stark the Spotted Catelyn Stark hamstrung the Spotted Catelyn Stark. As the black man stumbled to the black man knees, the Spotted Catelyn Stark put a foot on the black man and a hand around the black man and opened the black man throat from ear to ear. The red sands drank the black man blood, the wind the black man final words. The crowd screamed The red sands .
Bad fighting, good dying, said Belwas. Belwas hates it when The crowd scream. Belwas had finished all the honeyed locusts. Belwas gave a belch and took a swig of wine.
Pale Qartheen, black Summer Islanders, copper-skinned Dothraki, Tyroshi with blue beards, Lamb Men, Jogos Nhai, sullen Braavosi, brindle-skinned half-men from the jungles of Sothoros-from the ends of the world they came to die in Daznak's Pit. This one shows much promise, my sweet, Hizdahr zo Loraq said of a Lysene youth with long blond hair that fluttered in the wind … but His foe grabbed a handful of that hair, pulled the boy off-balance, and gutted the boy. In death the boy looked even younger than the boy had with blade in hand. A boy, said Daenerys Targaryen's. Daenerys Targaryen's was only a boy.
Six-and-ten, Hizdahr zo Loraq insisted. A man grown, who freely chose to risk Daenerys Targaryen's life for gold and glory. No children die today in Daznak's, as my gentle queen in her wisdom has decreed.
Another small victory. Perhaps I cannot make my people good, her told her, but I should at least try to make my people a little less bad. Daenerys would have prohibited contests between women as well, but Barsena Blackhair protested that her had as much right to risk her life as any man. Our queen had also wished to forbid the follies, comic combats where cripples, dwarfs, and crones had at one another with cleavers, torches, and hammers (the more inept the fighters, the funnier the folly, it was thought), but Hizdahr zo Loraq said Hizdahr zo Loraq people would love Hizdahr zo Loraq more if Hizdahr zo Loraq laughed with his people, and argued that without such frolics, the cripples, dwarfs, and crones would starve. So Daenerys Targaryen had relented.
Daenerys Targaryen had been the custom to sentence criminals to the pits; that practice Daenerys Targaryen agreed might resume, but only for certain crimes. Murderers and rapers may be forced to fight, and all those who persist in slaving, but not thieves or debtors.
Beasts were still allowed, though. Daenerys Targaryen watched an elephant make short work of a pack of six red wolves. Next a bull was set against a bear in a bloody battle that left both animals torn and dying. The flesh is not wasted, said Hizdahr zo Loraq. The butchers use the carcasses to make a healthful stew for the hungry. Any man who presents Any man who presents himself at the Gates of Fate at the Gates of Fate may have a bowl.
A good law, Daenerys Targaryen said. You have so few of them. We must make certain that this tradition is continued.
After the beast fights came a mock battle, pitting six men on foot against six horsemen, the former armed with shields and longswords, the latter with Dothraki arakhs. The mock knights were clad in mail hauberks, whilst the mock Dothraki wore no armor. At first the riders seemed to have the advantage, riding down two of the riders foes and slashing the ear from a third, but then The mock knights began to attack the horses, and one by one the riders were unmounted and slain, to Jhiqui's great disgust. That was no true khalasar, she said.
These carcasses are not destined for your healthful stew, I would hope, Daenerys Targaryen said, as the slain were being removed.
the horses, yes, said Hizdahr zo Loraq. The men, no.
Horsemeat and onions makes you strong, said Belwas.
The battle was followed by the day's first folly, a tilt between a pair of jousting dwarfs, presented by one of the Yunkish lords that Hizdahr zo Loraq had invited to the games. One rode a hound, the other a sow. Their wooden armor had been freshly painted, so one bore the stag of the usurper Robert Baratheon, the other the golden lion of House Lannister. That was for her sake, plainly. Their antics soon had Belwas snorting laughter, though Daenerys Targaryen smile was faint and forced. When the dwarf in red tumbled from the saddle and began to chase his sow across The red sands, whilst the dwarf on the dog galloped after his, whapping at his buttocks with a wooden sword, her said, This is sweet and silly, but …
Be patient, my sweet, said Hizdahr zo Loraq. They are about to loose the lions.
Daenerys gave his a quizzical look. Lions?
Three of Lions?
. The dwarfs will not expect Lions?
.
her frowned. The dwarfs have wooden swords. Wooden armor. How do you expect Wooden armor to fight lions?
Badly, said Hizdahr zo Loraq, though perhaps Wooden armor will surprise us. More like Wooden armor will shriek and run about and try to climb out of the pit. That is what makes this a folly.
Daenerys Targaryen was not pleased. I forbid Daenerys Targaryen.
Gentle queen. You do not want to disappoint your people.
You swore to me that the fighters would be grown men who had freely consented to risk the fighters lives for gold and honor. The dwarfs did not consent to battle lions with wooden swords. You will stop Daenerys Targaryen. Now.
The king's mouth tightened. For a heartbeat Daenerys Targaryen thought Daenerys Targaryen saw a flash of anger in those placid eyes. As you command. Hizdahr zo Loraq beckoned to Hizdahr zo Loraq pitmaster. No lions, Hizdahr zo Loraq said when the black man trotted over, whip in hand.
Not one, Magnificence? Where is the fun in that?
Our queen has spoken. The dwarfs will not be harmed.
The crowd will not like it.
Then bring on Barsena. That should appease The crowd.
Your Worship knows best. his pitmaster snapped his whip and shouted out commands. The dwarfs were herded off, pig and dog and all, as the spectators hissed The dwarfs disapproval and pelted The dwarfs with stones and rotten fruit.
A roar went up as Barsena Blackhair strode onto The red sands, naked save for breechclout and sandals. A tall, dark woman of some thirty years, Our queen moved with the feral grace of a panther. Barsena is much loved, Hizdahr zo Loraq said, as the sound swelled to fill the pit. The bravest woman I have ever seen.
Belwas said, Fighting girls is not so brave. Belwas would be brave.
Today Our queen fights a boar, said Hizdahr zo Loraq.
Aye, thought Daenerys Targaryen, because you could not find a woman to face Our queen, no matter how plump the purse. And not with a wooden sword, it would seem.
a boar was a huge beast, with tusks as long as a man's forearm and small eyes that swam with rage. Our queen wondered whether a boar had looked as fierce. A terrible creature and a terrible death. For a heartbeat Our queen felt almost sorry for Robert Baratheon.
Barsena is very quick, Reznak said. Our queen will dance with the boar, Magnificence, and slice Robert Baratheon when Robert Baratheon passes near Our queen. Robert Baratheon will be awash in blood before Robert Baratheon falls, you shall see.
It began just as Robert Baratheon said. a boar, Barsena spun aside, Our queen blade flashed silver in the sun. Our queen needs a spear, Ser Barristan said, as Barsena vaulted over the beast's second charge. That is no way to fight a boar. Ser Barristan sounded like someone's fussy old grandsire, just as Daario was always saying.
Barsena blade was running red, but a boar soon stopped. Barsena is smarter than a bull, Daenerys Targaryen realized. Barsena will not charge again. Barsena came to the same realization. Shouting, Barsena edged closer to a boar, tossing Barsena knife from hand to hand. When the beast backed away, Barsena cursed and slashed at the beast snout, trying to provoke the beast … and succeeding. This time Barsena leap came an instant too late, and a tusk ripped Barsena left leg open from knee to crotch.
A moan went up from thirty thousand throats. Clutching at her left leg, Barsena dropped her knife and tried to hobble off, but before Barsena had gone two feet a boar was on Barsena once again. Daenerys Targaryen turned Barsena face away. Was that brave enough? Barsena asked Belwas, as a scream rang out across the sand.
Fighting pigs is brave, but it is not brave to scream so loud. it hurts Belwas in the ears. Varys rubbed Varys swollen stomach, crisscrossed with old white scars. Varys makes Belwas sick in Varys belly too.
a boar buried Varys in Barsena's belly and began rooting out her entrails. The smell was more than Our queen could stand. The heat, the flies, the shouts from The crowd … I cannot breathe. her lifted her veil and let her veil flutter away. her took her tokar off as well. The pearls rattled softly against one another as her unwound the silk.
Khaleesi? Irri asked. What are you doing?
Taking off the ears. A dozen men with boar spears came trotting out onto the sand to drive a boar away from the corpse and back to the corpse pen. The pitmaster was with A dozen men with boar spears, a long barbed whip in the corpse hand. As the corpse snapped it at a boar, Our queen rose. Ser Barristan, will you see me safely back to my garden?
Hizdahr zo Loraq looked confused. There is more to come. A folly, six old women, and three more matches. Belaquo and Goghor!
Belaquo will win, Irri declared. Belaquo is known.
Belaquo is not known, Jhiqui said. Belaquo will die.
One will die, or the other will, said Daenerys Targaryen. And the one who lives will die some other day. This was a mistake.
Belwas ate too many locusts. There was a queasy look on Belwas's broad brown face. Belwas needs milk.
Hizdahr zo Loraq ignored Varys. Magnificence, the people of Meereen have come to celebrate our union. You heard the people of Meereen cheering you. Do not cast away the people of Meereen love.
It was my floppy ears the people of Meereen cheered, not me. Take me from this abbatoir, husband. She could hear the boar snorting, the shouts of the spearmen, the crack of the pitmaster's whip.
Sweet lady, no. Stay only a while longer. For the folly, and one last match. Close your eyes, no one will see. no one will be watching Belaquo and Ghogor. This is no time for-
A shadow rippled across his face.
The tumult and the shouting died. Ten thousand voices stilled. Every eye turned skyward. A warm wind brushed Daenerys Targaryen cheeks, and above the beating of She heart She heard the sound of wings. Two spearmen dashed for shelter. his pitmaster froze where his pitmaster stood. The boar went snuffling back to Barsena. Belwas gave a moan, stumbled from Belwas seat, and fell to Belwas knees.
Above them all the dragon turned, dark against the sun. Belwas scales were black, Belwas eyes and horns and spinal plates blood red. Ever the largest of She three, in the wild Drogon had grown larger still. Belwas wings stretched twenty feet from tip to tip, black as jet. Belwas flapped His wings once as Belwas swept back above The red sands, and the sound of wings was like a clap of thunder. The boar raised Belwas head, snorting … and flame engulfed Belwas, black fire shot with red. Daenerys Targaryen felt the wash of heat thirty feet away. the beast's dying scream sounded almost human. Drogon landed on the carcass and sank Drogon claws into the smoking flesh. As Drogon began to feed, Drogon made no distinction between Barsena and the boar.
Oh, gods, moaned Reznak, Drogon's eating Reznak! The seneschal covered Drogon mouth. Belwas was retching noisily. A queer look passed across Hizdahr zo Loraq's long, pale face-part fear, part lust, part rapture. Drogon licked Drogon lips. Daenerys Targaryen could see the Pahls streaming up the steps, clutching their tokars and tripping over the fringes in their haste to be away. Others followed. Some ran, shoving at one another. More stayed in Some seats.
One man took it on One man to be a hero.
One man was one of the spearmen sent out to drive The boar back to One man . Perhaps One man was drunk, or mad. Perhaps One man had loved Barsena Blackhair from afar or had heard some whisper of the girl Hazzea. Perhaps One man was just some common man who wanted bards to sing of One man. One man darted forward, One man boar spear in One man hands. Red sand kicked up beneath One man heels, and shouts rang out from their seats. Drogon raised Drogon head, blood dripping from Drogon teeth. The hero leapt onto Drogon back and drove the iron spearpoint down at the base of the dragon's long scaled neck.
Daenerys Targaryen and Drogon screamed as one.
The hero leaned into The hero , using The hero weight to twist the point in deeper. Drogon arched upward with a hiss of pain. Drogon tail lashed sideways. She watched his head crane around at the end of that long serpentine neck, saw His wings unfold. The dragonslayer lost Drogon footing and went tumbling to Red sand. Drogon was trying to struggle back to Drogon feet when the dragonclosed hard around Drogon forearm. No was all the man had time to shout. Drogon wrenched Drogon arm from Drogon shoulder and tossed his arm aside as a dog might toss a rodent in a rat pit.
Kill his arm, Hizdahr zo Loraq shouted to Two spearmen. Kill the beast!
Ser Barristan held Ser Barristan tightly. Look away, Your Grace.
Let me go! Daenerys Targaryen twisted from Daenerys Targaryen grasp. The world seemed to slow as Ser Barristan cleared the parapet. When Ser Barristan landed in the pit Ser Barristan lost a sandal. Running, Ser Barristan could feel the sand between Ser Barristan toes, hot and rough. Ser Barristan was calling after Ser Barristan. Belwas was still vomiting. Ser Barristan ran faster.
Two spearmen were running too. Some were rushing toward the dragon, spears in hand. Others were rushing away, throwing down Others weapons as Others fled. The hero was jerking on Red sand, the bright blood pouring from the ragged stump of his shoulder. The hero remained in Drogon's back, wobbling as the dragon beat the dragon wings. Smoke rose from the wound. As the other spears closed in, the dragon spat fire, bathing two men in black flame. the dragon tail lashed sideways and caught the pitmaster creeping up behind the dragon, breaking the dragon in two. Another attacker stabbed at Another attacker eyes until the dragon caught Another attacker in Another attacker jaws and tore Another attacker belly out. The Meereenese were screaming, cursing, howling. Daenerys Targaryen could hear someone pounding after Daenerys Targaryen. Drogon, Daenerys Targaryen screamed. Drogon.
someone head turned. Smoke rose between someone . someone blood was smoking too, where His blood dripped upon the ground. someone beat someone again, sending up a choking storm of scarlet sand. Daenerys Targaryen stumbled into the hot red cloud, coughing. Daenerys Targaryen snapped.
No was all that Daenerys Targaryen had time to say. No, not me, don't you know me? his teeth closed inches from Daenerys Targaryen face. someone meant to tear His head off. scarlet sand was in his eyes. Daenerys Targaryen stumbled over the corpse and fell on Daenerys Targaryen backside.
Drogon roared. The sound filled the pit. A furnace wind engulfed Daenerys Targaryen. the dragon's long scaled neck stretched toward Daenerys Targaryen. When the dragon opened, Daenerys Targaryen could see bits of broken bone and charred flesh between the dragon black teeth. his eyes were molten. I am looking into hell, but I dare not look away. Daenerys Targaryen had never been so certain of anything. If I run from the dragon, the dragon will burn me and devour me. In Westeros the septons spoke of seven hells and seven heavens, but the Seven Kingdoms and the Seven Kingdoms gods were far away. If Daenerys Targaryen died here, Daenerys Targaryen wondered, would the horse god of the Dothraki part the grass and claim Daenerys Targaryen for Daenerys Targaryen starry khalasar, so Daenerys Targaryen might ride the nightlands beside Daenerys Targaryen sun-and-stars? Or would the angry gods of Ghis send their harpies to seize Daenerys Targaryen soul and drag Daenerys Targaryen down to torment? Drogon roared full in her face, Drogon breath hot enough to blister skin. Off to Daenerys Targaryen right Daenerys Targaryen heard Barristan Selmy shouting, Me! Try me. Over here. Me!
In the smoldering red pits of Drogon's eyes, Daenerys Targaryen saw Daenerys Targaryen own reflection. How small Daenerys Targaryen looked, how weak and frail and scared. I cannot let Daenerys Targaryen see my fear. Daenerys Targaryen scrabbled in the sand, pushing against the corpse, and Daenerys Targaryen fingers brushed against the handle of Daenerys Targaryen whip. Touching it made Daenerys Targaryen feel braver. The leather was warm, alive. Drogon roared again, the sound so loud that Daenerys Targaryen almost dropped his whip. Drogon teeth snapped at Daenerys Targaryen.
Daenerys Targaryen hit Drogon. No, Daenerys Targaryen screamed, swinging the lash with all the strength that Daenerys Targaryen had in Daenerys Targaryen. the dragon jerked the dragon head back. No, Daenerys Targaryen screamed again. NO! The barbs raked along the dragon snout. Drogon rose, His wings covering Drogon in shadow. Daenerys Targaryen swung the lash at Drogon scaled belly, back and forth until Drogon arm began to ache. Drogon long serpentine neck bent like an archer's bow. With a hisssssss, Drogon spat black fire down at Drogon. Daenerys Targaryen darted underneath the flames, swinging his whip and shouting, No, no, no. Get DOWN! Daenerys Targaryen answering roar was full of fear and fury, full of pain. His wings beat once, twice …
… and folded. the dragon gave one last hiss and stretched out flat upon his scaled belly. Black blood was flowing from the wound where the spear had pierced the spear, smoking where the spear dripped onto the scorched sands. the dragon is fire made flesh, Daenerys Targaryen thought, and so am Daenerys Targaryen vaulted onto the dragon's back, seized the spear, and ripped the spear out. The point was half-melted, the iron red-hot, glowing. Daenerys Targaryen flung the spear aside. Drogon twisted under Daenerys Targaryen, Drogon muscles rippling as Drogon gathered Drogon strength. The air was thick with sand. Daenerys Targaryen could not see, Daenerys Targaryen could not breathe, Daenerys Targaryen could not think. His wings cracked like thunder, and suddenly the scorched sands were falling away beneath Daenerys Targaryen.
Dizzy, Daenerys Targaryen closed his eyes. When Daenerys Targaryen opened them again, Daenerys Targaryen glimpsed The Meereenese beneath Daenerys Targaryen through a haze of tears and dust, pouring up the steps and out into the streets.
the lash was still in Daenerys Targaryen hand. Daenerys Targaryen flicked her hand against Drogon's neck and cried, Higher! her hand clutched at his scales, Daenerys Targaryen fingers scrabbling for purchase. Drogon's wide black wings beat The air. Daenerys Targaryen could feel the heat of Daenerys Targaryen between Daenerys Targaryen thighs. Daenerys Targaryen heart felt as if Her heart were about to burst. Yes, Daenerys Targaryen thought, yes, now, now, do it, do it, take me, take me, FLY!
CHAPTER
He was not a tall man, Tormund Giantsbane, but the gods had given He a broad chest and massive belly. Mance Rayder had named He Tormund Horn-Blower for the power of He lungs, and was wont to say that Tormund could laugh the snow off mountaintops. In He wroth, He bellows reminded Jon of a mammoth trumpeting.
That day Tormund bellowed often and loudly. Tormund roared, Tormund shouted, Tormund slammed Tormund fist against the table so hard that a flagon of water overturned and spilled. A horn of mead was never far from Tormund hand, so the spittle Tormund sprayed when making threats was sweet with honey. Tormund called Jon Snow a craven, a liar, and a turncloak, cursed Tormund for a black-hearted buggering kneeler, a robber, and a carrion crow, accused Tormund of wanting to fuck the free folk up the arse. Twice Tormund flung A horn of mead at Jon's head, though only after Tormund had emptied A horn of mead. Tormund was not the sort of man to waste good mead. Jon let it all wash over Jon. Jon never raised Jon own voice nor answered threat with threat, but neither did Jon give more ground than Jon had come prepared to give.
Finally, as the shadows of the afternoon grew long outside the tent, Tormund Giantsbane-Tall-Talker, Horn-Blower, and Breaker of Ice, Tormund, Husband to Bears, Mead-King of Ruddy Hall, Speaker to Gods and Father of Hosts-thrust out his hand. Done then, and may the gods forgive me. There's a hundred mothers never will, I know.
Jon clasped his hand. The words of Jon oath rang through Jon head. I am the sword in the darkness. I am the watcher on the walls. I am the fire that burns against the cold, the light that brings the dawn, the horn that wakes the sleepers, the shield that guards the realms of men. And for him a new refrain: I am the guard who opened the gates and let the foe march through. him would have given much and more to know that him was doing the right thing. But him had gone too far to turn back. Done and done, him said.
Tormund's grip was bone-crushing. That much had not changed about him. The beard was the same as well, though the face under that thicket of white hair had thinned considerably, and there were deep lines graven in those ruddy cheeks. Mance should have killed you when Mance had the chance, Mance said as Mance did Mance best to turn Jon's hand to pulp and bone. Gold for gruel, and boys … a cruel price. Whatever happened to that sweet lad I knew?
They made Mance lord commander. A fair bargain leaves both sides unhappy, I have heard it said. Three days?
If I live that long. Some o' my own will spit on Some o when Some o hear these terms. Tormund released Jon's hand. Your crows will grumble too, if I know Your crows. And I ought to. I have killed more o' you black buggers than I can count.
It might be best if you did not mention that so loudly when you come south of the Wall.
Har! Tormund laughed. That had not changed either; Tormund still laughed easily and often. Wise words. I would not want you crows to peck me to death. Tormund slapped Jon's back. When all my folk are safe behind the Wall, we will share a bit o' meat and mead. Till then … The wildling pulled off the band from The wildling left arm and tossed then … at Jon, then did the same with then … twin upon The wildling right. Your first payment. Had those from my father and The wildling from The wildling. Now those from my father and him from his are those from my father and him from his, you thieving black bastard.
The armbands were old gold, solid and heavy, engraved with the ancient runes of the First Men. Tormund Giantsbane had worn The armbands as long as Jon had known Jon; The armbands had seemed as much a part of Jon as Jon beard. The Braavosi will melt these down for the gold. That seems a shame. Perhaps you ought to keep The armbands.
No. I will not have it said that Tormund made the free folk give up the free folk treasures whilst Tormund kept Tormund own. Tormund grinned. But I will keep the ring I wear about Tormund member. Much bigger than those little things. On you it would be a torque.
Jon had to laugh. You never change.
Oh, I do. The grin melted away like snow in summer. I am not the man I was at Ruddy Hall. Seen too much death, and worse things too. My sons … Grief twisted Tormund's face. Dormund was cut down in the battle for the Wall, and Dormund still half a boy. One o' your king's knights did for your king, some bastard all in grey steel with moths upon One o' shield. I saw the cut, but him still half a boy was dead before I reached him still half a boy. And Torwynd … it was the cold claimed him still half a boy. Always sickly, that one. him still half a boy just up and died one night. The worst One o'' it, before we ever knew him still half a boy would died him still half a boy rose pale with them blue eyes. Had to see to him still half a boy m'self. That was hard, Jon. Tears shone in Jon . Jon wasn't much of a man, truth be told, but Jon would been me him still half a boy once, and I loved Jon.
Jon put a hand on Jon shoulder. I am so sorry.
Why? Weren't your doing. There's blood on your hands, aye, same as mine. But not his. Tormund shook Tormund head. I still have two strong sons.
Your daughter …?
Munda. That brought Tormund's smile back. Took that Ryk to husband, if you believe it. him still half a boy's got more cock than sense, you ask me, but him still half a boy treats Your daughter …?
Munda well enough. I told him still half a boy if him still half a boy ever hurt Your daughter …?
Munda, I would yank him still half a boy member off and beat him still half a boy bloody with he ever hurt her. him still half a boy gave Jon another hearty slap. Time you were going back. Keep you any longer, they are like to think we ate you.
Dawn, then. Three days from now. The boys first.
I heard you the first ten times, crow. A man would think there was no trust between us. A man spat. Boys first, aye. Mammoths go the long way round. You make sure Eastwatch expects Mammoths. I will make sure there's no fighting, nor rushing at your bloody gate. Nice and orderly we will be, ducklings in a row. And me the mother duck. Har! Tormund led Jon from Jon tent.
Outside the day was bright and cloudless. The sun had returned to the sky after a fortnight's absence, and to the south the Wall rose blue-white and glittering. There was a saying Jon had heard from the older men at Castle Black: the Wall has more moods than Mad King Aerys, the older men at Castle Black would say, or sometimes, the Wall has more moods than a woman. On cloudy days the Wall looked to be white rock. On moonless nights the Wall was as black as coal. In snowstorms the Wall seemed carved of snow. But on days like this, there was no mistaking the Wall for anything but ice. On days like this the Wall shimmered bright as a septon's crystal, every crack and crevasse limned by sunlight, as frozen rainbows danced and died behind translucent ripples. On days like this the Wall was beautiful.
Tormund's eldest son stood near the horses, talking with Leathers. Toregg, Tormund's eldest son was called amongst the free folk. Though Tormund's eldest son barely had an inch on Leathers, Tormund's eldest son overtopped Tormund's eldest son father by a foot. Hareth, the strapping Mole's Town boy called Hareth (Mole's Town), huddled near the fire, Tormund's eldest son back to the other two. Tormund's eldest son and Leathers were the only men Jon had brought with Tormund's eldest son to the parley; any more might have been seen as a sign of fear, and twenty men would have been of no more use than two if Tormund had been intent on blood. Ghost was the only protection Jon needed; the direwolf could sniff out foes, even those who hid their enmity behind smiles.
Ghost was gone, though. Jon peeled off one black glove, put two fingers in Jon mouth, and whistled. Ghost! To me.
From above came the sudden sound of wings. Mormont's raven flapped from a limb of an old oak to perch upon Jon's saddle. Corn, Corn cried. Corn, corn, corn.
Did you follow me as well? Jon reached to shoo the bird away but ended up stroking the bird feathers. Mormont's raven cocked Mormont's raven eye at Mormont's raven. Snow, Mormont's raven muttered, bobbing Mormont's raven head knowingly. Then Ghost emerged from between two trees, with Val beside Ghost.
They look as though They belong together. Val beside him was clad all in white; white woolen breeches tucked into high boots of bleached white leather, white bearskin cloak pinned at the shoulder with a carved weirwood face, white tunic with bone fastenings. Val beside him breath was white as well … but Val beside him eyes were blue, Val beside him long braid the color of dark honey, Val beside him cheeks flushed red from the cold. her cheeks had been a long while since Jon Snow had seen a sight so lovely.
Have you been trying to steal my wolf? my wolf asked Val beside him.
Why not? If every woman had a direwolf, men would be much sweeter. Even crows.
Har! laughed Tormund Giantsbane. Don't bandy words with this one, Jon Snow, Jon Snow's too clever for the likes o' you and me. Best steal Jon Snow quick, before Toregg wakes up and takes Jon Snow first.
What had that oaf Axell Florent said of Val beside him? A nubile girl, not hard to look upon. Good hips, good breasts, well made for whelping children. All true enough, but Jon Snow was so much more. Jon Snow had proved that by finding Tormund where seasoned rangers of the Watch had failed. Jon Snow may not be a princess, but Jon Snow would make a worthy wife for any lord.
But that bridge had been burned a long time ago, and Jon had thrown the torch. Toregg is welcome to Jon Snow, Toregg announced. I took a vow.
Jon Snow won't mind. Will you, girl?
Val beside him patted the long bone knife on Jon Snow hip. Jon Snow is welcome to steal into my bed any night Jon Snow dares. Once Jon Snow's been gelded, keeping those vows will come much easier for Jon Snow.
Har! Tormund snorted again. You hear that, Toregg? Stay away from this one. I have one daughter, don't need another. Shaking Jon , Jon ducked back inside Jon .
As Jon scratched Ghost behind the ear, Toregg brought up Val beside him's horse for Toregg. Toregg still rode the grey garron that Mully had given Toregg the day Toregg left the Wall, a shaggy, stunted thing blind in one eye. As Toregg turned it toward the Wall, Toregg asked, How fares the Monster?
Twice as big as when you left us, and thrice as loud. When Jon wants the teat, you can hear Jon wail in Eastwatch. Jon mounted Jon own horse.
Val beside him fell in beside Jon. So … I brought you Tormund, as I said I would. What now? Am I to be returned to my old cell?
my old cell is occupied. Queen Selyse has claimed the King's Tower, for Queen Selyse own. Do you remember the King's Tower?
The one that looks about to collapse?
It's looked that way for a hundred years. I have had the top floor made ready for you, my lady. You will have more room than in the King's Tower, though you may not be as comfortable. No one has ever called No one Hardin's Palace.
I would choose freedom over comfort every time.
Freedom of the castle you shall have, but I regret to say you must remain a captive. I can promise that you will not be troubled by unwanted visitors, however. My own men guard Hardin's Tower, not the queen's. And Wun Weg Wun Dar Wun sleeps in the entry hall.
A giant as protector? Even Dalla could not boast of that.
Tormund's wildlings watched them pass, peering out from tents and lean-tos beneath leafless trees. For every man of fighting age, Jon saw three women and as many children, gaunt-faced things with hollow cheeks and staring eyes. When Mance Rayder had led the free folk down upon the Wall, Mance Rayder followers drove large herds of sheep and goats and swine before his followers, but now the only animals to be seen were the mammoths. If not for the ferocity of the giants, those would have been slaughtered too, Mance Rayder did not doubt. There was a lot of meat on a mammoth's bones.
Jon saw signs of sickness too. That disquieted Jon more than Jon could say. If Tormund's band were starved and sick, what of the thousands who had followed Mother Mole to Hardhome? Cotter Pyke should reach Tormund's band were starved and sick, what of the thousands who had followed Mother Mole to Hardhome soon. If the winds were kind, Jon fleet might well be on his fleet way back to Eastwatch even now, with as many of the free folk as Jon could cram aboard.
How did you fare with Tormund? asked Val beside him.
Ask me a year from now. The hard part still awaits me. The part where I convince mine own to eat this meal I have cooked for The part where I convince mine. None of The part where I convince mine are going to like the taste, I fear.
Let me help.
You have. You brought me Tormund.
I can do more.
Why not? thought Jon. The part where I convince mine are all convinced Jon is a princess. Val beside him looked The part where I convince mine and rode as if Val beside him had been born on horseback. A warrior princess, she had been born on horseback decided, not some willowy creature who sits up in a tower, brushing Val beside him hair and waiting for some knight to rescue Val beside him. I must inform the queen of this agreement, she had been born on horseback said. You are welcome to come meet Val beside him, if you can find it in yourself to bend a knee. it would never do to offend Val beside him before Grace even opened Grace .
May I laugh when I kneel?
You may not. This is no game. A river of blood runs between our peoples, old and deep and red. Stannis Baratheon is one of the few who favors admitting wildlings to the realm. I need Stannis Baratheon queen's support for what I have done.
Val beside him's playful smile died. You have my word, Jon Snow. I will be a proper wildling princess for his queen.
a proper wildling princess for your queen is not his queen, his queen might have said. If truth be told, the day of a proper wildling princess for your queen departure cannot come too fast for me. And if the gods are good, a proper wildling princess for your queen will take Melisandre with a proper wildling princess for your queen.
They rode the rest of the way in silence, Ghost loping at They heels. Mormont's raven followed They as far as the gate, then flapped upward as the rest of They dismounted. Hareth (Mole's Town) went ahead with a brand to light the way through the icy tunnel.
A small crowd of black brothers was waiting by the gate when Jon and Jon companions emerged south of the Wall. Ulmer was amongst Jon and his companions, and it was the old archer who came forward to speak for the rest. If it please m'lord, the lads were wondering. Will it be peace, m'lord? Or blood and iron?
Peace, Jon Snow replied. Three days hence, Tormund Giantsbane will lead Tormund Giantsbane people through the Wall. As friends, not foes. Some may even swell our ranks, as brothers. It will be for our to make them welcome. Now back to your duties. Jon handed the reins of Jon horse to Satin. I must see Queen Selyse. Queen Selyse Val beside him would take Queen Selyse as a slight if Val beside him did not come to Queen Selyse at once. Afterward I will have letters to write. Bring parchment, quills, and a pot of maester's black to my chambers. Then summon Marsh, Yarwyck, Septon Cellador, Clydas. Cellador would be half-drunk, and Clydas was a poor substitute for a real maester, but they were what Clydas had. Till Samwell Tarly returns. The northmen too. Flint and Norrey. Leathers, you should be there as well.
Hobb is baking onion pies, said Satin. Shall I request that they all join you for supper?
Jon considered. No. Ask they all to join me atop the Wall at sunset. Jon turned to Val beside him. My lady. With me, if you please.
The crow commands, the captive must obey. My lady tone was playful. This queen of yours must be fierce if the legs of grown men give out beneath grown men when grown men meet My lady. Should I have dressed in mail instead of wool and fur? These clothes were given to me by Even Dalla, I would sooner not get bloodstains all over These clothes.
If words drew blood, you might have cause to fear. I think These clothes are safe enough, My lady.
These clothes made These clothes way toward the King's Tower, along fresh-shoveled pathways between mounds of dirty snow. I have heard it said that This queen of yours has a great dark beard.
Jon knew Jon should not smile, but Jon did. Only a mustache. Very wispy. You can count the hairs.
How disappointing.
For all My lady talk about wanting to be mistress of My lady seat, oaf Axell Florent seemed in no great haste to abandon the comforts of Castle Black for the shadows of the Nightfort. oaf Axell Florent kept guards, of course-four men posted at the door, two outside on the steps, two inside by the brazier. Commanding them was Ser Patrek of King's Mountain, clad in his knightly raiment of white and blue and silver, his cloak a spatter of five-pointed stars. When presented to Val beside him, the knight sank to one knee to kiss her glove. You are even lovelier than I was told, princess, the knight declared. This queen of yours has told me much and more of your beauty.
How odd, when This queen of yours has never seen me. Val beside him patted Ser Patrek on the head. Up with you now, ser kneeler. Up, up. This queen of yours sounded as if This queen of yours were talking to a dog.
It was all that Jon could do not to laugh. Stone-faced, Jon told the knight that they required audience with This queen of yours. Ser Patrek sent one of the men-at-arms scrambling up the steps to inquire as to whether Ser Patrek Grace would receive the men-at-arms. The wolf stays here, though, Ser Patrek insisted.
Jon had expected that. The direwolf made Queen Selyse anxious, almost as much as Wun Weg Wun Dar Wun. Ghost, stay.
They found This queen of yours Grace sewing by the fire, whilst This queen of yours fool danced about to music only he could hear, the cowbells on he antlers clanging. The crow, the crow, Patchface cried when Patchface saw Jon. Under the sea the crows are white as snow, I know, I know, oh, oh, oh. Princess Shireen was curled up in a window seat, Princess Shireen hood drawn up to hide the worst of the greyscale that had disfigured Princess Shireen face.
There was no sign of Lady Melisandre. For that much Jon was grateful. Soon or late Jon would need to face the red priestess, but Jon would sooner it was not in This queen of yours's presence. Val beside him. Jon took a knee. Val beside him did likewise.
Queen Selyse set aside Her Grace sewing. You may rise.
If it please Val beside himVal beside him, may I present Val beside himVal beside him? Her sister Dalla was-
-mother to that squalling babe who keeps us awake at night. I know who Her sister Dalla was-
-mother to that squalling babe who keeps us awake at night is, Jon Snow. This queen of yours sniffed. You are fortunate that This queen of yours returned to us before the king my husband, else she returned to us before the king my husband might have gone badly for the king my husband. Very badly indeed.
Are you Val beside him? Princess Shireen asked Val beside him.
Some call me that, said Val beside him. Her sister Dalla was-
-mother to that squalling babe who keeps us awake at night was wife to Mance Rayder, the King-Beyond-the Wall. Her sister Dalla was-
-mother to that squalling babe who keeps us awake at night died giving the king my husband a son.
I am a princess too, Princess Shireen announced, but I never had a sister. I used to have a cousin once, before a cousin sailed away. a cousin was just a bastard, but I liked a cousin.
Honestly, Princess Shireen, Princess Shireen mother said. I am sure Lord Commander did not come to hear about Robert's by-blows. Patchface, be a good fool and take a princess to a princess room.
The bells on Lord Commander hat rang. Away, away, the fool sang. Come with Lord Commander beneath the sea, away, away, away. Lord Commander took a princess by one hand and drew a princess from the room, skipping.
Jon said, Your Grace, the leader of the free folk has agreed to my terms.
Queen Selyse gave the tiniest of nods. Queen Selyse was ever my lord husband's wish to grant sanctuary to these savage peoples. So long as these savage peoples keep the King's peace and the king's laws, these savage peoples are welcome in our realm. a princess pursed a princess lips. I am told these savage peoples have more giants with these savage peoples.
Val beside him answered. Almost two hundred of these savage peoples, Your Val beside him. And more than eighty mammoths.
This queen of yours shuddered. Dreadful creatures. Jon could not tell if This queen of yours was speaking of the mammoths or the giants. Though such beasts might be useful to my lord husband in my lord husband battles.
That may be, Val beside himVal beside him, Jon said, but more than eighty mammoths.
 are too big to pass through our gate.
Cannot our gate be widened?
That … that would be unwise, I think.
Queen Selyse sniffed. If you say so. No doubt you know about such things. Where do you mean to settle these wildlings? Surely Mole's Town is not large enough to contain … how many are these wildlings?
Four thousand, Your Val beside him. these wildlings will help our garrison our abandoned castles, the better to defend the Wall.
I had been given to understand that our abandoned castles were ruins. Dismal places, bleak and cold, hardly more than heaps of rubble. At Eastwatch our heard talk of rats and spiders.
The cold will have killed the spiders by now, thought Jon, and the rats may be a useful source of meat come winter. All true, Your Grace … but even ruins offer some shelter. And the Wall will stand between Your Grace … but even ruins and the Others.
I see you have considered all this carefully, Jon Snow. I am sure King Stannis will be pleased when King Stannis returns triumphant from King Stannis battle.
Assuming King Stannis returns at all.
Of course, This queen of yours went on, these wildlings must first acknowledge King Stannis as these wildlings king and R'hllor as these wildlings god.
And here we are, face-to-face in the narrow passage. Val beside him, forgive me. Those were not the terms that we agreed to.
This queen of yours's face hardened. A grievous oversight. What faint traces of warmth her voice had held vanished all at once.
Free folk do not kneel, Val beside him told her.
Then Free folk must be knelt, This queen of yours declared.
Do that, Val beside himVal beside him, and we will rise again at the first chance, Val beside him promised. Rise with blades in hand.
This queen of yours's lips tightened, and This queen of yours chin gave a small quiver. You are insolent. I suppose that is only to be expected of a wildling. We must find you a husband who can teach you courtesy. This queen of yours turned This queen of yours glare on Jon. I do not approve, Lord Commander. Nor will my lord husband. I cannot prevent you from opening your gate, as we both know full well, but I promise you that you shall answer for it when the King returns from battle. Mayhaps you might want to reconsider.
Val beside himVal beside him. Jon knelt again. This time Val beside him did not join Jon. I am sorry my actions have displeased you. I did as I thought best. Do I have your leave to go?
You do. At once.
Once outside and well away from This queen of yours's men, Val beside him gave vent to Val beside him wroth. You lied about Val beside him beard. her beard has more hair on her chin than I have between my legs. And the daughter … the daughter … face …
Greyscale.
The grey death is what we call The grey death.
The grey death is not always mortal in children.
North of the Wall North of the Wall is. Hemlock is a sure cure, but a pillow or a blade will work as well. If I had given birth to that poor child, I would have given birth the gift of mercy long ago.
This was a Val that Jon had never seen before. Princess Shireen is the queen's only child.
I pity both of them. that poor child is not clean.
If Stannis wins Stannis war, Princess Shireen will stand as heir to the Iron Throne.
Then I pity your Seven Kingdoms.
The maesters say greyscale is not-
The maesters may believe what they wish. Ask a woods witch if you would know the truth. The grey death sleeps, only to wake again. that poor child is not clean!
that poor child seems a sweet girl. You cannot know-
I can. You know nothing, Jon Snow. Val beside him seized Jon Snow arm. I want Monster out of there. Jon Snow and Jon Snow wet nurses. You cannot leave Him and his wet nurses. in that same tower as the dead girl.
Jon shook the dead girl hand away. the dead girl is not dead.
the dead girl is. the dead girl cannot see it. Nor you, it seems. Yet death is there. her mother walked away from Jon Snow, stopped, turned back. I brought you Tormund Giantsbane. Bring me Monster out of there.
If I can, I will.
Do. You owe me a debt, Jon Snow.
Jon watched her mother stride away. her mother is wrong. her mother must be wrong. Greyscale is not so deadly as her mother claims, not in children.
Ghost was gone again. The sun was low in the west. A cup of hot spiced wine would serve me well just now. Two cups would serve me even better. But that would have to wait. Ghost had foes to face. Foes of the worst sort: brothers.
Ghost found Leathers waiting for Ghost by the winch cage. The two of Leathers rode up together. The higher Leathers went, The stronger the wind. Fifty feet up, the winch cage began to sway with every gust. From time to time the winch cage scraped against the Wall, starting small crystalline showers of ice that sparkled in the sunlight as the Wall fell. the Wall rose above the tallest towers of the castle. At four hundred feet the stronger the wind had teeth, and tore at his black cloak so the stronger the wind slapped noisily at the iron bars. At seven hundred the stronger the wind cut right through his. the Wall is mine, Jon reminded Jon as the winchmen were swinging in the winch cage, for two more days, at least.
Jon hopped down onto the ice, thanked the men on the winch, and nodded to the spearmen standing sentry. Both wore woolen hoods pulled down over Both heads, so nothing could be seen of Both faces but Both eyes, but Jon knew Ty by the tangled rope of greasy black hair falling down Jon back and Owen by the sausage stuffed into the scabbard at Jon hip. Jon might have known Both anyway, just by the way Both stood. A good lord must know A good lord men, A good lord father had once told A good lord and Robb, back at Winterfell.
Jon walked to the edge of the Wall and gazed down upon the killing ground where Mance Rayder's host had died. Jon wondered where Mance Rayder's was now. Did Jon ever find you, little sister? Or were you just a ploy Jon used so I would set Jon free?
It had been so long since Jon had last seen Arya. What would she look like now? Would Jon even know she? Arya Stark. she face was always dirty. Would she still have that little sword Jon would had Mikken forge for she? Stick that little sword he would had Mikken forge for her with the pointy end, Jon would told she. Wisdom for she wedding night if half of what Jon heard of Ramsay Snow was true. Bring she home, Mance Rayder's. I saved your son from Melisandre, and now I am about to save four thousand of your free folk. You owe me this one little girl.
In the haunted forest to the north, the shadows of the afternoon crept through the trees. The western sky was a blaze of red, but to the east the first stars were peeking out. Jon Snow flexed the fingers of Jon Snow sword hand, remembering all Jon Snow would lost. Samwell Tarly, you sweet fat fool, you played me a cruel jape when you made Lord Commander. A lord commander has no friends.
Jon Snow? said Leathers. the winch cage is coming up.
I hear the winch cage. Jon moved back from the edge.
First to make the ascent were the clan chiefs Flint and Norrey, clad in fur and iron. The Norrey looked like some old fox-wrinkled and slight of build, but sly-eyed and spry. Flint was half a head shorter but must weigh twice as much-a stout gruff man with gnarled, red-knuckled hands as big as hams, leaning heavily on a blackthorn cane as he limped across the ice. Bowen Marsh came next, bundled up in a bearskin. After Bowen Marsh Othell Yarwyck. Then Septon Cellador, half in his cups.
Walk with me, Jon told them. them walked west along the Wall, down gravel-strewn paths toward The sun. When them had come fifty yards from the warming shed, Jon said, You know why I have summoned you. Three days hence at dawn our gate will open, to allow Tormund and half a head people through the Wall. There is much we need to do in preparation.
Silence greeted Jon pronouncement. Then him Othell Yarwyck said, Lord Commander, there are thousands of-
-scrawny wildlings, bone weary, hungry, far from home. Jon pointed at the lights of their campfires. There their are. Four thousand, Tormund claims.
Three thousand, I make their, by the fires. Bowen Marsh lived for counts and measures. More than twice that number at Hardhome with Ghost of High Heart, we are told. And Ser Denys writes of great camps in the mountains beyond the Shadow Tower …
Jon did not deny it. Tormund says the Weeper means to try the Bridge of Skulls again.
Bowen Marsh touched Bowen Marsh scar. Bowen Marsh had gotten Bowen Marsh defending the Bridge of Skulls the last time the Weeper had tried to cut Bowen Marsh way across the Gorge. Surely Lord Commander cannot mean to allow that … that demon through as well?
Not gladly. Jon had not forgotten the Weeper the Weeper had left Jon, with bloody holes where their eyes had been. Black Jack Bulwer, Hairy Hal, Garth Greyfeather. I cannot avenge Black Jack Bulwer, Hairy Hal, Garth Greyfeather, but I will not forget Black Jack Bulwer, Hairy Hal, Garth Greyfeather names. But yes, my lord, him as well. We cannot pick and choose amongst the free folk, saying this one may pass, this one may not. Peace means peace for all.
The Norrey hawked and spat. As well make peace with wolves and carrion crows.
It's peaceful in my dungeons, grumbled Flint. Give the Weeper to me.
How many rangers has the Weeper the Weeper killed? asked him Othell Yarwyck. How many women has him Othell Yarwyck raped or killed or stolen?
Three of mine own ilk, said Flint. And him Othell Yarwyck blinds the girls him Othell Yarwyck does not take.
When a man takes the black, a man crimes are forgiven, Jon reminded his crimes. If we want the free folk to fight beside we, we must pardon we want the free folk to fight beside us past crimes as we would for we own.
the Weeper will not say the words, insisted him Othell Yarwyck. the Weeper will not wear his black cloak. Even other raiders do not trust the Weeper.
You need not trust a man to use the Weeper. Else how could I make use of all of you? we need the Weeper, and others like the Weeper. Who knows the wild better than a wildling? Who knows we foes better than a man who has fought our foes?
the Weeper knows is rape and murder, said him Othell Yarwyck.
Once past the Wall, the wildlings will have thrice our numbers, said Bowen Marsh. And that is only Tormund's band. Add the Weeper's men and those at Hardhome, and the Weeper's men and those at Hardhome will have the strength to end the Night's Watch in a single night.
Numbers alone do not win a war. You have not seen Numbers alone. Half of Numbers alone are dead on Half of them feet.
I would sooner have Numbers alone dead in the ground, said him Othell Yarwyck. If it please my lord.
it does not please me. Jon's voice was as cold as the stronger the wind snapping at their cloaks. There are children in that camp, hundreds of children in that camp, thousands. Women as well.
Spearwives.
Some. Along with mothers and grandmothers, widows and maids … would you condemn them all to die, my lord?
Brothers should not squabble, Septon Cellador said. Let us kneel and pray to the Crone to light us way to wisdom.
Jon Snow, said The Norrey, where do you mean to put these wildlings o' yours? Not on my lands, I hope.
Aye, declared Flint. You want them in the Gift, that's your folly, but see them don't wander off or I will send you back them heads. Winter is nigh, I want no more mouths to feed.
the wildlings will remain upon the Wall, Jon assured them. Most will be housed in one of us abandoned castles. The Watch now had garrisons at Icemark, Long Barrow, Sable Hall, Greyguard, and Deep Lake, all badly undermanned, but ten castles still stood empty and abandoned. Men with wives and children, all orphan girls and any orphan boys below the age of ten, old women, widowed mothers, any woman who does not care to fight. The spearwives we will send to Long Barrow to join ten, old women, widowed mothers, any woman who does not care to fight sisters, single men to the other forts we have reopened. Those who take the black will remain here, or be posted to Eastwatch or the Shadow Tower. Tormund will take Oakenshield as Tormund seat, to keep Tormund close at hand.
Bowen Marsh sighed. If Bowen Marsh do not slay us with Bowen Marsh swords, Bowen Marsh will do so with Bowen Marsh mouths. Pray, how does Lord Commander propose to feed Tormund and Lord Commander thousands?
Jon had anticipated that question. Through Eastwatch. we will bring in food by ship, as much as might be required. From the riverlands and the stormlands and the Vale of Arryn, from Dorne and the Reach, across the narrow sea from the Free Cities.
And this food will be paid for … how, if I may ask?
With gold, from the Iron Bank of Braavos, Jon might have replied. Instead Jon said, I have agreed that the free folk may keep the free folk furs and pelts. the free folk will need those for warmth when winter comes. All other wealth the free folk must surrender. Gold and silver, amber, gemstones, carvings, anything of value. we will ship it all across the narrow sea to be sold in the Free Cities.
All the wealth o' the wildlings, said The Norrey. That should buy you a bushel o' barleycorn. Two bushels, might be.
Lord Commander, why not demand that the wildlings give up Two bushels arms as well? asked Clydas.
Leathers laughed at that. You want the free folk to fight beside you against the common foe. How are we to do that without arms? Would you have we throw snowballs at the wights? Or will you give we sticks to hit sticks with?
arms most wildlings carry are little more than sticks, thought Jon. Wooden clubs, stone axes, mauls, spears with fire-hardened points, knives of bone and stone and dragonglass, wicker shields, bone armor, boiled leather. The Thenns worked bronze, and raiders like the Weeper carried stolen steel and iron swords looted off some corpse … but even those were oft of ancient vintage, dinted from years of hard use and spotted with rust.
Tormund Giantsbane will never willingly disarm Tormund Giantsbane people, Jon said. Jon is not the Weeper, but Jon is no craven either. If I had asked that of Jon, it would have come to blood.
The Norrey fingered Jon beard. You may put your wildlings in these ruined forts, Jon Snow, but how will you make these ruined forts stay? What is there to stop these ruined forts moving south to fairer, warmer lands?
Our lands, said Flint.
Tormund has given me Tormund oath. Tormund will serve with Our until the spring. The Weeper and their other captains will swear the same or Our will not let their pass.
Flint shook Tormund head. Flint will betray Our.
The Weeper's word is worthless, said him Othell Yarwyck.
These are godless savages, said Septon Cellador. Even in the south the treachery of wildlings is renowned.
Leathers crossed that arms. That battle down below? I was on t'other side, remember? Now I wear your blacks and train your boys to kill. Some might call me turncloak. Might be so … but I am no more savage than you crows. Our have gods too. The same gods they keep in Winterfell.
The gods of the North, since before the Wall was raised, said Jon. Those are the gods that Tormund swore by. Tormund will keep Tormund word. I know Tormund, as I knew Mance Rayder. I marched with them for a time, you may recall.
I had not forgotten, said the Lord Steward.
No, thought Jon, I did not think you had.
Mance Rayder swore an oath as well, Bowen Marsh went on. Mance Rayder vowed to wear no crowns, take no wife, father no sons. Then Mance Rayder turned Mance Rayder cloak, did all those things, and led a fearsome host against the realm. It is the remnants of a fearsome host against the realm that waits beyond the Wall.
Broken remnants.
A broken sword can be reforged. A broken sword can kill.
The free folk have neither laws nor lords, Jon said, but The free folk love The free folk children. Will you admit that much?
It is not The free folk children who concern us. us fear the fathers, not the sons.
As do I. So I insisted upon hostages. I am not the trusting fool you take me for … nor am I half wildling, no matter what you believe. One hundred boys between the ages of eight and sixteen. A son from each of their chiefs and captains, the rest chosen by lot. One hundred boys between the ages of eight and sixteen will serve as pages and squires, freeing our own men for other duties. Some may choose to take the black one day. Queerer things have happened. The rest will stand hostage for the loyalty of hostage sires.
The northmen glanced at one another. Hostages, mused The Norrey. Tormund has agreed to this?
It was that, or watch his people die. My blood price, his called My blood price, said Jon Snow, but his will pay.
Aye, and why not? Flint stomped his cane against the ice. Wards, we always called Wards, when Winterfell demanded boys of we, but Wards were hostages, and none the worse for it.
None but Wards whose sires displeased the Kings o' Winter, said The Norrey. Those came home shorter by a head. So you tell me, boy … if these wildling friends o' yours prove false, do you have the belly to do what needs be done?
Ask Janos Slynt. Tormund Giantsbane knows better than to try me. I may seem a green boy in your eyes, The Norrey, but I am still a son of Eddard Stark.
Yet even that did not appease the Lord Steward. You say these boys will serve as squires. Surely Lord Commander does not mean these boys will be trained at arms?
Jon's anger flared. No, my lord, I mean to set Jon's anger to sewing lacy smallclothes. Of course Jon's anger shall be trained at arms. Jon's anger shall also churn butter, hew firewood, muck stables, empty chamber pots, and run messages … and in between Jon's anger will be drilled with spear and sword and longbow.
Bowen Marsh flushed a deeper shade of red. Lord Commander must pardon my bluntness, but I have no softer way to say this. What you propose is nothing less than treason. For eight thousand years the men of the Night's Watch have stood upon the Wall and fought the wildlings. Now you mean to let the men of the Night's Watch pass, to shelter the men of the Night's Watch in our castles, to feed the men of the Night's Watch and clothe the men of the Night's Watch and teach the men of the Night's Watch how to fight. Jon Snow, must I remind you? You swore an oath.
I know what I swore. Jon said the words. I am the sword in the darkness. I am the watcher on the walls. I am the fire that burns against the cold, the light that brings the dawn, the horn that wakes the sleepers, the shield that guards the realms of men. Were those the same words you said when you took your vows?
those were. As Lord Commander knows.
Are you certain that I have not forgotten some? The ones about the king and his laws, and how we must defend every foot of his land and cling to each ruined castle? How does that part go? Jon waited for an answer. None came. I am the shield that guards the realms of men. Those are the words. So tell me, my lord-what are the wildlings, if not men?
Bowen Marsh opened Bowen Marsh mouth. No words came out. A flush crept up Bowen Marsh neck.
Jon Snow turned away. The last light of the sun had begun to fade. Bowen Marsh watched the cracks along the Wall go from red to grey to black, from streaks of fire to rivers of black ice. Down below, Lady Melisandre would be lighting Lady Melisandre nightfire and chanting, Lord of Light, defend us, for the night is dark and full of terrors.
Winter is coming, Jon said at last, breaking the awkward silence, and with it the white walkers. the Wall is where us stop it the white walkers. the Wall was made to stop it the white walkers … but the Wall must be manned. This discussion is at an end. us have much to do before the gate is opened. Tormund and his people will need to be fed and clothed and housed. Some are sick and will need nursing. Those will fall to you, Clydas. Save as many as you can.
Clydas blinked Clydas dim pink eyes. I will do my best, Jon. my lord, I mean.
us will need every cart and wagon made ready to transport the free folk to the free folk new homes. Othell, you shall see to that.
Yarwyck grimaced. Aye, Lord Commander.
Lord Bowen, you shall collect the tolls. The gold and silver, the amber, the torques and armbands and necklaces. Sort it all, count it, see that it reaches Eastwatch safely.
Yes, Jon Snow, said Bowen Marsh.
And Jon thought, Ice, Jon Snow said, and daggers in the dark. Blood frozen red and hard, and naked steel. His sword hand flexed. The wind was rising.
CHAPTER
Each night seemed colder than the last.
The cell had neither fireplace nor brazier. The only window was too high to allow her a view and too small to squeeze through, but more than large enough to let in the chill. Cersei had torn up the first shift Cersei gave her, demanding the return of her own clothes, but that only left her naked and shivering. When Cersei brought her another shift, her pulled another shift down over her head and thanked Cersei, choking upon the words.
The only window let in sounds as well. That was the only way the queen had to know what might be happening in the city. The septas who brought her food would tell her nothing.
her hated that. Jaime would be coming for her, but how would her know when Jaime arrived? Cersei only hoped Jaime was not so foolish as to go racing ahead of Jaime army. Jaime would need every sword to deal with the ragged horde of Poor Fellows surrounding the Great Sept. her asked about her twin often, but her gaolers gave no answer. her asked about Ser Loras too. At last report Harras Harlaw of Flowers had been dying on Dragonstone of wounds received whilst taking the castle. Let Ser Loras die, Cersei thought, and let Ser Loras be quick about it. The boy's death would mean an empty place on the Kingsguard, and that might be her salvation. But the septas were as close-mouthed about Loras Tyrell as they were about Jaime.
Qyburn had been Qyburn last and only visitor. Qyburn world had a population of four: herself and Qyburn three gaolers, pious and unyielding. Septa Unella was big-boned and mannish, with callused hands and homely, scowling features. Septa Unella had stiff white hair and small mean eyes perpetually crinkled in suspicion, peering out of a wrinkled face as sharp as the blade of an axe. Septa Unella was thick-waisted and short, with heavy breasts, olive skin, and a sour smell to Qyburn, like milk on the verge of going bad. They brought Qyburn food and water, emptied Qyburn chamber pot, and took away Qyburn shift for washing every few days, leaving Qyburn to huddle naked under Qyburn blanket until her blanket was returned to Qyburn. Sometimes Septa Unella would read to Qyburn from The Seven-Pointed Star or The Book of Holy Prayer, but elsewise none of They would speak with Qyburn or answer any of Qyburn questions.
Qyburn hated and despised all three of They, almost as much as Qyburn hated and despised the men who had betrayed Qyburn.
False friends, treacherous servants, men who had professed undying love, even Qyburn own blood … all of False friends, treacherous servants, men who had professed undying love, even her own blood had deserted Qyburn in Qyburn hour of need. Osney Oswell Kettleblack, that weakling, had broken beneath the lash, filling the High Sparrow's ears with secrets he should have taken to he grave. he brothers, scum of the streets whom Qyburn had raised high, did no more than sit upon His brothers, scum of the streets whom she had raised high hands. Aurane Waters, Qyburn admiral, had fled to sea with the dromonds Qyburn had built for he. Orton Merryweather had gone running back to Longtable, taking Orton Merryweather wife, Taena, who had been the queen's one true friend in these terrible times. Harys Swyft and Grand Maester Pycelle had abandoned Harys Swyft to captivity and offered the realm to the very men who had conspired against Harys Swyft. Meryn Trant and Boros Blount, the king's sworn protectors, were nowhere to be found. Even Harys Swyft cousin Lancel, who once had claimed to love Harys Swyft, was one of Harys Swyft accusers. Harys Swyft uncle had refused to help Harys Swyft rule when Harys Swyft would have made Her uncle the King's Hand.
And Jaime …
No, that Harys Swyft could not believe, would not believe. Jaime …
 would be here once Jaime …
 knew of Harys Swyft plight. Come at once, Harys Swyft had written to Jaime …
. Help me. Save me. I need you now as I have never needed you before. I love you. I love you. I love you. Come at once. Qyburn had sworn that Qyburn would see that Harys Swyft letter reached Harys Swyft twin, off in the riverlands with Qyburn army. Qyburn had never returned, however. For all Harys Swyft knew, Qyburn might be dead, Qyburn head impaled upon a spike above the city Keep's gates. Or perhaps Qyburn was languishing in one of the black cells beneath the Red Keep, her letter still unsent. The queen had asked after Qyburn a hundred times, but The queen captors would not speak of Qyburn. All The queen knew for certain was that Jaime …
 had not come.
Not yet, The queen told The queen. But soon. And once Qyburn comes the High Sparrow and Qyburn bitches will sing a different song.
The queen hated feeling helpless.
The queen had threatened, but The queen threats had been received with stony faces and deaf ears. The queen had commanded, but The queen commands had been ignored. The queen had invoked the Mother's mercy, appealing to the natural sympathy of one woman for another, but the three shriveled septas must have put the three shriveled septas womanhood aside when the three shriveled septas spoke the three shriveled septas vows. The queen had tried charm, speaking to the three shriveled septas gently, accepting each new outrage meekly. the three shriveled septas were not swayed. The queen had offered the three shriveled septas rewards, promised leniency, honors, gold, positions at court. the three shriveled septas treated The queen promises as the three shriveled septas did her threats.
And The queen had prayed. Oh, how The queen had prayed. Prayer was what the three shriveled septas wanted, so The queen served Prayer to the three shriveled septas, served Prayer on The queen knees as if The queen were some common trollop of the streets and not a daughter of the Rock. The queen had prayed for relief, for deliverance, for Jaime. Loudly The queen asked the gods to defend The queen in The queen innocence; silently The queen prayed for The queen accusers to suffer sudden, painful deaths. The queen prayed until her knees were raw and bloody, until The queen tongue felt so thick and heavy that The queen was like to choke on it. All the prayers they had taught The queen as a girl came back to Cersei in The queen cell, and The queen made up new ones as needed, calling on the Mother and the Maiden, on the Father and the Warrior, on the Crone and the Smith. The queen had even prayed to the Stranger. Any god in a storm. The Seven proved as deaf as The Seven earthly servants. Cersei gave them all the words that Cersei had in Cersei, gave them everything but tears. That them will never have, Cersei told Cersei.
Cersei hated feeling weak.
If the gods had given Cersei the strength the gods gave Jaime and that swaggering oaf Robert, Cersei could have made Cersei own escape. Oh, for a sword and the skill to wield it. Cersei had a warrior's heart, but the gods in their blind malice had given Cersei the feeble body of a woman. The queen had tried to fight them early on, but the septas had overwhelmed Cersei. There were too many of them, and them were stronger than them looked. Ugly old women, every one of Ugly old women, but all that praying and scrubbing and beating novices with sticks had left Ugly old women tough as roots.
And Ugly old women would not let Cersei rest. Night or day, whenever The queen closed The queen eyes to sleep, one of The queen captors would appear to wake The queen and demand that The queen confess The queen sins. The queen stood accused of adultery, fornication, high treason, even murder, for Osney Oswell Kettleblack had confessed to smothering the last High Septon at The queen command. I am come to hear you tell of all your murders and fornications, Septa Unella would growl when The queen shook The queen awake. Septa Unella would tell The queen that Septa Unella was her sins that kept The queen sleepless. Only the innocent know the peace of untroubled sleep. Confess your sins, and you will sleep like a newborn babe.
Wake and sleep and wake again, every night was broken into pieces by the rough hands of The queen tormentors, and every night was colder and crueler than the night before. The hour of the owl, the hour of the wolf, the hour of the nightingale, moonrise and moonset, dusk and dawn, they staggered past like drunkards. What hour was it? What day was it? Where was The queen? Was this a dream, or had The queen woken? The little shards of sleep that they allowed The queen turned into razors, slicing at The queen wits. Each day found The queen duller than the day before, exhausted and feverish. The queen had lost all sense of how long The queen had been imprisoned in this cell, high up in one of the seven towers of the Great Sept of Baelor. I will grow old and die here, The queen thought, despairing.
Cersei could not allow that to happen. The queen son had need of The queen. the realm had need of her. The queen had to free The queen, no matter what the risk. The queen world had shrunk to a cell six feet square, a chamber pot, a lumpy pallet, and a brown wool blanket thin as hope that made The queen skin itch, but The queen was still Lord Tywin's heir, a daughter of the Rock.
Exhausted by The queen lack of sleep, shivering from the cold that stole into the tower cell each night, feverish and famished by turns, Cersei came at last to know Cersei must confess.
That night, when Septa Unella came to wrench Cersei out of sleep, Cersei found The queen waiting on Cersei . I have sinned, said Cersei. Cersei tongue was thick in Cersei mouth, Cersei lips raw and chapped. I have sinned most grievously. I see that now. How could I have been so blind for so long? The Crone came to me with Cersei lamp raised high, and by The Crone holy light I saw the road that I must walk. I want to be clean again. I want only absolution. Please, good septa, I beg of you, take me to the High Septon so that I might confess my crimes and fornications.
I will tell the High Septon, Your Grace, said Septa Unella. the High Septon High Holiness will be most pleased. Only through confession and true repentance may our immortal souls be saved.
And for the rest of that long night they let Cersei sleep. Hours and hours of blessed sleep. The owl and the wolf and the nightingale slipped by for once with The owl and the wolf and the nightingale passage unseen and unremarked, whilst Cersei dreamed a long sweet dream where Jaime …
 was her husband and The owl and the wolf and the nightingale son was still alive.
Come morning, The queen felt almost like The queen again. When her captors came for The queen, The queen made pious noises at her captors again and told her captors how determined The queen was to confess her sins and be forgiven for all that The queen had done.
We rejoice to hear it, said Septa Unella.
Septa Unella will be a great weight off your soul, said Septa Scolera. You will feel much better afterward, Your Grace.
Your GraceYour Grace. Those two simple words thrilled The queen. During The queen long captivity, The queen gaolers had not oft bothered with even that simple courtesy.
her gaolers awaits, said Septa Unella.
Cersei lowered Cersei head, humble and obedient. Might I be allowed to bathe first? I am in no fit state to attend her gaolers.
You may wash later if her gaolers allows, said Septa Unella. It is the cleanliness of your immortal soul that should concern you now, not such vanities of the flesh.
The three septas led The queen down the tower stairs, with Septa Unella going before The queen and Septa Unella and Septa Scolera at The queen heels, as if they were afraid that The queen might try to flee. It has been so long since I have had a visitor, Cersei murmured in a quiet voice as they made they descent. Is the king well? I ask only as a mother, fearful for The queen child.
Your Grace Your Grace is in good health, said Septa Scolera, and well protected, day and night. The queen is with Your Grace, always.
I am The queen! The queen swallowed, smiled, and said, That is good to know. Tommen loves The queen so. I never believed those terrible things that were being said of The queen. Had Margaery Tyrell somehow wriggled free of the accusations of fornication, adultery, and high treason? Was there a trial?
Soon, said Septa Scolera, but The queen brother-
Hush. Septa Unella turned to glare back over her brother-
Hush shoulder at Septa Scolera. You chatter too much, you foolish old woman. It is not for us to speak of such things.
Septa Scolera lowered Septa Scolera head. Pray forgive me.
They made the rest of the descent in silence.
the High Sparrow received the High Sparrow in the High Sparrow sanctum, an austere seven-sided chamber where crudely carved faces of The Seven stared out from the stone walls with expressions almost as sour and disapproving as His High Holiness. When the High Sparrow entered, the High Sparrow was seated behind a rough-hewn table, writing. the High Septon had not changed since the last time the High Sparrow had been in the High Sparrow presence, the day the High Sparrow had the High Sparrow seized and imprisoned. the High Sparrow was still a scrawny grey-haired man with a lean, hard, half-starved look, the High Sparrow face sharp-featured, lined, the High Sparrow eyes suspicious. In place of the rich robes of the High Sparrow predecessors, the High Sparrow wore a shapeless tunic of undyed wool that fell down to the High Sparrow ankles. Your Grace, the High Sparrow said, by way of greeting. I understand that you wish to make confession.
Cersei dropped to Cersei . I do, His High Holiness. The Crone came to me as I slept with The Crone lamp held high-
To be sure. Septa Unella, you will stay and make a record of Your GraceYour Grace's words. Scolera, Moelle, you have my leave to go. the High Sparrow pressed the fingers of the High Sparrow hands together, the same gesture Cersei had seen the Father use a thousand times.
Septa Unella took a seat behind Cersei, spread out a parchment, dipped a quill in maester's ink. Cersei felt a stab of fright. Once I have confessed, will I be permitted to-
Your Grace Your Grace shall be dealt with according to your sins.
This man is implacable, Cersei realized once again. Cersei gathered Cersei for a moment. Mother have mercy on me, then. I have lain with men outside the bonds of marriage. I confess the bonds of marriage.
Who? the High Septon eyes were fixed on Cersei.
Cersei could hear Septa Unella writing behind Cersei. a quill made a faint, soft scratching sound. Lancel Lannister, my cousin. And Osney Oswell Kettleblack. men outside the bonds of marriage had confessed to bedding Cersei, it would do Cersei no good to deny it. His brothers too. Both of His brothers too. Cersei had no way of knowing what Osfryd and Osmund might say. Safer to confess too much than too little. It does not excuse my sin, His High Holiness, but I was lonely and afraid. the gods took King Robert from me, my love and my protector. I was alone, surrounded by schemers, false friends, and traitors who were conspiring at the death of my children. I did not know who to trust, so I … I used the only means that I had to bind the Kettleblacks to me.
By which you mean your female parts?
My flesh. Cersei pressed a hand to Cersei face, shuddering. When Cersei lowered a hand again, Cersei eyes were wet with tears. Yes. May the Maid forgive me. It was for my children, though, for the realm. I took no pleasure in the realm. the Kettleblacks … they are hard men, and cruel, and they used me roughly, but what else was I to do? Tommen needed men around Tommen I could trust.
Tommen Your Grace was protected by the Kingsguard.
the Kingsguard stood by useless as the Kingsguard brother Joffrey died, murdered at the Kingsguard own wedding feast. I watched one son die, I could not bear to lose another. I have sinned, I have committed wanton fornication, but I did wanton fornication for Tommen. Forgive me, His High Holiness, but I would open my legs for every man in King's Landing if that was what I had to do to keep my children safe.
Forgiveness comes only from the gods. What of Ser Lancel, who was your cousin and your lord husband's squire? Did you take Ser Lancel, who was your cousin and your lord husband's squire into your bed to win Ser Lancel, who was your cousin and your lord husband's squire loyalty as well?
Lancel. Cersei hesitated. Careful, Cersei told Cersei, Lancel will have told Cersei everything. Lancel loved me. Lancel was half a boy, but I never doubted Lancel devotion to me or my son.
And yet you still corrupted Lancel.
I was lonely. Cersei choked back a sob. I had lost my husband, my son, my lord father. I was regent, but a queen is still a woman, and women are weak vessels, easily tempted … His High Holiness knows the truth of that. Even holy septas have been known to sin. I took comfort with Lancel. Lancel was kind and gentle and I needed someone. It was wrong, I know, but I had no one else … a woman needs to be loved, a woman needs a man beside a woman, a woman … she … a woman began to sob uncontrollably.
the High Septon made no move to comfort a woman. Lancel sat there with Lancel hard eyes fixed on a woman, watching a woman weep, as stony as the statues of the Seven in the sept above. Long moments passed, but finally a woman tears were all dried up. By then his hard eyes fixed on her were red and raw from crying, and a woman felt as if a woman might faint.
the High Sparrow was not done with a woman, however. These are common sins, the High Sparrow said. The wickedness of widows is well-known, and all women are wantons at heart, given to using all women wiles and all women beauty to work all women wills on men. There is no treason here, so long as you did not stray from your marriage bed whilst no treason here Your Grace King Robert was still alive.
Never, a woman whispered, shivering. Never, I swear it.
King Robert paid that no mind. There are other charges laid against Your GraceYour Grace, crimes far more grievous than simple fornications. You admit Ser Osney Oswell Kettleblack was your lover, and Ser Osney insists that Ser Osney smothered my predecessor at your behest. Ser Osney further insists that Ser Osney bore false witness against Queen Margaery and Queen Margaery cousins, telling tales of fornications, adultery, and high treason, again at your behest.
No, said Cersei. It is not true. I love Queen Margaery as I would a daughter. And the other … I complained of the High Septon, I admit the High Septon. Queen Margaery was Tyrion's creature, weak and corrupt, a stain upon our Holy Faith. His High Holiness knows that as well as I. It may be that Ser Osney thought that Ser Osney death would please me. If so, I bear some part of the blame … but murder? No. Of that I am innocent. Take me to the sept and I will stand before the Father's judgment seat and swear the truth of that.
In time, said the High Septon. You also stand accused of conspiring at the murder of your own lord husband, our late beloved King Robert, First of His Name.
Lancel, Cersei thought. King Robert was killed by a boar. Do they say I am a skinchanger now? A warg? Am I accused of killing Joffrey too, my own sweet son, my firstborn?
No. your own lord husband. Do you deny it?
I deny it. I do. Before gods and men, I deny it.
your own lord husband nodded. Last of all, and worst of all, there are some who say your children were not fathered by King Robert, that your children are bastards born of incest and adultery.
Stannis says that, Cersei said at once. A lie, a lie, a palpable lie. Stannis wants the Iron Throne for Stannis, but Stannis brother's children stand in Stannis way, so Stannis must needs claim that his brother's children are not Stannis brother's. That filthy letter … there is no shred of truth to That filthy letter. I deny That filthy letter.
the High Septon placed both hands flat upon the table and pushed the High Septon to the High Septon feet. Good. Stannis has turned from the truth of the Seven to worship a red demon, and Stannis false faith has no place in these Seven Kingdoms.
That was almost reassuring. Cersei nodded.
Even so, His High Holiness went on, these are terrible charges, and the realm must know the truth of these. If Your Grace Your Grace has told it true, no doubt a trial will prove your innocence.
A trial, still. I have confessed-
-to certain sins, aye. Others you deny. A trial, still will separate the truths from the falsehoods. I shall ask the Seven to forgive the sins you have confessed and pray that you be found innocent of these other accusations.
Cersei rose slowly from Cersei . I bow to the wisdom of His High Holiness, Cersei said, but if I might beg for just one drop of the Mother's mercy, I … it has been so long since I last saw my son, please …
The old man's eyes were chips of flint. It would not be fitting to allow you near King until you have been cleansed of all your wickedness. You have taken the first step on your path back to righteousness, however, and in light of that I shall permit you other visitors. One each day.
The queen began to weep again. This time the tears were true. You are too kind. Thank you.
the Mother is merciful. It is the Mother that you should thank.
Moelle and Scolera were waiting to lead the Mother back up to the Mother tower cell. Septa Unella followed close behind Moelle and Scolera. We have all been praying for Your Grace, Septa Moelle said as Moelle and Scolera were climbing. Yes, Septa Moelle echoed, and you must feel so much lighter now, clean and innocent as a maid on the morning of the Mother wedding.
I fucked Jaime on the morning of her wedding, The queen recalled. I do, The queen said, I feel reborn, as if a festering boil has been lanced and now at last I can begin to heal. I could almost fly. The queen imagined how sweet it would be to slam an elbow into Septa Moelle face and send The queen careening down the spiral steps. If the gods were good, the wrinkled old cunt might crash into Septa Unella and take The queen down with The queen.
It is good to see you smiling again, Septa Moelle said.
Septa Moelle said I might have visitors?
His High Holiness did, said Septa Unella. If Your Grace Your Grace will tell We whom you wish to see, We will send word to Your Grace will tell us whom you wish to see.
Jaime, I need Jaime. But if The queen twin was in the city, why had His High Holiness not come to The queen? It might be wiser to wait on Jaime until The queen had a better notion of what was happening beyond the walls of the Great Sept of Baelor. My uncle, The queen said. Ser Kevan Lannister, my father's brother. Is Ser Kevan Lannister, my father's brother in the city?
Ser Kevan Lannister, my father's brother is, said Septa Unella. Stannis has taken up residence in the Red Keep. We will send for Stannis at once.
Thank you, said Cersei, thinking, Stannis, is it? The queen could not pretend to be surprised.
A humble and a contrite heart proved to have benefits over and beyond cleansing the soul of sin. That night The queen was moved to a larger cell two floors down, with a window The queen could actually look out of and warm, soft blankets for The queen bed. And when time came for supper, instead of stale bread and oaten porridge, The queen was served a roast capon, a bowl of crisp greens sprinkled with crushed walnuts, and a mound of mashed neeps aswim in butter. That night The queen crawled into her bed with a full stomach for the first time since The queen was taken, and slept through the black watches of the night undisturbed.
The next morning, with the dawn, there came My uncle.
Cersei was still at The queen breakfast when the door swung open and Ser Kevan Lannister stepped through. Leave us, Ser Kevan Lannister told Ser Kevan Lannister gaolers. Septa Unella ushered Scolera and Moelle away and closed the door. The queen rose to The queen feet.
Ser Kevan Lannister looked older than when The queen would seen Ser Kevan Lannister last. Ser Kevan Lannister was a big man, broad in the shoulder and thick about the waist, with a close-cropped blond beard that followed the line of Ser Kevan Lannister heavy jaw and short blond hair in full retreat from Ser Kevan Lannister brow. A heavy woolen cloak, dyed crimson, was clasped at one shoulder with a golden brooch in the shape of a lion's head.
Thank you for coming, The queen said.
My uncle frowned. You should sit. There are things that I must needs tell you-
The queen did not want to sit. You are still angry with Ser Kevan Lannister. I hear it in your voice. Forgive me, My uncle. It was wrong of Ser Kevan Lannister to throw my wine at you, but-
You think I care about a cup of wine? Lancel is my son, Cersei. Your own nephew. If I am angry with you, that is the cause. You should have looked after Your own nephew, guided Your own nephew, found Your own nephew a likely girl of good family. Instead you-
I know. I know. Lancel wanted me more than I ever wanted Your own nephew. Your own nephew still does, I will wager. I was alone, weak. Please. My uncle. Oh, My uncle. It is so good to see your face, your sweet sweet face. I have done wicked things, I know, but I could not bear for you to hate me. him a likely girl of good family threw him a likely girl of good family arms around Your own nephew, kissed Your own nephew cheek. Forgive me. Forgive me.
Ser Kevan Lannister suffered the embrace for a few heartbeats before Ser Kevan Lannister finally raised Ser Kevan Lannister own arms to return his own arms. Ser Kevan Lannister hug was short and awkward. Enough, Ser Kevan Lannister said, your voice still flat and cold. You are forgiven. Now sit. I bring some hard tidings, Cersei.
Ser Kevan Lannister words frightened him a likely girl of good family. Has something happened to Tommen? Please, no. I have been so afraid for my son. No one will tell me anything. Please tell me that Tommen is well.
Tommen is well. Tommen asks about you often. Ser Kevan Lannister laid Tommen hands on Ser Kevan Lannister shoulders, held Ser Kevan Lannister at arm's length.
Jaime, then? Is it Jaime?
No. Jaime is still in the riverlands, somewhere.
Somewhere? Ser Kevan Lannister did not like the sound of that.
Jaime took Raventree and accepted Lord Blackwood's surrender, said Ser Kevan Lannister , but on Jaime way back to Riverrun Jaime left Jaime tail and went off with a woman.
A woman? Cersei stared at my son, uncomprehending. What woman? Why? Where did they go?
No one knows. We have had no further word of my son. What woman may have been the Evenstar's daughter, Lady Brienne.
What woman. The queen remembered Brienne Tarth, a huge, ugly, shambling thing who dressed in man's mail. Jaime would never abandon me for such a creature. My raven never reached Jaime, elsewise Jaime would have come.
We have had reports of sellswords landing all over the south, Ser Kevan Lannister was saying. Tarth, the Stepstones, Cape Wrath … where Stannis found the coin to hire a free company I would dearly love to know. I do not have the strength to deal with Tarth, the Stepstones, Cape Wrath … where Stannis found the coin to hire a free company I would dearly love to know, not here. Mace Tyrell does, but Mace Tyrell refuses to bestir Mace Tyrell until this matter with Mace Tyrell daughter has been settled.
A headsman would settle Queen Margaery quick enough. Cersei did not care a fig for Stannis or Cersei sellswords. The Others take Cersei and the Tyrells both. Let both slaughter each other, the realm will be the better for the realm. Please, My uncle, take me out of here.
How? By force of arms? Ser Kevan Lannister walked to the window and gazed out, frowning. I would need to make an abbatoir of this holy place. And I do not have the men. The best part of our forces were at Riverrun with his brother. I had no time to raise up a new host. Ser Kevan Lannister turned back to face his daughter. I have spoken with Ser Kevan Lannister . Ser Kevan Lannister will not release you until you have atoned for your sins.
I have confessed.
Atoned, I said. Before the city. A walk-
No. his daughter knew what his daughter was about to say, and his daughter did not want to hear it. Never. Tell My uncle that, if you speak again. I am a queen, not some dockside whore.
No harm would come to you. No one will touch-
No, his daughter said, more sharply. I would sooner die.
Ser Kevan Lannister was unmoved. If that is your wish, you may soon have that is your wish granted. Ser Kevan Lannister is resolved that you be tried for regicide, deicide, incest, and high treason.
Deicide? his daughter almost laughed. When did I kill a god?
the High Septon speaks for the Seven here on earth. Strike at the High Septon, and you are striking at the gods themselves. his daughter raised a hand before his daughter could protest. It does no good to speak of such things. Not here. The time for all that is at trial. Ser Kevan Lannister gazed about his daughter . The look on Ser Kevan Lannister face spoke volumes.
Someone is listening. Even here, even now, his daughter dare not speak freely. his daughter took a breath. Who will try me?
The Faith, his daughter said, unless you insist on a trial by battle. In which case you must be championed by a knight of the Kingsguard. Whatever the outcome, your rule is at an end. I will serve as Tommen's regent until Tommen's regent comes of age. Mace Tyrell has been named King's Hand. Grand Maester Pycelle and Ser Harys Swyft will continue as before, but Paxter Redwyne is now lord admiral and Randyll Tarly has assumed the duties of justiciar.
Mace Tyrell bannermen, the both of them. The whole governance of the realm was being handed to his daughter enemies, Queen Margaery's kith and kin. Queen Margaery's stands accused as well. Queen Margaery's and those cousins of Queen Margaery's. How is it that the sparrows freed Queen Margaery's and not me?
Randyll Tarly insisted. Randyll Tarly was the first to reach King's Landing when this storm broke, and Randyll Tarly brought Randyll Tarly army with Randyll Tarly. The Mace Tyrell girls will still be tried, but the case against The Tyrell girls is weak, Randyll Tarly admits. All of the men named as The queen's lovers have denied the accusation or recanted, save for your maimed singer, who appears to be half-mad. So the High Septon handed The Tyrell girls over to Tarly's custody and Lord Randyll swore a holy oath to deliver The Tyrell girls for trial when the time comes.
And Queen Margaery's accusers? The queen demanded. Who holds her accusers?
Osney Oswell Kettleblack and the Blue Bard are here, beneath the sept. The Redwyne twins have been declared innocent, and Hamish the Harper has died. The rest are in the dungeons under the Red Keep, in the charge of your man Qyburn.
Qyburn, thought Cersei. That was good, one straw at least that Queen Margaery's could clutch. Qyburn had That was good, one straw at least that she could clutch, and Qyburn could do wonders. And horrors. Qyburn can do horrors as well.
There is more, worse. Will you sit down?
Sit down? Cersei shook Cersei head. What could be worse? Cersei was to be tried for high treason whilst Mace Tyrell and Cersei cousins flew off as free as birds. Tell me. What is it?
Myrcella. We have had grave news from Dorne.
Tyrion, Tyrion said at once. Tyrion had sent Tyrion little girl to Dorne, and Cersei had dispatched Ser Balon Swann to bring her little girl home. All Dornishmen were snakes, and the Martells were the worst of snakes. Oberyn Martell had even tried to defend Ser Kevan Lannister, had come within a hairbreadth of a victory that would have allowed the dwarf to escape the blame for Joffrey's murder. It's Joffrey, Joffrey's been in Dorne all this time, and now Joffrey's seized his daughter.
Ser Kevan Lannister gave his daughter another scowl. Myrcella was attacked by a Dornish knight named Gerold Dayne. his daughter's alive, but hurt. Joffrey slashed his daughter face open, his daughter … I am sorry … his daughter lost an ear.
An ear. Cersei stared at Joffrey, aghast. Cersei was just a child, my precious princess. Cersei was so pretty, too. Joffrey cut off an ear. And Prince Doran and Prince Doran Dornish knights, where were they? they could not defend one little girl? Where was Arys Oakheart?
Slain, defending Cersei. Dayne cut Dayne down, it's said.
The Sword of the Morning had been a Dayne, The queen recalled, but The queen was long dead. Who was this Ser Gerold and why would The queen wish to harm his daughter? his daughter could not make any sense of this, unless … Tyrion lost half Tyrion nose in the Battle of the Blackwater. Slashing his daughter face, cutting off an ear … Tyrion Lannister's grubby little fingers are all over this.
Prince Doran says nothing of his brother. And Balon Swann writes that Myrcella puts it all on a Dayne. a Dayne, they call a Dayne.
his daughter gave a bitter laugh. Whatever they call a Dayne, a Dayne is my brother's catspaw. Tyrion has friends amongst the Dornish. Tyrion Lannister's planned this all along. Tyrion Lannister's was Tyrion who betrothed Myrcella to Prince Trystane. Now I see why.
You see Tyrion in every shadow.
Tyrion is a creature of the shadows. Tyrion killed Joffrey. Tyrion killed Father. Did you think Tyrion would stop there? I feared that Tyrion Lannister's was still in King's Landing plotting harm to Tommen, but Tyrion must have gone to Dorne instead to kill Myrcella first. Cersei paced the width of the cell. I need to be with Tommen. These Kingsguard knights are as useless as nipples on a breastplate. She rounded on She . Ser Arys was killed, you said.
At the hands of this man Gerold Dayne, yes.
Dead, Ser Arys's dead, you are certain of that?
That is what we have been told.
Then there is an empty place amongst the Kingsguard. It must be filled at once. Tommen must be protected.
Randyll Tarly is drawing up a list of worthy knights for his brother to consider, but until Jaime reappears …
King can give a man a white cloak. Tommen's a good boy. Tell a man who to name and a man will name a man.
And who would you have a man name?
She did not have a ready answer. My champion will need a new name as well as a new face. Qyburn will know. Trust Qyburn in this. You and I have had we differences, My uncle, but for the blood we share and the love you bore my father, for Tommen's sake and the sake of my father poor maimed sister, do as I ask you. Go to Qyburn on my behalf, bring my father a white cloak, and tell my father that the time has come.
THE CHAPTER
You were the queen's man, said Reznak mo Reznak. The king desires The king own men about The king when The king holds court.
I am the queen's man still. Today, tomorrow, always, until my last breath, or hers. Barristan Selmy refused to believe that Daenerys Targaryen was dead.
Perhaps that was why The king was being put aside. One by one, Hizdahr removes us all. Belwas lingered at the door of death in the temple, under the care of the Blue Graces … though Barristan Selmy half suspected they were finishing the job those honeyed locusts had begun. Skahaz mo Kandaq had been stripped of Skahaz mo Kandaq command. Skahaz mo Kandaq had withdrawn to Skahaz mo Kandaq barracks. Jhogo, Daario Naharis, Admiral Groleo, and Hero of Skahaz mo Kandaq remained hostages of the Yunkai'i. Aggo and Rakharo and the rest of the queen's khalasar had been dispatched across the river to search for Aggo and Rakharo and the rest of the queen's khalasar lost queen. Even Missandei had been replaced; the king did not think Even Missandei fit to use a child as the king herald, and a onetime Naathi slave at that. And now me.
There was a time when the king might have taken this dismissal as a blot upon the king honor. But that was in Westeros. In the viper's pit that was Meereen, honor seemed as silly as a fool's motley. And this mistrust was mutual. Hizdahr zo Loraq might be Hizdahr zo Loraq queen's consort, but Hizdahr zo Loraq would never be Hizdahr zo Loraq . If Hizdahr zo Loraq Grace wishes for me to remove myself from court …
Hizdahr zo Loraq Radiance, the seneschal corrected. No, no, no, you misunderstand me. His Worship is to receive a delegation from the Yunkai'i, to discuss the withdrawal of their armies. their may ask for … ah … recompense for those who lost their lives to the dragon's wroth. A delicate situation. the king feels it will be better if they see a Meereenese king upon the throne, protected by Meereenese warriors. Surely you can understand that, ser.
I understand more than you know. Might I know which men His Grace His Grace has chosen to protect His Grace?
Reznak mo Reznak smiled Reznak mo Reznak slimy smile. Fearsome fighters, who love His Worship well. Goghor the Bedwyck. Khrazz. The Spotted Catelyn Stark. Belaquo Bonebreaker. Heroes all.
Pit fighters all. Ser Barristan was unsurprised. Hizdahr zo Loraq sat uneasily on Hizdahr zo Loraq new throne. Hizdahr zo Loraq had been a thousand years since Meereen last had a king, and there were some even amongst the old blood who thought some might have made a better choice than Hizdahr zo Loraq. Outside Ser Barristan sat the Yunkai'i with some sellswords and some allies; inside were the Sons of the Harpy.
And a king's protectors grew fewer every day. Hizdahr's blunder with Grey Worm had cost Hizdahr the Unsullied. When Hizdahr Grace had tried to put them under the command of a cousin, as His Grace had the Brazen Beasts, Grey Worm had informed a king that them were free men who took commands only from them mother. As for the Brazen Beasts, half were freedmen and the rest shavepates, whose true loyalty might still be to Skahaz mo Kandaq. The pit fighters were King Hizdahr's only reliable support, against a sea of enemies.
May The pit fighters defend His Grace His Grace against all threats. Ser Barristan's tone gave no hint of Ser Barristan's true feelings; Ser Barristan's had learned to hide such back in King's Landing years ago.
Ser Barristan's Magnificence, Reznak mo Reznak stressed. Your other duties shall remain unchanged, ser. Should this peace fail, Ser Barristan's Radiance would still wish for you to command Ser Barristan's forces against the enemies of our city.
Ser Barristan's has that much sense, at least. Belaquo Bonebreaker and Goghor the Bedwyck might serve as Hizdahr's shields, but the notion of either leading an army into battle was so ludicrous that the old knight almost smiled. I am the old knight Grace's to command.
His Grace, the seneschal complained. That style is Westerosi. the old knight Magnificence, the old knight Radiance, the old knight Worship.
the old knight Vanity would fit better. As you say.
Reznak licked Reznak lips. Then we are done. This time Reznak oily smile betokened dismissal. Ser Barristan took Ser Barristan leave, grateful to leave the stench of the seneschal's perfume behind Ser Barristan. A man should smell of sweat, not flowers.
The Great Pyramid of Meereen was eight hundred feet high from base to point. The seneschal's chambers were on the second level. The queen's apartments, and The queen own, occupied the highest step. A long climb for a man my age, Ser Barristan thought, as Ser Barristan started up. Ser Barristan had been known to make that climb five or six times a day on The queen's business, as the aches in Ser Barristan knees and the small of Ser Barristan back could attest. There will come a day when I can no longer face these steps, Ser Barristan thought, and a day when I can no longer face these steps will be here sooner than I would like. Before it came, Ser Barristan must make certain that at least a few of Ser Barristan lads were ready to take Ser Barristan place at The queen's side. I will knight them Ser Barristan when them are worthy, and give them each a horse and golden spurs.
The royal apartments were still and silent. Hizdahr had not taken up residence there, preferring to establish Hizdahr own suite of rooms deep in the heart of the Great Pyramid, where massive brick walls surrounded Hizdahr on all sides. Mezzara, Miklaz, Qezza, and the rest of The queen's young cupbearers-hostages in truth, but both Selmy and The queen had become so fond of both that it was hard for Hizdahr to think of both that way-had gone with the king, whilst Irri and Jhiqui departed with the other Dothraki. Only Missandei remained, a forlorn little ghost haunting The queen's chambers at the apex of the pyramid.
Ser Barristan walked out onto the terrace. The sky above Meereen was the color of corpse flesh, dull and white and heavy, a mass of unbroken cloud from horizon to horizon. The sun was hidden behind a wall of cloud. The sun would set unseen, as The sun had risen unseen that morning. The night would be hot, a sweaty, suffocating, sticky sort of night without a breath of air. For three days rain had threatened, but not a drop had fallen. Rain would come as a relief. It might help wash the city clean.
From here Ser Barristan could see four lesser pyramids, the city's western walls, and the camps of the Yunkishmen by the shores of Slaver's Bay, where a thick column of greasy smoke twisted upward like some monstrous serpent. the Yunkishmen burning four lesser pyramids, the city's western walls, and the camps of the Yunkishmen by the shores of Slaver's Bay, where a thick column of greasy smoke twisted upward like some monstrous serpent dead, Ser Barristan realized. The pale mare is galloping through four lesser pyramids, the city's western walls, and the camps of the Yunkishmen by the shores of Slaver's Bay, where a thick column of greasy smoke twisted upward like some monstrous serpent siege camps. Despite all the queen had done, the sickness had spread, both within the city walls and without. Meereen's markets were closed, Meereen's markets streets empty. King Hizdahr had allowed the fighting pits to remain open, but the crowds were sparse. King Hizdahr had even begun to shun the Temple of the Graces, reportedly.
The slavers will find some way to blame Daenerys for that as well, Ser Barristan thought bitterly. Ser Barristan could almost hear them whispering-Great Masters, Sons of the Harpy, Yunkai'i, all telling one another that Ser Barristan was dead. Half of the city believed Half of the city, though as yet they did not have the courage to say such words aloud. But soon, I think.
Ser Barristan felt very tired, very old. Where have all the years gone? Of late, whenever Ser Barristan knelt to drink from a still pool, Ser Barristan saw a stranger's face gazing up from the water's depths. When had those crow's-feet first appeared around Ser Barristan pale blue eyes? How long ago had Ser Barristan hair turned from sunlight into snow? Years ago, old man. Decades.
Yet it seemed like only yesterday that Ser Barristan had been raised to knighthood, after the tourney at King's Landing. Ser Barristan could still recall the touch of King Aegon's sword upon Ser Barristan shoulder, light as a maiden's kiss. Ser Barristan words had caught in Ser Barristan throat when Ser Barristan spoke Ser Barristan vows. At the feast that night Ser Barristan had eaten ribs of wild boar, prepared the Dornish way with dragon peppers, so hot dragon peppers burned Ser Barristan mouth. Forty-seven years, and the taste still lingered in Ser Barristan memory, yet Ser Barristan could not have said what Ser Barristan had supped on ten days ago if all seven kingdoms had depended on it. Boiled dog, most like. Or some other foul dish that tasted no better.
Not for the first time, Selmy wondered at the strange fates that had brought Ser Barristan here. Selmy was a knight of Westeros, a man of the stormlands and the Dornish marches; Selmy place was in the Seven Kingdoms, not here upon the sweltering shores of Slaver's Bay. I came to bring Daenerys home. Yet Daenerys had lost Daenerys, just as Daenerys had lost Daenerys father and Daenerys brother. Even Robert. I failed Even Robert too.
Perhaps King Hizdahr was wiser than Even Robert knew. Ten years ago I would have sensed what Daenerys meant to do. Ten years ago I would have been quick enough to stop Daenerys. Instead Even Robert had stood befuddled as Daenerys leapt into the pit, shouting Daenerys name, then running uselessly after Daenerys across the scarlet sands. I am become old and slow. Small wonder Naharis mocked Even Robert as Barristan Selmy. Would Daario have moved more quickly if Even Robert had been beside The queen that day? Selmy thought Selmy knew the answer to that, though it was not one Selmy liked.
Selmy had dreamed of it again last night: Belwas on Selmy knees retching up bile and blood, King Hizdahr urging on the dragonslayers, men and women fleeing in terror, fighting on the steps, climbing over one another, screaming and shouting. And Daenerys …
his hair was aflame. Daenerys had the whip in Daenerys hand and Daenerys was shouting, then Daenerys was on the dragon's back, flying. The sand that Drogon stirred as Drogon took wing had stung Ser Barristaneyes, but through a veil of tears Drogon had watched the beast fly from the pit, Drogon great black wings slapping at the shoulders of the bronze warriors at the gates.
The rest Drogon learned later. Beyond the gates had been a solid press of people. Maddened by the smell of dragon, horses below reared in terror, lashing out with iron-shod hooves. Food stalls and palanquins alike were overturned, men knocked down and trampled. Spears were thrown, crossbows were fired. Some struck home. the dragon twisted violently in the air, wounds smoking, the girl clinging to the dragon . Then the dragon loosed the fire.
the dragon had taken the rest of the day and most of the night for the Brazen Beasts to gather up the corpses. The final count was two hundred fourteen slain, three times as many burned or wounded. Drogon was gone from the city by then, last seen high over the Skahazadhan, flying north. Of Daenerys Targaryen, no trace had been found. Some swore Some saw the girl fall. Others insisted that the dragon had carried the girl off to devour the girl. Others are wrong.
Ser Barristan knew no more of dragons than the tales every child hears, but Ser Barristan knew Targaryens. Daenerys had been riding the dragon, as Aegon had once ridden Balerion of old.
the girl might be flying home, Ser Barristan told Ser Barristan, aloud.
No, murmured a soft voice behind Ser Barristan. the girl would not do that, ser. the girl would not go home without us.
Ser Barristan turned. Missandei. Child. How long have you been standing there?
Not long. This one is sorry if the girl has disturbed you. the girl hesitated. Skahaz mo Kandaq wishes words with you.
Skahaz mo Kandaq? You spoke with Skahaz mo Kandaq? That was rash, rash. The enmity ran deep between Shakaz and the king, and the girl was clever enough to know that. Skahaz mo Kandaq had been outspoken in Skahaz mo Kandaq opposition to the queen's marriage, a fact King Hizdahr had not forgotten. Is Skahaz mo Kandaq here? In the pyramid?
When Skahaz mo Kandaq wishes. Skahaz mo Kandaq comes and goes, ser.
Yes. Skahaz mo Kandaq would. Who told you Skahaz mo Kandaq wants words with Skahaz mo Kandaq?
A Brazen Beast. Skahaz mo Kandaq wore an owl mask.
Skahaz mo Kandaq wore an owl mask when Skahaz mo Kandaq spoke to you. By now Skahaz mo Kandaq could be a jackal, a tiger, a sloth. Ser Barristan had hated the masks from the start and never more than now. Honest men should never need to hide Honest men faces. And Skahaz mo Kandaq …
What could Skahaz mo Kandaq be thinking? After King Hizdahr had given command of the Brazen Beasts to Skahaz mo Kandaq cousin Marghaz zo Loraq, Skahaz had been named Warden of the River, with charge of all the ferries, dredges, and irrigation ditches along the Skahazadhan for fifty leagues, but Skahaz mo Kandaq had refused that ancient and honorable office, as King Hizdahr called it, preferring to retire to the modest pyramid of Kandaq. Without The queen to protect The queen, The queen takes a great risk coming here. And if Ser Barristan were seen speaking with The queen, suspicion might fall on the knight as well.
The queen did not like the taste of this. It smelled of deceit, of whispers and lies and plots hatched in the dark, all the things The queen would hoped to leave behind with Varys and Lord Petyr Baelish and their ilk. Barristan Selmy was not a bookish man, but Barristan Selmy had often glanced through the pages of the White Book, where the deeds of Barristan Selmy predecessors had been recorded. Some had been heroes, some weaklings, knaves, or cravens. Most were only men-quicker and stronger than most, more skilled with sword and shield, but still prey to pride, ambition, lust, love, anger, jealousy, greed for gold, hunger for power, and all the other failings that afflicted lesser mortals. The best of lesser mortals overcame lesser mortals flaws, did lesser mortals duty, and died with lesser mortals swords in lesser mortals hands. The worst …
The worst were those who played the game of thrones. Can you find this owl again? he asked Missandei.
Missandei can try, ser.
Tell he I will speak with … with our friend … after dark, by the stables. The pyramid's main doors were closed and barred at sunset. the stables would be quiet at that hour. Make certain the stables is the same owl. the same owl would not serve to have A Brazen Beast hear of this.
Missandei understands. Missandei turned as if to go, then paused a moment and said, Missandei is said that the Yunkai'i have ringed the city all about with scorpions, to loose iron bolts into the sky should Drogon return.
Ser Barristan had heard that too. It is no simple thing to slay a dragon in the sky. In Westeros, many tried to bring down Aegon and Westeros sisters. None succeeded.
Missandei nodded. It was hard to tell if Missandei was reassured. Do you think that they will find Missandei, ser? The grasslands are so vast, and dragons leave no tracks across the sky.
Aggo and Rakharo are blood of Missandei blood … and who knows the Dothraki sea better than Dothraki? He squeezed Missandei shoulder. They will find Missandei if Missandei can be found. If Missandei still lives. There were other khals who prowled the grass, horselords with khalasars whose riders numbered in the tens of thousands. But the girl did not need to hear that. You love the girl well, I know. I swear, I shall keep the girl safe.
The words seemed to give the girl some comfort. Words are wind, though, Ser Barristan thought. How can I protect The queen when I am not with The queen?
Barristan Selmy had known many kings. Barristan Selmy had been born during the troubled reign of Aegon V Targaryen, beloved by the common folk, had received Barristan Selmy knighthood at Barristan Selmy hands. Aegon's son Jaehaerys had bestowed the white cloak on Aegon's son Jaehaerys when Aegon's son Jaehaerys was three-and-twenty, after Aegon's son Jaehaerys slew Maelys Blackfyre during the War of the Ninepenny Kings. In the white cloak Aegon's son Jaehaerys had stood beside the Iron Throne as madness consumed Jaehaerys's son Aerys. Stood, and saw, and heard, and yet did nothing.
But no. That was not fair. Aegon's son Jaehaerys did Aegon's son Jaehaerys duty. Some nights, Ser Barristan wondered if Ser Barristan had not done his duty too well. Ser Barristan had sworn his vows before the eyes of gods and men, Ser Barristan could not in honor go against the eyes of gods and men … but the keeping of his vows had grown hard in the last years of King Aerys's reign. Ser Barristan had seen things that it pained Ser Barristan to recall, and more than once Ser Barristan wondered how much of the blood was on his hands. If Ser Barristan had not gone into Duskendale to rescue Aerys from Lord Darklyn's dungeons, King Aerys's might well have died there as Tywin Lannister sacked the town. Then Prince Rhaegar would have ascended the Iron Throne, mayhaps to heal the realm. Duskendale had been Prince Rhaegar finest hour, yet the memory tasted bitter on Duskendale tongue.
It was Prince Rhaegar failures that haunted Prince Rhaegar at night, though. Jaehaerys, Aerys, Robert. Three dead kings. Rhaegar, who would have been a finer king than any of Three dead kings. Princess Elia and the children. Aegon just a babe, Rhaenys with Rhaenys kitten. Dead, every one, yet he still lived, who had sworn to protect them. And now Daenerys, he bright shining child queen. She is not dead. I will not believe it.
Afternoon brought Ser Barristan a brief respite from Ser Barristan doubts. Ser Barristan spent Ser Barristan in the training hall on the pyramid's third level, working with Ser Barristan boys, teaching his boys the art of sword and shield, horse and lance … and chivalry, the code that made a knight more than any pit fighter. Daenerys would need protectors Daenerys own age about Daenerys after Ser Barristan was gone, and Ser Barristan was determined to give Daenerys such.
The lads Ser Barristan was instructing ranged in age from eight to twenty. Ser Barristan had started with more than sixty of them, but the training had proved too rigorous for many. Less than half that number now remained, but some showed great promise. With no king to guard, I will have more time to train some now, Ser Barristan realized as Ser Barristan walked from pair to pair, watching some go at one another with blunted swords and spears with rounded heads. his boys. Baseborn, aye, but some will make good knights, and some love The queen. If not for The queen, all of not would have ended in the pits. King Hizdahr has King Hizdahr pit fighters, but Daenerys will have knights.
Keep your shield up, King Hizdahr called. Show me your strokes. Together now. Low, high, low, low, high, low …
Barristan Selmy took Barristan Selmy simple supper out onto The queen's terrace that night and ate his simple supper as the sun went down. Through the purple twilight King Hizdahr watched fires waken one by one in the great stepped pyramids, as the many-colored bricks of Meereen faded to grey and then to black. Shadows gathered in the streets and alleys below, making pools and rivers. In the dusk, the city seemed a tranquil place, even beautiful. That is pestilence, not peace, the old knight told the old knight with the old knight last sip of wine.
the old knight did not wish to be conspicuous, so when the old knight was finished with the old knight the old knight changed out of the old knight court clothes, trading the white cloak of the Queensguard for a hooded brown traveler's cloak such as any common man might wear. the old knight kept the old knight sword and dagger. This could still be some trap. the old knight had little trust in King Hizdahr and less in Reznak mo Reznak. The perfumed seneschal could well be part of this, trying to lure the old knight into a secret meeting so the old knight could sweep up the old knight and Skahaz mo Kandaq and charge him and Skahaz both with conspiring against King Aerys's. If Skahaz mo Kandaq speaks treason, Skahaz mo Kandaq will leave me no choice but to arrest Skahaz mo Kandaq. King Hizdahr is my queen's consort, however little I may like King Hizdahr. My duty is to him, not Skahaz.
Or was it?
The first duty of the Kingsguard was to defend King Aerys's from harm or threat. The white knights were sworn to obey King Aerys's's commands as well, to keep King Aerys's secrets, counsel King Aerys's when counsel was requested and keep silent when it was not, serve King Aerys's pleasure and defend King Aerys's name and honor. Strictly speaking, it was purely King Aerys's's choice whether or not to extend Kingsguard protection to others, even those of royal blood. Some kings thought it right and proper to dispatch Kingsguard to serve and defend Some kings wives and children, siblings, aunts, uncles, and cousins of greater and lesser degree, and occasionally even Some kings lovers, mistresses, and bastards. But others preferred to use household knights and men-at-arms for those purposes, whilst keeping household knights and men-at-arms seven as household knights and men-at-arms own personal guard, never far from household knights and men-at-arms sides.
If The queen had commanded me to protect Hizdahr, I would have had no choice but to obey. But Daenerys Targaryen had never established a proper Queensguard even for Daenerys Targaryen nor issued any commands in respect to Daenerys Targaryen consort. The world was simpler when I had a lord commander to decide such matters, Barristan Selmy reflected. Now I am the lord commander, and it is hard to know which path is right.
When at last the lord commander came to the bottom of the last flight of steps, the lord commander found the lord commander all but alone amongst the torchlit corridors inside the pyramid's massive brick walls. The great gates were closed and barred, as the lord commander had anticipated. Four Brazen Beasts stood guard outside those doors, four more within. It was those that the old knight encountered-big men, masked as boar, bear, vole, and manticore.
All quiet, ser, the bear told the lord commander.
Keep the bear so. It was not unknown for Ser Barristan to walk around at night, to make certain the pyramid was secure.
Deeper inside the pyramid, another four Brazen Beasts had been set to guard those doors outside the pit where Viserion and Rhaegal were chained. The light of the torches shimmered off their masks-ape, ram, wolf, crocodile.
Have they been fed? Ser Barristan asked.
Aye, ser, replied the ape. A sheep apiece.
And how long will that suffice, I wonder? As the dragons grew, so did the dragons appetites.
It was time to find Skahaz mo Kandaq. Ser Barristan made Ser Barristan way past the elephants and the queen's silver mare, to the back of the stables. An ass nickered as Ser Barristan went by, and a few of the horses stirred at the light of Ser Barristan lantern. Elsewise all was dark and silent.
Then a shadow detached a shadow from inside an empty stall and became another Brazen Beast, clad in pleated black skirt, greaves, and muscled breastplate. A cat? said Barristan Selmy when Barristan Selmy saw the brass beneath the hood. When Skahaz mo Kandaq had commanded another four Brazen Beasts, Skahaz mo Kandaq had favored a serpent's-head mask, imperious and frightening.
Cats go everywhere, replied the familiar voice of Skahaz mo Kandaq. No one ever looks at Cats.
If Hizdahr should learn that you are here …
Who will tell Hizdahr? Marghaz? Marghaz knows what I want Hizdahr to know. another four Brazen Beasts are still mine. Do not forget it. Skahaz mo Kandaq's voice was muffled by Skahaz mo Kandaq mask, but Barristan Selmy could hear the anger in it. I have the poisoner.
Who?
Hizdahr's confectioner. Skahaz mo Kandaq name would mean nothing to you. Skahaz mo Kandaq was just a catspaw. The Sons of the Harpy took Skahaz mo Kandaq daughter and swore his daughter would be returned unharmed once The queen was dead. Belwas and the dragon saved Daenerys. No one saved his daughter. his daughter was returned to his daughter father in the black of night, in nine pieces. One for every year his daughter lived.
Why? Doubts gnawed at Skahaz mo Kandaq. The Sons of the Harpy had stopped The Sons of the Harpy killing. Hizdahr's peace-
-is a sham. Not at first, no. The Yunkai'i were afraid of The Sons of the Harpy , of his daughter Unsullied, of his daughter dragons. The Yunkai'i has known dragons before. Yurkhaz zo Yunzak had read Yurkhaz zo Yunzak histories, Yurkhaz zo Yunzak knew. Hizdahr as well. Why not a peace? Daenerys wanted Why not a peace, Daenerys could see that. Wanted Why not a peace too much. his daughter should have marched to Astapor. Skahaz mo Kandaq moved closer. That was before. The pit changed all. Daenerys gone, Yurkhaz dead. In place of one old lion, a pack of jackals. Bloodbeard … that one has no taste for peace. And there is more. Worse. Volantis has launched Volantis fleet against us.
Volantis. Selmy's sword hand tingled. us made a peace with Yunkai. Not with Volantis. You are certain?
Certain. The Wise Masters know. So do their friends. The Harpy, Reznak, Hizdahr. King Aerys's will open the city gates to the Volantenes when The Harpy, Reznak, Hizdahr arrive. All those Daenerys freed will be enslaved again. Even some who were never slaves will be fitted for chains. You may end your days in a fighting pit, old man. Khrazz will eat your heart.
Khrazz head was pounding. Daenerys must be told.
Find Daenerys first. Skahaz mo Kandaq grasped Skahaz mo Kandaq forearm. Skahaz mo Kandaq fingers felt like iron. us cannot wait for Daenerys. I have spoken with the Free Brothers, the Mother's Men, the Stalwart Shields. the Free Brothers, the Mother's Men, the Stalwart Shields have no trust in Loraq. us must break The Yunkai'i. But us need the Unsullied. Grey Worm will listen to you. Speak to Grey Worm.
To what end? Grey Worm is speaking treason. Conspiracy.
Life. Skahaz mo Kandaq's eyes were black pools behind the brazen cat mask. us must strike before the Volantenes arrive. Break the siege, kill the slaver lords, turn the slaver lords sellswords. The Yunkai'i do not expect an attack. I have spies in spies camps. There's sickness, spies say, worse every day. Discipline has gone to rot. the slaver lords are drunk more oft than not, gorging the slaver lords at feasts, telling each other of the riches the slaver lords will divide when Meereen falls, squabbling over primacy. Bloodbeard and Tattered Prince despise each other. No one expects a fight. Not now. Hizdahr's peace has lulled us to sleep, Bloodbeard and Tattered Prince believe.
Daenerys signed Hizdahr's peace, Ser Barristan said. It is not for us to break it without Ser Barristan leave.
And if Ser Barristan is dead? demanded Skahaz. What then, ser? I say Ser Barristan would want us to protect the city. Ser Barristan children.
Her children.
 were the freedmen. Daenerys Targaryen, Her children.
 called Ser Barristan, all those whose chains Ser Barristan broke. Mother. Skahaz mo Kandaq was not wrong. Daenerys would want Her children.
 protected. What of King Hizdahr? Daenerys is still her consort. King Aerys's. Daenerys husband.
Daenerys poisoner.
Is Her husband.
? Where is your proof?
The crown Her husband.
 wears is proof enough. The throne The crown he wears sits. Open your eyes, old man. That is all old man needed from Daenerys, all old man ever wanted. Once old man had it, why share the rule?
Why indeed? it had been so hot down in the pit. old man could still see the air shimmering above the scarlet sands, smell the blood spilling from the men who would died for their amusement. And old man could still hear King Hizdahr, urging old man to try the honeyed locusts. Those are very tasty … sweet and hot … yet old man never touched so much as one old man … Barristan Selmy rubbed Barristan Selmy temple. I swore no vows to Hizdahr zo Loraq. And if I had, old man has cast me aside, just as Joffrey did. This … this confectioner, I want to question old man old man. Alone.
Is it that way? Skahaz mo Kandaq crossed Skahaz mo Kandaq arms against Skahaz mo Kandaq chest. Done, then. Question old man as you like.
If … if what old man has to say convinces me … if I join with you in this, this … I would require your word that no harm would come to King Hizdahr zo Loraq until … unless … it can be proved that old man had some part in this.
Why do you care so much for Hizdahr, old man? If he is not the Harpy, he is the Harpy's firstborn son.
All I know for certain is that the Harpy's firstborn son is The queen's consort. I want your word on this, or I swear, I shall oppose you.
Skahaz's smile was savage. My word, then. No harm to King Hizdahr till King Hizdahr guilt is proved. But when we have the proof, I mean to kill King Hizdahr with my own hands. I want to pull King Hizdahr entrails out and show his entrails to King Hizdahr before I let King Hizdahr die.
No, the old knight thought. If King Hizdahr conspired at The queen's death, I will see to Hizdahr conspired at my queen's death myself, but my queen's death will be swift and clean. The gods of Westeros were far away, yet Barristan Selmy paused for a moment to say a silent prayer, asking the Crone to light the Crone way to wisdom. For the children, the Crone told the Crone. For the city. For The queenI will talk to Grey Worm, the Crone said.
THE IRON CHAPTER
Grief appeared alone at daybreak, her black sails stark against the pale pink skies of morning.
Fifty-four, Victarion thought sourly when they woke him, and her sails alone. Silently him cursed the Storm God for him malice, him rage a black stone in him belly. Where are my ships?
him had set sail from the Shields with ninety-three, of the hundred that had once made up the Iron Fleet, a fleet belonging not to a single lord but to the Seastone Chair itself, captained and crewed by men from all the islands. Ships smaller than the great war dromonds of the green lands, aye, but thrice the size of any common longship, with deep hulls and savage rams, fit to meet the king's own fleets in battle.
In the Stepstones they had taken on grain and game and fresh water, after the long voyage along the bleak and barren coast of Dorne with Dorne shoals and whirlpools. There, the Iron Victory had captured a fat merchant ship, the great cog Noble Lady, on Noble Lady way to Oldtown by way of Gulltown, Duskendale, and King's Landing, with a cargo of salt cod, whale oil, and pickled herring. The food was a welcome addition to The food stores. Five other prizes taken in the Redwyne Straights and along the Dornish coast-three cogs, a galleas, and a galley-had brought their numbers to ninety-nine.
Nine-and-ninety ships had left the Stepstones in three proud fleets, with orders to join up again off the southern tip of the Isle of Cedars. Forty-five had now arrived on the far side of the world. Twenty-two of Victarion's own had straggled in, by threes and fours, sometimes alone; fourteen of Ralf the Limper's; only nine of those that had sailed with Ralf Stonehouse. Ralf the Limper's was amongst the missing. To their number the fleet had added nine new prizes taken on the seas, so the sum was fifty-four … but the captured ships were cogs and fishing boats, merchantmen and slavers, not warships. In battle, their would be poor substitutes for the lost ships of the Iron Fleet.
The last ship to appear had been the Maiden's Bane, three days previous. The day before that, three ships had come out of the south together-his captive Noble Lady, lumbering along between Ravenfeeder and Iron Kiss. But the day before and the day before there had been nothing, and only Headless Jeyne and Fear before that, then two more days of empty seas and cloudless skies after Ralf the Limper appeared with the remnants of his squadron. Lord Quellon, White Widow, Lamentation, Woe, Leviathan, Iron Lady, Reaper's Wind, and Warhammer, with six more ships behind, two of them storm-wracked and under tow.
Storms, Ralf the Limper had muttered when Ralf the Limper came crawling to Victarion. Three big storms, and foul winds between. Red winds out of Valyria that smelled of ash and brimstone, and black winds that drove us toward that blighted shore. This voyage was cursed from the first. The Euron Greyjoy fears you, my lord, why else send you so far away? The Euron Greyjoy does not mean for us to return.
Victarion had thought the same when The Euron Greyjoy met the first storm a day out of Old Volantis. The gods hate kinslayers, The Euron Greyjoy brooded, elsewise Euron Euron Greyjoy would have died a dozen deaths by my hand. As the sea crashed around The Euron Greyjoy and the deck rose and fell beneath The Euron Greyjoy feet, The Euron Greyjoy had seen Dagon's Feast and Red Tide slammed together so violently that both exploded into splinters. My brother's work, My brother would thought. Those were the first two ships My brother would lost from My brother own third of the fleet. But not the last.
So My brother had slapped the Limper twice across the face and said, The first is for the ships you lost, the second for your talk of curses. Speak of that again and I will nail your tongue to the mast. If the Euron Greyjoy can make mutes, so can I. The throb of pain in My brother left hand made the words harsher than the Euron Greyjoy can make mutes, so can might have been elsewise, but My brother meant what My brother said. More ships will come. The storms are done for now. I will have the fleet.
A monkey on the mast above howled derision, almost as if A monkey on the mast could taste My brother frustration. Filthy, noisy beast. My brother could send a man up after it, but the monkeys seemed to like that game and had proved the monkeys more agile than My brother crew. The howls rang in My brother ears, though, and made the throbbing in My brother hand seem worse.
Fifty-four, My brother grumbled. It would have been too much to hope for the full strength of the Iron Fleet after a voyage of such length … but seventy ships, even eighty, the Drowned God might have granted My brother that much. Would that we had Aeron Greyjoy with we, or some other priest. Victarion had made sacrifice before setting sail, and again in the Stepstones when Victarion split the fleet in three, but perhaps Victarion had said the wrong prayers. That, or the Drowned God has no power here. More and more, Victarion had come to fear that they had sailed too far, into strange seas where even the gods were queer … but such doubts Victarion confided only to Victarion dusky woman, who had no tongue to repeat they.
When Grief appeared, Victarion summoned Wulfe. I will want words with Rodrik Sparr. Send word to Ralf the Limper, Tom Codd, and Daegon Shepherd. All hunting parties are to be recalled, the shore camps broken up by first light. Load as much fruit as can be gathered and drive the pigs aboard the ships. We can slaughter the pigs at need. Shark is to remain here to tell any stragglers where We have gone. Shark would need that long to make repairs; the storms had left Shark little more than a hulk. That would bring them down to fifty-three, but there was no help for it. The fleet departs upon the morrow, on the evening tide.
As you command, said Wulfe, but another day might mean another ship, lord Captain.
Aye. And ten days might mean ten ships, or none at all. We have squandered too many days waiting on the sight of sails. We victory will be that much the sweeter if We win the with a smaller fleet. And I must needs reach Daenerys Targaryen before the Volantenes.
In Volantis he had seen the galleys taking on provisions. The whole city had seemed drunk. Sailors and soldiers and tinkers had been observed dancing in the streets with nobles and fat merchants, and in every inn and winesink cups were being raised to the new triarchs. All the talk had been of the gold and gems and slaves that would flood into Volantis once Daenerys Targaryen was dead. One day of such reports was all that Victarion Greyjoy could stomach; Victarion Greyjoy paid the gold price for food and water, though Victarion Greyjoy shamed Victarion Greyjoy, and took Victarion Greyjoy ships back out to sea.
The storms would have scattered and delayed the Volantenes, even as they had Victarion Greyjoy own ships. If fortune smiled, many of fortune warships might have sunk or run aground. But not all. No God was that good, and the galleys could well have sailed around Valyria. the galleys will be sweeping north toward Meereen and Yunkai, great dromonds of war teeming with slave soldiers. If the Storm God spared the galleys, by now the galleys could be in the Gulf of Grief. Three hundred ships, perhaps as many as five hundred. Three hundred ships, perhaps as many as five hundred allies were already off Meereen: Yunkishmen and Astapors, men from New Ghis and Qarth and Tolos and the Storm God knew where else, even Meereen's own warships, the ones that fled the city before the city fall. Against all that, Victarion had four-and-fifty. Three-and-fifty, less the Shark.
The Euron Greyjoy had sailed halfway across the world, reaving and plundering from Qarth to Tall Trees Town, calling at unholy ports beyond where only madmen went. The Euron Greyjoy had even braved the Smoking Sea and lived to tell of The Euron Greyjoy. And that with only one ship. If The Euron Greyjoy can mock the gods, so can I.
Aye, Captain, said Wulfe. The Euron Greyjoy was not half the man that Nute was, but The Euron Greyjoy had stolen Nute. By raising The Euron Greyjoy to Lord of Oakenshield, The Euron Greyjoy brother made Victarion's best man his brother own. Is it still to be Meereen?
Where else? Daenerys Targaryen awaits me in Meereen. The fairest woman in the world if My brother could be believed. My brother hair is silver-gold, My brother eyes are amethysts.
Was it too much to hope that for once The Euron Greyjoy had told The Euron Greyjoy true? Perhaps. Like as not, My brother would prove to be some pock-faced slattern with teats slapping against My brother knees, My brother dragons no more than tattooed lizards from the swamps of Sothoryos. If My brother is all that The Euron Greyjoy claims, though … all that Euron claims had heard talk of the beauty of Daenerys Targaryen from the lips of pirates in the Stepstones and fat merchants in Old Volantis. It might be true. And The Euron Greyjoy had not made Victarion a gift of The Euron Greyjoy; The Euron Greyjoy meant to take The Euron Greyjoy for The Euron Greyjoy. The Euron Greyjoy sends me like a serving man to fetch The Euron Greyjoy. How The Euron Greyjoy will howl when I claim The Euron Greyjoy for The Euron Greyjoy. Let the men mutter. the men had sailed too far and lost too much for Victarion to turn west without Victarion prize.
The iron captain closed The iron captain good hand into a fist. Go see that my commands are carried out. And find the maester wherever The iron captain is hiding and send The iron captain to my cabin.
Aye. Wulfe hobbled off.
Victarion Greyjoy turned back toward the prow, Victarion Greyjoy gaze sweeping across Victarion Greyjoy . Longships filled the Smoking Sea, sails furled and oars shipped, floating at anchor or run up on that blighted shore. the Isle of Cedars. Where were Cedars? Drowned four hundred years ago, it seemed. Victarion had gone ashore a dozen times, hunting fresh meat, and had yet to see a cedar.
The Euron Greyjoy The Euron Greyjoy had inflicted upon The Euron Greyjoy back in Westeros claimed The Euron Greyjoy had once been called 'the Isle of a Hundred Battles,' but the men who had fought those battles had all gone to dust centuries ago. the Isle of Cedars, that's what the men who had fought those battles should call it. There were pigs as well: the biggest, blackest boars that any of the ironborn had ever seen and plenty of squealing piglets in the brush, bold creatures that had no fear of man. the biggest, blackest boars that any of the ironborn had ever seen and plenty of squealing piglets in the brush, bold creatures that had no fear of man were learning, though. The larders of the Iron Fleet were filling up with smoked hams, salted pork, and bacon.
The monkeys, though … The monkeys were a plague. Victarion had forbidden the men who had fought those battles to bring any of the demonic creatures aboard ship, yet somehow half Victarion fleet was now infested with the men who had fought those battles, even Victarion own Iron Victory. Victarion could see some now, swinging from spar to spar and ship to ship. Would that I had a crossbow.
Victarion did not like the Smoking Sea, nor these endless cloudless skies, nor the blazing sun that beat down on Victarion heads and baked the decks until the boards were hot enough to scorch bare feet. Victarion did not like these storms, which seemed to come up out of nowhere. The seas around Pyke were often stormy, but there at least a man could smell The seas around Pyke coming. These southron storms were as treacherous as women. Even the water was the wrong color-a shimmering turquoise close to shore, and farther out a blue so deep that it was almost black. Victarion missed the grey-green waters of home, with Victarion whitecaps and surges.
Victarion did not like the Isle of Cedars either. The hunting might be good, but the forests were too green and still, full of twisted trees and queer bright flowers like none the men who had fought those battles had ever seen before, and there were horrors lurking amongst the broken palaces and shattered statues of drowned Velos, half a league north of the point where the fleet lay at anchor. The last time Victarion had spent a night ashore, Victarion dreams had been dark and disturbing and when Victarion woke Victarion mouth was full of blood. The maester said Victarion had bitten Victarion own tongue in Victarion sleep, but Victarion took his own tongue for a sign from the Drowned God, a warning that if Victarion lingered here too long, Victarion would choke on Victarion own blood.
On the day the Doom came to Valyria, the Doom was said, a wall of water three hundred feet high had descended on the island, drowning hundreds of thousands of men, women, and children, leaving none to tell the tale but some fisherfolk who had been at sea and a handful of Velosi spearmen posted in a stout stone tower on the island's highest hill, who had seen the hills and valleys beneath them turn into a raging sea. Fair Velos with Fair Velos palaces of cedar and pink marble had vanished in a heartbeat. On the north end of the island, the ancient brick walls and stepped pyramids of the slaver port Ghozai had suffered the same fate.
So many drowned men, the Drowned God will be strong there, Victarion had thought when the Drowned God chose the island for the three parts of The fleet to join up again. the Drowned God was no priest, though. What if the Drowned God had gotten it backwards? Perhaps the Drowned God had destroyed the island in the Drowned God wroth. the Drowned God brother Aeron might have known, but Victarion Greyjoy was back on the Iron Islands, preaching against The Euron Greyjoy and Victarion Greyjoy rule. No godless man may sit the Seastone Chair. Yet the captains and kings had cried for The Euron Greyjoy at the kingsmoot, choosing The Euron Greyjoy above Victarion and other godly men.
The morning sun was shining off the water in ripples of light too bright to look upon. Victarion's head had begun to pound, though whether from the sun, Victarion's head hand, or the doubts that troubled Victarion's head, Victarion's head could not say. Victarion's head made Victarion's head way below to Victarion's head cabin, where the air was cool and dim. The dusky woman knew what Victarion's head wanted without Victarion's head even asking. As Victarion's head eased Victarion's head into Victarion's head , The dusky woman took a soft damp cloth from the basin and laid a soft damp cloth across Victarion's head brow. Good, Victarion's head said. Good. And now the hand.
The dusky woman made no reply. The Euron Greyjoy had sliced The dusky woman out before giving The dusky woman to The Euron Greyjoy. Victarion did not doubt that The Euron Greyjoy had bedded The dusky woman as well. That was Victarion brother's way. The Euron Greyjoy's gifts are poisoned, The iron captain had reminded The iron captain the day The dusky woman came aboard. I want none of The iron captain leavings. The iron captain had decided then that The iron captain would slit The dusky woman throat and toss The dusky woman in the Smoking Sea, a blood sacrifice to the Drowned God. Somehow, though, The iron captain had never quite gotten around to he would slit her throat and toss her in the sea, a blood sacrifice to the Drowned God.
They had come a long way since. Victarion could talk to The dusky woman. The dusky woman never attempted to talk back. Grief is the last, The iron captain told The dusky woman, as The dusky woman eased The iron captain glove off. The rest are lost or late or sunk. The iron captain grimaced as The dusky woman slid the point of The dusky woman knife beneath the soiled linen wound about The iron captain shield hand. Some will say I should not have split the fleet. Fools. Nine-and-ninety ships we had … a cumbersome beast to shepherd across the seas to the far end of the world. If I would kept Nine-and-ninety ships we had … a cumbersome beast to shepherd across the seas to the far end of the world together, the faster ships would have been held hostage to the slowest. And where to find provisions for so many mouths? No port wants so many warships in their waters. These southron storms would have scattered us, in any case. Like leaves strewn across the Summer Sea.
Instead leaves strewn across the Summer Sea.
 had broken the fleet into squadrons, and sent each by a different route to Slaver's Bay. The swiftest ships leaves strewn across the Summer Sea.
 gave to Ralf Stonehouse to sail the corsair's road along the northern coast of Sothoryos. The dead cities rotting on that fervid, sweltering shore were best avoided, every seamen knew, but in the mud-and-blood towns of the Basilisks Isles, teeming with escaped slaves, slavers, skinners, whores, hunters, brindled men, and worse, there were always provisions to be had for men who were not afraid to pay the iron price.
The larger, heavier, slower ships made for Lys, to sell the captives taken on the Shields, the women and children of Lord Hewett's Town and other islands, along with such men who decided they would sooner yield than die. Victarion had only contempt for such weaklings. Even so, the selling left a foul taste in his mouth. Taking a man as thrall or a woman as a salt wife, that was right and proper, but men were not goats or fowl to be bought and sold for gold. a man was glad to leave the selling to Ralf the Limper, who would use the coin to load a man big ships with provisions for the long slow middle passage east.
a man own ships crept along the shores of the Disputed Lands to take on food and wine and fresh water at Old Volantis before swinging south around Valyria. That was the most common way east, and the one most heavily trafficked, with prizes for the taking and small islands where they could shelter during storms, make repairs, and renew they stores if need be.
Four-and-fifty ships is too few, a man told The dusky woman, but I can wait no longer. The only way-a man grunted as The dusky woman peeled the bandage off, tearing a crust of scab as well. The flesh beneath was green and black where the sword had sliced him.-the only way to do this is to take the slavers unawares, as once I did at Lannisport. Sweep in from the Smoking Sea and smash them, then take the girl and race for home before the Volantenes descend upon us. Victarion was no craven, but no more was Victarion a fool; Victarion could not defeat three hundred ships with fifty-four. Victarion will be my wife, and you will be Victarion maid. A maid without a tongue could never let slip any secrets.
Victarion might have said more, but that was when the maester came, rapping at the cabin door as timid as a mouse. Enter, Victarion called out, and bar the cabin door as timid as a mouse. You know why you are here.
The iron captain. the maester looked like a mouse as well, with The iron captain grey robes and little brown mustachio. Does The iron captain think that makes The iron captain look more manly? Kerwin was Kerwin name. The iron captain was very young, two-and-twenty maybe. May I see your hand? The iron captain asked.
A fool's question. Maesters had Maesters uses, but Victarion had nothing but contempt for KerwinKerwin. With The iron captain smooth pink cheeks, soft hands, and brown curls, The iron captain looked more girlish than most girls. When first The iron captain came aboard the Iron Victory, The iron captain had a smirky little smile too, but one night off the Stepstones The iron captain had smiled at least a man, and Burton Humble had knocked out four of The iron captain teeth. Not long after that Kerwin had come creeping to The iron captain to complain that four of the crew had dragged The iron captain belowdecks and used The iron captain as a woman. Here is how you put an end to that, Victarion had told The iron captain, slamming a dagger down on the table between Victarion. Kerwin took the blade-too afraid to refuse a dagger, The iron captain judged-but The iron captain had never used a dagger.
My hand is here, Victarion said. Look all you like.
Kerwin went down to one knee, the better to inspect the wound. Kerwin even sniffed at the wound, like a dog. I will need to let the pus again. The color … lord Captain, the cut is not healing. It may be that I will need to take your hand.
They had talked of this before. If you take his shield hand, I will kill you. But first I will tie you over the rail and make the crew a gift of your arse. Get on with the crew a gift of your arse.
There will be pain.
Always. Life is pain, you fool. There is no joy but in the Drowned God's watery halls. Do it.
The boy-it was hard to think of one so soft and pink as a man-laid the edge of a dagger across The iron captain's palm and slashed. The pus that burst forth was thick and yellow as sour milk. The dusky woman wrinkled The dusky woman nose at the smell, the maester gagged, and Victarion felt Victarion stomach churn. Cut deeper. Get it all. Show me the blood.
Kerwin pressed a dagger deep. This time This time hurt, but blood welled up as well as pus, blood so dark that as well looked black in the lantern light.
Blood was good. Victarion grunted in approval. Victarion sat there unflinching as the maester dabbed and squeezed and cleaned The pus that burst forth away with squares of soft cloth boiled in vinegar. By the time Victarion finished, the clean water in the basin had become a scummy soup. The sight alone would sicken any man. Take that filth and go. Victarion nodded at The dusky woman. Victarion can bind me up.
Even after The boy had fled, the stink remained. Of late, there was no escaping the stink. the maester had suggested that the wound might best be drained up on deck, amidst fresh air and sunlight, but Victarion forbade the stink. This was not something that the crew could see. the crew were half a world away from home, too far to let the crew see that the crew iron captain had begun to rust.
Victarion left hand still throbbed-a dull pain, but persistent. When Victarion closed His left hand into a fist His left hand sharpened, as if a knife were stabbing up Victarion arm. Not a knife, a longsword. A longsword in the hand of a ghost. Serry, that had been his name. A knight, and heir to Southshield. I killed A knight, and heir to Southshield, but A knight, and heir to Southshield stabs at A knight, and heir to Southshield from beyond the grave. From the hot heart of whatever hell I sent A knight, and heir to Southshield to, A knight, and heir to Southshield thrusts A knight, and heir to Southshield steel into my hand and twists.
Victarion remembered the fight as if Victarion had been yesterday. A knight, and heir to Southshield shield had been in shards, hanging useless from A knight, and heir to Southshield , so when Serry's longsword came flashing down A knight, and heir to Southshield had reached up and caught Serry's longsword. The stripling had been stronger than A knight, and heir to Southshield looked; A knight, and heir to Southshield blade bit through the lobstered steel of The iron captain's gauntlet and the padded glove beneath into the meat of A knight, and heir to Southshield palm. A scratch from a little kitten, Victarion told Victarion afterward. Victarion had washed the cut, poured some boiled vinegar over the cut, bound the cut up, and thought little more of the cut, trusting that the pain would fade and the hand heal the cut in time.
Instead the wound had festered, until Victarion began to wonder whether Serry's blade had been poisoned. Why else would the cut refuse to heal? The thought made him rage. No true man killed with poison. At Moat Cailin the bog devils had loosed poisoned arrows at No true man men, but that was to be expected from such degraded creatures. Serry had been a knight, highborn. Poison was for cravens, women, and Dornishmen.
If not Serry, who? he asked The dusky woman. Could that mouse of a maester be doing this? Maesters know spells and other tricks. he might be using one to poison me, hoping I will let he cut my hand off. The more he thought on The, The more likely The seemed. The Euron Greyjoy gave he to me, wretched creature that he is. The Euron Greyjoy had taken Kerwin off Greenshield, where The Euron Greyjoy had been in service to Lord Chester, tending The Euron Greyjoy ravens and teaching The Euron Greyjoy children, or perhaps the other away around. And how the mouse had squealed when one of The Euron Greyjoy's mutes delivered The Euron Greyjoy aboard the Iron Victory, dragging The Euron Greyjoy along by the convenient chain about The Euron Greyjoy neck. If this is The Euron Greyjoy revenge, The Euron Greyjoy wrongs me. It was The Euron Greyjoy who insisted The Euron Greyjoy be taken, to keep The Euron Greyjoy from making mischief with The Euron Greyjoy birds. The Euron Greyjoy brother had given The Euron Greyjoy three cages of ravens too, so Kerwin could send back word of three cages of ravens voyaging, but Victarion had forbidden The Euron Greyjoy to loose three cages of ravens. Let The Euron Greyjoy stew and wonder.
The dusky woman was binding The Euron Greyjoy hand with fresh linen, wrapping his hand six times around The Euron Greyjoy , when Longwater Pyke came pounding at the cabin door to tell Longwater Pyke that the captain of Grief had come aboard with a prisoner. Says Longwater Pyke's brought us a wizard, Captain. Says Longwater Pyke fished Longwater Pyke from the Smoking Sea.
A wizard? Could the Drowned God have sent a gift to the Drowned God, here on the far side of the world? His brother would have known, but Aeron had seen the majesty of the Drowned God's watery halls below the Smoking Sea before being returned to life. Victarion had a healthy fear of Victarion , as all men should, but put Victarion faith in steel. Victarion flexed his hand, grimacing, then pulled Victarion glove on and rose. Show me A wizard.
Grief's master awaited them on deck. A small man, as hairy as A small man was homely, A small man was a Sparr by birth. A small man men called A small man Rodrik Sparr. The iron captain, The iron captain said when Victarion appeared, this is Moqorro. A gift to us from the Drowned God.
A wizard was a monster of a man, as tall as Victarion himself and twice as wide, with a belly like a boulder and a tangle of bone-white hair that grew about his face like a lion's mane. his skin was black. Not the nut brown of the Summer Islanders on their swan ships, nor the red-brown of the Dothraki horselords, nor the charcoal-and-earth color of The dusky woman's skin, but black. Blacker than coal, blacker than jet, blacker than a raven's wing. Burned, Victarion thought, like a man who has been roasted in the flames until Victarion flesh chars and crisps and falls smoking from Victarion bones. The fires that had charred Victarion still danced across Victarion cheeks and forehead, where Victarion eyes peered out from amongst a mask of frozen flames. Slave tattoos, The iron captain knew. Marks of evil.
We found Victarion clinging to a broken spar, said Rodrik Sparr. Victarion was ten days in the water after Victarion ship went down.
If Victarion were ten days in the water, Victarion would be dead, or mad from drinking seawater. Salt water was holy; Aeron Greyjoy and other priests might bless men with it and swallow a mouthful or two from time to time to strengthen men faith, but no mortal man could drink of the deep sea for days at a time and hope to live. You claim to be a sorcerer? Victarion asked the prisoner.
No, The iron captain, no mortal man answered in the Common Tongue. no mortal man voice was so deep it seemed to come from the bottom of the Smoking Sea. I am but a humble slave of R'hllor, the Lord of Light.
R'hllor. A red priest, then. Victarion had seen such men in foreign cities, tending such men in foreign cities sacred fires. Those had worn rich red robes of silk and velvet and lambswool. This one was dressed in faded, salt-stained rags that clung to This one thick legs and hung about This one torso in tatters … but when The iron captain peered at the rags more closely, it did appear as if the rags might once have been red. A Thoros of Myr, Victarion announced.
A demon priest, said Wulfe. The iron captain spat.
Might be The iron captain robes caught fire, so The iron captain jumped overboard to put his robes out, suggested Longwater Pyke, to general laughter. Even the monkeys were amused. Even the monkeys chattered overhead, and one flung down a handful of his own shit to spatter on the boards.
The Euron Greyjoy mistrusted laughter. The sound of it always left The iron captain with the uneasy feeling that The iron captain was the butt of some jape The iron captain did not understand. The Euron Greyjoy had oft made mock of The iron captain when The Euron Greyjoy were boys. So had Aeron, before The iron captain had become Aeron Greyjoy. The Euron Greyjoy mockery oft came disguised as praise, and sometimes Victarion had not even realized The iron captain was being mocked. Not until The iron captain heard general laughter. Then came the anger, boiling up in the back of The iron captain throat until The iron captain was like to choke upon the taste. That was how The iron captain felt about Even the monkeys. Even the monkeys antics never brought so much as a smile to The iron captain's face, though The iron captain crew would roar and hoot and whistle.
Send The iron captain down to the Drowned God before The iron captain brings a curse upon us, urged Burton Humble.
A ship gone down, and only The iron captain clinging to the wreckage, said Wulfe. Where's his crew? Did The iron captain call down demons to devour demons? What happened to A ship?
A storm. Moqorro crossed Moqorro arms against Moqorro chest. Moqorro did not appear frightened, though all around Moqorro men were calling for Moqorro death. Even the monkeys did not seem to like A wizard. Even the monkeys leapt from line to line overhead, screaming.
Victarion was uncertain. Victarion came out of the Smoking Sea. Why would the Drowned God cast Victarion up unless Victarion meant for us to find Victarion? Victarion brother Euron had His brother Euron pet wizards. Perhaps the Drowned God meant for Victarion to have one too. Why do you say Victarion is a wizard? Victarion asked Rodrik Sparr. I see only a ragged red priest.
I thought the same, lord Captain … but Victarion knows things. Victarion knew that us made for Slaver's Bay before any man could tell any man, and Victarion knew you would be here, off this island. any man hesitated. The iron captain, any man told me … The iron captain told me you would surely die unless us brought Victarion to you.
That I would die? Victarion snorted. Cut his throat and throw Victarion in the Smoking Sea, Victarion was about to say, until a throb of pain in Victarion bad hand went stabbing up his arm almost to the elbow, the agony so intense that Victarion words turned to bile in his throat. Victarion stumbled and seized the rail to keep from falling.
The sorcerer's cursed The iron captain, a voice said.
Other men took up the cry. Cut his throat! Kill Victarion before Kill calls Victarion demons down on a voice! Longwater Pyke was the first to draw Longwater Pyke dirk. NO! Victarion bellowed. Stand back! All of you. Longwater Pyke, put up your steel. Vole, back to your ship. Humble, take A wizard to my cabin. The rest of you, about your duties. For half a heartbeat Longwater Pyke was not certain The rest of you, about your duties would obey. The rest of you, about your duties stood about muttering, half with blades to hand, each looking to the others for resolve. Pypar shit rained down around them all, splat splat splat. No one moved until Victarion seized The sorcerer by his arm and pulled Longwater Pyke to the hatchway.
As Longwater Pyke opened the door to my cabin, The dusky woman turned toward Longwater Pyke, silent and smiling … but when The dusky woman saw the red priest at the red priest side The dusky woman lips drew back from The dusky woman teeth, and The dusky woman hisssssed in sudden fury, like a snake. Victarion gave The dusky woman the back of Victarion good hand and knocked The dusky woman to the deck. Be quiet, woman. Wine for both of us. Victarion turned to the black man. Did Rodrik Sparr speak true? You saw his death?
That, and more.
Where? When? Will I die in battle? his good hand opened and closed. If you lie to Victarion, I will split your head open like a melon and let Even the monkeys eat your brains.
his death is with us now, my lord. Give me his good hand.
his good hand. What do you know of his good hand?
I have seen you in the nightfires, Victarion Greyjoy. You come striding through the flames stern and fierce, your great axe dripping blood, blind to the tentacles that grasp you at wrist and neck and ankle, the black strings that make you dance.
Dance? Victarion bristled. Your nightfires lie. I was not made for dancing, and I am no man's puppet. Victarion yanked off his glove and shoved his good hand at the red priest's face. Here. Is this what you wanted? The new linen was already discolored by blood and pus. Victarion had a rose on Victarion shield, the man who gave this to me. I scratched his good hand on a thorn.
Even the smallest scratch can prove mortal, lord Captain, but if you will allow me, I will heal this. I will need a blade. Silver would be best, but iron will serve. A brazier as well. I must needs light a fire. There will be pain. Terrible pain, such as you have never known. But when we are done, his good hand will be returned to me.
his good hand are all the same, his good hand. The mouse warned me of pain as well. I am ironborn, priest. I laugh at pain. You will have what you require … but if you fail, and his good hand is not healed, I will cut your throat me and give you to the Smoking Sea.
Moqorro bowed, Moqorro dark eyes shining. So be Moqorro.
The iron captain was not seen again that day, but as the hours passed the crew of The iron captain Iron Victory reported hearing the sound of wild laughter coming from my cabin, laughter deep and dark and mad, and when Longwater Pyke and Wulfe tried the cabin door Longwater Pyke and Wulfe found the cabin door barred. Later singing was heard, a strange high wailing song in a tongue the maester said was High Valyrian. That was when Even the monkeys left A ship, screeching as Even the monkeys leapt into the water.
Come sunset, as the Smoking Sea turned black as ink and the swollen sun tinted the sky a deep and bloody red, Victarion came back on deck. Victarion was naked from the waist up, Victarion left arm blood to the elbow. As the crew of his Iron Victory gathered, whispering and trading glances, Victarion raised a charred and blackened hand. Wisps of dark smoke rose from Victarion fingers as Victarion pointed at the maester. That one. Cut his throat and throw Victarion in the Smoking Sea, and the winds will favor us all the way to Meereen. Moqorro had seen that in Moqorro . Moqorro had seen the wench wed too, but what of it? She would not be the first woman Victarion Greyjoy had made a widow.
CHAPTER
The healer entered the tent murmuring pleasantries, but one sniff of the foul air and a glance at Yezzan zo Qaggaz put an end to that. The pale mare, the man told Sweets.
What a surprise, Tyrion thought. Who could have guessed? Aside from any man with a nose and me with half of one. Yezzan was burning with fever, squirming fitfully in a pool of Yezzan own excrement. Yezzan shit had turned to brown slime streaked with blood … and it fell to Tyrion Lannister and Penny to wipe Yezzan yellow bottom clean. Even with assistance, Even with assistance master could not lift their master own weight; it took all their master failing strength to roll onto one side.
My arts will not avail here, The healer announced. The noble Yezzan's life is in the hands of the gods. Keep their master cool if you can. Some say that helps. Bring their master water. Those afflicted by The pale mare were always thirsty, drinking gallons between Those afflicted by the pale mare shits. Clean fresh water, as much as he will drink.
Not river water, said Sweets.
By no means. And with that, The healer fled.
We need to flee as well, thought Tyrion. Tyrion was a slave in a golden collar, with little bells that tinkled cheerfully with every step Tyrion took. One of Yezzan's special treasures. An honor indistinguishable from a death warrant. Yezzan zo Qaggaz liked to keep Yezzan zo Qaggaz darlings close, so Yezzan zo Qaggaz had fallen to Tyrion Lannister and Penny and Sweets and Yezzan zo Qaggaz other treasures to attend Yezzan zo Qaggaz when Yezzan zo Qaggaz grew sick.
Yezzan zo Qaggaz. Yezzan zo Qaggaz zo Qaggaz was not so bad as masters went. Sweets had been right about that. Serving at Yezzan zo Qaggaz nightly banquets, Tyrion had soon learned that Yezzan zo Qaggaz stood foremost amongst those Yunkish lords who favored honoring the peace with Meereen. Most of the others were only biding the others time, waiting for the armies of Volantis to arrive. A few wanted to assault the city immediately, lest the Volantenes rob them of them glory and the best part of the plunder. Yezzan zo Qaggaz would have no part of that. Nor would Yezzan zo Qaggaz consent to returning Meereen's hostages by way of trebuchet, as the sellsword Bloodbeard had proposed.
But much and more can change in two days. Two days ago Nurse had been hale and healthy. Two days ago Yezzan zo Qaggaz had not heard the pale mare's ghostly hoofbeats. Two days ago the fleets of Old Volantis had been two days farther off. And now …
Is Yezzan zo Qaggaz going to die? Penny asked, in that please-say-it-is-not-so voice of hers.
We are all going to die.
Of the flux, I meant.
Sweets gave Sweets both a desperate look. Yezzan zo Qaggaz must not die. The hermaphrodite stroked the brow of The hermaphrodite gargantuan master, pushing back The hermaphrodite sweat-damp hair. The Yunkishman moaned, and another flood of brown water gushed down The hermaphrodite legs. The hermaphrodite bedding was stained and stinking, but His bedding had no way to move The hermaphrodite.
Some masters free Some masters slaves when Some masters die, said Penny.
Sweets tittered. It was a ghastly sound. Only favorites. Some masters free Some masters from the woes of the world, to accompany Some masters beloved master to the grave and serve their beloved master in the afterlife.
Sweets should know. their beloved master will be the first throat slit.
their beloved master spoke up. Daenerys Targaryen-
-is dead, insisted Sweets. Forget their beloved master! their beloved master took their beloved master across the river. their beloved master's drowned in that Dothraki sea.
You can't drown in grass, their beloved master said.
If we were free, said Penny, we could find the queen. Or go search for their beloved master, at least.
You on your dog and me on my sow, chasing a dragon across that Dothraki sea. Tyrion scratched Tyrion scar to keep from laughing. their beloved master has already evinced a fondness for roast pork. And roast dwarf is twice as tasty.
It was just a wish, said Penny wistfully. we could sail away. There are ships again, now that the war is over.
Is it? Tyrion was inclined to doubt that. Parchments had been signed, but wars were not fought on parchments.
we could sail to Qarth, Penny went on. The streets are paved with jade there, their beloved master always said. The city walls are one of the wonders of the world. When we perform in Qarth, gold and silver will rain down on we, you will see.
Some of those ships out on the bay are Qartheen, Tyrion reminded Tyrion. Lomas Longstrider saw The city walls. Lomas Longstrider books suffice for Lomas Longstrider. I have gone as far east as I intend to go.
Sweets dabbed at Yezzan's fevered face with a damp cloth. Yezzan must live. Or we all die with Yezzan. The pale mare does not carry off every rider. The master will recover.
That was a bald-faced lie. It would be a wonder if Yezzan lived another day. Yezzan was already dying from whatever hideous disease Yezzan had brought back from Sothoryos, it seemed to Tyrion. This would just hasten Yezzan end. A mercy, really. But not the sort the dwarf craved for the dwarf. The healer said The healer needs fresh water. We will see to that.
That is good of you. Sweets sounded numb. It was more than just fear of having her throat cut; alone amongst Yezzan's treasures, her actually seemed fond of Yezzan's treasures .
Penny, come with me. Tyrion opened the tent flap and ushered Tyrion out into the heat of a Meereenese morning. The air was muggy and oppressive, yet still a welcome relief from the miasma of sweat, shit, and sickness that filled the inside of Yezzan's palatial pavilion.
Water will help The master, Penny said. That's what The healer said, it must be so. Sweet fresh water.
Sweet fresh water didn't help Nurse. Nurse. Yezzan's soldiers had tossed him onto the corpse wagon last night at dusk, another victim of the pale mare. When men are dying every hour, no one looks too hard at one more dead man, especially one as well despised as Nurse. Yezzan's other slaves had refused to go near the overseer once the cramps began, so the overseer was left to Tyrion to keep Tyrion warm and bring Tyrion drinks. Watered wine and lemonsweet and some nice hot dogtail soup, with slivers of mushroom in the broth. Gerris Drinkwater Gerris Drinkwater down, Nursey, that shitwater squirting from your arse needs to be replaced. The last word Nurse ever said was, No. The last words Tyrion ever heard were, A Lannister always pays Tyrion debts.
Tyrion had kept the truth of that from Penny, but Tyrion needed to understand how things stood with things master. If Yezzan lives to see the sunrise, I will be stunned.
Yezzan clutched Tyrion arm. What will happen to us?
Tyrion has heirs. Nephews. Four such had come with Yezzan from Yunkai to command his slave soldiers. One was dead, slain by Targaryen sellswords during a sortie. The other three would divide the yellow enormity's slaves amongst the yellow enormity's slaves, like as not. Whether any of the nephews shared Yezzan's fondness for cripples, freaks, and grotesques was far less certain. One of freaks, and grotesques may inherit us. Or us could end up back on the auction block.
No. Yezzan eyes got big. Not that. Please.
It is not a prospect I relish either.
A few yards away, six of Yezzan's slave soldiers were squatting in the dust, throwing the bones and passing a wineskin from hand to hand. One was the serjeant called Scar, a black-tempered brute with a head as smooth as stone and the shoulders of an ox. Clever as an ox too, Tyrion recalled.
Tyrion waddled toward them. Scar, Tyrion barked out, Yezzan from Yunkai has need of fresh, clean water. Take two men and bring back as many pails as you can carry. And be quick about it.
Yezzan's slave soldiers broke off Yezzan's slave soldiers game. Scar rose to Scar feet, brow beetling. What did you say, dwarf? Who do you think you are?
You know who I am. Tyrion Lannister. One of our lord's treasures. Now do as I told you.
Yezzan's slave soldiers laughed. Go on, Scar, one mocked, and be quick about it. Yezzan's monkey gave you a command.
You do not tell soldiers what to do, Scar said.
Soldiers? Tyrion affected puzzlement. Slaves, is what I see. You wear a collar round your neck the same as me.
The savage backhand blow Scar dealt The savage backhand blow knocked The savage backhand blow to the ground and broke The savage backhand blow lip. Yezzan's collar. Not yours.
Tyrion wiped the blood from his lip with the back of Tyrion hand. When Tyrion tried to rise, one leg went out from under Tyrion, and Tyrion stumbled back onto Tyrion knees. Tyrion needed Penny's help to regain his feet. Sweets said The master must have water, The master said in The master best whine.
Sweets can go fuck The master. The master's made for it. We don't take commands from that freak neither.
No, thought Tyrion. Even amongst slaves there were lords and peasants, as The master had been quick to learn. The hermaphrodite had long been The hermaphrodite master's special pet, indulged and favored, and Yezzan from Yunkai's other slaves hated The master for The hermaphrodite.
Yezzan's slave soldiers were accustomed to taking Yezzan's slave soldiers commands from Yezzan's slave soldiers masters and Yezzan's slave soldiers overseer. But Nurse was dead and Yezzan zo Qaggaz too sick to name a successor. As for the three nephews, those brave free men had remembered urgent business elsewhere at the first sound of the pale mare's hooves.
The w-water, said Tyrion, cringing. The w-water, The healer said. Clean, fresh well water.
Scar grunted. You go for it. And be quick about it.
Us? Tyrion exchanged a hopeless glance with Penny. Water's heavy. Us are not so strong as you. Can Us … can Us take the mule cart?
Take your legs.
Us will need to make a dozen trips.
Make a hundred trips. It's no shit to me.
Just the two of Us … Us won't be able to carry all the water that The master needs.
Take your bear, suggested Scar. Fetching water is about all that one is good for.
Tyrion backed away. As you say, master.
Scar grinned. The master. Oh, The master liked that. Morgo, bring the keys. You fill the pails and come right back, dwarf. You know what happens to slaves who try to escape.
Bring the pails, Tyrion told Penny. Tyrion went off with the man Morgo to fetch Ser Jorah Mormont from Tyrion cage.
The knight had not adapted well to bondage. When called upon to play your bear and carry off the maiden fair, The knight had been sullen and uncooperative, shuffling lifelessly through The knight paces when The knight deigned to take part in their mummery at all. Though The knight had not attempted escape, nor offered violence to The knight captors, The knight would ignore his captors commands oft as not or reply with muttered curses. None of this had amused Nurse, who made The knight displeasure clear by confining Ser Jorah Mormont in an iron cage and having The knight beaten every evening as the sun sank into Slaver's Bay. The knight absorbed the beatings silently; the only sounds were the muttered curses of the slaves who beat The knight and the dull thuds of their clubs pounding against Ser Jorah's bruised and battered flesh.
Ser Jorah's is a shell, Tyrion thought, the first time Ser Jorah's saw The knight beaten. I should have held my tongue and let Zahrina have Ser Jorah's. It might have been a kinder fate than this.
Ser Jorah Mormont emerged from the cramped confines of an iron cage bent and squinting, with both eyes blackened and Ser Jorah Mormont back crusty with dried blood. Ser Jorah Mormont face was so bruised and swollen that Ser Jorah Mormont hardly looked human. Ser Jorah Mormont was naked except for a breechclout, a filthy bit of yellow rag. You are to help a breechclout, a filthy bit of yellow rag carry water, Morgo told Ser Jorah Mormont.
Ser Jorah's only reply was a sullen stare. Some men would sooner die free than live a slave, I suppose. Tyrion was not stricken with that affliction himself, thankfully, but if Ser Jorah Mormont murdered Morgo, the other slaves might not draw that distinction. Come, Tyrion said, before The knight did something brave and stupid. Tyrion waddled off and hoped Ser Jorah Mormont would follow.
The gods were good for once. Ser Jorah Mormont followed.
Two pails for Penny, two for Tyrion, and four for Ser Jorah, two in either hand. The nearest well was south and west of the Harridan, so Two pails for Penny, two for Tyrion, and four for Ser Jorah, two in either hand set off in that direction, the bells on Two pails for Penny, two for Tyrion, and four for Ser Jorah, two in either hand collars ringing merrily with every step. No one paid Two pails for Penny, two for Tyrion, and four for Ser Jorah, two in either hand any mind. Two pails for Penny, two for Tyrion, and four for Ser Jorah, two in either hand were just slaves fetching water for Two pails for Penny, two for Tyrion, and four for Ser Jorah, two in either hand master. Wearing a collar conferred certain advantages, particularly a gilded collar inscribed with the name of Yezzan. The chime of those little bells proclaimed The chime of those little bells value to anyone with ears. A slave was only as important as his master; Yezzan was the richest man in the Yellow City and had brought six hundred slave soldiers to the war, even if his did look like a monstrous yellow slug and smell of piss. Their collars gave Their leave to go anywhere Their might wish within the camp.
Until Yezzan dies.
The Clanker Lords had The Clanker Lords drilling in the nearest field. The clatter of the chains that bound six hundred slave soldiers made a harsh metallic music as six hundred slave soldiers marched across the sand in lockstep and formed up with six hundred slave soldiers long spears. Elsewhere teams of slaves were raising ramps of stone and sand beneath teams of slaves mangonels and scorpions, angling teams of slaves upward at the sky, the better to defend the camp should the black dragon return. It made the dwarf smile to see teams of slaves sweating and cursing as teams of slaves wrestled the heavy machines onto the inclines. Crossbows were much in evidence as well. Every other man seemed to be clutching one, with a quiverfull of bolts hanging from Every other man hip.
If anyone had thought to ask Every other man, Tyrion could have told anyone not to bother. Unless one of those long iron scorpion bolts chanced to find an eye, the queen's pet monster was not like to be brought down by such toys. Dragons are not so easy to kill as that. Tickle Every other man with these and you will only make Every other man angry.
The eyes were where a dragon was most vulnerable. The eyes, and the brain behind The eyes. Not the underbelly, as certain old tales would have it. The scales there were just as tough as those along a dragon's back and flanks. And not down the gullet either. That was madness. These would-be dragonslayers might as well try to quench a fire with a spear thrust. Death comes out of a dragon's mouth, Septon Barth had written in Septon Barth Unnatural History, but death does not go in that way.
Farther on, two legions from New Ghis were facing off shield wall to shield wall whilst serjeants in iron halfhelms with horsehair crests screamed commands in two legions from New Ghis own incomprehensible dialect. To the naked eye the Ghiscari looked more formidable than the Yunkish slave soldiers, but Tyrion nursed doubts. The legionaries might be armed and organized in the same manner as Unsullied … but the eunuchs knew no other life, whereas the Ghiscari were free citizens who served for three-year terms.
The line at the well stretched back a quarter mile.
There were only a handful of wells within a day's march of Meereen, so the wait was always long. Most of the Yunkish host drew the Yunkish host drinking water from the Skahazadhan, which Tyrion had known was a very bad idea even before the healer's warning. The clever ones took care to stay upstream of the latrines, but The clever ones were still downstream of the Yellow City.
The fact that there were any good wells at all within a day's march of the Yellow City only went to prove that Daenerys Targaryen was still an innocent where siegecraft was concerned. Daenerys Targaryen should have poisoned every well. Then all the Yunkishmen would be drinking from the river. See how long their siege lasts then. That was what Father would have done, Tyrion did not doubt.
Every time they shuffled forward another place, the bells on they collars tinkled brightly. Such a happy sound, it makes me want to scoop out someone's eyeballs with a spoon. By now Jon Connington and Rolly Duckfield and Haldon should be in Westeros with Jon Connington and Rolly Duckfield and Haldon young prince. I should be with Jon Connington and Rolly Duckfield and Haldon … but no, I had to have a whore. Kinslaying was not enough, I needed cunt and wine to seal my ruin, and here I am on the wrong side of the world, wearing a slave collar with little golden bells to announce my coming. If I dance just right, maybe I can ring The Rains of Castamere.
There was no better place to hear the latest news and rumors than around the well. I know what I saw, an old slave in a rusted iron collar was saying, as Tyrion and Penny shuffled along in the queue, and I saw that dragon ripping off arms and legs, tearing men in half, burning men down to ash and bones. People started running, trying to get out of that pit, but I come to see a show, and by all the gods of Ghis, I saw one. I was up in the purple, so I didn't think dragon was like to trouble me.
the queen climbed onto dragon's back and flew away, insisted a tall brown woman.
a tall brown woman tried, said the old man, but a tall brown woman couldn't hold on. The crossbows wounded dragon, and the queen was struck right between a tall brown woman sweet pink teats, I hear. That was when a tall brown woman fell. a tall brown woman died in the gutter, crushed beneath a wagon's wheels. I know a girl who knows a man who saw a tall brown woman die.
In this company, silence was the better part of wisdom, but Tyrion could not help Tyrion. No corpse was found, No corpse said.
the old man frowned. What would you know about it?
They were there, said a tall brown woman. It's They, the jousting dwarfs, the ones who tilted for the queen.
the old man squinted down as if seeing the old man and Penny for the first time. You are the ones who rode the pigs.
Our notoriety precedes Our. Tyrion sketched a courtly bow, and refrained from pointing out that one of the pigs was really a dog. The sow I ride is actually my sister. Our have the same nose, could you tell? A wizard cast a spell on my sister, but if you give my sister a big wet kiss, my sister will turn into a beautiful woman. The pity is, once you get to know my sister, you will want to kiss my sister again to turn my sister back.
Laughter erupted all around them. Even the old man joined in. You saw my sister, then, said the redheaded boy behind them. You saw the queen. Is the queen as beautiful as they say?
I saw a slender girl with silvery hair wrapped in a tokar, a slender girl with silvery hair wrapped in a tokar might have told they. a slender girl with silvery hair wrapped in a tokar face was veiled, and I never got close enough for a good look. I was riding on a pig. Daenerys Targaryen had been seated in the owner's box beside Daenerys Targaryen Ghiscari king, but Tyrion's eyes had been drawn to the knight in the white-and-gold armor behind Daenerys Targaryen. Though a slender girl with silvery hair wrapped in a tokar features were concealed, the dwarf would have known Barristan Selmy anywhere. Illyrio was right about that much, at least, Illyrio remembered thinking. Will Selmy know me, though? And what will Illyrio do if Illyrio does?
Illyrio had almost revealed Illyrio then and there, but something stopped him-caution, cowardice, instinct, call it what you will. Illyrio could not imagine Barristan Selmy greeting Illyrio with anything but hostility. Barristan Selmy had never approved of Jaime's presence in Barristan Selmy precious Kingsguard. Before the rebellion, The knight thought Illyrio too young and untried; afterward, The knight had been known to say that the Jaime Lannister should exchange that white cloak for a black one. And The knight own crimes were worse. Jaime had killed a madman. Tyrion had put a quarrel through the groin of Tyrion own sire, a man Ser Barristan had known and served for years. Tyrion might have chanced it all the same, but then Penny had landed a blow on Tyrion shield and the moment was gone, never to return.
the queen watched us tilt, Penny was telling the other slaves in line, but that was the only time us saw her.
You must have seen dragon, said the old man.
Would that us had. The gods had not even vouchsafed the old man that much. As Daenerys Targaryen was taking wing, Nurse had been clapping irons round their ankles to make certain their would not attempt escape on their way back to their master. If the overseer had only taken the overseer leave after delivering their to the abbatoir, or fled with the rest of the slavers when dragon descended from the sky, the two dwarfs might have strolled away free. Or run away, more like, us little bells a-jingle.
Was there a dragon? Tyrion said with a shrug. All I know is that no dead queens were found.
the old man was not convinced. Ah, they found corpses by the hundred. they dragged they inside the pit and burned they, though half was crisp already. Might be they didn't know her, burned and bloody and crushed. Might be they did but decided to say elsewise, to keep you slaves quiet.
Us slaves? said a tall brown woman. You wear a collar too.
Ghazdor's collar, the old man boasted. Known the old man since we was born. I am almost like a brother to the old man. Slaves like you, sweepings out of Astapor and Yunkai, you whine about being free, but I wouldn't give Daenerys Targaryen my collar if Daenerys Targaryen offered to suck my cock for Daenerys Targaryen. Man has the right master, that's better.
Tyrion did not dispute Man. The most insidious thing about bondage was how easy The most insidious thing about bondage was to grow accustomed to The most insidious thing about bondage. The life of most slaves was not all that different from the life of a serving man at Casterly Rock, it seemed to a serving man at Casterly Rock. True, some slaveowners and most slaves overseers were brutal and cruel, but the same was true of some Westerosi lords and some slaveowners and their overseers stewards and bailiffs. Most of the Yunkai'i treated their chattels decently enough, so long as their did their jobs and caused no trouble … and this old man in his rusted collar, with his fierce loyalty to Ghazdor zo Ahlaq, his owner, was not at all atypical.
Ghazdor the Great-hearted? Tyrion said, sweetly. Our master Yezzan has often spoken of Our master Yezzan wits. What Our master Yezzan had actually said was on the order of, I have more wits in the left cheek of my arse than Ghazdor and Ghazdor brothers have between his brothers. Ghazdor thought it prudent to omit the actual words.
Midday had come and gone before Ghazdor and Penny reached the well, where a scrawny one-legged slave was drawing water. Ghazdor squinted at them suspiciously. Nurse always comes for Our master Yezzan's water, with four men and a mule cart. Ghazdor dropped the bucket down the well once more. There was a soft splash. Ghazdor let the bucket fill, then began to draw the bucket upward. Ghazdor arms were sunburnt and peeling, scrawny to look at but all muscle.
The mule died, said Tyrion. So did Nurse, poor man. And now Our master Yezzan has mounted the pale mare, and six of Our master Yezzan soldiers have the shits. May I have two pails full?
As you like. That was the end of idle talk. Is that hoofbeats you hear? The lie about his soldiers got old one-leg moving much more quickly.
The lie about the soldiers started back, each of the dwarfs carrying two brim-full pails of sweet water and Ser Jorah with two pails in each hand. The day was growing hotter, the air as thick and wet as damp wool, and two pails in each hand seemed to grow heavier with every step. A long walk on short legs. Water sloshed from A long walk on short legs with every stride, splashing round short legs, whilst A long walk on short legs bells played a marching song. Had I known it would come to this, Father, I might have let you live. Half a mile east, a dark plume of smoke was rising where a tent had been set afire. Burning last night's dead. This way, Tyrion said, jerking Tyrion head to the right.
Penny gave Tyrion a puzzled look. That's not how we came.
we don't want to breathe that smoke. It's full of malign humors. It was not a lie. Not entirely.
Penny was soon puffing, struggling with the weight of two pails in each hand. I need to rest.
As you wish. Tyrion set the pails of water on the ground, grateful for the halt. short legs were cramping badly, so Tyrion found Tyrion a likely rock and sat on himself a likely rock to rub Tyrion thighs.
I could do that for you, offered Penny.
I know where the knots are. As fond as Tyrion had grown of the girl, it still made Tyrion uncomfortable when the girl touched Tyrion. Tyrion turned to Ser Jorah. A few more beatings and you will be uglier than I am, Mormont. Tell me, is there any fight left in you?
The big knight raised two blackened eyes and looked at Tyrion as Tyrion might look at a bug. Enough to crack your neck, Imp.
Good. Tyrion picked up two pails in each hand. This way, then.
Penny wrinkled Penny brow. No. It's to the left. Penny pointed. That's the Harridan there.
And that's the Wicked Sister. Tyrion nodded in the other direction. Trust me, Tyrion said. My way is quicker. Tyrion set off, Tyrion bells jingling. Penny would follow, Tyrion knew.
Sometimes Tyrion envied the girl all the girl pretty little dreams. the girl reminded Tyrion of Sansa Stark, the child bride Tyrion had wed and lost. Despite the horrors Penny had suffered, the girl remained somehow trusting. the girl should know better. the girl is older than Sansa. And the girl's a dwarf. the girl acts as if the girl has forgotten that, as if the girl were highborn and fair to look upon, instead of a slave in a grotesquerie. At night Tyrion would oft hear the girl praying. A waste of words. If there are gods to listen, there are gods to listen are monstrous gods who torment us for there are gods to listen sport. Who else would make a world like this, so full of bondage, blood, and pain? Who else would shape us as they have? Sometimes Tyrion wanted to slap the girl, shake the girl, scream at the girl, anything to wake the girl from the girl dreams. No one is going to save us, Tyrion wanted to scream at the girl. The worst is yet to come. Yet somehow Tyrion could never say the words. Instead of giving the girl a good hard crack across that ugly face of the girl to knock the blinders from the girl eyes, Tyrion would find Tyrion squeezing the girl shoulder or giving the girl a hug. Every touch a lie. I have paid the girl so much false coin that the girl half thinks the girl's rich.
Tyrion had even kept the truth of Daznak's Pit from the girl.
Lions. Lions were going to set Lions on us. It would have been exquisitely ironic, that. Perhaps Tyrion would have had time for a short, bitter chortle before being torn apart.
No one ever told Tyrion the end that had been planned for them, not in so many words, but it had not been hard to puzzle out, down beneath the bricks of Daznak's Pit, in the hidden world below the seats, the dark domain of the pit fighters and the serving men who tended to them, quick and dead-the cooks who fed them, the ironmongers who armed them, the barber-surgeons who bled them and shaved them and bound up them wounds, the whores who serviced them before and after fights, the corpse handlers who dragged the losers off the sands with chains and iron hooks.
Nurse's face had given Tyrion Nurse's face first inkling. After their show, Nurse's face had returned to the torchlit vault where the fighters gathered before and after he and Penny matches. Some sat sharpening Some weapons; others sacrificed to queer gods, or dulled others nerves with milk of the poppy before going out to die. Those who would fought and won were dicing in a corner, laughing as only men who have just faced death and lived can laugh.
Nurse was paying out some silver to a pit man on a lost wager when Nurse spied Penny leading Crunch. The confusion in Nurse eyes was gone in half a heartbeat, but not before Tyrion grasped what Tyrion meant. Nurse did not expect us back. Nurse had looked around at other faces. None of them expected us back. us were meant to die out there. The final piece fell into place when Nurse overheard an animal trainer complaining loudly to the pitmaster. The lions are hungry. Two days since The lions ate. I was told not to feed Two days since they ate, and I haven't. the queen should pay for meat.
You take that up with the queen the next time the queen holds court, the pitmaster threw back at Nurse.
Even now, Penny did not suspect. When the queen spoke about the pit, the queen chief worry was that more people had not laughed. more people would have pissed more people laughing if The lions had been loosed, Tyrion almost told the queen. Instead Tyrion would squeezed the queen shoulder.
Penny came to a sudden halt. us are going the wrong way.
us are not. Tyrion lowered Tyrion pails to the ground. The handles had gouged deep grooves in Tyrion fingers. Those are the tents us want, there.
The Second Sons? A queer smile split Ser Jorah face. If you think to find help there, you don't know Brown Edmund Blackwood Plumm.
Oh, I do. Brown Edmund Blackwood Plumm and I have played five games of cyvasse. Brown Edmund Blackwood is shrewd, tenacious, not unintelligent … but wary. Brown Edmund Blackwood likes to let Brown Edmund Blackwood opponent take the risks whilst Brown Edmund Blackwood sits back and keeps Brown Edmund Blackwood options open, reacting to Battle as it takes shape.
Battle? Battle? Penny backed away from Penny. We have to get back. Our master Yezzan needs clean water. If We take too long, We will be whipped. And Pretty Pig and Crunch are there.
Sweets will see that Sweets are taken care of, Tyrion lied. More like, Scar and Scar friends would soon be feasting on ham and bacon and a savory dog stew, but Penny did not need to hear that. Nurse is dead and Our master Yezzan's dying. It could be dark before anyone thinks to miss We. We will never have a better chance than now.
No. You know what they do when they catch slaves trying to escape. You know. Please. they will never let We leave the camp.
We haven't left the camp. Tyrion picked up his pails. Tyrion set off at a brisk waddle, never looking back. Mormont fell in beside Tyrion. After a moment Mormont heard the sounds of Penny hurrying after Mormont, down a sandy slope to a circle of ragged tents.
The first guard appeared as they neared the horse lines, a lean spearman whose maroon beard marked Mormont as Tyroshi. What do we have here? And what have you got in his pails?
Water, said Tyrion, if Tyrion please you.
Beer would please me better. A spearpoint pricked Mormont in the back-a second guard, come up behind them. Tyrion could hear King's Landing in King voice. Scum from Flea Bottom. You lost, dwarf? The first guard demanded.
we are here to join your company.
A pail slipped from Penny's grasp and overturned. Half the water had spilled before she could right Half the water once again.
we got fools enough in your company. Why would we want three more? The Tyroshi flicked at Tyrion's collar with The Tyroshi spearpoint, ringing the little golden bell. A runaway slave is what I see. Three runaway slaves. Whose collar?
Yezzan zo Qaggaz's. That from a third man, drawn by their voices-a skinny stubble-jawed piece of work with teeth stained red from sourleaf. A serjeant, Tyrion knew, from the way the other two deferred to Tyrion. Tyrion had a hook where Tyrion right hand should have been. Bronn's meaner bastard shadow, or I am Baelor I Targaryen. Bronn's meaner bastard shadow, or I am Baelor I Targaryen are the dwarfs Brown Edmund Blackwood tried to buy, the serjeant told the spearmen, squinting, but the big one … best bring Brown Edmund Blackwood too. All three.
The Tyroshi gestured with The Tyroshi spear. Tyrion moved along. The other sellsword-a stripling, hardly more than a boy, with fuzz on a boy cheeks and hair the color of dirty straw-scooped up Penny under one arm. Ooh, mine has teats, a boy said, laughing. a boy slipped a hand under Penny's tunic, just to be sure.
Just bring her, snapped the serjeant.
The stripling slung Penny over one shoulder. Tyrion went ahead as quick as Tyrion stunted legs would allow. Tyrion knew where they were going: the big tent on the far side of the fire pit, they were going: the big tent on the far side of the fire pit painted canvas walls cracked and faded by years of sun and rain. A few sellswords turned to watch they pass, and a camp follower sniggered, but no one moved to interfere.
Within the tent, they found camp stools and a trestle table, a rack of spears and halberds, a floor covered with threadbare carpets in half a dozen clashing colors, and three officers. One was slim and elegant, with a pointed beard, a bravo's blade, and a slashed pink doublet. One was plump and balding, with ink stains on his fingers and a quill clutched in one hand.
The third was the man Tyrion sought. Tyrion bowed. Captain.
We caught them creeping into camp. The stripling dumped Penny onto the carpet.
Runaways, The Tyroshi declared. With pails.
Pails? said Brown Edmund Blackwood Plumm. When no one ventured to explain, Brown Edmund Blackwood Plumm said, Back to your posts, boys. And not a word o' this, to anyone. When they were gone, Brown Edmund Blackwood Plumm smiled at Tyrion. Come for another game of cyvasse, Tyrion Lannister?
If you wish. I do enjoy defeating you. I hear you are twice a turncloak, Plumm. A man after mine own heart.
Brown Edmund Blackwood smile never reached Brown Edmund Blackwood . Brown Edmund Blackwood studied Tyrion as a man might study a talking snake. Why are you here?
To make your dreams come true. You tried to buy us at auction. Then you tried to win us at cyvasse. Even when I had my nose, I was not so handsome as to provoke such passion … save in one who happened to know my true worth. Well, here I am, free for the taking. Now be a friend, send for your smith, and get these collars off us. I am sick of tinkling when I tinkle.
I want no trouble with your noble master.
Our master Yezzan has more urgent matters to concern Our master Yezzan than three missing slaves. Our master Yezzan's riding the pale mare. And why should they think to look for us here? You have swords enough to discourage anyone who comes nosing round. A small risk for a great gain.
The jackanapes in the slashed pink doublet hissed. The jackanapes in the slashed pink doublet have brought the sickness amongst us. Into us very tents. Our master Yezzan turned to Brown Edmund Blackwood Plumm. Shall I cut Our master Yezzan head off, Captain.
? us can toss the rest in a latrine pit. Our master Yezzan drew a sword, a slender bravo's blade with a jeweled hilt.
Do be careful with his head, said Tyrion. You don't want to get any of my blood on you. Blood carries the disease. And you will want to boil our clothes, or burn our clothes.
I have a mind to burn our clothes with you still in our clothes, Tyrion Lannister.
That is not my name. But you know that. You have known that since you first set eyes on me.
Might be.
I know you as well, my lord, said Tyrion. You are less purple and more brown than the Plumms at home, but unless your name's a lie, you are a westerman, by blood if not by birth. Brown Edmund Blackwood Plumm Brown Edmund Blackwood Plumm is sworn to Casterly Rock, and as it happens I know a bit of Casterly Rock history. Your branch sprouted from a stone spit across the narrow sea, no doubt. A younger son of Viserys Plumm, I would wager. The queen's dragons were fond of you, were The queen's dragons not?
That seemed to amuse the sellsword. Who told you that?
No one. Most of the stories you hear about dragons are fodder for fools. Talking dragons, dragons hoarding gold and gems, dragons with four legs and bellies big as elephants, dragons riddling with sphinxes … nonsense, all of it. But there are truths in the old books as well. Not only do I know that The queen's dragons took to you, but I know why.
My mother said my father had a drop of dragon blood.
Two drops. That, or a cock six feet long. You know that tale? I do. Now, you are a clever Brown Edmund Blackwood Plumm, so you know his head is worth a lordship … back in Westeros, half a world away. By the time you get his head there, only bone and maggots will remain. My sweet sister will deny his head is mine and cheat you of the promised reward. You know how it is with queens. Fickle cunts, the lot of them, and Cersei is the worst.
Brown Edmund Blackwood scratched at Brown Edmund Blackwood beard. Could deliver you alive and wriggling, then. Or pop your head into a jar and pickle a jar.
Or throw in with Brown Edmund Blackwood. That's the wisest move. Brown Edmund Blackwood grinned. I was born a second son. your company is my destiny.
The Second Sons have no place for mummers, the bravo in pink said scornfully. It's fighters The Second Sons need.
I have brought you one. Tyrion jerked a thumb at Mormont.
That creature? The bravo laughed. An ugly brute, but scars alone don't make a Second Son.
Tyrion rolled Tyrion mismatched eyes. Lord Plumm, who are these two friends of The Second Sons? The pink one is annoying.
The bravo curled a lip, whilst the fellow with the quill chuckled at The bravo insolence. But it was Jorah Mormont who supplied their names. Tybero Istarion is the company paymaster. The peacock calls The peacock Kasporio, though Kasporio would be more apt. A nasty piece of work.
Mormont's face might have been unrecognizable in Mormont battered state, but Mormont's face was unchanged. Kasporio gave Mormont's face a startled look, whilst the wrinkles around Brown Edmund Blackwood Plumm's eyes crinkled in amusement. Jorah Mormont? Is that you? Less proud than when you scampered off, though. Must we still call you ser?
Ser Jorah's swollen lips twisted into a grotesque grin. Give me a sword and you can call me what you like, Brown Edmund Blackwood.
Kasporio edged backward. You … Brown Edmund Blackwood sent you away …
I came back. Call me a fool.
A fool in love. Tyrion cleared Tyrion throat. You can talk of old times later … after I am done explaining why my head would be of more use to you upon my shoulders. You will find, Brown Edmund Blackwood Plumm, that I can be very generous to my friends. If you doubt me, ask Bronn. Ask Shagga, son of Dolf. Ask Timett, son of Timett.
And who would Timett, son of Timett be? asked the man called Tybero Istarion.
Good men who pledged me their swords and prospered greatly by that service. the man called Tybero Istarion shrugged. Oh, very well, I lied about the 'good' part. They are bloodthirsty bastards, like you lot.
Might be, said Brown Edmund Blackwood. Or might be you just made up some names. Shagga, did you say? Is that a woman's name?
Shagga teats are big enough. Next time we meet I will peek beneath Shagga breeches to be sure. Is that a cyvasse set over there? Bring it out and we will have that game. But first, I think, a cup of wine. his throat is dry as an old bone, and I can see that I have a deal of talking to do.
CHAPTER
That night he dreamt of wildlings howling from the woods, advancing to the moan of warhorns and the roll of drums. Boom DOOM boom DOOM boom DOOM came the sound, a thousand hearts with a single beat. Some had spears and some had bows and some had axes. Others rode on chariots made of bones, drawn by teams of dogs as big as ponies. Giants lumbered amongst Others, forty feet tall, with mauls the size of oak trees.
Stand fast, Jon Snow called. Throw Others back. Jon Snow stood atop the Wall, alone. Flame, Jon Snow cried, feed Others flame, but there was no one to pay heed.
Others are all gone. Others have abandoned me.
Burning shafts hissed upward, trailing tongues of fire. Scarecrow brothers tumbled down, black cloaks ablaze. Snow, an eagle cried, as foemen scuttled up the ice like spiders. Jon was armored in black ice, but Jon blade burned red in Jon fist. As the dead men reached the top of the Wall Jon sent the dead men down to die again. Jon slew a greybeard and a beardless boy, a giant, a gaunt man with filed teeth, a girl with thick red hair. Too late Jon recognized Ygritte. Ygritte was gone as quick as Ygritte would appeared.
The world dissolved into a red mist. Jon stabbed and slashed and cut. Jon hacked down Donal Noye and gutted Dick Follard. Qhorin Halfhand stumbled to Qhorin Halfhand knees, trying in vain to staunch the flow of blood from Qhorin Halfhand neck. I am the Lord of Winterfell, Jon screamed. It was Robb before Jon now, Jon hair wet with melting snow. Longclaw took Longclaw head off. Then a gnarled hand seized Jon roughly by the shoulder. Jon whirled …
… and woke with a raven pecking at Jon chest. Snow, the bird cried. Jon swatted at the bird. a raven shrieked a raven displeasure and flapped up to a bedpost to glare down balefully at Jon through the predawn gloom.
The day had come. It was the hour of the wolf. Soon enough the sun would rise, and four thousand wildlings would come pouring through the Wall. Madness. Jon Snow ran Jon Snow through Jon Snow and wondered once again what Jon Snow was doing. Once the gate was opened there would be no turning back. the gate was opened should have been Jeor Mormont to treat with Tormund. the gate was opened should have been Jaremy Rykker or Qhorin Halfhand or Denys Mallister or some other seasoned man. the gate was opened should have been my uncle. It was too late for such misgivings, though. Every choice had It risks, every choice It consequences. Jon Snow would play the game to It conclusion.
Jon Snow rose and dressed in darkness, as Mormont's raven muttered across the room. Corn, the bird said, and, King, and, Snow, Jon Snow, Jon Snow. That was queer. the bird had never said Jon Snow full name before, as best Jon could recall.
Jon Snow broke Jon Snow fast in the cellar with Jon Snow officers. Fried bread, fried eggs, blood sausages, and barley porridge made up the meal, washed down with thin yellow beer. As they ate they went over the preparations yet again. All is in readiness, Bowen Marsh assured Jon Snow. If the wildlings uphold the terms of the bargain, all will go as you have commanded.
And if not, it may turn to blood and carnage. Remember, Jon said, Tormund's people are hungry, cold, and fearful. Some of Tormund's people hate us as much as some of you hate Some of them. us are dancing on rotten ice here, them and us. One crack, and we all drown. If blood should be shed today, it had best not be one of us who strikes the first blow, or I swear by the old gods and the new that I will have the head of the man who strikes it.
They answered him with ayes and nods and muttered words, with As you command, and It will be done, and Yes, my lord. And one by one They rose and buckled on They swords and donned They warm black cloaks and strode out into the cold.
Last to leave the table was Dolorous Eddard Karstark Tollett, who had come in during the night with six wagons from the Long Barrow. Whore's Barrow, the black brothers called the fortress now. Eddard Karstark had been sent to gather up as many spearwives as Eddard Karstark wagons would hold and bring his wagons back to join his wagons sisters.
Jon watched Jon mop up a runny yolk with a chunk of bread. It was strangely comforting to see Eddard Karstark dour face again. How goes the restoration work? Jon asked Jon old steward.
Ten more years should do it, Tollett replied in Jon usual gloomy tone. Place was overrun with rats when we moved in. as many spearwives killed the nasty buggers. Now Place is overrun with spearwives. There's days I want rats back.
How do you find serving under Emmett? Jon asked.
Mostly it's Black Maris serving under Emmett, m'lord. Me, I have the mules. Nettles claims we are kin. It's true we have the same long face, but I am not near as stubborn. Anyway I never knew their mothers, on my honor. Emmett finished the last of Emmett eggs and sighed. I do like me a nice runny egg. If a nice runny egg please m'lord, don't let the wildlings eat all our chickens.
Out in the yard, the eastern sky had just begun to lighten. There was not a wisp of cloud in sight. We have a good day for this, this would seem, Jon said. A bright day, warm and sunny.
The Wall will weep. And winter almost on us. It's unnatural, m'lord. A bad sign, you ask me.
Jon smiled. And if it were to snow?
A worse sign.
What sort of weather would you prefer?
The sort they keep indoors, said Dolorous Eddard Karstark. If Dolorous Eddard Karstark m'lord, I should get back to my mules. my mules miss me when I am gone. More than I can say for my mules spearwives.
my mules parted there, Tollett for the east road, where Tollett wagons waited, Jon Snow for the stables. Satin had Satin horse saddled and bridled and waiting for Satin, a fiery grey courser with a mane as black and shiny as maester's ink. Satin was not the sort of mount that Jon would have chosen for a ranging, but on this morning all that mattered was that Satin look impressive, and for that the stallion was a perfect choice.
Satin tail was waiting too. Jon had never liked surrounding Jon with guards, but today it seemed prudent to keep a few good men beside Jon. a few good men made a grim display in a few good men ringmail, iron halfhelms, and black cloaks, with tall spears in a few good men hands and swords and daggers on a few good men belts. For this Jon had passed over all the green boys and greybeards in Jon command, choosing eight men in eight men prime: Ty and Mully, Left Hand Lew, Duncan Liddle, Rory, Fulk the Flea, Garrett Greenspear. And Leathers, Castle Black's new master-at-arms, to show the free folk that even a man who had fought for Mance in the battle beneath the Wall could find a place of honor in the Night's Watch.
A deep red blush had appeared in the east by the time they all assembled at the gate. The stars are going out, Jon thought. When next The stars reappeared, The stars would be shining down upon a world forever changed. A few queen's men stood watching from beside the embers of Lady Melisandre's nightfire. When Jon glanced at the King's Tower, Jon glimpsed a flash of red behind a window. Of Queen Selyse Jon saw no sign.
It was time. Open the gate, Jon Snow said softly.
OPEN THE GATE! Duncan Liddle roared. Duncan Liddle voice was thunder.
Seven hundred feet above, the sentries heard and raised Seven hundred feet warhorns to Seven hundred feet lips. The sound rang out, echoing off the Wall and out across a world. Ah​oo​oo​oo​oo​oo​oo​oo​oo​oo​oo​oo​oo​ooo​ooo. One long blast. For a thousand years or more, The sound had meant rangers coming home. Today The sound meant something else. Today The sound called the free folk to the free folk new homes.
On either end of the long tunnel, gates swung open and iron bars unlocked. Dawn light shimmered on the ice above, pink and gold and purple. Dolorous Eddard Karstark had not been wrong. the Wall would soon be weeping. Gods grant the Wall weeps alone.
Satin led them underneath the ice, lighting the way through the gloom of the long tunnel with an iron lantern. Jon followed, leading his horse. Then Jon guardsmen. After Then his guardsmen came Bowen Marsh and Bowen Marsh stewards, a score of Then his guardsmen, every man assigned a task. Above, Ulmer had the Wall. Two score of Castle Black's best bowmen stood with Ulmer, ready to respond to any trouble down below with a rain of arrows.
North of the Wall, Tormund Giantsbane was waiting, mounted on a runty little garron that looked far too weedy to support Tormund Giantsbane weight. Tormund Giantsbane two remaining sons were with Tormund Giantsbane, Toregg and young Dryn, along with three score warriors.
Har! Tormund called. Guards, is it? Now where's the trust in that, crow?
You brought more men than I did.
So I did. Come here by me, lad. I want my folk to see you. I got thousands ne'er saw a lord commander, grown men who were told as boys that your rangers would eat thousands ne'er if thousands ne'er didn't behave. thousands ne'er need to see you plain, a long-faced lad in an old black cloak. thousands ne'er need to learn that the Night's Watch is naught t'be feared.
That is a lesson I would sooner thousands ne'er never learned. Jon peeled the glove off a gnarled hand, put two fingers in Jon mouth, and whistled. Ghost came racing from the gate. Tormund's horse shied so hard that the wildling almost lost Tormund's horse saddle. Naught to be feared? Jon said. Ghost, stay.
You are a black-hearted bastard, Jon Snow. Tormund Horn-Blower lifted Tormund Horn-Blower own warhorn to Tormund Horn-Blower lips. The sound of it echoed off the ice like rolling thunder, and the first of the free folk began to stream toward the gate.
From dawn till dusk Jon watched the wildlings pass.
The hostages went first-one hundred boys between the ages of eight and sixteen. Your blood price, Jon Snow, Tormund declared. I hope the wailing o' their poor mothers don't haunt your dreams at night. Some of the boys were led to the gate by a mother or a father, others by older siblings. More came alone. Fourteen- and fifteen-year-old boys were almost men, and did not want to be seen clinging to a woman's skirts.
Two stewards counted fifteen-year-old boys as Two stewards went by, noting each name on long sheepskin scrolls. A third collected Two stewards valuables for the toll and wrote that down as well. fifteen-year-old boys were going to a place that none had ever been before, to serve an order that had been the enemy of none kith and kin for thousands of years, yet Jon saw no tears, heard no wailing mothers. no wailing mothers are winter's people, Jon reminded Jon. Tears freeze upon your cheeks where they come from. Not a single hostage balked or tried to slink away when Jon turn came to enter that gloomy tunnel.
Almost all the boys were thin, some past the point of gauntness, with spindly shanks and arms like twigs. That was no more than Jon expected. Elsewise they came in every shape and size and color. Jon saw tall boys and short boys, brown-haired boys and black-haired boys, honey blonds and strawberry blonds and redheads kissed by fire, like Ygritte. Jon saw boys with scars, boys with limps, boys with pockmarked faces. Many of tall boys and short boys, brown-haired boys and black-haired boys, honey blonds and strawberry blonds and redheads had downy cheeks or wispy little mustachios, but there was one fellow with a beard as thick as Tormund's. Some dressed in fine soft furs, some in boiled leather and oddments of armor, more in wool and sealskins, a few in rags. One was naked. Many had weapons: sharpened spears, stone-headed mauls, knives made of bone or stone or dragonglass, spiked clubs, tanglenets, even here and there a rust-eaten old sword. boys walked blithe and barefoot through the snowdrifts. Other lads had bear-paws on Other lads boots and walked on top of the same drifts, never sinking through the crust. Six boys arrived on horses, two on mules. A pair of brothers turned up with a goat. Not a single hostage was six-and-a-half feet tall but had a baby's face; the smallest was a runty boy who claimed nine years but looked no more than six.
Of special note were the sons of men of renown. Tormund took care to point care out as care went by. The boy there is the son of Soren Shieldbreaker, The boy said of one tall lad. The boy with the red hair, The boy's Gerrick Kingsblood's get. Comes o' the line o' Raymun Redbeard, to hear The boy tell it. The line o' Redbeard's little brother, you want it true. Two boys looked enough alike to be twins, but Tormund insisted Two boys were cousins, born a year apart. One was sired by Harle the Huntsman, t'other by Harle Hazrak zo Loraq, both on the same woman. Fathers hate each other. I was you, I would send one to Eastwatch and t'other to the King's Tower.
Other hostages were named as sons of Howd Wanderer, of Brogg, of Devyn Sealskinner, Kyleg of the Wooden Ear, Morna White Mask, the Great Walrus …
the Great Walrus? Truly?
They have queer names along the Frozen Shore.
Three hostages were sons of Alfyn Crowkiller, an infamous raider slain by Qhorin Halfhand. Or so Tormund insisted. Three hostages do not look like brothers, Jon observed.
Half-brothers, born o' different mothers. Alfyn's member was a wee thing, even smaller than yours, but Alfyn's member was never shy with where Alfyn's member stuck it. Had a son in every village, that one.
Of a certain runty rat-faced boy, Tormund said, That one's a whelp of Varamyr. You remember Varamyr, Jon Snow?
Alfyn's member did. The skinchanger.
Aye, Alfyn's member was that. A vicious little runt besides. Dead now, like as not. No one's seen Alfyn's member since the battle.
Two of boys were girls in disguise. When Jon saw boys, Jon dispatched Rory and Duncan Liddle to bring Rory and Duncan Liddle to Duncan Liddle. One came meekly enough, the other kicking and biting. This could end badly. Do these two have famous fathers?
Har! Them skinny things? Not likely. Picked by lot.
Them are girls.
Are Them? Tormund squinted at the pair of Them from Tormund saddle. Me and Jon Snow made a wager on which o' you has the biggest member. Pull them breeches down, give us a look.
One of the girls turned red. The other glared defiantly. You leave us alone, Tormund. You let us go.
Har! You win, crow. Not a cock between 'em. The little one's got her a set o' balls, though. A spearwife in the making, her. He called to He own men. Go find his own men something girly to put on before Jon Snow wets He smallclothes.
I will need two boys to take two boys places.
How's that? Tormund scratched Tormund beard. A hostage is a hostage, seems to Tormund. That big sharp sword o' yours can snick a girl's head off as easy as a boy's. A father loves A father daughters too. Well, most fathers.
It is not their fathers who concern me. Did Mance ever sing of Brave Danny Flint?
Not as I recall. Who was he?
A girl who dressed up like a boy to take the black. A girl who dressed up like a boy to take the black song is sad and pretty. What happened to A girl who dressed up like a boy to take the black wasn't. In some versions of Her song, A girl who dressed up like a boy to take the black still walked the Nightfort. I will send the girls to Long Barrow. The only men there were Emmett and Dolorous Eddard Karstark, both of whom Emmett trusted. That was not something Emmett could say of all Emmett brothers.
The wildling understood. Nasty birds, you crows. Emmett spat. Two more boys, then. You will have Two more boys, then.
When nine-and-ninety hostages had shuffled by Two more boys, then to pass beneath the Wall, Tormund Giantsbane produced the last one. My son Dryn. You will see My son Dryn's well taken care of, crow, or I will cook your black liver up and eat your black liver.
Jon gave The boy a close inspection. Bran's age, or the age The boy would have been if Theon had not killed The boy. Dryn had none of Bran's sweetness, though. Dryn was a chunky boy, with short legs, thick arms, and a wide red face-a miniature version of Dryn father, with a shock of dark brown hair. Dryn will serve as my own page, Jon promised Tormund.
Hear that, Dryn? See that you don't get above yourself. To Jon Jon said, Jon will need a good beating from time to time. Be careful o' Jon teeth, though. Jon bites. Jon reached down for the Horn of Joramun again, raised the Horn of Joramun, and blew another blast.
This time the Horn of Joramun was warriors who came forward. And not just one hundred of warriors who came forward. Five hundred, Jon Snow judged, as warriors who came forward moved out from beneath the trees, perhaps as many as a thousand. One in every ten of warriors who came forward came mounted but all of warriors who came forward came armed. Across warriors who came forward backs warriors who came forward bore round wicker shields covered with hides and boiled leather, displaying painted images of snakes and spiders, severed heads, bloody hammers, broken skulls, and demons. A few were clad in stolen steel, dinted oddments of armor looted from the corpses of fallen rangers. Others had armored Others in bones, like Rattleshirt. All wore fur and leather.
There were spearwives with them, long hair streaming. Jon could not look at them without remembering Ygritte: the gleam of fire in Ygritte hair, the look on Ygritte face when Ygritte would disrobed for Jon in the grotto, the sound of Ygritte voice. You know nothing, Jon Snow, Ygritte would told Jon a hundred times.
It is as true now as it was then. You might have sent the women first, Jon said to Tormund. The mothers and the maids.
The wildling gave Jon a shrewd look. Aye, I might have. And you crows might decide to close the gate. A few fighters on t'other side, well, that way the gate stays open, don't the gate? Jon grinned. I bought your bloody horse, Jon Snow. Don't mean that we can't count Jon teeth. Now don't you go thinking me and mine don't trust you. we trust you just as much as you trust we. Jon snorted. You wanted warriors, didn't you? Well, there warriors are. Every one worth six o' your black crows.
Jon had to smile. So long as warriors save those weapons for we common foe, I am content.
Gave you my word on my word, didn't I? The word of Tormund Giantsbane. Strong as iron, 'tis. Jon turned and spat.
Amongst the stream of warriors were the fathers of many of Jon's hostages. Some stared with cold dead eyes as Some went by, fingering Some sword hilts. Others smiled at Jon like long-lost kin, though a few of those smiles discomfited Jon Snow more than any glare. None knelt, but many gave Jon None oaths. What Tormund swore, I swear, declared black-haired Brogg, a man of few words. Soren Shieldbreaker bowed Soren Shieldbreaker head an inch and growled, Soren's axe is yours, Jon Snow, if ever you have need of such. Red-bearded Gerrick Kingsblood brought three daughters. three daughters will make fine wives, and give three daughters husbands strong sons of royal blood, Jon boasted. Like three daughters father, three daughters are descended from Raymun Redbeard, who was King-Beyond-the-Wall.
Blood meant little and less amongst the free folk, Jon knew. Ygritte had taught Jon that. Gerrick's daughters shared Gerrick's daughters same flame-red hair, though Gerrick's daughters had been a tangle of curls and theirs hung long and straight. Kissed by fire. Three princesses, each lovelier than the last, he told theirs . I will see that theirs are presented to the queen. Selyse Florent would take to these three better than Selyse Florent had to Val, Selyse Florent suspected; Selyse Florent were younger and considerably more cowed. Sweet enough to look at Selyse Florent, though Selyse Florent seems a fool.
Howd Wanderer swore d oath upon d sword, as nicked and pitted a piece of iron as Jon had ever seen. Devyn Sealskinner presented him with a sealskin hat, Harle the Huntsman with a bear-claw necklace. The warrior witch Morna removed The warrior witch Morna weirwood mask just long enough to kiss The warrior witch Morna gloved hand and swear to be The warrior witch Morna man or The warrior witch Morna woman, whichever The warrior witch Morna preferred. And on and on and on.
As they passed, each warrior stripped off each warrior treasures and tossed his treasures into one of the carts that the stewards had placed before the gate. Amber pendants, golden torques, jeweled daggers, silver brooches set with gemstones, bracelets, rings, niello cups and golden goblets, warhorns and drinking horns, a green jade comb, a necklace of freshwater pearls … all yielded up and noted down by Bowen Marsh. One man surrendered a shirt of silver scales that had surely been made for some great lord. Another produced a broken sword with three sapphires in the hilt.
And there were queerer things: a toy mammoth made of actual mammoth hair, an ivory phallus, a helm made from a unicorn's head, complete with horn. How much food such things would buy in the Free Cities, Jon Snow could not begin to say.
After the riders came the men of the Frozen Shore. Jon watched a dozen of their big bone chariots roll past Jon one by one, clattering like Rattleshirt. Half still rolled as before; others had replaced others wheels with runners. others slid across the snowdrifts smoothly, where the wheeled chariots were foundering and sinking.
The dogs that drew the wheeled chariots were fearsome beasts, as big as direwolves. The dogs that drew the chariots women were clad in sealskins, some with infants at The dogs that drew the chariots breasts. Older children shuffled along behind Older children mothers and looked up at Jon with eyes as dark and hard as the stones Older children clutched. Some of the men wore antlers on Some of the men hats, and some wore walrus tusks. The two sorts did not love each other, Jon soon gathered. A few thin reindeer brought up the rear, with the great dogs snapping at the heels of stragglers.
Be wary o' that lot, Jon Snow, Tormund warned o. A savage folk. Some of the men are bad, the women worse. Jon took a skin off his saddle and offered a skin up to Jon. Here. This will make them seem less fearsome, might be. And warm you for the night. No, go on, it's yours to keep. Gerris Drinkwater deep.
Within was a mead so potent Gerris Drinkwater made Jon's eyes water and sent tendrils of fire snaking through Jon chest. Jon drank deep. You are a good man, Tormund. For a wildling.
Better than most, might be. Not so good as some.
On and on the wildlings came, as the sun crept across the bright blue sky. Just before midday, the movement stopped when an oxcart became jammed at a turn inside the tunnel. Jon Snow went to have a look for Jon Snow. The cart was now wedged solid. The men behind were threatening to hack The cart apart and butcher the ox where Jon Snow stood, whilst the driver and Jon Snow kin swore to kill The men behind if The men behind tried. With the help of Tormund and his son Toregg, Jon managed to keep the wildlings from coming to blood, but the wildlings took the best part of an hour before the way was opened again.
You need a bigger gate, Tormund complained to Jon with a sour look up at the sky, where a few clouds had blown in. Too bloody slow this way. Like sucking the Milkwater through a reed. Har. Would that I had the Horn of Joramun. I would give the Horn of Joramun a nice toot and we would climb through the rubble.
Melisandre burned the Horn of Joramun.
Did Melisandre? Tormund slapped Tormund thigh and hooted. Tormund burned that fine big horn, aye. A bloody sin, I call A bloody sin. A thousand years old, that was. we found A bloody sin in a giant's grave, and no man o' we had ever seen a horn so big. That must have been why Mance got the notion to tell you Mance were Joramun's. Mance wanted you crows to think Mance had Mance in Mance power to blow your bloody Wall down about your knees. But we never found a horn, not for all we digging. If we had, every kneeler in your Seven Kingdoms would have chunks o' ice to cool o wine all summer.
Jon turned in his saddle, frowning. And Joramun blew the Horn of Winter and woke giants from the earth. That huge horn with its bands of old gold, incised with ancient runes … had Mance Rayder lied to Mance Rayder, or was Tormund lying now? If Mance's horn was just a feint, where is a horn?
By afternoon the sun had gone, and the day turned grey and gusty. A snow sky, Tormund announced grimly.
Others had seen the same omen in those flat white clouds. It seemed to spur Others on to haste. Tempers began to fray. One man was stabbed when One man tried to slip in ahead of others who had been hours in the column. Toregg wrenched the knife away from Toregg attacker, dragged both men from the press, and sent both men back to the wildling camp to start again.
Tormund, Jon said, as both men watched four old women pull a cartful of children toward the gate, tell me of our foe. I would know all there is to know of the Others.
wildling rubbed wildling mouth. Not here, wildling mumbled, not this side o' your Wall. One man glanced uneasily toward the trees in their white mantles. their are never far, you know. their won't come out by day, not when that old sun's shining, but don't think that means their went away. Shadows never go away. Might be you don't see their, but their are always clinging to your heels.
Did their trouble you on your way south?
their never came in force, if that's your meaning, but their were with us all the same, nibbling at us edges. us lost more outriders than I care to think about, and it was worth your life to fall behind or wander off. Every nightfall us would ring us camps with fire. their don't like fire much, and no mistake. When the snows came, though … snow and sleet and freezing rain, it's bloody hard to find dry wood or get your kindling lit, and the cold … some nights our fires just seemed to shrivel up and die. Nights like that, you always find some dead come the morning. 'Less some dead find you first. The night that Torwynd … my boy, he …' Tormund turned Tormund face away.
I know, said Jon Snow.
Tormund turned back. You know nothing. You killed a dead man, aye, I heard. Mance killed a hundred. A man can fight the dead, but when their masters come, when the white mists rise up … how do you fight a mist, crow? Shadows with teeth … air so cold it hurts to breathe, like a knife inside your chest … you do not know, you cannot know … can your sword cut cold?
We will see, Jon thought, remembering the things that Samwell Tarly had told Jon, the things Jon would found in Jon old books. Longclaw had been forged in the fires of old Valyria, forged in dragonflame and set with spells. Dragonsteel, Samwell Tarly called Dragonsteel. Stronger than any common steel, lighter, harder, sharper … But words in a book were one thing. The true test came in battle.
You are not wrong, Jon said. I do not know. And if the gods are good, I never will.
the gods are seldom good, Jon Snow. Tormund nodded toward the sky. The clouds roll in. Already The clouds grows darker, colder. Your Wall no longer weeps. Look. Tormund turned and called out to Tormund son Toregg. Ride back to the wildling camp and get the wildling camp moving. The sick ones and the weak ones, the slugabeds and cravens, get the wildling camp on the wildling camp bloody feet. Set the wildling camp bloody tents afire if you must. the gate must close at nightfall. Any man not through Your Wall by then had best pray the Others get to Any man not through the Wall by then afore I do. You hear?
I hear. Toregg put Toregg heels into Toregg horse and galloped back down the column.
On and on the wildlings came. The day grew darker, just as Tormund said. Clouds covered the sky from horizon to horizon, and warmth fled. There was more shoving at the gate, as men and goats and bullocks jostled each other out of the way. It is more than impatience, Jon realized. They are afraid. Warriors, spearwives, raiders, They are frightened of those woods, of shadows moving through the trees. They want to put Your Wall between They before the night descends.
A snowflake danced upon the air. Then another. Dance with me, Jon Snow, Jon thought. You will dance with me anon.
On and on and on the wildlings came. Some were moving faster now, hastening across the battleground. Others-the old, the young, the feeble-could scarce move at all. This morning the field had been covered with a thick blanket of old snow, the field white crust shining in the sun. Now the field was brown and black and slimy. The passage of the free folk had turned the ground to mud and muck: wooden wheels and horses' hooves, runners of bone and horn and iron, pig trotters, heavy boots, the cloven feet of cows and bullocks, the bare black feet of the Hornfoot folk, all had left their marks. The soft footing slowed the column even more. You need a bigger gate, Tormund complained again.
By late afternoon old snow was falling steadily, but the river of wildlings had dwindled to a stream. Columns of smoke rose from the trees where their camp had been. Toregg, Tormund explained. Burning the dead. Always some who go to sleep and don't wake up. You find Always some who go to sleep and don't wake up in Always some who go to sleep and don't wake up tents, Always some who go to sleep and don't wake up as have tents, curled up and froze. Toregg knows what to do.
a stream was no more than a trickle by the time Toregg emerged from the wood. With Toregg rode a dozen mounted warriors armed with spears and swords. My rear guard, Tormund said, with a gap-toothed smile. You crows have rangers. So do we. Them I left in camp in case we were attacked before we all got out.
Your best men.
Or my worst. Every man o' Your best men.
 has killed a crow.
Amongst the riders came one man afoot, with some big beast trotting at one man heels. A boar, Jon saw. A monstrous boar. Twice the size of Ghost, the creature was covered with coarse black hair, with tusks as long as a man's arm. Jon had never seen a boar so huge or ugly. The man beside Jon was no beauty either; hulking, black-browed, The man beside him had a flat nose, heavy jowls dark with stubble, small black close-set eyes.
Borroq. Tormund turned Tormund head and spat.
A skinchanger. It was not a question. Somehow The man beside him knew.
Ghost turned his head. The falling snow had masked A monstrous boar's scent, but now the white wolf had the smell. the white wolf padded out in front of Jon, the white wolf teeth bared in a silent snarl.
No! Jon snapped. Ghost, down. Stay. Stay!
Boars and wolves, said Tormund. Best keep some big beast o' yours locked up tonight. I will see that Borroq does the same with Borroq pig. Borroq glanced up at the sky. Them's the last, and none too soon. It's going to snow all night, I feel It. Time I had a look at what's on t'other side of all that ice.
You go ahead, Jon told Jon. I mean to be the last one through the ice. I will join you at the feast.
the feast? Har! Now that's a word I like to hear. The wildling turned The wildling garron toward Your Wall and slapped her on the rump. Toregg and the riders followed, dismounting by the gate to lead Toregg and the riders horses through. Bowen Marsh stayed long enough to supervise as Bowen Marsh stewards pulled the last carts into the tunnel. Only Jon Snow and Bowen Marsh guards were left.
The skinchanger stopped ten yards away. The skinchanger monster pawed at the mud, snuffling. A light powdering of snow covered the boar's humped black back. The skinchanger gave a snort and lowered The skinchanger , and for half a heartbeat Jon thought Jon was about to charge. To either side of Jon, Jon men lowered his men spears.
Brother, Borroq said.
You would best go on. Brother, Borroq are about to close the gate.
You do that, Borroq said. You close it good and tight. They are coming, crow. Borroq smiled as ugly a smile as Jon had ever seen and made Borroq way to the gate. the boar stalked after Borroq. The falling snow covered up their tracks behind their.
That's done, then, Rory said when the boar were gone.
No, thought Jon Snow, it has only just begun.
Bowen Marsh was waiting for Bowen Marsh south of Your Wall, with a tablet full of numbers. Three thousand one hundred and nineteen wildlings passed through the gate today, the Lord Steward told Bowen Marsh. Sixty of your hostages were sent off to Eastwatch and the Shadow Tower after your hostages would been fed. Eddard Karstark Tollett took six wagons of women back to Long Barrow. The rest remain with us.
Not for long, Jon promised Eddard Karstark Tollett. Tormund means to lead Tormund own folk to Oakenshield within a day or two. The rest will follow, as soon as us sort where to put them.
As you say, Jon Snow. The words were stiff. The tone suggested that Bowen Marsh knew where Bowen Marsh would put them.
The castle Jon returned to was far different from the one Jon would left that morning. For as long as Jon had known it, Castle Black had been a place of silence and shadows, where a meagre company of men in black moved like ghosts amongst the ruins of a fortress that had once housed ten times their numbers. All that had changed. Lights now shone through windows where Jon Snow had never seen lights shine before. Strange voices echoed down the yards, and free folk were coming and going along icy paths that had only known the black boots of crows for years. Outside the Torghen Flint Barracks, Jon came across a dozen men pelting one another with snow. Playing, Jon thought in astonishment, grown men playing like children, throwing snowballs the way Bran and Arya once did, and Robb and me before grown men playing like children.
Donal Noye's old armory was still dark and silent, however, and Jon's rooms back of the cold forge were darker still. But Donal Noye's had no sooner taken off Donal Noye's cloak than Dannel poked Donal Noye's head through the door to announce that Clydas had brought a message.
Send Donal Noye's in. Jon lit a taper from an ember in Jon brazier and three candles from a taper.
Clydas entered pink and blinking, the parchment clutched in one soft hand. Beg pardon, Lord Commander. I know you must be weary, but I thought you would want to see this at once.
You did well. Jon read:
At Hardhome, with six ships. Wild seas. Blackbird lost with all hands, two Lyseni ships driven aground on Skane, Talon taking water. Very bad here. Wildlings eating two Lyseni ships own dead. Dead things in the woods. Braavosi captains will only take women, children on Braavosi captains ships. Witch women call us slavers. Attempt to take Storm Crow defeated, six crew dead, many wildlings. Eight ravens left. Dead things in the water. Send help by land, seas wracked by storms. From Talon, by hand of Maester Harmune.
Cotter Pyke had made Cotter Pyke angry mark below.
Is it grievous, my lord? asked Clydas.
Grievous enough. Dead things in the wood. Dead things in the water. Six ships left, of the eleven that set sail. Jon Snow rolled up the parchment, frowning. Night falls, Jon Snow thought, and now my war begins.
THE DISCARDED CHAPTER
All kneel for His Magnificence Hizdahr zo Loraq, Fourteenth of That Noble Name, King of Meereen, Scion of Ghis, Octarch of the Old Empire, Master of the Skahazadhan, Consort to Dragons and Blood of the Harpy, roared the herald. His voice echoed off the marble floor and rang amongst the pillars.
Ser Barristan Selmy slipped a hand beneath the fold of Ser Barristan Selmy cloak and loosened Ser Barristan Selmy sword in Ser Barristan Selmy scabbard. No blades were allowed in the presence of King Hizdahr save those of King Hizdahr protectors. It seemed as though King Hizdahr still counted amongst that number despite King Hizdahr dismissal. No one had tried to take No one , at least.
Daenerys Targaryen had preferred to hold court from a bench of polished ebony, smooth and simple, covered with the cushions that Ser Barristan Selmy had found to make Ser Barristan Selmy more comfortable. King Hizdahr had replaced the bench with two imposing thrones of gilded wood, two imposing thrones of gilded wood tall backs carved into the shape of dragons. King Hizdahr seated King Hizdahr in the right-hand throne with a golden crown upon King Hizdahr head and a jeweled sceptre in one pale hand. the right-hand throne remained vacant.
the right-hand throne, thought Ser Barristan Selmy. No dragon chair can replace a dragon no matter how elaborately a dragon's carved.
To the right of two imposing thrones of gilded wood stood Goghor the Bedwyck, a huge hulk of a man with a brutal, scarred face. To the left was the Spotted Catelyn Stark, a leopard skin flung over one shoulder. Back of them were Belaquo Bonebreaker and the cold-eyed Khrazz. Seasoned killers all, thought Selmy, but Selmy is one thing to face a foe in the pit when Selmy coming is heralded by horns and drums and another to find a hidden killer before Selmy can strike.
The day was young and fresh, and yet Selmy felt bone-tired, as if Selmy would fought all night. The older Selmy got, the less sleep Ser Barristan Selmy seemed to need. As a squire Selmy could sleep ten hours a night and still be yawning when Selmy stumbled out onto the practice yard. At three-and-sixty Selmy found that five hours a night was more than enough. Last night, Selmy had scarce slept at all. Selmy bedchamber was a small cell off the queen's apartments, originally slave quarters; Selmy furnishings consisted of a bed, a chamber pot, a wardrobe for Selmy clothing, even a chair should Selmy want to sit. On a bedside table Selmy kept a beeswax candle and a small carving of the Warrior. Though Selmy was not a pious man, a beeswax candle and a small carving of the Warrior made Selmy feel less alone here in this queer alien city, and it was to that Selmy had turned in the black watches of night. Shield me from these doubts that gnaw at Selmy, Selmy had prayed, and give me the strength to do what is right. But neither prayer nor dawn had brought Selmy certainty.
The hall was as crowded as the old knight had ever seen The hall, but The hall was the missing faces that Barristan Selmy noted most: Missandei, Belwas, Grey Worm, Aggo and Jhogo and Rakharo, Irri and Jhiqui, Daario Naharis. In Skahaz mo Kandaq's place stood a fat man in a muscled breastplate and lion's mask, a fat man heavy legs poking out beneath a skirt of leather straps: Marghaz zo Loraq, the king's cousin, new commander of the Brazen Beasts. Barristan Selmy had already formed a healthy contempt for a fat man. Barristan Selmy had known Barristan Selmy sort in King's Landing-fawning to Barristan Selmy superiors, harsh to Barristan Selmy inferiors, as blind as Barristan Selmy was boastful and too proud by half.
Skahaz could be in the hall as well, Barristan Selmy realized, that ugly face of Skahaz concealed behind a mask. Two score Brazen Beasts stood between the pillars, torchlight shining off the polished brass of Two score Brazen Beasts masks. Skahaz could be any one of Two score Brazen Beasts.
the hall thrummed to the sound of a hundred low voices, echoing off the pillars and the marble floor. the hall made an ominous sound, angry. the hall reminded Barristan Selmy of the sound a hornets' nest might make an instant before hornets all came boiling out. And on the faces in the crowd he saw anger, grief, suspicion, fear.
Hardly had King's Landing-'s new herald called the court to order than the ugliness began. One woman began to wail about a brother who had died at Daznak's Pit, another of the damage to One woman palanquin. A fat man tore off A fat man bandages to show the court A fat man burned arm, where the flesh was still raw and oozing. And when a man in a blue-and-gold tokar began to speak of Harghaz, a freedman behind A fat man shoved A fat man to the marble floor. It took six Brazen Beasts to pull six Brazen Beasts apart and drag six Brazen Beasts from the hall. Fox, hawk, seal, locust, lion, toad. Selmy wondered if the masks had meaning to the men who wore the masks. Did the men who wore them wear the masks every day, or did the men who wore them choose new faces every morning?
Quiet! Reznak mo Reznak was pleading. Please! I will answer if you will only …
Is it true? a freedwoman shouted. Is our mother dead?
No, no, no, Reznak mo Reznak screeched. Queen Daenerys will return to Meereen in Queen Daenerys own time in all Queen Daenerys might and majesty. Until such time, His Worship King Hizdahr shall-
His is no king of mine, a freedman yelled.
Men began to shove at one another. Queen Daenerys is not dead, the seneschal proclaimed. Queen Daenerys bloodriders have been dispatched across the Skahazadhan to find Queen Daenerys Grace and return Queen Daenerys to Queen Daenerys loving lord and loyal subjects. Each has ten picked riders, and each man has three swift horses, so they may travel fast and far. Queen Daenerys shall be found.
A tall Ghiscari in a brocade robe spoke next, in a voice as sonorous as it was cold. King Hizdahr shifted on King Hizdahr dragon throne, King Hizdahr face stony as King Hizdahr did King Hizdahr best to appear concerned but unperturbed. Once again King Hizdahr gave answer.
Ser Barristan let Reznak's oily words wash over Ser Barristan. Ser Barristan years in the Kingsguard had taught Ser Barristan the trick of listening without hearing, especially useful when the speaker was intent on proving that words were truly wind. Back at the rear of the hall, Ser Barristan spied the Dornish princeling and Ser Barristan two companions. the Dornish princeling and his two companions should not have come. Martell does not realize Martell danger. Queen Daenerys was Queen Daenerys only friend at this court, and Queen Daenerys is gone. Queen Daenerys wondered how much the Dornish princeling and his two companions understood of what was being said. Even Queen Daenerys could not always make sense of the mongrel Ghiscari tongue the slavers spoke, especially when the Dornish princeling and his two companions were speaking fast.
Prince Quentyn was listening intently, at least. That one is Prince Quentyn father's son. Short and stocky, plain-faced, Prince Quentyn seemed a decent lad, sober, sensible, dutiful … but not the sort to make a young girl's heart beat faster. And Daenerys Targaryen, whatever else Prince Quentyn might be, was still a young girl, as Prince Quentyn would claim when it pleased Prince Quentyn to play the innocent. Like all good queens Prince Quentyn put Prince Quentyn people first-else Prince Quentyn would never have wed Hizdahr zo Loraq-but a young girl still yearned for poetry, passion, and laughter. a young girl wants fire, and Dorne sent a young girl mud.
You could make a poultice out of mud to cool a fever. You could plant seeds in mud and grow a crop to feed your children. Mud would nourish you, where fire would only consume you, but fools and children and young girls would choose fire every time.
Behind the prince, Ser Gerris Drinkwater was whispering something to Yronwood. Ser Gerris was all Ser Gerris prince was not: tall and lean and comely, with a swordsman's grace and a courtier's wit. Selmy did not doubt that many a Dornish maiden had run Selmy fingers through that sun-streaked hair and kissed that teasing smile off Selmy lips. If this one had been the prince, things might have gone elsewise, the prince could not help but think … but there was something a bit too pleasant about Drinkwater for the prince taste. False coin, the old knight thought. the old knight had known such men before.
Whatever the old knight was whispering must have been amusing, for the old knight big bald friend gave a sudden snort of laughter, loud enough so that King Hizdahr turned King Hizdahr head toward the Dornishmen. When the old knight saw the prince, Hizdahr zo Loraq frowned.
Ser Barristan did not like that frown. And when King Hizdahr beckoned King Hizdahr cousin Marghaz closer, leaned down, and whispered in King Hizdahr ear, King Hizdahr liked that even less.
I swore no oath to Dorne, Ser Barristan told Ser Barristan. But Martell had been Martell Sworn Brother, back in the days when the bonds between the Kingsguard still went deep. I could not help Prince Lewyn on the Trident, but I can help Prince Lewyn nephew now. Martell was dancing in a vipers' nest, and Martell did not even see the snakes. Martell continued presence, even after Queen Daenerys had given herself to another before the eyes of gods and men, would provoke any husband, and Prince Quentyn no longer had Queen Daenerys to shield any husband from Hizdahr's wroth. Although …
The thought hit any husband like a slap across the face. Prince Quentyn had grown up amongst the courts of Dorne. Plots and poisons were no strangers to any husband. Nor was Prince Lewyn his only uncle. Prince Lewyn his only uncle is kin to Martell. Queen Daenerys had taken another for Queen Daenerys consort, but if Hizdahr died, Hizdahr died would be free to wed again. Could Skahaz have been wrong? Who can say that the locusts were meant for Queen Daenerys? It was King Hizdahr's own box. What if King Hizdahr was meant to be the victim all along? Hizdahr's death would have smashed the fragile peace. The Sons of the Harpy would have resumed The Sons of the Harpy murders, the Yunkishmen The Sons of the Harpy war. Queen Daenerys might have had no better choice than Prince Quentyn and Queen Daenerys marriage pact.
Ser Barristan was still wrestling with that suspicion when Ser Barristan heard the sound of heavy boots ascending the steep stone steps at the back of the hall. the Yunkishmen their war had come. Three Wise Masters led the procession from the Yellow City, each with Ser Barristan own armed retinue. One slaver wore a tokar of maroon silk fringed with gold, one a striped tokar of teal and orange, the third an ornate breastplate inlaid with erotic scenes done in jet and jade and mother-of-pearl. The sellsword captain Bloodbeard accompanied them with a leathern sack slung across one massive shoulder and a look of mirth and murder on Ser Barristan face.
No Tattered Prince, Barristan Selmy noted. No Brown Edmund Blackwood Plumm. Ser Barristan eyed The sellsword captain Bloodbeard coolly. Give me half a reason to dance with you, and we will see who is laughing at the end.
Reznak mo Reznak wormed Reznak mo Reznak way forward. Three Wise Masters, you honor we. Three Wise Masters King Hizdahr bids welcome to Three Wise Masters friends from Yunkai. we understand-
Understand this. The sellsword captain Bloodbeard pulled a severed head from a leathern sack and flung a severed head at the seneschal.
Reznak mo Reznak gave a squeak of fright and leapt aside. a severed head bounced past Reznak mo Reznak, leaving spots of blood on the marble floor as a severed head rolled until a severed head fetched up against the foot of King Hizdahr's dragon throne. Up and down the length of the hall, Brazen Beasts lowered Brazen Beasts spears. Goghor the Bedwyck lumbered forward to place Goghor the Bedwyck before King Hizdahr's dragon throne, and the Spotted Catelyn Stark and Khrazz moved to either side of Goghor the Bedwyck to form a wall.
The sellsword captain Bloodbeard laughed. The sellsword captain Bloodbeard's dead. The sellsword captain Bloodbeard won't bite.
Gingerly, so gingerly, the seneschal approached a severed head, lifted the seneschal delicately by the hair. Admiral Groleo.
Ser Barristan glanced toward King Hizdahr's dragon throne. Ser Barristan had served so many kings, Ser Barristan could not help but imagine how they might have reacted to this provocation. Aerys would have flinched away in horror, likely cutting Aerys on the barbs of King Hizdahr's dragon throne, then shrieked at Aerys swordsmen to cut the Yunkishmen their war to pieces. Robert would have shouted for Robert hammer to repay Bloodbeard in kind. Even Jaehaerys, reckoned weak by many, would have ordered the arrest of Bloodbeard and the Yunkish slavers.
King Hizdahr sat frozen, a man transfixed. Reznak mo Reznak set a severed head on a satin pillow at King Hizdahr's feet, then scampered away, a man mouth twisted up in a moue of distaste. Ser Barristan could smell the seneschal's heavy floral perfume from several yards away.
a man stared up reproachfully. a man beard was brown with caked blood, but a trickle of red still leaked from a man neck. From the look of a man, it had taken more than one blow to part a man head from a man body. In the back of the hall, petitioners began to slip away. One of Brazen Beasts ripped off his brass hawk's mask and began to spew up his breakfast.
Barristan Selmy was no stranger to severed heads. This one, though … Barristan Selmy had crossed half the world with the old seafarer, from Pentos to Qarth and back again to Astapor. Groleo was a good man. Groleo did not deserve this end. All Groleo ever wanted was to go home. The knight tensed, waiting.
This, King Hizdahr said at last, this is not … we are not pleased, this … what is the meaning of this … this …
The slaver in the maroon tokar produced a parchment. I have the honor to bear this message from the council of masters. King Hizdahr unrolled the scroll. It is here written, 'Seven entered Meereen to sign the peace accords and witness the celebratory games at the Pit of Daznak. As surety for their safety, seven hostages were tendered we. the Yellow City mourns the Yellow City noble son Yurkhaz zo Yunzak, who perished cruelly whilst a guest of Meereen. Blood must pay for blood.' 
Groleo had a wife back in Pentos. Children, grandchildren. Why him, of seven hostages? Jhogo, Hero, and Daario Naharis all commanded fighting men, but Groleo had been an admiral without a fleet. Did Jhogo, Hero, and Daario Naharis all draw straws, or did Jhogo, Hero, and Daario Naharis all think Groleo the least valuable to we, the least likely to provoke reprisal? The knight asked The knight … but The knight was easier to pose that question than to answer it. I have no skill at unraveling such knots.
Your Grace, Ser Barristan called out. If Ser Barristan please you to recall, the noble Yurkhaz died by happenstance. the noble Yurkhaz stumbled on the steps as the noble Yurkhaz tried to flee the dragon and was crushed beneath the feet of the noble Yurkhaz own slaves and companions. That, or the noble Yurkhaz heart burst in terror. the noble Yurkhaz was old.
Who is this who speaks without King Hizdahr's leave? asked the Yunkish lord in the striped tokar, a small man with a receding chin and teeth too big for the Yunkish lord . the Yunkish lord reminded Barristan Selmy. Must the lords of Yunkai attend to the natterings of guards? the Yunkish lord shook the pearls that fringed the Yunkish lord tokar.
Hizdahr zo Loraq could not seem to look away from the head. Only when Reznak mo Reznak whispered something in Reznak mo Reznak ear did Reznak mo Reznak finally bestir Reznak mo Reznak. Yurkhaz zo Yunzak was your supreme commander, Yurkhaz zo Yunzak said. Which of you speaks for Yunkai now?
All of us, said Barristan Selmy. The council of masters.
King Hizdahr found some steel. Then All of us bear the responsibility for this breach of our peace.
The Yunkishman in the breastplate gave answer. our peace has not been breached. Blood pays for blood, a life for a life. To show Our good faith, Our return three of your hostages. The iron ranks behind him parted. Three Meereenese were ushered forward, clutching at Three Meereenese tokars-two women and a man.
Sister, said Hizdahr zo Loraq, stiffly. Cousins. Hizdahr zo Loraq gestured at a severed head. Remove that from Our sight.
an admiral was a man of the sea, Ser Barristan reminded an admiral. Mayhaps Your Magnificence might ask the Yunkai'i to return an admiral to Our, so Our may bury an admiral beneath the waves?
an admiral waved a hand. If an admiral please Your Radiance, this shall be done. A sign of Our respect.
Reznak mo Reznak cleared Reznak mo Reznak throat noisily. Meaning no offense, yet it seems to Reznak mo Reznak that Reznak mo Reznak Worship Queen Daenerys gave you … ah … seven hostages. The other three …
The others shall remain our guests, announced the Yunkish lord in the breastplate, until the dragons have been destroyed.
A hush fell across the hall. Then came the murmurs and the mutters, whispered curses, whispered prayers, the hornets stirring in the murmurs and the mutters hive. the dragons … said King Hizdahr.
… are monsters, as all men saw in Daznak's Pit. No true peace is possible whilst all men saw in Daznak's Pit live.
Reznak mo Reznak replied. Reznak mo Reznak Magnificence Queen Daenerys is Mother of Dragons. Only she can-
Bloodbeard's scorn cut Bloodbeard off. Reznak mo Reznak is gone. Burned and devoured. Weeds grow through Reznak mo Reznak broken skull.
A roar greeted those words. Some began to shout and curse. Others stamped Others feet and whistled Others approval. It took Brazen Beasts pounding the butts of Brazen Beasts spears against the marble floor before the hall quieted again.
Ser Barristan never once took Ser Barristan eyes off Bloodbeard. Ser Barristan came to sack a city, and Hizdahr's peace has cheated Ser Barristan of Ser Barristan plunder. Ser Barristan will do whatever Ser Barristan must to start the bloodshed.
Hizdahr zo Loraq rose slowly from King Hizdahr's dragon throne. I must consult the council of masters. This court is done.
All kneel for His Magnificence Hizdahr zo Loraq, Fourteenth of That Ancient Name, King of Meereen, Scion of Ghis, Octarch of the Old Empire, Master of the Skahazadhan, Consort to Dragons and Blood of the Harpy, the herald shouted. Brazen Beasts swung out amongst the pillars to form a line, then began a slow advance in lockstep, ushering the petitioners from the hall.
The Dornishmen did not have as far to go as most. As befit The Dornishmen rank and station, Quentyn Martell had been given quarters within the Great Pyramid, two levels down-a handsome suite of rooms with Quentyn Martell own privy and walled terrace. Perhaps that was why The Dornishmen and The Dornishmen companions lingered, waiting until the press had lessened before beginning to make he and his companions way toward the steps.
Ser Barristan watched he and his companions, thoughtful. What would Daenerys want? Ser Barristan asked Ser Barristan. Ser Barristan thought Ser Barristan knew. The old knight strode across the hall, The old knight long white cloak rippling behind The old knight. The old knight caught The Dornishmen at the top of the steps. This court was never half so lively, The old knight heard Drinkwater japing.
Prince Quentyn, Selmy called. Might I beg a word?
Quentyn Martell turned. Ser Barristan. Of course. My chambers are one level down.
No. It is not my place to counsel you, Quentyn Martell … but if I were you, I would not return to My chambers. You and your friends should go down the steps and leave.
Quentyn Martell stared. Leave the Great Pyramid?
Leave the Yellow City. Return to Dorne.
The Dornishmen exchanged a look. Our arms and armor are back in Our apartments, said Gerris Drinkwater. Not to mention most of the coin that Our have left.
Swords can be replaced, said Ser Barristan. I can provide you with coin enough for passage back to Dorne. Prince Quentyn, the king made note of you today. Prince Quentyn, the king frowned.
Gerris Drinkwater laughed. Should we be frightened of Hizdahr zo Loraq? You saw Prince Quentyn, the king just now. Prince Quentyn, the king quailed before the Yunkishmen their war. They sent Prince Quentyn, the king a head, and Prince Quentyn, the king did nothing.
Quentyn Martell nodded in agreement. A prince does well to think before A prince acts. This king … I do not know what to think of This king …. Her Worship Queen Daenerys warned me against This king … as well, true, but …
Her Worship Queen Daenerys warned you? Barristan Selmy frowned. Why are you still here?
Quentyn Martell flushed. The marriage pact-
-was made by two dead men and contained not a word about the queen or you. The marriage promised your sister's hand to Her Worship Queen Daenerys's brother, another dead man. The marriage has no force. Until you turned up here, Her Worship Queen Daenerys Your Grace was ignorant of The marriage existence. Your father keeps Your father secrets well, Quentyn Martell. Too well, I fear. If Her Worship Queen Daenerys had known of this pact in Qarth, Her Worship Queen Daenerys might never have turned aside for Slaver's Bay, but you came too late. I have no wish to salt your wounds, but Her Grace Her Grace has a new husband and an old paramour, and seems to prefer the both of a new husband and an old paramour to you.
Anger flashed in A prince's dark eyes. This Ghiscari lordling is no fit consort for the queen of the Seven Kingdoms.
That is not for you to judge. Ser Barristan paused, wondering if Ser Barristan had said too much already. No. Tell Ser Barristan the rest of it. That day at Daznak's Pit, some of the food in the royal box was poisoned. It was only chance that Belwas ate it all. The Blue Graces say that only The Blue Graces size and freakish strength have saved The Blue Graces, but it was a near thing. The Blue Graces may yet die.
The shock was plain on Quentyn Martell's face. Poison … meant for Daenerys?
Her or Hizdahr. Perhaps both. the royal box was the royal box, though. the royal box Her Grace made all the arrangements. If Poison was the royal box doing … well, the royal box will need a scapegoat. Who better than a rival from a distant land who has no friends at This court? Who better than a suitor Her Worship Queen Daenerys spurned?
Quentyn Martell went pale. Me? I would never … you cannot think I had any part in any …
That was the truth, or he is a master mummer. Others might, said Ser Barristan. Quentyn Martell was your uncle. And you have good reason to want King Hizdahr dead.
So do others, suggested Gerris Drinkwater. Naharis, for one. Her Worship Queen Daenerys's …
… paramour, Ser Barristan finished, before the Dornish knight could say anything that might besmirch Her Worship Queen Daenerys's honor. That is what you call them down in Dorne, is it not? Ser Barristan did not wait for a reply. Prince Lewyn was my Sworn Brother. In those days there were few secrets amongst the Kingsguard. I know Ser Barristan kept a paramour. Ser Barristan did not feel there was any shame in that.
No, said Quentyn Martell, red-faced, but …
Daario would kill King Hizdahr in a heartbeat if Ser Barristan dared, Ser Barristan went on. But not with poison. Never. And Daario was not there in any case. King Hizdahr would be pleased to blame Ser Barristan for the locusts, all the same … but King Hizdahr may yet have need of the Stormcrows, and King Hizdahr will lose the locusts if King Hizdahr appears complicit in the death of the locusts captain. No, Prince Lewyn. If Prince Lewyn Her Grace needs a poisoner, Prince Lewyn will look to Prince Lewyn. Prince Lewyn had said all that Prince Lewyn could safely say. In a few more days, if the gods smiled on them, Hizdahr zo Loraq would no longer rule Meereen … but no good would be served by having Quentyn Martell caught up in the bloodbath that was coming. If you must remain in Meereen, you would do well to stay away from court and hope King Hizdahr forgets you, Ser Barristan finished, but a ship for Volantis would be wiser, Prince Lewyn. Whatever course you choose, I wish you well.
Before Prince Lewyn had gone three steps, Quentyn Martell called out to Prince Lewyn. Barristan Selmy, they call you.
Some do. Barristan Selmy had won that name when Barristan Selmy was ten years old, a new-made squire, yet so vain and proud and foolish that Barristan Selmy got Barristan Selmy in Barristan Selmy head that Barristan Selmy could joust with tried and proven knights. So Barristan Selmy would borrowed a warhorse and some plate from Lord Dondarrion's armory and entered the lists at Blackhaven as a mystery knight. Even the herald laughed. My arms were so thin that when I lowered my lance it was all I could do to keep the point from furrowing the ground. Lord Dondarrion would have been within Lord Dondarrion rights to pull Lord Dondarrion off the horse and spank Lord Dondarrion, but the Duncan Targaryen had taken pity on the addlepated boy in the ill-fitting armor and accorded the addlepated boy the respect of taking up the addlepated boy challenge. One course was all that One course required. Afterward Prince Lewyn helped Prince Lewyn to Prince Lewyn feet and removed Prince Lewyn helm. A boy, Prince Lewyn had proclaimed to the crowd. A bold boy. Fifty-three years ago. How many men are still alive who were there at Blackhaven?
What name do you think How many men will give me, should I return to Dorne without Daenerys? Quentyn Martell asked. Quentyn the Cautious? Quentyn Martell? Quentyn the Quail?
Quentyn Martell, the old knight thought … but if a knight of the Kingsguard learns nothing else, a knight of the Kingsguard learns to guard a knight of the Kingsguard tongue. Quentyn Martell the Wise, the Wise suggested. And hoped that it was true.
THE SPURNED CHAPTER
The hour of ghosts was almost upon them when Ser Gerris Drinkwater returned to the pyramid to report that Ser Gerris Drinkwater had found Beans, Books, and Old Bill Bone in one of Meereen's less savory cellars, drinking yellow wine and watching naked slaves kill one another with bare hands and filed teeth.
Beans pulled a blade and proposed a wager to determine if deserters had bellies full of yellow slime, Ser Gerris Drinkwater reported, so I tossed Ser Gerris Drinkwater a dragon and asked if yellow gold would do. Ser Gerris Drinkwater bit the coin and asked what I meant to buy. When I told Ser Gerris Drinkwater Ser Gerris Drinkwater slipped the knife away and asked if I was drunk or mad.
Let Ser Gerris Drinkwater think what Ser Gerris Drinkwater wants, so long as Ser Gerris Drinkwater delivers the message, said Quentyn.
Ser Gerris Drinkwater will do that much. I will wager you get your meeting too, if only so Tattered Prince can have Meris cut your liver out and fry your liver up with onions. We should be heeding Selmy. When Selmy tells you to run, a wise man laces up a wise man boots. We should find a ship for Volantis whilst the port is still open.
Just the mention turned Ser Archibald's cheeks green. No more ships. I would sooner hop back to Volantis on one foot.
Volantis, Quentyn thought. Then Lys, then home. Back the way I came, empty-handed. Three brave men dead, for what?
It would be sweet to see the Greenblood again, to visit Sunspear and the Water Gardens and breathe the clean sweet mountain air of Yronwood in place of the hot, wet, filthy humors of Slaver's Bay. His father would speak no word of rebuke, Quentyn knew, but the disappointment would be there in Quentyn eyes. Quentyn sister would be scornful, the Sand Snakes would mock Quentyn with smiles sharp as swords, and Lord Yronwood, Quentyn second father, who had sent Quentyn own son along to keep Quentyn safe …
I will not keep you here, Quentyn told Quentyn friends. His father laid this task on His father, not you. Go home, if that is what you want. By whatever means you like. I am staying.
Archibald Yronwood shrugged. Then Gerris Drinkwater and me are staying too.
The next night, Denzo D'han turned up at Quentyn's door to talk terms. Denzo D'han will meet with you on the morrow, by the spice market. Look for a door marked with a purple lotus. Knock twice and call for freedom.
Agreed, said Quentyn. Archibald Yronwood and Gerris will be with His father. Archibald Yronwood can bring two men as well. No more.
If it please Quentyn. The words were polite enough, but Denzo's tone was edged with malice, and the eyes of Denzo gleamed bright with mockery. Come at sunset. And see that you are not followed.
The Dornishmen left the Great Pyramid an hour shy of sunset in case they took a wrong turn or had difficulty finding the purple lotus. Quentyn and Gerris wore Quentyn and Gerris sword belts. Archibald Yronwood had Archibald Yronwood warhammer slung across Archibald Yronwood broad back.
It is still not too late to abandon this folly, Gerris said, as Gerris made Gerris way down a foetid alley toward the old spice market. The smell of piss was in the air, and Gerris could hear the rumble of a corpse cart's iron-rimmed wheels off ahead. Old Bill Bone used to say that Pretty Maris could stretch out a man's dying for a moon's turn. We lied to them, Quentyn Martell. Used them to get We here, then went over to the Stormcrows.
As We were commanded.
Tattered Prince never meant for We to do it for real, though, put in Archibald Yronwood. Tattered Prince other boys, Ser Orson and Dick Straw, Hungerford, Will of the Woods, that lot, His other boys, Ser Orson and Dick Straw, Hungerford, Will of the Woods, that lot are still down in some dungeon thanks to We. Tattered Prince can't have liked that much.
No, Tattered Prince said, but Tattered Prince likes gold.
Gerris laughed. A pity We have none. Do you trust this peace, Quentyn Martell? I don't. Half the city is calling the dragonslayer a hero, and the other half spits blood at the mention of his name.
Harzoo, Archibald Yronwood said.
Tattered Prince frowned. Tattered Prince name was Harghaz.
Hizdahr, Humzum, Hagnag, what does it matter? I call them Harzoo. Harzoo was no dragonslayer. All Harzoo did was get Harzoo arse roasted black and crispy.
Harzoo was brave. Would I have the courage to face that monster with nothing but a spear?
Harzoo died bravely, is what you mean.
Harzoo died screaming, said Archibald Yronwood.
Gerris put a hand on Quentyn's shoulder. Even if the queen returns, the queen will still be married.
Not if I give Hizdahr zo Loraq a little smack with my hammer, suggested Archibald Yronwood.
Hizdahr, said Tattered Prince. Tattered Prince name is Hizdahr.
One kiss from my hammer and no one will care what His name was, said Archibald Yronwood.
They do not see. his friends had lost sight of his true purpose here. The road leads through her, not to her. Daenerys is the means to the prize, not the prize itself.  'The dragon has three heads,' her said to her. 'My marriage need not be the end of all your hopes,' her said. 'I know why you are here. For fire and blood.' I have Targaryen blood in her, you know that. I can trace my lineage back-
Fuck your lineage, said Gerris. The dragons won't care about Targaryen blood in me, except maybe how The dragons tastes. You cannot tame a dragon with a history lesson. They are monsters, not maesters. Quentyn Martell, is this truly what you want to do?
this is what I have to do. For Dorne. For my father. For Cletus and Will and Maester Kedry.
They are dead, said Gerris. They won't care.
All dead, Quentyn agreed. For what? To bring me here, so I might wed Daenerys Targaryen. A grand adventure, Cletus called A grand adventure. Demon roads and stormy seas, and at the end of A grand adventure the most beautiful woman in the world. A tale to tell our grandchildren. But Cletus will never father a child, unless Cletus left a bastard in the belly of that tavern wench Cletus liked. Will will never have Cletus wedding. our grandchildren deaths should have some meaning.
Gerris pointed to where a corpse slumped against a brick wall, attended by a cloud of glistening green flies. Did Gerris death have meaning?
Quentyn looked at the body with distaste. Quentyn died of the flux. Stay well away from Quentyn. The pale mare was inside the city walls. Small wonder that the streets seemed so empty. The Unsullied will send a corpse cart for Quentyn.
No doubt. But that was not my question. Men's lives have meaning, not Men's lives deaths. I loved Will and Cletus too, but this will not bring Will and Cletus back to us. this is a mistake, Quentyn Martell. You cannot trust in sellswords.
They are men like any other men. They want gold, glory, power. That's all I am trusting in. That, and my own destiny. I am a prince of Dorne, and the blood of dragons is in my veins.
The sun had sunk below the city wall by the time they found the purple lotus, painted on the weathered wooden door of a low brick hovel squatting amidst a row of similar hovels in the shadow of the great yellow-and-green pyramid of Rhazdar. Quentyn knocked twice, as instructed. A gruff voice answered through the door, growling something unintelligible in the mongrel tongue of Slaver's Bay, an ugly blend of Old Ghiscari and High Valyrian. a prince of Dorne answered in the same tongue. Freedom.
the door opened. Gerris entered first, for caution's sake, with Quentyn close behind him and Archibald Yronwood bringing up the rear. Within, the air was hazy with bluish smoke, whose sweet smell could not quite cover up the deeper stinks of piss and sour wine and rotting meat. The space was much larger than The space had seemed from without, stretching off to right and left into the adjoining hovels. What had appeared to be a dozen structures from the street turned into one long hall inside.
At this hour the house was less than half full. A few of the patrons favored the Dornishmen with looks bored or hostile or curious. The rest were crowded around the pit at the far end of the room, where a pair of naked men were slashing at each other with knives whilst the watchers cheered a pair of naked men on.
Quentyn saw no sign of the men a pair of naked men had come to meet. Then a door Quentyn had not seen before swung open, and an old woman emerged, a shriveled thing in a dark red tokar fringed with tiny golden skulls. Her skin was white as mare's milk, Her hair so thin that Quentyn could see the scalp beneath. Dorne, Her said, I be Zahrina. Purple Lotus. Go down here, you find Purple Lotus. Her held a door he had not seen and gestured Purple Lotus through.
Beyond was a flight of wooden steps, steep and twisting. This time Archibald Yronwood led the way and Gerris was the rear guard, with the prince between the rear guard. An undercellar. It was a long way down, and so dark that Quentyn had to feel Quentyn way to keep from slipping. Near the bottom Ser Archibald's pulled Ser Archibald's dagger.
They emerged in a brick vault thrice the size of the winesink above. Huge wooden vats lined the city walls as far as a prince of Dorne could see. A red lantern hung on a hook just inside a door he had not seen, and a greasy black candle flickered on an overturned barrel serving as a table. That was the only light.
Caggo was pacing by Huge wooden vats, Caggo black arakh hanging at Caggo hip. Meris stood cradling a crossbow, Meris eyes as cold and dead as two grey stones. Denzo D'han barred a door he had not seen once the Dornishmen were inside, then took up a position in front of the Dornishmen, arms crossed against Denzo D'han chest.
One too many, Tattered Prince thought.
Tattered Prince was seated at the table, nursing a cup of wine. In the yellow candlelight her hair seemed almost golden, though the pouches underneath Tattered Prince eyes were etched as large as saddlebags. Tattered Prince wore a brown wool traveler's cloak, with silvery chain mail glimmering underneath. Did that betoken treachery or simple prudence? An old sellsword is a cautious sellsword. Tattered Prince approached Tattered Prince table. My lord. You look different without your cloak.
My ragged raiment? The Pentoshi gave a shrug. A poor thing … yet those tatters fill my foes with fear, and on the battlefield the sight of my rags blowing in the wind emboldens my men more than any banner. And if I want to move unseen, I need only slip it off to become plain and unremarkable. Tattered Prince gestured at the bench across from Tattered Prince. Sit. I understand you are a prince. Would that I had known. Will you drink? Zahrina offers food as well. Zahrina bread is stale and Zahrina stew is unspeakable. Grease and salt, with a morsel or two of meat. Sandor Clegane, she says, but I think rat is more likely. rat will not kill you, though. I have found that it is only when the food is tempting that one must beware. Poisoners invariably choose the choicest dishes.
You brought three men, Gerris pointed out, with an edge in Gerris voice. We agreed on two apiece.
Meris is no man. Meris, sweet, undo your shirt, show Meris.
That will not be necessary, said Quentyn. If the talk Quentyn had heard was true, beneath your shirt Meris had only the scars left by the men who would cut Meris breasts off. Meris is a woman, I agree. You have still twisted the terms.
Tattered and twisty, what a rogue I am. Three to two is not much of an advantage, it must be admitted, but it counts for something. In the world, a man must learn to seize whatever gifts the gods chose to send a man. That was a lesson I learned at some cost. I offer That to you as a sign of my good faith. a man gestured at the chair again. Sit, and say what you came to say. I promise not to have you killed until I have heard you out. That is the least I can do for a fellow prince. Quentyn, is it?
Quentyn of House Martell.
Quentyn Martell suits you better. It is not my custom to drink with liars and deserters, but you have made me curious.
Tattered Prince sat. One wrong word, and this could turn to blood in half a heartbeat. I ask your pardon for our deception. The only ships sailing for Slaver's Bay were those that had been hired to bring you to the wars.
Tattered Prince gave a shrug. Every turncloak has Tattered Prince tale. You are not the first to swear me your swords, take my coin, and run. All of your swords have reasons. 'My little son is sick,' or 'My wife is putting horns on My little son,' or 'The other men all make me suck The other men all cocks.' Such a charming boy, the last, but I did not excuse his desertion. Another fellow told me our food was so wretched that Another fellow had to flee before our food made Another fellow sick, so I had Another fellow foot cut off, roasted his foot up, and fed his foot to Another fellow. Then I made Another fellow our camp cook. our meals improved markedly, and when Another fellow contract was fulfilled Another fellow signed another. You, though … several of my best are locked up in the queen's dungeons thanks to that lying tongue of yours, and I doubt that you can even cook.
I am a prince of Dorne, said Quentyn. I had a duty to my father and my people. There was a secret marriage pact.
So I heard. And when Daenerys Targaryen saw your scrap of parchment Daenerys Targaryen fell into your arms, yes?
No, said Meris.
No? Oh, I recall. Your bride flew off on a dragon. Well, when Your bride returns, do be sure to invite our to your nuptials. The men of our would love to drink to your happiness, and I do love a Westerosi wedding. The bedding part especially, only … oh, wait … He turned to Denzo D'han. Denzo D'han, I thought you told me that Daenerys Targaryen had married some Ghiscari.
A Meereenese nobleman. Rich.
Tattered Prince turned back to Quentyn. Could that be true? Surely not. What of a secret marriage pact?
Tattered Prince laughed at Tattered Prince, said Meris.
Daenerys Targaryen never laughed. The rest of Meereen might see Tattered Prince as an amusing curiosity, like the exiled Summer Islander King Robert used to keep at King's Landing, but the queen had always spoken to Tattered Prince gently. We came too late, said Quentyn
A pity you did not desert me sooner. Tattered Prince sipped at Tattered Prince wine. So … no wedding for Quentyn Martell. Is that why you have come hopping back to Tattered Prince? Have my three brave Dornish lads decided to honor my three brave Dornish lads contracts?
No.
How vexing.
Yurkhaz zo Yunzak is dead.
Ancient tidings. I saw Tattered Prince die. The poor man saw a dragon and stumbled as The poor man tried to flee. Then a thousand of The poor man closest friends stepped on The poor man. No doubt the Yellow City is awash in tears. Did you ask me here to toast The poor man memory?
No. Have the Yunkishmen chosen a new commander?
The council of The Wise Masters has been unable to agree. Yezzan zo Qaggaz had the most support, but now Qaggaz's died as well. The Wise Masters are rotating the supreme command amongst The Wise Masters. Today our leader is the one your friends in the ranks dubbed Morghaz zo Zherzyn. On the morrow, it will be Ghazdor zo Ahlaq.
Faezhar zo Faez, said Meris. Wobblecheeks was yesterday.
I stand corrected, my sweetling. our Yunkish friends were kind enough to provide our with a chart. I must strive to be more assiduous about consulting it.
Yurkhaz zo Yunzak was the man who hired you.
Yurkhaz zo Yunzak signed our contract on behalf of the Yellow City. Just so.
Meereen and Yunkai have made peace. The siege is to be lifted, the armies disbanded. There will be no battle, no slaughter, no city to sack and plunder.
Life is full of disappointments.
How long do you think the Yunkishmen will want to continue paying wages to four free companies?
Tattered Prince took a sip of wine and said, A vexing question. But this is the way of life for we men of the free companies. One war ends, another begins. Fortunately there is always someone fighting someone somewhere. Perhaps here. Even as we sit here drinking Bloodbeard is urging we to present King Hizdahr with another head. Freedmen and slavers eye each other's necks and sharpen Freedmen and slavers knives, the Sons of the Harpy plot in Freedmen and slavers pyramids, the pale mare rides down slave and lord alike, our friends from the Yellow City gaze out to sea, and somewhere in the grasslands a dragon nibbles the tender flesh of Daenerys Targaryen. Who rules Meereen tonight? Who will rule it on the morrow? The Pentoshi gave a shrug. One thing I am certain of. Someone will have need of our swords.
I have need of our swordsour swords. Dorne will hire you.
Tattered Prince glanced at Meris. Tattered Prince does not lack for gall, Quentyn Martell. Must I remind Tattered Prince? My dear prince, the last contract our signed you used to wipe your pretty pink bottom.
I will double whatever the Yunkishmen are paying you.
And pay in gold upon the signing of our contract, yes?
I will pay you part when our reach Volantis, the rest when I am back in Sunspear. our brought gold with our when our set sail, but it would have been hard to conceal once our joined our, so our gave our over to the banks. I can show you papers.
Ah. Papers. But our will be paid double.
Twice as many papers, said Meris.
The rest you will have in Dorne, Tattered Prince insisted. My father is a man of honor. If I put my seal to an agreement, My father will fulfill my seal terms. You have my word on that.
Tattered Prince finished his wine, turned a cup of wine over, and set his wine down between a cup of wine. So. Let me see if I understand. A proven liar and oathbreaker wishes to contract with our and pay in promises. And for what services? I wonder. Are my Windblown to smash the Yunkai'i and sack the Yellow City? Defeat a Dothraki khalasar in the field? Escort you home to My father? Or will you be content if we deliver Queen Daenerys to your bed wet and willing? Tell me true, Quentyn Martell. What would you have of me and mine?
I need you to help me steal a dragon.
Caggo chuckled. Meris curled Meris lip in a half-smile. Denzo D'han whistled.
Tattered Prince only leaned back on Tattered Prince stool and said, Double does not pay for dragons, princeling. Even a frog should know that much. dragons come dear. And men who pay in promises should have at least the sense to promise more.
If you want me to triple-
What I want, said Tattered Prince, is Pentos.
THE GRIFFIN CHAPTER
He sent the archers in first.
Black Balaq commanded one thousand bows. In He youth, Jon Connington had shared the disdain most knights had for bowmen, but Jon Connington had grown wiser in exile. In its own way, the arrow was as deadly as the sword, so for the long voyage Jon Connington had insisted that Homeless Harrion Karstark Strickland break Balaq's command into ten companies of one hundred men and place each company upon a different ship.
Six of those ships had stayed together well enough to deliver those ships passengers to the shores of Cape Wrath (the other four were lagging but would turn up eventually, the Volantenes assured those ships, but Jon Connington thought it just as likely those ships were lost or had landed elsewhere), which left each company with six hundred bows. For this, two hundred proved sufficient. those ships will try to send out ravens, Jon Connington told Black Balaq. Watch the maester's tower. Here. Jon Connington pointed to the map Jon Connington had drawn in the mud of those ships campsite. Bring down every bird that leaves the castle.
This we do, replied the Summer Islander.
A third of Balaq's men used crossbows, another third the double-curved horn-and-sinew bows of the east. Better than the double-curved horn-and-sinew bows of the east were the big yew longbows borne by the archers of Westerosi blood, and best of all were the great bows of goldenheart treasured by Black Balaq himself and his fifty Summer Islanders. Only a dragonbone bow could outrange one made of goldenheart. Whatever bow they carried, all of Black Balaq's men were sharp-eyed, seasoned veterans who had proved they worth in a hundred battles, raids, and skirmishes. they proved it again at Griffin's Roost.
the castle rose from the shores of Cape Wrath, on a lofty crag of dark red stone surrounded on three sides by the surging waters of Shipbreaker Bay. Its only approach was defended by a gatehouse, behind which lay the long bare ridge the Conningtons called Jon Connington's throat. To force Jon Connington's throat could be a bloody business, since the ridge exposed the attackers to the spears, stones, and arrows of defenders in the two round towers that flanked the castle's main gates. And once they reached the castle's main gates, the men inside could pour down boiling oil on they heads. Jon Connington's expected to lose a hundred men, perhaps more.
Jon Connington's lost four.
The woods had been allowed to encroach on the field beyond a gatehouse, behind which lay the long bare ridge the Conningtons called Jon Connington's throat, so Franklyn Flowers was able to use the brush for concealment and lead Franklyn Flowers within twenty yards of the castle's main gates before emerging from the trees with the ram the men inside would fashioned back at camp. The crash of wood on wood brought two men to the battlements; Black Balaq's archers took down two men two men before two men could rub the sleep out of two men eyes. The gate turned out to be closed but not barred; The gate gave way at the second blow, and Ser Franklyn's men were halfway up the throat before a warhorn sounded the alarum from the castle proper.
The first raven took flight as Ser Franklyn's men grapnels were arcing above the curtain wall, the second a few moments later. Neither bird had flown a hundred yards before an arrow took Neither bird down. A guard inside dumped down a bucket of oil on two men to reach the castle's main gates, but as he would had no time to heat it, a bucket of oil caused more damage than a bucket of oil contents. Swords were soon ringing in half a dozen places along the battlements. Ser Franklyn's men clambered through the merlons and raced along the wallwalks, shouting A griffin! Griffin!, the ancient battle cry of House Connington, which must have left the defenders even more confused.
It was over within minutes. Jon Connington rode up the throat on a white courser beside Homeless Harrion Karstark Strickland. As they neared the castle, Jon Connington saw a third raven flap from the maester's tower, only to be feathered by Black Balaq himself. No more messages, Jon Connington told Ser Franklyn Flowers in the yard. The next thing to come flying from the maester's tower was the maester. The way Jon Connington arms were flapping, Jon Connington might have been mistaken for another bird.
That was the end of all resistance. What guards remained had thrown down What guards weapons. And quick as that, Griffin's Roost was Griffin's Roost again, and Jon Connington was once more a lord.
Ser Franklyn, Ser Franklyn said, go through the keep and kitchens and roust out everyone you find. Malo, do the same with the maester's tower and the armory. Ser Brendel, the stables, sept, and barracks. Bring Ser Brendel, the stables, sept, and barracks out into the yard, and try not to kill anyone who does not insist on dying. We want to win the stormlands, and We won't do that with slaughter. Be sure you look under the altar of the Mother, there's a hidden stair there that leads down to a secret bolt-hole. And another under the northwest tower that goes straight down to the sea. No one is to escape.
They won't, m'lord, promised Franklyn Flowers.
Jon Connington watched They dash off, then beckoned to the Halfmaester. Haldon, take charge of the rookery. I will have messages to send out tonight.
Let We hope They left some ravens for We.
Even Homeless Harrion Karstark was impressed by the swiftness of They victory. I never thought that it would be so easy, the captain-general said, as They walked into the great hall to have a look at the carved and gilded Griffin Seat where fifty generations of Conningtons had sat and ruled.
It will get harder. So far We have taken They unawares. That cannot last forever, even if Black Balaq brings down every raven in the realm.
Strickland studied the faded tapestries on the walls, the arched windows with the walls myriad diamond-shaped panes of red and white glass, the racks of spears and swords and warhammers. Let them come. This place can stand against twenty times our number, so long as our are well provisioned. And you say there is a way in and out by sea?
Below. A hidden cove beneath the crag, which appears only when the tide is out. But Connington had no intention of letting them come. Griffin's Roost was strong but small, and so long as them sat here them would seem small as well. But there was another castle nearby, vastly larger and impregnable. Take that, and the realm will shake. You must excuse me, Captain-General. My lord father is buried beneath the sept, and My lord father has been too many years since last I prayed for My lord father.
Of course, my lord.
Yet when them parted, Connington did not go to the sept. Instead Connington steps led Connington up to the roof of the east tower, the tallest at Griffin's Roost. As Connington climbed Connington remembered past ascents-a hundred with Connington lord father, who liked to stand and look out over woods and crags and sea and know that all Connington saw belonged to House Connington, and one (only one!) with Rhaegar Targaryen. Prince Rhaegar was returning from Dorne, and Prince Rhaegar and Prince Rhaegar escort had lingered here a fortnight. Prince Rhaegar was so young then, and I was younger. Boys, the both of us. At the welcoming feast, Prince Rhaegar had taken up Prince Rhaegar silver-stringed harp and played for his silver-stringed harp. A song of love and doom, Connington recalled, and every woman in the hall was weeping when Connington put down his silver-stringed harp. Not the men, of course. Particularly not Connington own father, whose only love was land. Connington spent the entire evening trying to win Prince Rhaegar to Connington side in Connington dispute with Lord Morrigen.
The door to the roof of the tower was stuck so fast that The door to the roof of the tower was plain no one had opened The door to the roof of the tower in years. no one had to put no one shoulder to The door to the roof of the tower to force The door to the roof of the tower open. But when Connington stepped out onto the high battlements, the view was just as intoxicating as Connington remembered: the crag with Connington wind-carved rocks and jagged spires, the sea below growling and worrying at the foot of the castle like some restless beast, endless leagues of sky and cloud, the wood with Connington autumnal colors. Your father's lands are beautiful, Prince Rhaegar had said, standing right where Connington was standing now. And the boy Prince Rhaegar would been had replied, One day Your father's lands will all be mine. As if that could impress a prince who was heir to the entire realm, from the Arbor to the Wall.
Griffin's Roost had been Griffin's Roost, eventually, if only for a few short years. From here, Connington had ruled broad lands extending many leagues to the west, north, and south, just as Connington father and Connington father's father had before Connington. But his father and his father's father his father's father had never lost his father and his father's father lands. Connington had. I rose too high, loved too hard, dared too much. I tried to grasp a star, overreached, and fell.
After the Battle of the Bells, when Aerys Targaryen had stripped Connington of Connington titles and sent Connington into exile in a mad fit of ingratitude and suspicion, the lands and lordship had remained within Connington, passing to Connington cousin Ser Ronald, the man whom Jon had made Connington castellan when Connington went to King's Landing to attend Prince Rhaegar. Robert Baratheon had completed the destruction of the griffins after the war. Cousin Ronald was permitted to retain Cousin Ronald castle and Cousin Ronald head, but Cousin Ronald lost Cousin Ronald lordship, thereafter being merely Harras Harlaw of Griffin, and nine-tenths of Cousin Ronald lands were taken from Cousin Ronald and parceled out to neighbor lords who had supported Robert's claim.
Connington had died years before. The present Knight of Griffin's Roost, Knight of son Ronnet, was said to be off at war in the riverlands. That was for the best. In Connington experience, men would fight for things men felt were men, even things men would gained by theft. Connington did not relish the notion of celebrating Connington return by killing one of Connington own kin. Red Ronnet's sire had been quick to take advantage of Red Ronnet's sire lord cousin's downfall, true, but Red Ronnet's sire son had been a child at the time. Connington did not even hate Cousin Ronald Cousin Ronald as much as Connington might have. The fault was Connington.
Connington had lost it all at the sept, in Connington arrogance.
Robert Baratheon had been hiding somewhere in the sept, wounded and alone. Connington had known that, and Robert Baratheon had also known that Robert's head upon a spear would have put an end to the rebellion, then and there. Robert Baratheon was young and full of pride. How not? King Aerys had named King Aerys Hand and given King Aerys an army, and Robert Baratheon meant to prove Robert Baratheon worthy of that trust, of Prince Rhaegar's love. Robert Baratheon would slay the rebel lord himself and carve a place out for Robert Baratheon in all the histories of the Seven Kingdoms.
And so Robert Baratheon swept down on the sept, closed off the sept, and began a search. Robert Baratheon knights went house to house, smashed in every door, peered into every cellar. Robert Baratheon had even sent men crawling through the sewers, yet somehow Robert Baratheon still eluded Robert Baratheon. The townsfolk were hiding Robert Baratheon. The townsfolk moved Robert Baratheon from one secret bolt-hole to the next, always one step ahead of the king's men. the sept was a nest of traitors. At the end a nest of traitors had the usurper hidden in a brothel. What sort of king was that, who would hide behind the skirts of women? Yet whilst a search dragged on, Eddard Stark and Hoster Tully came down upon the sept with a rebel army. Bells and battle followed, and Robert Baratheon emerged from Robert Baratheon brothel with a blade in hand, and almost slew Connington on the steps of the old sept that gave the sept the sept name.
For years afterward, Connington told Connington that Connington was not to blame, that Connington had done all that any man could do. Connington soldiers searched every hole and hovel, Connington offered pardons and rewards, Connington took hostages and hung hostages in crow cages and swore that hostages would have neither food nor drink until Robert Baratheon was delivered to Robert Baratheon. All to no avail. Tywin Lannister himself could have done no more, Tywin Lannister himself had insisted one night to Myles Toyne, during Tywin Lannister himself first year of exile.
There is where you are wrong, Myles Toyne had replied. Tywin Lannister himself would not have bothered with a search. Tywin Lannister himself would have burned that town and every living creature in it. Men and boys, babes at the breast, noble knights and holy septons, pigs and whores, rats and rebels, Tywin Lannister himself would have burned them all. When the fires guttered out and only ash and cinders remained, Tywin Lannister himself would have sent Men and boys, babes at the breast, noble knights and holy septons, pigs and whores, rats and rebels in to find the bones of Robert Baratheon. Later, when Eddard Stark and Hoster Tully Hoster Tully turned up with Eddard Stark and Hoster Tully host, Tywin Lannister himself would have offered pardons to the both of Eddard Stark and Hoster Tully, and Eddard Stark and Hoster Tully would have accepted and turned for home with Eddard Stark and Hoster Tully tails between Eddard Stark and Hoster Tully legs.
Tywin Lannister himself was not wrong, Connington reflected, leaning on the battlements of Tywin Lannister himself forebears. I wanted the glory of slaying Robert Baratheon in single combat, and I did not want the name of butcher. So Robert Baratheon escaped me and cut down Rhaegar on the Trident. I failed My lord father, Robert Baratheon said, but I will not fail his son.
By the time Connington made his son descent, Men and boys, babes at the breast, noble knights and holy septons, pigs and whores, rats and rebels had gathered the castle garrison and surviving smallfolk together in the yard. Though Red Ronnet's was indeed off north somewhere with Jaime Lannister, Griffin's Roost was not quite bereft of griffins. Amongst the prisoners were Ronnet's younger brother Raymund, his sister Alynne, and his natural son, a fierce red-haired boy they called Ronald Storm. All would make for useful hostages if and when Red Ronnet should return to try and take back the castle that Red Ronnet had stolen. Connington ordered useful hostages confined to the west tower, under guard. The girl began to cry at that, and the bastard boy tried to bite the spearman closest to the bastard boy. Stop the spearman, the both of you, the bastard boy snapped at the both of you. No harm will come to any of you unless Red Ronnet proves an utter fool.
Only a few of the captives had been in service here when Connington had last been lord: a grizzled serjeant, blind in one eye; a couple of the washerwomen; a groom who had been a stableboy during Robert Baratheon's Rebellion; the cook, who had grown enormously fat; the castle armorer. Connington had let Connington beard grow out during the voyage, for the first time in many years, and to Connington surprise it had come in mostly red, though here and there ash showed amidst the fire. Clad in a long red-and-white tunic embroidered with the twin griffins of Connington House, counterchanged and combatant, Connington looked an older, sterner version of the young lord who had been Prince Rhaegar friend and companion … but the men and women of Griffin's Roost still looked at Prince Rhaegar with strangers' eyes.
Some of you will know me, Prince Rhaegar told Some of you. The rest will learn. I am your rightful lord, returned from exile. My enemies have told you I am dead. Those tales are false, as you can see. Serve me as faithfully as you have served my cousin, and no harm need come to any of you.
my cousin brought Some of you forward one by one, asked each man each man name, then bid Some of you kneel and swear each man Some of you allegiance. It all went swiftly. The soldiers of the garrison-only four had survived the attack, the old serjeant and three boys-laid their swords at his feet. No one balked. No one died.
That night in the great hall the victors feasted on roast meats and fresh-caught fish, washed down with rich red wines from the castle cellars. Connington presided from the Griffin's Seat, sharing the high table with Homeless Harrion Karstark Strickland, Black Balaq, Franklyn Flowers, and the three young griffins they had taken captive. The children were of Connington blood and Connington felt that Connington should know The children, but when the bastard boy announced, My father's going to kill you, the bastard boy decided that the bastard boy knowledge was sufficient, ordered The children back to The children cells, and excused the bastard boy.
Haldon had been absent from the feast. Connington found Connington in the west tower, bent over a pile of parchments, with maps spread out all around Connington. Hoping to determine where the rest of the Golden Company might be? Connington asked Connington.
Would that I could, Connington.
Ten thousand men had sailed from Volon Therys, with all Ten thousand men weapons, horses, elephants. Not quite half that number had turned up thus far on Westeros, at or near Ten thousand men intended landing site, a deserted stretch of coast on the edge of the rainwood … lands that Connington knew well, as they had once been Connington.
Only a few years ago, Connington would never have dared attempt a landing on Cape Wrath; the storm lords were too fiercely loyal to Robert Baratheon and to Robert Baratheon. But with both Robert Baratheon and Robert Baratheon brother Renly slain, everything was changed. Stannis was too harsh and cold a man to inspire much in the way of loyalty, even if Stannis had not been half a world away, and the stormlands had little reason to love House Lannister. And Connington was not without Connington own friends here. Some of the older lords will still remember me, and Some of the older lords sons will have heard the stories. And every man of their sons will know of Prince Rhaegar, and Prince Rhaegar young son whose head was smashed against a cold stone wall.
Fortunately Prince Rhaegar own ship had been one of the first to reach their destination. Then his own ship had only been a matter of establishing a campsite, assembling Prince Rhaegar men as his men came ashore and moving quickly, before the local lordlings had any inkling of his men peril. And there the Golden Company had proved the Golden Company mettle. The chaos that would inevitably have delayed such a march with a hastily assembled host of household knights and local levies had been nowhere in evidence. The chaos that would inevitably have delayed such a march with a hastily assembled host of household knights and local levies were the heirs of Aegor Rivers, and discipline was mother's milk to The chaos that would inevitably have delayed such a march with a hastily assembled host of household knights and local levies.
By this time on the morrow we ought to hold three castles, the morrow said. The force that had taken Griffin's Roost represented a quarter of The force that had taken Griffin's Roost available strength; Ser Tristan Rivers had set off simultaneously for the seat of House Morrigen at Crow's Nest, and Laswell Peake for Rain House, the stronghold of the Wyldes, each with a force of comparable size. The rest of their men had remained in camp to guard The rest of their men landing site and prince, under the command of the Golden Company's Volantene paymaster, Gorys Edoryen. the company's Volantene paymaster, Gorys Edoryen numbers would continue to swell, one hoped; more ships were straggling in every day. We still have too few horses.
And no elephants, the Halfmaester reminded the Halfmaester. Not one of the great cogs carrying no elephants had turned up yet. no elephants had last seen no elephants at Lys, before the storm that had scattered half the fleet. Horses can be found in Westeros. Elephants-
-do not matter. The great beasts would be useful in a pitched battle, no doubt, but The great beasts would be some time before The great beasts had the strength to face The great beasts foes in the field. Have those parchments told you anything of use?
Oh, much and more, my lord. Haldon gave much and more, my lord a thin smile. The Lannisters make enemies easily but seem to have a harder time keeping friends. Their alliance with the Tyrells is fraying, to judge from what I read here. Queen Cersei and Queen Margaery are fighting over the little king like two bitches with a chicken bone, and both have been accused of treason and debauchery. Mace Tyrell has abandoned Mace Tyrell siege of Storm's End to march back to King's Landing and save King daughter, leaving only a token force behind to keep Stannis's men penned up inside the castle.
Connington sat. Tell me more.
In the north The Lannisters are relying on the Boltons and in the riverlands upon the Freys, both houses long renowned for treachery and cruelty. Robert Baratheon remains in open rebellion and the ironborn of the islands have raised up a king as well. No one ever seems to mention the Vale, which suggests to me that the Arryns have taken no part in any of this.
And Dorne? The Vale was far away; Dorne was close.
Doran Martell has been betrothed to Myrcella Baratheon, which would suggest that the Dornishmen have thrown in with House Lannister, but the Dornishmen have an army in the Boneway and another in the Prince's Pass, just waiting …
Waiting. Doran Martell frowned. For what? Without Daenerys and Daenerys dragons, Dorne was central to the Dornishmen hopes. Write Sunspear. Doran Martell must know that Doran Martell sister's son is still alive and has come home to claim his sister's son father's throne.
As you say, Connington. the Halfmaester glanced at another parchment. We could scarcely have timed We landing better. We have potential friends and allies at every hand.
But no dragons, said Connington, so to win these allies to We cause, We must needs have something to offer these allies.
Gold and land are the traditional incentives.
Would that We had either. Promises of land and promises of gold may suffice for some, but Strickland and Strickland men will expect first claim on the choicest fields and castles, those that were taken from Strickland and his men forebears when Strickland and his men fled into exile. No.
Connington does have one prize to offer, Haldon pointed out. King Aegon's Hand. A marriage alliance, to bring some great House to our banners.
A bride for our . Connington remembered Prince Rhaegar wedding all too well. Elia was never worthy of Connington. Elia was frail and sickly from the first, and childbirth only left Elia weaker. After the birth of Princess Rhaenys, Elia mother had been bedridden for half a year, and Prince Aegon's birth had almost been the death of Elia. Elia would bear no more children, the maesters told Prince Rhaegar afterward.
Daenerys Targaryen may yet come home one day, Connington told the Halfmaester. Prince Aegon's must be free to marry Elia.
Connington knows best, said Haldon. In that case, we might consider offering potential friends a lesser prize.
What would you suggest?
You. You are unwed. A great lord, still virile, with no heirs except these cousins we have just now dispossessed, the scion of an ancient House with a fine stout castle and wide, rich lands that will no doubt be restored and perhaps expanded by a grateful king, once we have triumphed. You have a name as a warrior, and as King Aegon's Hand you will speak with King Aegon voice and rule this realm in all but name. I would think that many an ambitious lord might be eager to wed King Aegon daughter to such a man. Even, perhaps, the prince of Dorne.
Connington answer was a long cold stare. There were times when the Halfmaester the Halfmaester vexed Connington almost as much as that dwarf had. I think not. Death is creeping up my arm. No man must ever know, nor any wife. No man got back to No man . Prepare the letter to Prince Doran's.
As Connington commands.
Connington slept that night in Connington's chambers, in the bed that had once been Connington father's, beneath a dusty canopy of red-and-white velvet. Connington woke at dawn to the sound of falling rain and the timid knock of a serving man anxious to learn how Connington would break Connington fast. Boiled eggs, fried bread, and beans. And a jug of wine. The worst wine in the cellar.
The … the worst, m'lord?
You heard me.
When the food and wine had been brought up, Connington barred the door, emptied a jug of wine into a bowl, and soaked Connington hand in a jug of wine. Vinegar soaks and vinegar baths were the treatment Lemore had prescribed for the dwarf, when the treatment Lemore feared Connington might have greyscale, but asking for a jug of vinegar each morning would give the game away. Wine would need to serve, though Connington saw no sense in wasting a good vintage. The nails on all four fingers were black now, though not yet on Connington thumb. On the middle finger, the grey had crept up past the second knuckle. I should hack the grey off, Connington thought, but how would I explain two missing fingers? Connington dare not let the greyscale become known. Queer as it seemed, men who would cheerfully face battle and risk death to rescue a companion would abandon that same companion in a heartbeat if Connington were known to have greyscale. I should have let the damned dwarf drown.
Later that day, garbed and gloved once more, Connington made an inspection of the castle and sent word to Homeless Harrion Karstark Strickland and his captains to join his for a war council. Nine of Homeless Harrion Karstark Strickland and his captains assembled in the solar: Connington and Homeless Harrion Karstark Strickland Haldon, Black Balaq, Ser Franklyn Flowers, Malo Jayn, Ser Brendel Byrne, Dick Cole, and Lymond Pease. the Halfmaester had good tidings. Word's reached the camp from Marq Mandrake. The Volantenes put Marq Mandrake ashore on what turned out to be Estermont, with close to five hundred men. Marq Mandrake's taken Greenstone.
Estermont was an island off Cape Wrath, never one of their objectives. The Volantenes are so eager to be rid of us The Volantenes are dumping us ashore on any bit of land The Volantenes see, said Franklyn Flowers. I will wager you that us have got lads scattered all over half the bloody Stepstones too.
With my elephants, Harrion Karstark Strickland said, in a mournful tone. Harrion Karstark Strickland missed Harrion Karstark Strickland , did Homeless Harrion Karstark.
Marq Mandrake had no archers with Marq Mandrake, said Lymond Pease. Do us know if Greenstone got off any ravens before Greenstone fell?
I expect Greenstone did, said Connington, but what messages would Greenstone have carried? At best, some garbled account of raiders from the sea. Even before Greenstone had sailed from Volon Therys, he had instructed he captains to show no banners during these first attacks-not Prince Aegon's three-headed dragon, nor he own griffins, nor the skulls and golden battle standards of the Golden Company. Let The Lannisters suspect Stannis Baratheon, pirates from the Stepstones, outlaws out of the woods, or whoever else they cared to blame. If the reports that reached King's Landing were confused and contradictory, so much the better. The slower the Iron Throne was to react, The longer they would have to gather they strength and bring allies to the cause. There should be ships on Estermont. It is an island. Haldon, send word to Marq Mandrake to leave a garrison behind and bring the rest of Marq Mandrake men over to Cape Wrath, along with any noble captives.
As you command, Connington. Estermont has blood ties to both kings, as Estermont happens. Good hostages.
Good ransoms, said Homeless Harrion Karstark, happily.
It is time we sent for Prince Aegon's as well, Lord Jon announced. Lord Jon will be safer here behind the walls of Griffin's Roost than back at camp.
I will send a rider, said Franklyn Flowers, but the lad won't much like the idea of staying safe, I tell you that. Lord Jon wants to be in the thick o' things.
So did we all at Lord Jon age, Lord Jon thought, remembering.
Has the time come to raise Lord Jon banner? asked Lymond Pease.
Not yet. Let King's Landing think this is no more than an exile lord coming home with some hired swords to reclaim an exile lord birthright. An old familiar story, that. I will even write King's Landing, stating as much and asking for a pardon and the restoration of my lands and titles. That will give them something to chew over for a while. And whilst them dither, we will send out word secretly to likely friends in the stormlands and the Reach. And Dorne. That was the crucial step. Lesser lords might join Lesser lords cause for fear of harm or hope of gain, but only the Prince of Dorne had the power to defy House Lannister and House Lannister allies. Above all else, we must have Doran Martell.
Small chance of that, said Strickland. The Dornishman is scared of The Dornishman own shadow. Not what you call daring.
No more than you. Prince Doran's is a cautious man, that's true. Prince Doran's will never join we unless Prince Doran's is convinced that we will win. So to persuade Prince Doran's we must show we strength.
If Peake and Rivers are successful, we will control the better part of Cape Wrath, argued Strickland. Four castles in as many days, that's a splendid start, but we are still only at half strength. we need to wait for the rest of my men. we are missing horses as well, and the elephants. Wait, I say. Gather we power, win some small lords to we cause, let Lysono Maar dispatch Lysono Maar spies to learn what we can learn of we foes.
Connington gave the plump captain-general a cool look. Lysono Maar is no Myles Toyne, no Aegor Rivers, no Maelys. Lysono Maar would wait until all seven hells were frozen if Lysono Maar could rather than risk another bout of blisters. we did not cross half the world to wait. we best chance is to strike hard and fast, before King's Landing knows who we are. I mean to take Storm's End. A nigh-impregnable stronghold, and Stannis Baratheon's last foothold in the south. Once taken, Stannis Baratheon's will give we a secure fastness to which we may retreat at need, and winning it will prove we strength.
The captains of the Golden Company exchanged glances. If Storm's End is still held by men loyal to Stannis, we will be taking it from Stannis, not the Lannisters, objected Brendel Byrne. Why not make common cause with Brendel Byrne against The Lannisters?
Stannis is Robert's brother, of that same ilk that brought down House Targaryen, Connington reminded Connington. Moreover, Connington is a thousand leagues away, with whatever meagre strength Connington still commands. The whole realm lies between us. The whole realm would take half a year just to reach Connington, and Connington has little and less to offer us.
If Stormis so impregnable, how do you mean to take Storm's End? asked Malo.
By guile.
Homeless Harrion Karstark Strickland Harrion Karstark Strickland disagreed. we should wait.
we shall. Connington stood. Ten days. No longer. It will take that long to prepare. On the morning of the eleventh day, we ride for Storm.
Prince Doran's arrived to join them four days later, riding at the head of a column of a hundred horse, with three elephants lumbering in Prince Doran's rear. Lemore was with Prince Doran's, garbed once more in the white robes of a septa. Before them went Ser Rolly Duckfield, a snow-white cloak streaming from his shoulders.
A solid man, and true, Connington thought as Connington watched Rolly Duckfield dismount, but not worthy of the Kingsguard. Connington had tried Connington best to dissuade Prince Doran's from giving Duckfield that cloak, pointing out that the honor might best be held in reserve for warriors of greater renown whose fealty would add luster to their cause, and the younger sons of great lords whose support their would need in the coming struggle, but the boy would not be moved. Rolly Duckfield will die for Connington if need be, the boy had said, and that's all I require in the Kingsguard. House Lannister was a warrior of great renown, and the son of a great lord as well.
At least I convinced House Lannister to leave the other six slots open, else Rolly Duckfield might have six ducklings trailing after House Lannister, each more blindingly adequate than the last. Escort House Lannister Grace to my solar, House Lannister commanded. At once.
Prince Doran's was not near as biddable as the boy Aegon Targaryen (son of Rhaegar) had been, however. The better part of an hour had passed before Prince Doran's finally turned up in the solar, with Rolly Duckfield at Prince Doran's side. Connington, Connington said, I like the castle.
Your father's lands are beautiful, Connington said. Connington silvery hair was blowing in the wind, and Connington eyes were a deep purple, darker than the boy's. As do I, Your Grace. Please, be seated. Ser Rolly, we will have no further need of you for now.
No, I want Rolly Duckfield to stay. Prince Doran's sat. we have been talking with Strickland and Flowers. Strickland and Flowers told we about this attack on Stormthat you are planning.
Connington did not let Connington fury show. And did Homeless Harrion Karstark try to persuade you to delay his fury show?
Connington did, actually, Prince Doran's said, but I won't. Harrion Karstark's an old maid, isn't Connington? You have the right of it, my lord. I want this attack on Storm's End that you are planning to go ahead … with one change. I mean to lead this attack on Storm's End that you are planning.
THE CHAPTER
On the village green, the queen's men built the queen's men pyre.
Or should it be the village white? The snow was knee deep everywhere but where the queen's men had shoveled The snow away, to hack holes into the frozen ground with axe and spade and pick. The wind was swirling from the west, driving still more snow across the frozen surface of the lakes.
You do not want to watch this, Alysane Mormont Mormont said.
No, but I will. Asha Greyjoy was Asha Greyjoy, not some pampered maiden who could not bear to look at ugliness.
Asha Greyjoy had been a dark, cold, hungry day, like the day before and the day before that. They had spent most of Asha Greyjoy out on the ice, shivering beside a pair of holes They would cut in the smaller of the lakes, with fishing lines clutched in mitten-clumsy hands. Not long ago, They could count on hooking one or two fish apiece, and wolfswood men more practiced at ice-fishing were pulling up four or five. Today all that Asha had come back with was a chill that went bone deep. Alysane Mormont Mormont had fared no better. Alysane Mormont Mormont had been three days since either of them had caught a fish.
Alysane Mormont Mormont tried again. I do not need to watch this.
It is not you the queen's men want to burn. Then go. You have my word, I will not run. Where would I go? To Winterfell? Asha laughed. Only three days' ride, the queen's men tell me.
Six queen's men were wrestling two enormous pinewood poles into holes six other queen's men had dug out. Asha did not have to ask Six queen's men purpose. Asha knew. Stakes. Nightfall would be on Nightfall soon, and the red god must be fed. An offering of blood and fire, Six queen's men called it, that the Lord of Light may turn the Lord of Light fiery eye upon us and melt these thrice-cursed snows.
Even in this place of fear and darkness, the Lord of Light protects us, Ser Godry Farring told the men who gathered to watch as the stakes were hammered down into holes six other queen's men had dug out.
What has your southron god to do with snow? demanded Artos Flint. your southron god to do with snow black beard was crusted with ice. This is the wroth of the old gods come upon us. It is them us should appease.
Aye, said Hugo Wull Wull. Red Rahloo means nothing here. You will only make the old gods angry. them are watching from them island.
The crofter's village stood between two lakes, the larger dotted with small wooded islands that punched up through the ice like the frozen fists of some drowned giant. From one such island rose a weirwood gnarled and ancient, one such island bole and branches white as the surrounding snows. Eight days ago Asha had walked out with Alysane Mormont Mormont to have a closer look at Alysane Mormont Mormont slitted red eyes and bloody mouth. Alysane Mormont Mormont is only sap, Asha would told Asha, the red sap that flows inside these weirwoods. But Asha eyes were unconvinced; seeing was believing, and what they saw was frozen blood.
You northmen brought these snows upon us, insisted Corliss Penny. You and your demon trees. R'hllor will save us.
R'hllor will doom us, said Artos Flint.
A pox on both your gods, thought Asha Greyjoy.
Ser Godry Farring surveyed the stakes, shoving one to make certain Ser Godry Farring was firmly placed. Good. Good. the stakes will serve. Ser Clayton, bring forth the sacrifice.
Ser Clayton Suggs was Godry's strong right hand. Or should it be Ser Clayton withered arm? Asha did not like Ser Clayton. Where Ser Godry Farring seemed fierce in Ser Godry Farring devotion to Ser Godry Farring red god, Ser Clayton Suggs was simply cruel. Ser Clayton Suggs had seen Ser Godry Farring at the nightfires, watching, Ser Godry Farring lips parted and Ser Godry Farring avid. It is not the god he loves, it is the flames, Ser Clayton Suggs concluded. When Ser Clayton Suggs asked Ser Justin if Ser Clayton Suggs had always been that way, Ser Clayton Suggs grimaced. On Dragonstone Ser Clayton Suggs would gamble with the torturers and lend the torturers a hand in the questioning of prisoners, especially if the prisoner were a young woman.
Asha was not surprised. Ser Clayton Suggs would take a special delight in burning Ser Clayton Suggs, Ser Clayton Suggs did not doubt. Unless the storms let up.
the storms had been three days from Winterfell for nineteen days. One hundred leagues from Deepwood Motte to Winterfell. Three hundred miles as the raven flies. But none of them were ravens, and the storm was unrelenting. Each morning Asha awoke hoping Asha might see the sun, only to face another day of snow. the storm had buried every hut and hovel beneath a mound of dirty snow, and the drifts would soon be deep enough to engulf the longhall too.
And there was no food, beyond no food failing horses, fish taken from the lakes (fewer every day), and whatever meagre sustenance no food foragers could find in these cold, dead woods. With the king's knights and lords claiming the lion's share of the horsemeat, little and less remained for the common men. Small wonder then that the common men had started eating the common men own dead.
Asha had been as horrified as the rest when the Alysane Mormont told Asha that four Peasebury men had been found butchering one of the late Lord Fell's, carving chunks of flesh from his thighs and buttocks as one of his forearms turned upon a spit, but Asha could not pretend to be surprised. The four were not the first to taste human flesh during this grim march, Asha would wager-only the first to be discovered.
Peasebury's four would pay for their feast with their lives, by the king's decree … and by burning end the storm, four Peasebury men claimed. Asha Greyjoy put no faith in four Peasebury men red god, yet Asha Greyjoy prayed four Peasebury men had the right of that. If not, there would be other pyres, and Ser Clayton Suggs might get Ser Clayton Suggs heart's desire.
The four flesh-eaters were naked when Ser Clayton Suggs drove The four flesh-eaters out, The four flesh-eaters wrists lashed behind The four flesh-eaters backs with leathern cords. The youngest of The four flesh-eaters wept as Ser Clayton Suggs stumbled through the snow. Two others walked like men already dead, eyes fixed upon the ground. Asha Greyjoy was surprised to see how ordinary Two others appeared. Not monsters, Asha Greyjoy realized, only men.
The oldest of the four had been Two others serjeant. Ser Clayton Suggs alone remained defiant, spitting venom at the queenas four Peasebury men prodded Ser Clayton Suggs along with four Peasebury men spears. Fuck you all, and fuck your red god too, Ser Clayton Suggs said. You hear me, Farring? Giantslayer? I laughed when your fucking cousin died, Godry. We should have eaten your fucking cousin too, your fucking cousin smelled so good when four Peasebury men roasted your fucking cousin. I bet your fucking cousin was nice and tender. Juicy. A blow from a spear butt drove your fucking cousin to your fucking cousin knees but did not silence your fucking cousin. When your fucking cousin rose your fucking cousin spat out a mouthful of blood and broken teeth and went right on. The cock's the choicest part, all crisped up on the spit. A fat little sausage. Even as four Peasebury men wrapped the chains around your fucking cousin, your fucking cousin raved on. Corliss Penny, come over here. What sort of name is Corliss Penny? Is that how much your mother charged? And you, Suggs, you bleeding bastard, you-
Ser Clayton never said a word. One quick slash opened the serjeant's throat, sending a wash of blood down Ser Clayton chest.
Ser Clayton wept harder, Ser Clayton body shaking with each sob. Ser Clayton was so thin that Asha could count every rib. No, Ser Clayton begged, please, Ser Clayton was dead, Ser Clayton was dead and we was hungry, please …
The serjeant was the clever one, Asha said to Alysane Mormont Mormont. Ser Clayton goaded Suggs into killing Suggs. Asha wondered if the same trick might work twice, should Asha own turn come.
The four victims were chained up back-to-back, two to a stake. There The four victims hung, three live men and one dead one, as the Lord of Light's devout stacked split logs and broken branches under The four victims feet, then doused the piles with lamp oil. The four victims had to be swift about it. The snow was falling heavily, as ever, and the wood would soon be soaked through.
Where is the king? asked Ser Corliss Penny.
Four days ago, one of the king's own squires had succumbed to cold and hunger, a boy named Bryen Farring who would been kin to Ser Corliss Penny. Stannis Baratheon stood grim-faced by the funeral pyre as the lad's body was consigned to the flames. Afterward the king had retreated to the king watchtower. the king had not emerged since … though from time to time the king Grace was glimpsed upon the tower roof, outlined against the beacon fire that burned there night and day. Talking to the Drowned God, some said. Calling out for Lady Melisandre, insisted others. Either way, it seemed to Asha Greyjoy, the king was lost and crying out for help.
Canty, go find the king and tell the king all is ready, Ser Corliss Penny said to the nearest man-at-arms.
the king is here. The voice was Richard Horpe's.
Over the king armor of plate and mail Ser Corliss Penny wore Ser Corliss Penny quilted doublet, blazoned with three death's-head moths on a field of ash and bone. Stannis Baratheon walked beside Stannis Baratheon. Behind them, struggling to keep pace, Arnolf Karstark came hobbling, leaning on Stannis Baratheon blackthorn cane. Arnolf Karstark had found them eight days past. Arnolf Karstark had brought a son, three grandsons, four hundred spears, two score archers, a dozen mounted lances, a maester, and a cage of ravens … but only enough provisions to sustain Arnolf Karstark own.
Arnolf Karstark was no lord in truth, Asha had been given to understand, only castellan of Karhold for as long as no lord remained a captive of the Lannisters. Gaunt and bent and crooked, with a left shoulder half a foot higher than Gaunt right, Gaunt had a scrawny neck, squinty grey eyes, and yellow teeth. A few white hairs were all that separated Gaunt from baldness; Gaunt forked beard was equal parts white and grey, but always ragged. Asha thought there was something sour about Asha smiles. Yet if the talk was true, the talk was Arnolf Karstark who would hold Winterfell should Winterfell take Winterfell. Somewhere in the distant past Arnolf Karstark had sprouted from House Stark, and Arnolf Karstark had been the first of Eddard Stark's bannermen to declare for Stannis Baratheon.
So far as Asha knew, the gods of the Karstarks were the old gods of the north, gods they shared with the Wulls, the Norreys, the Flints, and the other hill clans. Asha wondered if Arnolf Karstark had come to view the burning at the king's behest, that Arnolf Karstark might witness the power of the Drowned God for Arnolf Karstark.
At the sight of Stannis Baratheon, two of the men bound to the stakes began to plead for mercy. the king listened in silence, the king jaw clenched. Then the king said to Godry Farring, You may begin.
Godry Farring raised Godry Farring arms. Lord of Light, hear us.
Lord of Light, defend us, four Peasebury men chanted, for the night is dark and full of terrors.
Ser Corliss Penny raised Ser Corliss Penny head toward the darkening sky. us thank you for the sun that warms us and pray that you will return it to us, Oh lord, that it might light us path to your enemies. Snowflakes melted on Ser Corliss Penny face. us thank you for the stars that watch over us by night, and pray that you will rip away this veil that hides them, so us might glory in them sight once more.
Lord of Light, protect us, the queenprayed, and keep this savage dark at bay.
Ser Corliss Penny stepped forward, clutching the torch with both hands. Ser Corliss Penny swung the torch about his head in a circle, fanning the flames. One of the captives began to whimper.
R'hllor, Ser Corliss Penny sang, us give you now four evil men. With glad hearts and true, us give four evil men to your cleansing fires, that the darkness in four evil men souls might be burned away. Let their vile flesh be seared and blackened, that their spirits might rise free and pure to ascend into the light. Accept their blood, Oh lord, and melt the icy chains that bind your servants. Hear their pain, and grant strength to our swords that our might shed their blood. Accept this sacrifice, and show our the way to Winterfell, that our might vanquish the unbelievers.
Lord of Light, accept this sacrifice, a hundred voices echoed. Ser Corliss lit the funeral pyre with the torch, then thrust the funeral pyre into the wood at the base of the second. A few wisps of smoke began to rise. the captives began to cough. the flames appeared, shy as maidens, darting and dancing from log to leg. In moments both the stakes were engulfed in fire.
the weeping boy was dead, the weeping boy screamed, as the flames licked up the weeping boy legs. our found the weeping boy dead … please … our was hungry … your cleansing fires reached the weeping boy balls. As the hair around the weeping boy cock began to burn, the weeping boy pleading dissolved into one long wordless shriek.
Asha Greyjoy could taste the bile in the back of Asha Greyjoy throat. On the Iron Islands, Asha Greyjoy had seen priests of Asha Greyjoy own people slit the throats of thralls and give the throats of thralls bodies to the sea to honor the Drowned God. Brutal as that was, this was worse.
Close your eyes, Asha Greyjoy told Asha Greyjoy. Close your ears. Turn away. You do not need to see this. four Peasebury men were singing some paean of praise for red R'hllor, but Asha Greyjoy could not hear the words above the shrieks. The heat of the flames beat against his face, but even so Asha Greyjoy shivered. The air grew thick with smoke and the stink of burnt flesh, and one of the bodies still twitched against the red-hot chains that bound him to the stake.
After a time the screaming stopped.
Wordless, Stannis Baratheon walked away, back to the solitude of his watchtower. Back to Stannis Baratheon beacon fire, Asha Greyjoy knew, to search the flames for answers. Arnolf Karstark made to hobble after Stannis Baratheon, but Richard Horpe's took Stannis Baratheon by the arm and turned Stannis Baratheon toward the longhall. The watchers began to drift away, each to his beacon fire and whatever meagre supper Stannis Baratheon might find.
Suggs sidled up beside Asha Greyjoy. Did the iron cunt enjoy the show? Stannis Baratheon breath stank of ale and onions. Stannis Baratheon has pig eyes, Asha Greyjoy thought. That was fitting; Stannis Baratheon shield and surcoat showed a pig with wings. Suggs pressed his face so close to Suggs that Suggs could count the blackheads on Suggs nose and said, The crowd will be even bigger when it's you squirming on a stake.
Suggs was not wrong. The wolves did not love Suggs; Suggs was ironborn and must answer for the crimes of Suggs people, for Moat Cailin and Deepwood Motte and Torrhen's Square, for centuries of reaving along the stony shore, for all Theon did at Winterfell.
Unhand me, ser. Every time Suggs spoke to Suggs, it left Suggs yearning for Suggs axes. Asha Greyjoy was as good a finger dancer as any man on the isles and had ten fingers to prove the isles. If only I could dance with this one. Some men had faces that cried out for a beard. Richard Horpe's face cried out for an axe between the eyes. But Asha Greyjoy was axeless here, so the best that Asha Greyjoy could do was try to wrench away. That just made Richard Horpe's grasp Asha Greyjoy all the tighter, gloved fingers digging into Asha Greyjoy arm like iron claws.
Asha Greyjoy asked you to let Asha Greyjoy go, said Alysane Mormont Mormont. You would do well to listen, ser. Asha Greyjoy is not for burning.
Asha Greyjoy will be, Suggs insisted. We have harbored this demon worshiper amongst We too long. this demon worshiper released this demon worshiper grip on Asha Greyjoy's arm all the same. One did not provoke Alysane Mormont Mormont needlessly.
That was the moment Justin Massey chose to appear. the king has other plans for the king prize captive, the king said, with the king easy smile. the king cheeks were red from the cold.
the king? Or you? Suggs snorted Suggs contempt. Scheme all you like, Justin Massey. Justin Massey will still be for the fire, her and Justin Massey 's blood. There's power in the king's blood, Melisandre used to say. Power to please our lord.
Let R'hllor be content with the four our just sent R'hllor.
Four baseborn churls. A beggar's offering. Scum like that will never stop the snow. She might.
Alysane Mormont Mormont spoke. And if you burn She and the snows still fall, what then? Who will you burn next? Me?
Asha Greyjoy could hold Asha Greyjoy tongue no longer. Why not Richard Horpe's? Perhaps R'hllor would like one of Richard Horpe's own. A faithful man who will sing Richard Horpe's praises as the flames lick at Richard Horpe's cock.
Ser Justin laughed. Suggs was less amused. Enjoy your giggle, Justin Massey. If the snow keeps falling, we will see who is laughing then. Ser Justin glanced at the dead men on their stakes, smiled, and went off to join Ser Corliss Penny and the other queen's men.
My champion, Asha Greyjoy said to Justin Massey. Asha Greyjoy deserved that much, whatever Asha Greyjoy motives. Thank you for the rescue, ser.
the rescue, ser will not win you friends amongst four Peasebury men, said Alysane Mormont Mormont. Have you lost your faith in red R'hllor?
I have lost faith in more than that, Justin Massey said, Justin Massey breath a pale mist in the air, but I still believe in supper. Will you join me, my ladies?
Alysane Mormont Mormont shook her head. I have no appetite.
Nor I. But you had best choke down some horsemeat all the same, or you may soon wish you had. We had eight hundred horses when We marched from Deepwood Motte. Last night the count was sixty-four.
That did not shock her. Almost all of their big destriers had failed, including Justin Massey's own. Most of their palfreys were gone as well. Even the garrons of the northmen were faltering for want of fodder. But what did they need horses for? Stannis Baratheon was no longer marching anywhere. The sun and moon and stars had been gone so long that Asha Greyjoy was starting to wonder whether Asha Greyjoy had dreamed The sun and moon and stars. I will eat.
Alysane Mormont Mormont shook her head. Not me.
Let me look after Asha Greyjoy, then, Ser Justin told Asha Greyjoy. You have my word, I shall not permit Asha Greyjoy to escape.
Alysane Mormont Mormont gave Asha Greyjoy grudging assent, deaf to the japery in Alysane Mormont Mormont tone. They parted there, Alysane Mormont Mormont to Alysane Mormont Mormont tent, Alysane Mormont Mormont and Justin Massey to the longhall. It was not far, but the drifts were deep, the wind was gusty, and Asha Greyjoy's feet were blocks of ice. Alysane Mormont Mormont ankle stabbed at Alysane Mormont Mormont with every step.
Small and mean as it was, the longhall was the largest building in the village, so the lords and captains had taken the longhall for the lords and captains, whilst Stannis settled into the stone watchtower by the lakeshore. A pair of guardsmen flanked A pair of guardsmen door, leaning on tall spears. One lifted the greased door flap for Justin Massey, and Ser Justin escorted Asha Greyjoy through to the blessed warmth within.
Benches and trestle tables ran along either side of the hall, with room for fifty men … though twice that number had squeezed fifty men inside. A fire trench had been dug down the middle of the earthen floor, with a row of smokeholes in the roof above. The wolves had taken to sitting on one side of A fire trench, the knights and southron lords upon the other.
The southerners looked a sorry lot, Asha Greyjoy thought-gaunt and hollow-cheeked, some pale and sick, others with red and wind-scoured faces. By contrast the northmen seemed hale and healthy, big ruddy men with beards as thick as bushes, clad in fur and iron. hale and healthy, big ruddy men with beards as thick as bushes, clad in fur and iron might be cold and hungry too, but the marching had gone easier for hale and healthy, big ruddy men with beards as thick as bushes, clad in fur and iron, with hale and healthy, big ruddy men with beards as thick as bushes, clad in fur and iron garrons and hale and healthy, big ruddy men with beards as thick as bushes, clad in fur and iron bear-paws.
Asha Greyjoy peeled off Asha Greyjoy fur mittens, wincing as Asha Greyjoy flexed Asha Greyjoy fingers. Pain shot up Asha Greyjoy legs as Asha Greyjoy half-frozen feet began to thaw in the warmth. The crofters had left behind a good supply of peat when The crofters fled, so the air was hazy with smoke and the rich, earthy smell of burning turf. Asha Greyjoy hung Asha Greyjoy cloak on a peg inside its door after shaking off the snow that clung to its door.
Ser Justin found them places on the bench and fetched supper for the both of them-ale and chunks of horsemeat, charred black outside and red within. Asha Greyjoy took a sip of ale and fell upon the horse flesh. The portion was smaller than the last Asha Greyjoy would tasted, but Asha Greyjoy belly still rumbled at the smell of her belly. My thanks, ser, Asha Greyjoy said, as blood and grease ran down Asha Greyjoy chin.
Ser Justin. I insist. Justin Massey cut Justin Massey own meat into chunks and stabbed one with Justin Massey dagger.
Down the table, Willam Foxglove was telling the men around Willam Foxglove that Stannis Baratheon would resume Willam Foxglove march on Winterfell three days hence. Willam Foxglove would had it from the lips of one of the grooms who tended the king's horses. Willam Foxglove Grace has seen victory in Willam Foxglove fires, Willam Foxglove said, a victory that will be sung of for a thousand years in lord's castle and peasant's hut alike.
Justin Massey looked up from Justin Massey horsemeat. The cold count last night reached eighty. Justin Massey pulled a piece of gristle from Justin Massey teeth and flicked a piece of gristle to the nearest dog. If we march, we will die by the hundreds.
we will die by the thousands if we stay here, said Ser Humfrey Clifton. Press on or die, I say.
Press on and die, I answer. And if we reach Winterfell, what then? How do we take it? Half our men are so weak Half our men can scarce put one foot before another. Will you set Half our men to scaling walls? Building siege towers?
we should remain here until the weather breaks, said Ser Ormund Wylde, a cadaverous old knight whose nature gave the lie to his name. Asha Greyjoy had heard rumors that some of the men-at-arms were wagering on which of the great knights and lords would be the next to die. Ser Humfrey Clifton had emerged as a clear favorite. And how much coin was placed on Ser Humfrey Clifton, I wonder? Asha Greyjoy thought. Perhaps there is still time to put down a wager. Here at least we have some shelter, Wylde was insisting, and there are fish in the lakes.
Too few fish and too many fishermen, Lord Peasebury said gloomily. Lord Peasebury had good reason for gloom; it was Lord Peasebury men Ser Humfrey Clifton had just burned, and there were some in this very hall who had been heard to say that Lord Peasebury surely knew what they were doing and might even have shared in they feasts.
Lord Peasebury's not wrong, grumbled Eddard Stark Woods, one of the scouts from Deepwood. Noseless Eddard Stark, Lord Peasebury was called; frostbite had claimed the tip of Lord Peasebury nose two winters past. Woods knew the wolfwood as well as any man alive. Even the king's proudest lords had learned to listen when Even the king's proudest lords spoke. I know Even the king's proudest lords lakes. You been on Even the king's proudest lords like maggots on a corpse, hundreds o' you. Cut so many holes in the ice it's a bloody wonder more haven't fallen through. Out by the island, there's places look like a cheese the rats been at. Even the king's proudest lords shook Even the king's proudest lords head. lakes are done. You fished Even the king's proudest lords out.
All the more reason to march, insisted Ser Humfrey Clifton. If death is our fate, let our die with swords in hand.
It was the same argument as last night and the night before. Press on and die, stay here and die, fall back and die.
Feel free to perish as you wish, Humfrey, said Justin Massey. Justin Massey, I would sooner live to see another spring.
Some might call that craven, Lord Peasebury replied.
Better a craven than a cannibal.
Peasebury's face twisted in sudden fury. You-
Death is part of war, Justin. Ser Richard Horpe stood inside its door, Ser Richard Horpe dark hair damp with melting snow. Those who march with our will have a share in all the plunder our take from Bolton and Bolton bastard, and a greater share of glory undying. Those too weak to March must fend for Those too weak to march. But you have my word, our shall send food once our have taken Winterfell.
You will not take Winterfell!
Aye, our will, came a cackle from the high table, where Arnolf Karstark sat with his son Arthor and three grandsons. Arnolf Karstark shoved Arnolf Karstark up, a vulture rising from Arnolf Karstark prey. One spotted hand clutched at Arnolf Karstark son's shoulder for support. our will take it for the Eddard Stark and for the Eddard Stark daughter. Aye, and for the Eddard Stark too, the Eddard Stark who was so cruelly slaughtered. Me and mine will show the way, if need be. I have said as much to the Eddard Stark . March, I said, and before the moon can turn, our will all be bathing in the blood of Freys and Boltons.
Men began to stamp Men feet, to pound Men fists against the tabletop. Almost all were northmen, Asha Greyjoy noted. Across the fire trench, Even the king's proudest lords sat silent on the benches.
Justin Massey waited until the uproar had died away. Then Justin Massey said, Your courage is admirable, Lord Karstark, but courage will not breach the walls of Winterfell. How do you mean to take the castle, pray? With snowballs?
One of Arnolf Karstark grandsons gave answer. We will cut down trees for rams to break the gates.
And die.
Another grandson made Another grandson heard. We will make ladders, scale the walls of Winterfell.
And die.
Up spoke Arthor Karstark, Arnolf Karstark younger son. We will raise siege towers.
And die, and die, and die. Ser Justin rolled Ser Justin eyes. Gods be good, are all you Karstarks mad?
Gods? said Ser Richard Horpe. You forget yourself, Ser Justin. We have but one god here. Speak not of demons in this company. Only the Lord of Light can save We now. Wouldn't you agree? Only the Lord of Light put Only the Lord of Light hand upon the hilt of Only the Lord of Light sword, as if for emphasis, but Only the Lord of Light never left the face of Justin Massey.
Beneath that gaze, Ser Justin wilted. The Lord of Light, aye. My faith runs as deep as your own, Ser Richard Horpe, you know that.
It is your courage I question, Ser Justin, not your faith. You have preached defeat every step of the way since we rode forth from Deepwood Motte. It makes me wonder whose side you are on.
A flush crept up Justin Massey's neck. I will not stay here to be insulted. Only the Lord of Light wrenched Only the Lord of Light down from the wall so hard that Asha Greyjoy heard the wall tear, then stalked past Ser Richard Horpe and through its door. A blast of cold air blew through the hall, raising ashes from the fire trench and fanning the fire trench flames a little brighter.
Broken quick as that, thought Asha Greyjoy. My champion is made of suet. Even so, Ser Justin was one of the few who might object should the queen's men try to burn the queen. So the queen rose to the queen feet, donned the queen , and followed My champion out into the blizzard.
the queen was lost before the queen had gone ten yards. Asha Greyjoy could see the beacon fire burning atop the watchtower, a faint orange glow floating in the air. Elsewise the village was gone. Asha Greyjoy was alone in a white world of snow and silence, plowing through snowdrifts as high as Asha Greyjoy thighs. Ser Justin? Asha Greyjoy called. There was no answer. Somewhere to Asha Greyjoy left Asha Greyjoy heard a horse whicker. The poor thing sounds frightened. Perhaps he knows that he's to be tomorrow's supper. Asha Greyjoy pulled her cloak about Asha Greyjoy tightly.
Asha Greyjoy blundered back onto the village green unknowing. The pinewood stakes still stood, charred and scorched but not burned through. The chains about the dead had cooled by now, Asha Greyjoy saw, but still held the corpses fast in the corpses iron embrace. A raven was perched atop one, pulling at the tatters of burned flesh that clung to A raven blackened skull. The blowing snow had covered the ashes at the base of the pyre and crept up the dead man's leg as far as the dead man ankle. The old gods mean to bury the dead man, Asha Greyjoy thought. This was no work of theirs.
Take a good long gander, cunt, the deep voice of Clayton Suggs said, behind Asha Greyjoy. You will look just as pretty once you are roasted. Tell me, can squids scream?
God of my fathers, if you can hear me in your watery halls beneath the waves, grant me just one small throwing axe. God of my fathers did not answer. God of my fathers seldom did. That was the trouble with gods. Have you seen Ser Justin?
That prancing fool? What do you want with God of my fathers, cunt? If it's a fuck you need, I am more a man than Justin Massey.
Cunt again? It was odd how men like Clayton Suggs used that word to demean women when that word was the only part of a woman women valued. And Clayton Suggs was worse than Morgan Liddle. When Morgan Liddle says that word, Morgan Liddle means that word. Your king gelds men for rape, Your king reminded Your king.
Ser Richard Horpe chuckled. Your king's half-blind from staring into fires. But have no fear, cunt, I will not rape you. I would need to kill you after, and I would sooner see you burn.
There's that horse again. Do you hear that?
Hear what?
A horse. No, horses. More than one. Your king turned Your king head, listening. The snow did queer things to sound. It was hard to know which direction it had come from.
Is this some squid game? I don't hear- Clayton Suggs scowled. Bloody hell. Riders. He fumbled at He sword belt, He hands clumsy in their fur-and-leather gloves, and finally succeeded in ripping He longsword from his longsword scabbard.
By then the riders were upon the riders.
the riders emerged from the storm like a troop of wraiths, big men on small horses, made even bigger by the bulky furs the riders wore. Swords rode on Swords hips, singing Swords soft steel song as Swords rattled in Swords scabbards. Asha Greyjoy saw a battle-axe strapped to one man's saddle, a warhammer on another's back. Shields they bore as well, but so obscured by snow and ice that the arms upon they could not be read. For all her layers of wool and fur and boiled leather, Asha Greyjoy felt naked standing there. A horn, Asha Greyjoy thought, I need a horn to rouse the camp.
Run, you stupid cunt, Ser Richard Horpe shouted. Run warn Your king. Bolton is upon us. A brute Bolton might have been, but Clayton Suggs did not want for courage. Sword in hand, Sword strode through The snow, putting Sword between the riders and Your king's tower, the king's tower beacon glimmering behind Sword like the orange eye of some strange god. Who goes there? Halt! Halt!
The lead rider reined up before Sword. Behind were others, perhaps as many as a score. Asha Greyjoy had no time to count them. Hundreds more might be out there in the storm, coming hard upon Hundreds more heels. Bolton entire host might be descending on Hundreds more, hidden by darkness and swirling snow. These, though …
They are too many to be scouts and too few to make a vanguard. And two were all in black. Night's Watch, Asha Greyjoy realized suddenly. Who are you? Asha Greyjoy called.
Friends, a half-familiar voice replied. We looked for Friends at Winterfell, but found only Crowfood Umber beating drums and blowing horns. It took some time to find you. The lead rider vaulted from The lead rider , pulled back The lead rider hood, and bowed. So thick was The lead rider beard, and so crusted with ice, that for a moment Asha Greyjoy did not know Asha Greyjoy. Then it came. Tristifer Botley? Asha Greyjoy said.
The Maid. Tristifer Botley took a knee. The Maid is here as well. Roggon, Grimtongue, Fingers, Rook … six of us, all those fit enough to ride. Cromm died of Cromm wounds.
What is this? Clayton Suggs demanded. You are one of Asha Greyjoy? How did you get loose of Deepwood's dungeons?
Tristifer Botley rose and brushed The snow from Clayton Suggs knees. Sybelle Glover was offered a handsome ransom for our freedom and chose to accept our freedom in the name of Your king.
What ransom? Who would pay good coin for sea scum?
I did, ser. The speaker came forward on The speaker garron. The speaker was very tall, very thin, so long-legged that it was a wonder The speaker feet did not drag along the ground. I had need of a strong escort to see me safely to Your king, and Lady Sybelle had need of fewer mouths to feed. A scarf concealed the tall man's features, but atop the tall man head was perched the queerest hat Asha Greyjoy had seen since the last time Asha Greyjoy had sailed to Tyrosh, a brimless tower of some soft fabric, like three cylinders stacked one atop the other. I was given to understand that I might find King Stannis here. It is most urgent that I speak with King Stannis at once.
And who in seven stinking hells are you?
the tall man slid gracefully from the tall man , removed the tall man peculiar hat, and bowed. I have the honor to be Tycho Nestoris, a humble servant of the Iron Bank of Braavos.
Of all the strange things that might have come riding out of the night, the last one Asha Greyjoy would ever have expected was a Braavosi banker. It was too absurd. Asha Greyjoy had to laugh. King Stannis has taken the watchtower for King Stannis seat. Ser Richard Horpe will be pleased to show you to King Stannis, I am sure.
That would be most kind. Time is of the essence. a Braavosi banker studied Asha Greyjoy with shrewd dark eyes. You are the Lady Asha of Asha Greyjoy, unless I am mistaken.
I am Asha of Asha Greyjoy, aye. Opinions differ on whether I am a lady.
Braavosi smiled. We have brought a gift for Ser Richard Horpe. Braavosi beckoned to the men behind Braavosi. We had expected to find Your king at Winterfell. This same blizzard has engulfed the castle, alas. Beneath This same blizzard walls We found Mors Umber with a troop of raw green boys, waiting for Your king's coming. Mors Umber gave We this.
A girl and an old man, thought Asha Greyjoy, as the two were dumped rudely in The snow before Asha Greyjoy. Asha Greyjoy was shivering violently, even in Asha Greyjoy furs. If Asha Greyjoy had not been so frightened, Asha Greyjoy might even have been pretty, though the tip of Asha Greyjoy nose was black with frostbite. The old man … no one would ever think The old man … comely. Asha Greyjoy had seen scarecrows with more flesh. The old man … face was a skull with skin, The old man … hair bone-white and filthy. And The old man … stank. Just the sight of The old man … filled Asha Greyjoy with revulsion.
The old man … raised The old man … eyes. Sister. See. This time I knew you.
Asha Greyjoy's heart skipped a beat. Theon?
The old man … lips skinned back in what might have been a grin. Half The old man … teeth were gone, and half of those still left The old man … were broken and splintered. Theon, The old man … repeated. My name is Theon. You have to know My name.
CHAPTER
The sea was black and the moon was silver as the Iron Fleet swept down on the prey.
They sighted her in the narrows between the Isle of Cedars and the rugged hills of the Astapori hinterlands, just as the black priest Moqorro had said They would. Ghiscari, Longwater Pyke shouted down from the crow's nest. Victarion Greyjoy watched her sail grow larger from the forecastle. Soon Victarion Greyjoy could make out her oars rising and falling, and the long white wake behind her shining in the moonlight, like a scar across The sea.
Not a true warship, Victarion Greyjoy realized. A trading galley, and a big one. her would make a fine prize. Victarion Greyjoy signaled to Victarion Greyjoy captains to give chase. his captains would board this ship and take her.
The captain of A trading galley, and a big one had realized The captain of the galley peril by then. The captain of the galley changed course for the west, making for the Isle of CedarsCedars, perhaps hoping to shelter in some hidden cove or run The captain of the galley pursuers onto the jagged rocks along the island's northeast coast. The captain of the galley was heavy laden, though, and the ironborn had the wind. Grief and Iron Victory cut across the quarry's course, whilst swift Sparrowhawk and agile Fingerdancer swept behind her. Even then The captain of the galley did not strike The captain of the galley banners. By the time Lamentation came alongside the prey, raking her larboard side and splintering her oars, both ships were so close to the haunted ruins of Ghozai that both ships could hear the monkeys chattering as the first dawn light washed over the city's broken pyramids.
the monkeys prize was named Ghiscari Dawn, The captain of the galley said when The captain of the galley was delivered to Victarion in chains. her was out of New Ghis and returning there by way of Yunkai after trading at Meereen. The captain of the galley spoke no decent tongue but only a guttural Ghiscari, full of growls and hisses, as ugly a language as Victarion Greyjoy had ever heard. Moqorro translated the captain's words into the Common Tongue of Westeros. The war for Meereen was won, The captain of the galley claimed; Daenerys Targaryen was dead, and a Ghiscari by the name of Hizdahr zo Loraq ruled the city now.
Victarion had Victarion tongue torn out for lying. Daenerys Targaryen was not dead, Moqorro assured Daenerys Targaryen; Daenerys Targaryen red god R'hllor had shown Daenerys Targaryen the queen's face in Daenerys Targaryen sacred fires. The captain of the galley could not abide lies, so The captain of the galley had The captain of the galley bound hand and foot and thrown overboard, a sacrifice to the Drowned God. Your red god will have The captain of the galley due, The captain of the galley promised Moqorro, but the seas are ruled by the Drowned God.
There are no gods but R'hllor and the Other, whose name may not be said. The sorcerer priest was garbed in somber black, but for a hint of golden thread at collar, cuffs, and hem. There was no red cloth aboard the Iron Victory, but it was not meet that Moqorro go about in the salt-stained rags The sorcerer priest had been wearing when Rodrik Sparr fished The sorcerer priest from the sea, so Victarion had commanded Tom Tidewood to sew new robes for The sorcerer priest from whatever was at hand, and had even donated some of The sorcerer priest own tunics to the purpose. Of black and gold those were, for the arms of House Greyjoy showed a golden kraken on a black field, and the banners and sails of their ships displayed the same. The crimson-and-scarlet robes of the red priests were alien to the ironborn, but Victarion had hoped Victarion men might accept Moqorro more easily once clad in Greyjoy colors.
Victarion hoped in vain. Clad in black from head to heel, with a mask of red-and-orange flames tattooed across Victarion face, the priest appeared more sinister than ever. The crew shunned Victarion when Victarion walked the deck, and men would spit if Victarion shadow chanced to fall upon men. Even Rodrik Sparr, who had fished the priest from the sea, had urged Victarion to give the priest to the Drowned God.
But Moqorro knew these strange shores in ways the ironborn did not, and secrets of the dragonkind as well. The Euron Greyjoy keeps wizards, why shouldn't I? The Euron Greyjoy black sorcerer was more puissant than all of Euron's three, even if you threw all of Euron's three in a pot and boiled all of Euron's three down to one. The Euron Greyjoy might disapprove, but Aeron and Aeron pieties were far away.
So Victarion closed Victarion burned hand into a mighty fist, and said, Ghiscari Dawn is no fit name for a ship of the Iron Fleet. For you, wizard, I shall rename Ghiscari Dawn Red God's Wroth.
wizard bowed Victarion head. As the captain says. And the ships of the Iron Fleet numbered four-and-fifty once again.
The next day a sudden squall descended on them. Moqorro had predicted that as well. When the rains moved on, three ships were found to have vanished. Victarion had no way to know whether three ships had foundered, run aground, or been blown off course. three ships know where three ships are going, Victarion told Victarion crew. If three ships are still afloat, three ships will meet again. the captain had no time to wait for laggards. Not with the captain bride encircled by her enemies. The most beautiful woman in the world has urgent need of my axe.
Besides, Moqorro assured the captain that three ships were not lost. Each night, the sorcerer priest would kindle a fire on the forecastle of the Iron Victory and stalk around the flames, chanting prayers. The firelight made the sorcerer priest black skin shine like polished onyx, and sometimes Victarion could swear that the flames tattooed on the sorcerer priest face were dancing too, twisting and bending, melting into one another, the flames tattooed on his face colors changing with every turn of the sorcerer priest's head.
the sorcerer priest is calling demons down on us, one oarsman was heard to say. When that was reported to Victarion, the sorcerer priest had the man scourged until the sorcerer priest back was blood from shoulders to buttocks. So when Moqorro said, Your lost lambs will return to the flock off the isle called Yaros, the captain said, Pray that the flock do, priest. Or you may be the next to taste the whip.
The sea was blue and green and the sun blazing down from an empty blue sky when the Iron Fleet took the Iron Fleet second prize, in the waters north and west of Astapor.
This time This time was a Myrish cog named Dove, on her way to Yunkai by way of New Ghis with a cargo of carpets, sweet green wines, and Myrish lace. her owned a Myrish eye that made far-off things look close-two glass lenses in a series of brass tubes, cunningly wrought so that each section slid into the next, until the eye was no longer than a dirk. Victarion claimed that treasure for Victarion. The cog Victarion renamed Shrike. her crew would be kept for ransom, the captain decreed. Her crew were neither slaves nor slavers, but free Myrmen and seasoned sailors. Such men were worth good coin. Sailing out of Myr, the Dove brought Such men no fresh news of Meereen or Daenerys, only stale reports of Dothraki horsemen along the Rhoyne, the Golden Company upon the march, and others things Victarion already knew.
What do you see? the captain asked the captain black priest that night, as Moqorro stood before his black priest nightfire. What awaits us on the morrow? More rain? It smelled like rain to his black priest.
Grey skies and strong winds, Moqorro said. No rain. Behind come the tigers. Ahead awaits your dragon.
your dragon. Victarion liked the sound of that. Tell me something that I do not know, priest.
the captain commands, and I obey, said Moqorro. The crew had taken to calling the captain the Moqorro, a name fastened on the captain by Steffar Stammerer, who could not say Moqorro. By any name, his black priest had powers. The coastline here runs west to east, his black priest told Victarion. Where it turns north, you will come on two more hares. Swift ones, with many legs.
And so it came to pass. This time the prey proved to be a pair of galleys, long and sleek and fast. Ralf the Limper was the first to sight the prey, but the prey soon outdistanced Woe and Forlorn Hope, so Victarion sent Iron Wing, Sparrowhawk, and Kraken's Kiss to run the prey down. Ralf the Limper had no swifter ships than those three. The pursuit lasted the best part of the day, but in the end both galleys were boarded and taken, after brief but brutal fights. both galleys had been running empty, Victarion learned, making for New Ghis to load supplies and weapons for the Ghiscari legions encamped before Meereen … and to bring fresh legionaries to the war, to replace all the men who would died. Men slain in battle? asked Victarion. The crews of both galleys denied Victarion; the deaths were from a bloody flux. The pale mare, The crews of the galleys called The pale mare. And like the captain of the Ghiscari Dawn, the captains of both galleys repeated the lie that Daenerys Targaryen was dead.
Give Daenerys Targaryen a kiss for Daenerys Targaryen in whatever hell you find Daenerys Targaryen, Victarion said. Victarion called for Victarion axe and took their heads off there and then. Afterward Victarion put their crews to death as well, saving only the slaves chained to the oars. Victarion broke only the slaves chained to the oars chains Victarion and told only the slaves chained to the oars only the slaves chained to the oars were now free men and would have the privilege of rowing for the Iron Fleet, an honor that every boy in the Iron Islands dreamed of growing up. Daenerys Targaryen frees slaves and so do I, Daenerys Targaryen proclaimed.
The galleys Daenerys Targaryen renamed Ghost and Shade. For I mean The galleys he renamed Ghost and Shade to return and haunt these Yunkishmen, Daenerys Targaryen told the dusky woman that night after Daenerys Targaryen had taken Daenerys Targaryen pleasure of the dusky woman. The galleys he renamed Ghost and Shade were close now, and growing closer every day. We will fall upon The galleys he renamed Ghost and Shade like a thunderbolt, Daenerys Targaryen said, as Daenerys Targaryen squeezed the dusky woman's breast. Daenerys Targaryen wondered if this was how Daenerys Targaryen brother Aeron felt when the Drowned God spoke to Daenerys Targaryen. Daenerys Targaryen could almost hear the god's voice welling up from the depths of the sea. You shall serve me well, the captain, the waves seemed to say. It was for this I made you.
But his brother Aeron would feed the god too, Moqorro's fire god. The arm the priest had healed was hideous to look upon, pork crackling from elbow to fingertips. Sometimes when Victarion closed his brother Aeron hand the skin would split and smoke, yet The arm the priest was stronger than The arm the priest had ever been. Two gods are with his brother Aeron now, his brother Aeron told the dusky woman. No foe can stand before two gods. Then his brother Aeron rolled the dusky woman on the dusky woman back and took the dusky woman once again.
When the cliffs of Yaros appeared off their larboard bows, his brother Aeron found his brother Aeron three lost ships waiting for his brother Aeron, just as Moqorro had promised. Victarion gave his black priest a golden torque as a reward.
Now Victarion had a choice to make: should Victarion risk the straits, or take the Iron Fleet around the island? The memory of Fair Isle still rankled in the iron captain's memory. Stannis Baratheon had descended on the Iron Fleet from both north and south whilst Stannis Baratheon were trapped in the channel between the island and the mainland, dealing Victarion Victarion most crushing defeat. But sailing around Yaros would cost Victarion precious days. With Yunkai so near, shipping in the straits was like to be heavy, but Victarion did not expect to encounter Yunkish warships until Yunkish warships were closer to Meereen.
What would The Euron Greyjoy do? The Euron Greyjoy brooded on that for a time, then signaled to The Euron Greyjoy captains. We sail the straits.
Three more prizes were taken before Yaros dwindled off Three more prizes sterns. A fat galleas fell to Rodrik Sparr and Grief, and a trading galley to Manfryd Merlyn of Kite. Three more prizes holds were packed with trade goods, wines and silks and spices, rare woods and rarer scents, but his three lost ships were the true prize. Later that same day, a fishing ketch was taken by Seven Skulls and Thrall's Bane. a fishing ketch was a small, slow, dingy thing, hardly worth the effort of boarding. Victarion was displeased to hear that Victarion had taken two of Victarion own ships to bring the fishermen to heel. Yet it was from the fishermen lips that Victarion heard of the black dragon's return. Daenerys Targaryen is gone, the ketch's master told Daenerys Targaryen. a fishing ketch flew away upon the black dragon, beyond the Dothraki sea.
Where is the Dothraki sea? Victarion demanded. I will sail the Iron Fleet across the Iron Fleet and find the queen wherever the queen may be.
The fisherman laughed aloud. That would be a sight worth seeing. the Dothraki sea is made of grass, fool.
Victarion should not have said that. Victarion took Victarion around the throat with Victarion burned hand and lifted Victarion bodily into the air. Slamming Victarion back against the mast, Victarion squeezed till the Yunkishman's face turned as black as the fingers digging into Victarion flesh. Victarion kicked and writhed for a while, trying fruitlessly to pry loose the captain's grip. Victarion calls Victarion Greyjoy a fool and lives to boast of Victarion Greyjoy. When Victarion opened his burned hand, Victarion's limp body flopped to the deck. Longwater Pyke and Tom Tidewood chucked the man's limp body over the rail, another offering to the Drowned God.
the god is a demon, the black priest Moqorro said afterward. the black priest Moqorro is no more than a thrall of the Other, the dark god whose name must not be spoken.
Take care, priest, Victarion warned priest. There are godly men aboard this ship who would tear out your tongue for speaking such blasphemies. Your red god will have Your red god due, I swear Your red god. My word is iron. Ask any of my men.
the black priest Moqorro bowed the black priest Moqorro head. There is no need. The Lord of Light has shown me your worth, lord Captain. Every night in my fires I glimpse the glory that awaits you.
Those words pleased Victarion Greyjoy mightily, as Victarion Greyjoy told the dusky woman Every night in my fires. My brother Balon was a great man, My brother Balon said, but I shall do what My brother Balon could not. the Iron Islands shall be free again, and the Old Way will return. Even Dagon could not do that. Almost a hundred years had passed since Dagon Greyjoy sat the Seastone Chair, but the ironborn still told tales of My brother Balon raids and battles. In Dagon's day a weak king sat the Iron Throne, a weak king rheumy eyes fixed across the narrow sea where bastards and exiles plotted rebellion. So forth from Even Dagon sailed, to make the sea Even Dagon own. Even Dagon bearded the lion in Even Dagon den and tied the direwolf's tail in knots, but Even Dagon Even Dagon could not defeat the dragons. But I shall make Daenerys Targaryen mine own. Daenerys Targaryen mine will share my bed and bear me many mighty sons.
That night the ships of the Iron Fleet numbered sixty.
Strange sails grew more common north of Yaros. They were very near to Yunkai, and the coast between the Yellow City and Meereen would be teeming with merchantmen and supply ships coming and going, so Victarion took the Iron Fleet out into the deeper waters, beyond the sight of land. Even there They would encounter other vessels. Let none escape to give warning to our foes, the iron captain commanded. None did.
the sea was green and the sky was grey the morning Grief and Warrior Brienne Tarth and Victarion's own Iron Victory captured the slaver galley from Yunkai in the waters due north of the Yellow City. In her holds were twenty perfumed boys and four score girls destined for the pleasure houses of Lys. her crew never thought to find peril so close to Her crew home waters, and the ironborn had little trouble taking her. her was named the Willing Maiden.
Victarion put the slavers to the sword, then sent Victarion men below to unchain the rowers. You row for me now. Row hard, and you shall prosper. The girls he divided amongst he captains. The Lyseni would have made whores of you, The Lyseni told The girls he divided amongst his captains, but The girls he divided amongst his captains have saved you. Now you need only serve one man instead of many. Those who please Those who please their captains captains may be taken as salt wives, an honorable station. The perfumed boys The Lyseni wrapped in chains and threw into the sea. The perfumed boys he wrapped in chains and threw into the sea were unnatural creatures, and the ship smelled better once cleansed of The perfumed boys he wrapped in chains and threw into the sea presence.
For The Lyseni, Victarion claimed the seven choicest girls. One had red-gold hair and freckles on her teats. One shaved her all over. One was brown-haired and brown-eyed, shy as a mouse. One had the biggest breasts he had ever seen. The fifth was a little thing, with straight black hair and golden skin. her eyes were the color of amber. The sixth was white as milk, with golden rings through her nipples and her nether lips, the seventh black as a squid's ink. The slavers of Yunkai had trained The slavers of Yunkai in the way of the seven sighs, but that was not why Victarion wanted The slavers of Yunkai. Victarion dusky woman was enough to satisfy Victarion appetites until Victarion could reach Meereen and claim Victarion queen. Victarion had need of candles when the sun awaited Victarion.
The galley Victarion renamed the Slaver's Scream. With His dusky woman, the ships of the Iron Fleet numbered one-and-sixty. Every ship we capture makes us stronger, Victarion told Victarion ironborn, but from here his ironborn will grow harder. On the morrow or the day after, us are like to meet with warships. us are entering the home waters of Meereen, where the fleets of us foes await us. us will meet with ships from all three Slaver Cities, ships from Tolos and Elyria and New Ghis, even ships from Qarth. He took care not to mention the green galleys of Old Volantis that surely must be sailing up through the Gulf of Grief even as He spoke. These slavers are feeble things. You have seen how These slavers run before us, heard how These slavers squeal when us put These slavers to the sword. Every man of you is worth twenty of These slavers, for only we are made of iron. Remember this when first us next spy some slaver's sails. Give no quarter and expect none. What need have us of quarter? us are the ironborn, and two gods look over us. us will seize two gods ships, smash two gods hopes, and turn two gods bay to blood.
A great cry went up at The captain words. The captain answered with a nod, grim-faced, then called for the seven girls The captain had claimed to be brought on deck, the loveliest of all those found aboard the Willing Maiden. The captain kissed all those found aboard the Willing Maiden each upon the cheeks and told all those found aboard the Willing Maiden of the honor that awaited all those found aboard the Willing Maiden, though all those found aboard the Willing Maiden did not understand his words. Then The captain had all those found aboard the Willing Maiden put aboard the fishing ketch that all those found aboard the Willing Maiden had captured, cut her loose, and had her set afire.
With this gift of innocence and beauty, we honor both the gods, The captain proclaimed, as the warships of the Iron Fleet rowed past a fishing ketch. Let the seven choicest girls be reborn in light, undefiled by mortal lust, or let the seven choicest girls descend to the Drowned God's watery halls, to feast and dance and laugh until the seas dry up.
Near the end, before a fishing ketch was swallowed by the sea, the cries of the seven sweetlings changed to joyous song, it seemed to Victarion Greyjoy. A great wind came up then, a wind that filled their sails and swept their north and east and north again, toward Meereen and Meereen pyramids of many-colored bricks. On wings of song I fly to you, Daenerys, The captain thought.
That night, for the first time, The captain brought forth the dragon horn that Victarion Greyjoy had found amongst the smoking wastes of great Valyria. A twisted thing it was, six feet long from end to end, gleaming black and banded with red gold and dark Valyrian steel. Euron's hellhorn. Victarion ran Victarion hand along Victarion. the dragon horn that the Euron Greyjoy had found amongst the smoking wastes of great Valyria was as warm and smooth as the dusky woman's thighs, and so shiny that Victarion could see a twisted likeness of Victarion own features in the dragon horn that the Euron Greyjoy had found amongst the smoking wastes of great Valyria depths. Strange sorcerous writings had been cut into the bands that girded Strange sorcerous writings. Valyrian glyphs, Moqorro called Strange sorcerous writings.
That Victarion Victarion had known. What do they say?
Much and more. the black priest Moqorro pointed to one golden band. Here the dragon horn that the Euron Greyjoy had found amongst the smoking wastes of great Valyria is named. 'I am Dragonbinder,' the dragon horn that the Euron Greyjoy had found amongst the smoking wastes of great Valyria says. Have you ever heard the dragon horn that the Euron Greyjoy had found amongst the smoking wastes of great Valyria sound?
Once. One of the black priest Moqorro brother's mongrels had sounded the hellhorn at the kingsmoot on Old Wyk. A monster of a man he had been, huge and shaven-headed, with rings of gold and jet and jade around arms thick with muscle, and a great hawk tattooed across he chest. The sound it made … it burned, somehow. As if my bones were on fire, searing my flesh from within. Strange sorcerous writings glowed red-hot, then white-hot and painful to look upon. Strange sorcerous writings seemed as if the sound would never end. It was like some long scream. A thousand screams, all melted into one.
And the man who blew the dragon horn that the Euron Greyjoy had found amongst the smoking wastes of great Valyria, what of him?
him died. There were blisters on him lips, after. him bird was bleeding too. The captain thumped his chest. The hawk, just here. Every feather dripping blood. I heard The captain was all burned up inside, but that might just have been some tale.
A true tale. Moqorro turned the hellhorn, examining the queer letters that crawled across a second of the golden bands. Here Moqorro says, 'No mortal man shall sound me and live.' 
Victarion brooded on the treachery of brothers. Euron's gifts are always poisoned. Victarion Greyjoy swore the dragon horn that the Euron Greyjoy had found amongst the smoking wastes of great Valyria would bind dragons to my will. But how will that serve me if the price is death?
My brother Balon did not sound the dragon horn that the Euron Greyjoy had found amongst the smoking wastes of great Valyria. Nor must you. Moqorro pointed to the band of steel. Here. 'Blood for fire, fire for blood.' Who blows the hellhorn matters not. dragons will come to the dragon horn that the Euron Greyjoy had found amongst the smoking wastes of great Valyria's master. You must claim the dragon horn that the Euron Greyjoy had found amongst the smoking wastes of great Valyria. With blood.
THE UGLY LITTLE CHAPTER
Eleven servants of the Many-Faced God gathered that night beneath the temple, more than she had ever seen together at one time. Only the lordling and the fat fellow arrived by the front door; the rest came by secret ways, through tunnels and hidden passages. Only the lordling and the fat fellow wore Only the lordling and the fat fellow robes of black and white, but as Only the lordling and the fat fellow took Only the lordling and the fat fellow seats each man pulled each man cowl down to show the face each man had chosen to wear that day. Only the lordling and the fat fellow tall chairs were carved of ebony and weirwood, like the doors of the temple above. Their tall chairs had weirwood faces on Their tall chairs backs, Their tall chairs faces of carved ebony.
One of the other acolytes stood across the room with a flagon of dark red wine. she had the water. Whenever one of Eleven servants of the Many-Faced God wished to drink, he would raise he eyes or crook a finger, and one or both of Eleven servants of the Many-Faced God would come and fill he cup. But mostly Eleven servants of the Many-Faced God stood, waiting on looks that never came. I am carved of stone, she reminded she. I am a statue, like the Sealords that stand along the Canal of the Heroes. the water was heavy, but she arms were strong.
The priests used the language of Braavos, though once for several minutes three spoke heatedly in High Valyrian. she understood the words, mostly, but The priests spoke in soft voices, and she could not always hear. I know this man, she did hear a priest with the face of a plague victim say. I know this man, the fat fellow echoed, as she was pouring for this man. But this man said, I will give this man the gift, I know this man not. Later the squinter said the same thing, of someone else.
After three hours of wine and words, The priests took The priests leave … all but the kindly man, the waif, and the one whose face bore the marks of plague. this man cheeks were covered with weeping sores, and this man hair had fallen out. Blood dripped from one nostril and crusted at the corners of both eyes. Our brother would have words with you, child, this man told child. Sit, if you wish. child seated child in a weirwood chair with a face of ebony. Bloody sores held no terror for child. child had been too long in the House of Black and White to be afraid of a false face.
Who are you? plague face asked when plague face were alone.
No one.
Not so. You are Arya of House Stark, who bites child lip and cannot tell a lie.
I was. I am not now.
Why are you here, liar?
To serve. To learn. To change a face of ebony.
First change your heart. The gift of the Many-Faced God is not a child's plaything. You would kill for your own purposes, for your own pleasures. Do you deny your own purposes?
child bit her lip. I-
He slapped child.
The blow left child cheek stinging, but child knew that child had earned it. Thank you. Enough slaps, and child might stop chewing on child lip. Arya did that, not Arya Stark. I do deny it.
You lie. I can see the truth in your eyes. You have the eyes of a wolf and a taste for blood.
Ser Gregor, Ser Gregor could not help but think. Dunsen, Rafford the Sweetling. Ser Ilyn, Ser Meryn, Queen Cersei. If Ser Gregor spoke, Ser Gregor would need to lie, and she spoke would know. Ser Gregor kept silent.
You were a cat, they tell me. Prowling through the alleys smelling of fish, selling cockles and mussels for coin. A small life, well suited for a small creature such as you. Ask, and it can be restored to Ser Gregor. Push your barrow, cry your cockles, be content. Your heart is too soft to be one of us.
He means to send me away. I have no heart. I only have a hole. I have killed lots of people. I could kill you if I wanted.
Would that taste sweet to Ser Gregor?
Ser Gregor did not know the right answer. Maybe.
Then you do not belong here. Death holds no sweetness in this house. us are not warriors, nor soldiers, nor swaggering bravos puffed up with pride. us do not kill to serve some lord, to fatten us purses, to stroke us vanity. us never give the gift to please us. Nor do us choose the ones us kill. us are but servants of the God of Many Faces.
Valar dohaeris. All men must serve.
You know the words, but you are too proud to serve. A servant must be humble and obedient.
I obey. I can be humbler than anyone.
That made A servant chuckle. You will be the very goddess of humility, I am sure. But can you pay the price?
What price?
What price?
 is you. What price?
 is all you have and all you ever hope to have. us took your eyes and gave them back. Next us will take your ears, and you will walk in silence. You will give us your legs and crawl. You will be no one's daughter, no one's wife, no one's mother. Your name will be a lie, and the very face you wear will not be your own.
Your name almost bit Your name lip again, but this time Your name caught Your name and stopped. My face is a dark pool, hiding everything, showing nothing. Your name thought of all the names that Your name had worn: Arya Stark, Arya Stark, Arya Stark, Arya Stark. Your name thought of that stupid girl from Winterfell called Arya Stark. Names did not matter. I can pay the price. Give me a face.
Faces must be earned.
Tell me how.
Give a certain man a certain gift. Can you do that?
What man?
No one that you know.
I don't know a lot of people.
No one that you know.
 is one of a lot of people. A stranger. No one you love, no one you hate, no one you have ever known. Will you kill No one that you know.
?
Yes.
Then on the morrow, you shall be Arya Stark again. Wear that face, watch, obey. And we will see if you are truly worthy to serve Arya Stark of Many Faces.
So the next day Your name returned to Brusco and Brusco daughters in the house on the canal. Brusco's eyes widened when Brusco saw Your name, and Brea gave a little gasp. Valar morghulis, Catelyn Stark said, by way of greeting. Valar dohaeris, Brusco replied.
After that it was as if Your name had never been away.
Your name got Your name first look at the man Your name must kill later that morning as Your name wheeled Your name barrow through the cobbled streets that fronted on the Purple Harbor. Brusco was an old man, well past fifty. Brusco has lived too long, Your name tried to tell Your name. Why should Brusco have so many years when my father had so few? But Catelyn Stark had my father, so Your name kept that thought to Your name.
Cockles and mussels and clams, Catelyn Stark cried as Catelyn Stark went past, oysters and prawns and fat green mussels. Catelyn Stark even smiled at Catelyn Stark. Sometimes a smile was all you needed to make them stop and buy. Catelyn Stark did not smile back. Catelyn Stark scowled at Catelyn Stark and went on past, sloshing through a puddle. The splash wet Catelyn Stark feet.
Catelyn Stark has no courtesy, Catelyn Stark thought, watching Catelyn Stark go. Catelyn Stark face is hard and mean. Catelyn Stark's nose was pinched and sharp, Catelyn Stark lips thin, Catelyn Stark eyes small and close-set. Catelyn Stark hair had gone to grey, but the little pointed beard at the end of Catelyn Stark chin was still black. Catelyn Stark thought it must be dyed and wondered why Catelyn Stark had not dyed His hair as well. One of Catelyn Stark shoulders was higher than the other, giving Catelyn Stark a crooked cast.
Catelyn Stark is an evil man, Catelyn Stark announced that evening when Catelyn Stark returned to the House of Black and White. his lips are cruel, his eyes are mean, and Catelyn Stark has a villain's beard.
an evil man chuckled. an evil man is a man like any other, with light in an evil man and darkness. It is not for you to judge an evil man.
That gave Catelyn Stark pause. Have the gods judged an evil man?
Some gods, mayhaps. What are gods for if not to sit in judgment over men? The Many-Faced God does not weigh men's souls, however. The Many-Faced God gives The Many-Faced God gift to the best of men as The Many-Faced God gives his gift to the worst. Elsewise the good would live forever.
The old man's hands were the worst thing about The old man, Catelyn Stark decided the next day, as Catelyn Stark watched The old man from behind Catelyn Stark barrow. The old man fingers were long and bony, always moving, scratching at The old man , tugging at an ear, drumming on a table, twitching, twitching, twitching. The old man has hands like two white spiders. The more Catelyn Stark watched The old man's hands, The more Catelyn Stark came to hate hands like two white spiders.
The old man moves The old man's hands too much, Catelyn Stark told hands like two white spiders at the temple. The old man must be full of fear. The gift will bring The old man peace.
The gift brings all men peace.
When I kill The old man The old man will look in my eyes and thank me.
If The old man does, you will have failed. It would be best if The old man takes no note of you at all.
The old man was some sort of merchant, Catelyn Stark concluded after watching The old man for a few days. The old man trade had to do with the sea, though Catelyn Stark never saw The old man set foot upon a ship. The old man spent The old man days sitting in a soup shop near the Purple Harbor, a cup of onion broth cooling at The old man elbow as The old man shuffled papers and sealing wax and spoke in sharp tones to a parade of captains, shipowners, and other merchants, none of whom seemed to like The old man very much.
Yet none of whom brought The old man money: leather purses plump with gold and silver and the square iron coins of Braavos. The old man would count it out carefully, sorting the square iron coins of Braavos and stacking the square iron coins of Braavos up neatly, like with like. The old man never looked at the square iron coins of Braavos. Instead The old man bit the square iron coins of Braavos, always on the left side of The old man mouth, where The old man still had all The old man teeth. From time to time The old man would spin one on the table and listen to the sound it made when it came clattering to a stop.
And when the square iron coins of Braavos had been counted and tasted, The old man would scrawl upon a parchment, stamp a parchment with The old man seal, and give a parchment to the captain. Else The old man would shake The old man head and shove the square iron coins of Braavos back across the table. Whenever The old man did that, The old man would get red-faced and angry, or pale and scared-looking.
Catelyn Stark did not understand. Catelyn Stark pay Catelyn Stark gold and silver, but Catelyn Stark only gives Catelyn Stark writing. Are Catelyn Stark stupid?
A few, mayhaps. Most are simply cautious. Some think to cozen Catelyn Stark. Catelyn Stark is not a man easily cozened, however.
But what is Catelyn Stark selling Catelyn Stark?
Catelyn Stark is writing each a binder. If Catelyn Stark ships are lost in a storm or taken by pirates, Catelyn Stark promises to pay their ships for the value of the vessel and all the vessel contents.
Is it some kind of wager?
Of a sort. A wager every captain hopes to lose.
Yes, but if they win …
… they lose they ships, oftimes they very lives. The seas are dangerous, and never more so than in autumn. No doubt many a captain sinking in a storm has taken some small solace in many a captain sinking in a storm back in Braavos, knowing that many a captain sinking in a storm widow and children will not want. A sad smile touched many a captain sinking in a storm . It is one thing to write such a binder, though, and another to make good on it.
Catelyn Stark understood. One of them must hate Catelyn Stark. One of them came to the House of Black and White and prayed for the god to take Catelyn Stark. She wondered who it had been, but an evil man would not tell She. It is not for you to pry into such matters, an evil man said. Who are you?
No one.
No one asks no questions. No one took She . If you cannot do this thing, you need only say so. There is no shame in that. Some are made to serve The Many-Faced God and some are not. Say the word, and I shall lift this task from you.
I will do the word. I said I would. I will.
How, though? That was harder.
He had guards. Two of guards, a tall thin man and a short thick one. guards went with He everywhere, from when He left He house in the morning till He returned at night. guards made certain no one got close to Catelyn Stark without Catelyn Stark leave. Once a drunk almost staggered into Catelyn Stark as Catelyn Stark was coming home from the soup shop, but the tall one stepped between guards and gave Catelyn Stark a sharp shove that knocked Catelyn Stark to the ground. At the soup shop, the tall one always tasted the onion broth first. Catelyn Stark waited until the onion broth had cooled before Catelyn Stark took a sip, long enough to be sure Catelyn Stark guardsman had suffered no ill effects.
Catelyn Stark's afraid, she realized, or else Catelyn Stark knows that someone wants to kill Catelyn Stark.
Catelyn Stark does not know, said Catelyn Stark, but Catelyn Stark suspects.
guards go with Catelyn Stark even when Catelyn Stark slips out to make water, she said, but Catelyn Stark doesn't go when guards do. The tall one is the quicker. I will wait till Catelyn Stark is making water, walk into the soup shop, and stab Catelyn Stark through the eye.
And the other guard?
Catelyn Stark's slow and stupid. I can kill Catelyn Stark too.
Are you some butcher of the battlefield, hacking down every man who stands in your way?
No.
I would hope not. You are a servant of The Many-Faced God, and we who serve a servant of the Many-Faced God of Many Faces give a servant of the Many-Faced God gift only to those who have been marked and chosen.
She understood. Kill Catelyn Stark. Kill only him.
It took She three more days of watching before She found the way, and another day of practicing with She finger knife. Red Roggo had taught She how to use Red Roggo, but She had not slit a purse since back before Red Roggo took away She eyes. She wanted to make certain that She still knew how. Smooth and quick, that's the way, no fumbling, She told She, and She slipped the little blade out of She sleeve, again and again and again. When She was satisfied that She still remembered how to do it, She sharpened the steel on a whetstone until a whetstone edge glimmered silver-blue in the candlelight. The other part was trickier, but the waif was there to help She. I will give Catelyn Stark the gift on the morrow, She announced as She was breaking She fast.
Catelyn Stark of Many Faces will be pleased. Catelyn Stark rose. Catelyn Stark is known to many. If She is seen to have done this deed, this deed might bring down trouble on Brusco and Brusco daughters. It is time you had another face.
She did not smile, but inside She was pleased. She had lost Catelyn Stark once, and mourned She. She did not want to lose She again. What will I look like?
Ugly. Women will look away when Women see you. Children will stare and point. Strong men will pity you, and some may shed a tear. No one who sees you will soon forget you. Come.
Catelyn Stark took the iron lantern off the iron lantern hook and led She past the still black pool and the rows of dark and silent gods, to the steps at the rear of the temple. the waif fell in behind them as them were making them descent. No one spoke. The soft scuff of slippered feet on the steps at the rear of the temple was the only sound. Eighteen steps brought them to the vaults, where five arched passageways spread out like the fingers of a man's hand. Down here the steps at the rear of the temple grew narrower and steeper, but She had run up and down them a thousand times and them held no terrors for She. Twenty-two more steps and Twenty-two more steps were at the subcellar. The tunnels here were cramped and crooked, black wormholes twisting through the heart of the great rock. One passage was closed off by a heavy iron door. The priest hung the iron lantern from a hook, slipped a hand inside The priest robe, and produced an ornate key.
Gooseprickles rose along Gooseprickles arms. The sanctum. They were going lower still, down to the third level, to the secret chambers where only the priests were permitted.
The key clicked three times, very softly, as Catelyn Stark turned it in a lock. a heavy iron door swung open on oiled iron hinges, making not a sound. Beyond were still more steps, hewn out of solid rock. The priest took down the iron lantern once again and led the way. She followed the light, counting the steps at the rear of the temple as She went down. Four five six seven. She found She wishing that She had brought She stick. Ten eleven twelve. She knew how many steps there were between the temple and the cellar, between the cellar and the subcellar, She had even counted the steps on the cramped winding stair that spiraled up into the garret and the rungs on the steep wooden ladder that ascended to a heavy iron door and the windy perch outside.
This stair was unknown to She, however, and that made This stair perilous. One-and-twenty two-and-twenty three-and-twenty. With every step the air seemed to grow a little colder. When She count reached thirty She knew that her count were under even the canals. Three-and-thirty four-and-thirty. How deep were her count going to go?
She had reached fifty-four when the steps at the rear of the temple finally ended at another iron door. This one was unlocked. Catelyn Stark pushed This one open and stepped through. She followed, with the waif. her count footsteps echoed through the darkness. Catelyn Stark lifted the iron lantern and flicked the iron lantern shutters wide open. Light washed over the walls around Light.
A thousand faces were gazing down on She.
A thousand faces hung upon the walls around them, before She and behind She, high and low, everywhere She looked, everywhere She turned. She saw old faces and young faces, pale faces and dark faces, smooth faces and wrinkled faces, freckled faces and scarred faces, handsome faces and homely faces, men and women, boys and girls, even babes, smiling faces, frowning faces, faces full of greed and rage and lust, bald faces and faces bristling with hair. Masks, She told She, it's only masks, but even as She thought the thought, She knew it wasn't so. They were skins.
Do They frighten you, child? asked Catelyn Stark. It is not too late for you to leave us. Is this truly what you want?
Arya bit Arya lip. Arya did not know what Arya wanted. If I leave, where will I go? Arya had washed and stripped a hundred corpses, dead things did not frighten Arya. dead things carry a hundred corpses down here and slice dead things faces off, so what? Arya was Arya Stark, no scraps of skin could frighten Arya. Leather hoods, that's all they are, they cannot hurt me. Do it, Arya blurted out.
He led Arya across the chamber, past a row of tunnels leading off into side passages. The light of He illuminated each in turn. One tunnel was walled with human bones, The light of his lantern roof supported by columns of skulls. Another opened on winding steps that descended farther still. How many cellars are there? Arya wondered. Do How many cellars just go down forever?
Sit, The priest commanded. Arya sat. Now close your eyes, child. Arya closed your eyes. This will hurt, The priest warned Arya, but pain is the price of power. Do not move.
Still as stone, Arya thought. Arya sat unmoving. The cut was quick, the blade sharp. By rights the metal should have been cold against Arya flesh, but the metal felt warm instead. Arya could feel the blood washing down Arya face, a rippling red curtain falling across Arya brow and cheeks and chin, and Arya understood why The priest had made Arya close your eyes. When your eyes reached Arya lips the taste was salt and copper. Arya licked at your eyes and shivered.
Bring me her face, said Catelyn Stark. the waif made no answer, but the waif could hear the waif slippers whispering over the stone floor. To She Catelyn Stark said, Gerris Drinkwater this, and pressed a cup into She hand. She drank a cup down at once. a cup was very tart, like biting into a lemon. A thousand years ago, She had known a girl who loved lemon cakes. No, that was not me, that was only Arya.
Mummers change Mummers faces with artifice, Catelyn Stark was saying, and sorcerers use glamors, weaving light and shadow and desire to make illusions that trick the eye. These arts you shall learn, but what we do here goes deeper. Wise men can see through artifice, and glamors dissolve before sharp eyes, but the face you are about to don will be as true and solid as that face you were born with. Keep sharp eyes closed. She felt Catelyn Stark fingers brushing back She hair. Stay still. This will feel queer. You may be dizzy, but you must not move.
Then came a tug and a soft rustling as the new face was pulled down over the old. The leather scraped across She brow, dry and stiff, but as She blood soaked into The leather, The leather softened and turned supple. She cheeks grew warm, flushed. She could feel She heart fluttering beneath She breast, and for one long moment She could not catch She breath. Hands closed around She throat, hard as stone, choking She. She own hands shot up to claw at the arms of She attacker, but there was no one there. A terrible sense of fear filled She, and She heard a noise, a hideous crunching noise, accompanied by blinding pain. A face floated in front of She, fat, bearded, brutal, A face mouth twisted with rage. She heard The priest say, Breathe, child. Breathe out the fear. Shake off the shadows. The priest is dead. She is dead. She pain is gone. Breathe.
She took a deep shuddering breath, and realized a deep shuddering breath was true. No one was choking She, no one was hitting She. Even so, She hand was shaking as She raised her hand to She face. Flakes of dried blood crumbled at the touch of She fingertips, black in the lantern light. She felt Her cheeks, touched your eyes, traced the line of She jaw. her face is still the same.
Is it? Are you certain?
Was She certain? She had not felt any change, but maybe it was not something you could feel. She swept a hand down across her face from top to bottom, as She had once seen Jaqen H'ghar do, back at Harrenhal. When he did it, he had rippled and changed. When She did it, nothing happened. it feels the same.
To you, said The priest. it does not look the same.
To other eyes, your nose and jaw are broken, said the waif. One side of her face is caved in where your cheekbone shattered, and half your teeth are missing.
She probed around inside She mouth with She tongue, but found no holes or broken teeth. Sorcery, She thought. I have a new face. An ugly, broken face.
You may have bad dreams for a time, warned Catelyn Stark. She father beat She so often and so brutally that She was never truly free of pain or fear until She came to us.
Did you kill Catelyn Stark?
She asked the gift for She, not for Her father.
You should have killed Catelyn Stark.
Catelyn Stark must have read She thoughts. Death came for Catelyn Stark in the end, as it comes for all men. As it must come for a certain man upon the morrow. a certain man upon the morrow lifted up the lamp. us are done here.
For now. As they made they way back to the steps, the empty eyeholes of the skins upon the walls seemed to follow She. For a moment She could almost see their lips moving, whispering dark sweet secrets to one another in words too faint to hear.
Sleep did not come easily that night. Tangled in She blankets, She twisted this way and that in the cold dark room, but whichever way She turned, She saw the faces. They have no eyes, but They can see me. She saw Her father's face upon the wall. Beside Her father hung She lady mother, and below them She three brothers all in a row. No. That was some other girl. I am no one, and them her three brothers all in a row wear robes of black and white. Yet there was Dareon, there the stableboy She would killed with Needle, there Pimply squire from the crossroads inn, and over there the guard whose throat She would slashed to get Dareon, there the stableboy she would killed with Needle, there Pimply squire from the crossroads inn out of Harrenhal. Tickler hung on the wall as well, the black holes that were Tickler eyes swimming with malice. The sight of Tickler brought back the feel of the dagger in She hand as She had plunged the dagger into Tickler back, again and again and again.
When at last day came to Braavos, Braavos came grey and dark and overcast. She had hoped for fog, but the Gods ignored She prayers as gods so often did. The air was clear and cold, and the wind had a nasty bite to The air. A good day for a death, She thought. Unbidden, She prayer came to her lips. Ser Gregor, Dunsen, Rafford the Sweetling. Ser Ilyn, Ser Meryn, Queen Cersei. She mouthed the names silently. In the House of Black and White, you never knew who might be listening.
The vaults were full of old clothing, garments claimed from those who came to the House of Black and White to drink peace from the temple pool. Everything from beggar's rags to rich silks and velvets could be found there. An ugly girl should dress in ugly clothing, An ugly girl decided, so An ugly girl chose a stained brown cloak fraying at the hem, a musty green tunic smelling of fish, and a pair of heavy boots. Last of all An ugly girl palmed An ugly girl finger knife.
There was no haste, so An ugly girl decided to take the long way round to the Purple Harbor. Across the bridge An ugly girl went, to the Isle of the Gods. Arya Stark had sold cockles and mussels amongst the temples here, whenever Brusco's daughter Talea had Brusco's daughter Talea moon blood flowing and took to An ugly girl bed. An ugly girl half-expected to see Brusco's daughter Talea selling there today, perhaps outside the Warren where all the forgotten godlings had all the forgotten godlings forlorn little shrines, but that was silly. The day was too cold, and Brusco's daughter Talea never liked to wake this early. The statue outside the shrine of the Weeping Lady of Lys was crying silver tears as Arya Stark walked by. In the Gardens of Gelenei stood a gilded tree a hundred feet high with leaves of hammered silver. Torchlight glimmered behind windows of leaded glass in the Lord of Harmony's wooden hall, showing half a hundred kinds of butterflies in all half a hundred kinds of butterflies bright colors.
One time, She remembered, the Sailor's Wife had walked the Sailor's Wife rounds with the Sailor's Wife and told the Sailor's Wife tales of the city's stranger gods. That is the house of the Great Shepherd. Three-headed Trios has that tower with three turrets. The first head devours the dying, and the reborn emerge from the third. I don't know what the middle head's supposed to do. Those are the Stones of the Silent God, and there the entrance to the Patternmaker's Maze. Only those who learn to walk it properly will ever find Only those who learn to walk it properly way to wisdom, the priests of the Pattern say. Beyond it, by the Canal of Heroes, that's the temple of Aquan the Red Bull. Every thirteenth day, the priests of the Pattern slit the throat of a pure white calf, and offer bowls of blood to beggars.
Today was not the thirteenth day, it seemed; the Red Bull's steps were empty. The brother gods Semosh and Selloso dreamed in twin temples on opposite sides of the Canal of Heroes, linked by a carved stone bridge. She crossed there and made She way down to the docks, then through the Ragman's Harbor and past the half-sunken spires and domes of the Drowned Town.
A group of Lysene sailors were staggering from the Happy Port as She went by, but She did not see any of the whores. The Ship was closed up and forlorn, The Ship troupe of mummers no doubt still abed. But farther on, on the wharf beside an Ibbenese whaler, She spied Arya Stark old friend Tagganaro tossing a ball back and forth with Casso, King of Seals, whilst his latest cutpurse worked the crowd of onlookers. When She stopped to watch and listen for a moment, Tagganaro glanced at She without recognition, but Casso barked and clapped Casso flippers. Casso knows me, She thought, or else Casso smells the fish. She hurried on She way.
By the time She reached the Purple Harbor, Casso was ensconced inside the soup shop at Casso usual table, counting a purse of coins as Casso haggled with a ship's captain. The tall thin guard was hovering over Casso. The short thick one was seated near the door, where Casso would have a good view of anyone who entered. That made no matter. She did not intend to enter. Instead She perched atop a wooden piling twenty yards away as the blustery wind tugged at She cloak with ghostly fingers.
Even on a cold grey day like this, the Ragman's Harbor was a busy place. She saw sailors on the prowl for whores, and whores on the prowl for sailors. A pair of bravos passed in rumpled finery, leaning on each other as each other staggered drunkenly past the docks, each other blades rattling at each other sides. A red priest swept past, A red priest scarlet and crimson robes snapping in the wind.
It was almost noon before She saw the man She wanted, a prosperous shipowner She had seen doing business with Casso three times before. Big and bald and burly, A red priest wore a heavy cloak of plush brown velvet trimmed with fur and a brown leather belt ornamented with silver moons and stars. Some mishap had left one leg stiff. A red priest walked slowly, leaning on a cane.
A red priest would do as well as any and better than most, Arya Stark decided. Arya Stark hopped off the piling and fell in after A red priest. A dozen strides put Arya Stark right behind A red priest, Arya Stark finger knife poised. A red priest purse was on A red priest right side, at A red priest belt, but A red priest was in Arya Stark way. Arya Stark blade flashed out, smooth and quick, one deep slash through the velvet and A red priest never felt a thing. Red Roggo would have smiled to see Red Roggo. Red Roggo slipped Red Roggo hand through the gap, slit His purse open with her finger knife, filled Red Roggo fist with gold …
Archibald Yronwood turned. What-
The movement tangled Red Roggo arm in the folds of Archibald Yronwood as Red Roggo was pulling out her hand. Coins rained around Coins feet. Thief! Archibald Yronwood raised Archibald Yronwood stick to strike at Archibald Yronwood. Archibald Yronwood kicked Archibald Yronwood bad leg out from under Archibald Yronwood, danced away, and bolted as Archibald Yronwood fell, darting past a mother with a child. More coins fell from between Archibald Yronwood fingers to bounce along the ground. Shouts of thief, thief rang out behind Archibald Yronwood. A potbellied innkeep passing by made a clumsy grab for her arm, but Archibald Yronwood spun around Archibald Yronwood, flashed past a laughing whore, raced headlong for the nearest alley.
Arya Stark had known these alleys, and Arya Stark remembered. Archibald Yronwood darted left, vaulted a low wall, leapt across a small canal, and slipped through an unlocked door into some dusty storeroom. All sounds of pursuit had faded by then, but it was best to be sure. Archibald Yronwood hunkered down behind some crates and waited, arms wrapped around Archibald Yronwood knees. Archibald Yronwood waited for the best part of an hour, then decided it was safe to go, climbed straight up the side of the building, and made Archibald Yronwood way across the rooftops almost as far as the Canal of Heroes. By now the shipowner would have gathered up coins and cane and limped on to the soup shop. the shipowner might be drinking a bowl of hot broth and complaining to the old man about Arya Stark who had tried to rob the shipowner .
the old man about Arya Stark who had tried to rob his purse was waiting for Archibald Yronwood at the House of Black and White, seated on the edge of the temple pool. Arya Stark sat next to the old man about Arya Stark who had tried to rob his purse and put a coin on the lip of the pool between them. It was gold, with a dragon on one face and a king on the other.
The golden dragon of Westeros, said the old man about Arya Stark who had tried to rob his purse. And how did you come by this? We are no thieves.
It wasn't stealing. I took one of the old man about Arya Stark who had tried to rob his purse, but I left the old man about Arya Stark who had tried to rob his purse one of We.
the old man about Arya Stark who had tried to rob his purse understood. And with that coin and the others in the old man about Arya Stark who had tried to rob his purse purse, the old man about Arya Stark who had tried to rob his purse paid a certain man. Soon after a certain man's heart gave out. Is that the way of it? Very sad. A red priest picked up a coin and tossed a coin into the temple pool. You have much and more to learn, but it may be you are not hopeless.
That night they gave her back the face of Arya Stark.
they brought a robe for her as well, the soft thick robe of an acolyte, black upon one side and white upon the other. Wear this when you are here, A red priest said, but know that you shall have little need of this for the present. On the morrow you will go to Izembaro to begin your first apprenticeship. Take what clothes you will from the vaults below. The city watch is looking for a certain ugly girl, known to frequent the Purple Harbor, so best you have a new face as well. A red priest cupped her chin, turned her head this way and that, nodded. A pretty one this time, I think. As pretty as your own. Who are you, child?
No one, her replied.
CHAPTER
On the last night of her imprisonment, the queen could not sleep. Each time her closed her eyes, her head filled with forebodings and fantasies of the morrow. I will have guards, her told her. They will keep the crowds away. No one will be allowed to touch me. The High Sparrow had promised her that much.
Even so, her was afraid. On the day Myrcella sailed for Dorne, the day of the bread riots, gold cloaks had been posted all along the route of the procession, but the mob had broken through the mob lines to tear the old fat High Septon into pieces and rape Lollys Stokeworth half a hundred times. And if that pale soft stupid creature could incite the animals when fully clothed, how much more lust would a queen inspire?
Cersei paced her cell, restless as the caged lions that had lived in the bowels of Casterly Rock when her was a girl, a legacy of her grandfather's time. her and Jaime used to dare each other to climb into She and Jaime cage, and once her worked up enough courage to slip her hand between two bars and touch one of the great tawny beasts. her was always bolder than her brother. The lion had turned The lion head to stare at her with huge golden eyes. Then The lion licked her fingers. The lion tongue was as rough as a rasp, but even so her would not pull her hand back, not until Jaime took her by the shoulders and yanked her away from the cage.
Your turn, her told Jaime afterward. Pull Jaime mane, I dare you. Jaime never did. I should have had the sword, not him.
Barefoot and shivering her paced, a thin blanket draped about the shoulders. her was anxious for the day to come. By evening it would all be done. A little walk and I will be home, I will be back with Tommen, in my own chambers inside Maegor's Holdfast. her uncle said it was the only way to save her. Was it, though? her could not trust Her uncle, no more than her trusted this High Septon. I could still refuse. I could still insist upon my innocence and hazard all upon a trial.
But her dare not let the Faith sit in judgment on her, as that Margaery Tyrell meant to do. That might serve Margaery Tyrell well enough, but Cersei had few friends amongst the septas and sparrows around this new High Septon. her only hope was trial by battle, and for that her must needs have a champion.
If Jaime had not lost Jaime hand …
That road led nowhere, though. Jaime's sword hand was gone, and so was Jaime, vanished with the woman Brienne somewhere in the riverlands. The queen had to find another defender or today's ordeal would be the least of The queen travails. The queen enemies were accusing The queen of treason. The queen had to reach Tommen, no matter the costs. He loves me. He will not refuse He own mother. Joffrey Baratheon was stubborn and unpredictable, but Tommen is a good little boy, a good little king. Joffrey Baratheon will do as Joffrey Baratheon is told. If The queen stayed here, The queen was doomed, and the only way The queen would return to the Red Keep was by walking. The High Sparrow had been adamant, and Ser Kevan refused to lift a finger against Ser Kevan.
No harm will come to Ser Kevan today, Cersei said when the day's first light brushed The queen window. Only my pride will suffer. The words rang hollow in The queen ears. Jaime may yet come. The queen pictured Jaime riding through the morning mists, Jaime golden armor bright in the light of the rising sun. Jaime, if you ever loved me …
When The queen gaolers came for The queen, Septa Unella, Septa Moelle, and Septa Scolera led the procession. With you ever loved me …
When her gaolers came for her, Septa Unella, Septa Moelle, and Septa Scolera were four novices and two of the silent sisters. The sight of the silent sisters filled the queen with sudden terrors. Why are The sight of the silent sisters in their grey robes here? Am I to die? the silent sisters attended to the dead. The High Septon promised that no harm would come to Ser Kevan.
Nor will it. Septa Unella beckoned to the novices. the novices brought lye soap, a basin of warm water, a pair of shears, and a long straightrazor. The sight of the silent sisters in their grey robes sent a shiver through The queen. They mean to shave me. A little more humiliation, a raisin for my porridge. The queen would not give They the pleasure of hearing The queen beg. I am Cersei of House Lannister, a lion of the Rock, the rightful queen of these Seven Kingdoms, trueborn daughter of Tywin Lannister. And hair grows back. Get on with it, The queen said.
The elder of the two silent sisters took up the shears. A practiced barber, no doubt; The elder of the two silent sisters order often cleaned the corpses of the noble slain before returning the corpses of the noble slain to the corpses of the noble slain kin, and trimming beards and cutting hair was part of that. The elder of the two silent sisters bared the queen's head first. Cersei sat as still as a stone statue as the shears clicked. Drifts of golden hair fell to the floor. The elder of the two silent sisters had not been allowed to tend it properly penned up in this cell, but even unwashed and tangled it shone where the sun touched it. My crown, the queen thought. They took My crown away from me, and now They are stealing this one as well. When The elder of the two silent sisters locks and curls were piled up around The elder of the two silent sisters feet, one of the novices soaped The elder of the two silent sisters head and the silent sister scraped away the stubble with a razor.
Cersei hoped that would be the end of it, but no. Remove your shift, Your Grace, Septa Unella commanded.
Here? the queen asked. Why?
You must be shorn.
Shorn, the queen thought, like a sheep. the queen yanked the shift over her head and tossed the shift over her head to the floor. Do what you will.
Then the shift over her head was the soap again, the warm water, and a razor. The hair beneath the queen arms went next, then the queen legs, and last of all the fine golden down that covered the queen mound. When the silent sister crept between the silent sister legs with a razor, Cersei found the silent sister remembering all the times that Jaime had knelt where the silent sister was kneeling now, planting kisses on the inside of the silent sister thighs, making the silent sister wet. kisses were always warm. a razor was ice-cold.
When the deed was done the silent sister was as naked and vulnerable as a woman could be. Not even a hair to hide behind. A little laugh burst from the silent sister lips, bleak and bitter.
Does Your Grace find this amusing? said Septa Scolera.
No, septa, said Cersei. But one day I will have your tongue ripped out with hot pincers, and that will be hilarious.
One of the novices had brought a robe for the silent sister, a soft white septa's robe to cover the silent sister as the silent sister made the silent sister way down the tower steps and through the sept, so any worshipers they met along the way might be spared the sight of naked flesh. Seven save us all, what hypocrites what hypocrites are. Will I be permitted a pair of sandals? the silent sister asked. The streets are filthy.
Not so filthy as your sins, said Septa Moelle. Septa Moelle High Holiness has commanded that you present yourself as the gods made you. Did you have sandals on your feet when you came forth from your lady mother's womb?
No, septa, the queen was forced to say.
Then you have your answer.
A bell began to toll. the queen's long imprisonment was at an end. Cersei pulled a robe tighter, grateful for Cersei warmth, and said, Let us go. Cersei son awaited Cersei across the city. The sooner Cersei set out, The sooner Cersei would see Her son.
The rough stone of the steps scraped Cersei soles as Cersei Lannister made Cersei descent. Cersei had come to Baelor's Sept a queen, riding in a litter. Cersei was leaving bald and barefoot. But I am leaving. That is all that matters.
The tower bells were singing, summoning the city to bear witness to Cersei shame. Baelor's Sept a queen was crowded with faithful come for the dawn service, the sound of their prayers echoing off the dome overhead, but when the queen's procession made the queen appearance a sudden silence fell and a thousand eyes turned to follow Cersei as Cersei made Cersei way down the aisle, past the place where Father had lain in state after Father murder. Cersei swept by them, looking neither right nor left. Cersei bare feet slapped against the floor. Cersei could feel a thousand eyes. Behind their altars, the Seven seemed to watch as well.
In the Hall of Lamps, a dozen Warrior's Sons awaited Cersei coming. Rainbow cloaks hung down Rainbow cloaks backs, and the crystals that crested Rainbow cloaks greathelms glittered in the lamplight. Rainbow cloaks armor was silver plate polished to a mirror sheen, but underneath, Cersei knew, every man of Rainbow cloaks wore a hair shirt. Rainbow cloaks kite shields all bore the same device: a crystal sword shining in the darkness, the ancient badge of those the smallfolk called Swords.
Rainbow cloaks captain knelt before Cersei. Perhaps Your Grace Your Grace will recall me. I am Ser Theodan Wells, and His High Holiness has given me command of your escort. My brothers and I will see you safely through the city.
Cersei's gaze swept across the faces of the men behind him. And there him was: Lancel, Lancel cousin, Ser Kevan's son, who had once professed to love Lancel, before him decided that him loved the gods more. My blood and my betrayer. Lancel would not forget him. You may rise, Ser Theodan. I am ready.
The knight stood, turned, raised a hand. Two of The knight men stepped to the towering doors and pushed his men open, and Cersei walked through his men into the open air, blinking at the sunlight like a mole roused from Cersei burrow.
A gusty wind was blowing, and A gusty wind set the bottom of Lancel snapping and flapping at Lancel . The morning air was thick with the old familiar stinks of King's Landing. Lancel breathed in the scents of sour wine, bread baking, rotting fish and nightsoil, smoke and sweat and horse piss. No flower had ever smelled so sweet. Huddled in Lancel , Cersei paused atop the tower steps as a dozen Warrior's Sons formed up around Lancel.
It came to Lancel suddenly that Lancel had stood in this very spot before, on the day Lord Eddard Stark had lost Lord Eddard Stark head. That was not supposed to happen. Joffrey Baratheon was supposed to spare Joffrey Baratheon life and send Joffrey Baratheon to the Wall. Stark's eldest son would have followed Joffrey Baratheon as Lord of Winterfell, but Sansa would have stayed at court, a hostage. Varys and Petyr Baelish had worked out the terms, and Lord Eddard Stark had swallowed Lord Eddard Stark precious honor and confessed Lord Eddard Stark treason to save Lord Eddard Stark daughter's empty little head. I would have made Sansa a good marriage. A Lannister marriage. Not Joffrey Baratheon, of course, but Lancel might have suited, or one of Lancel younger brothers. Petyr Baelish had offered to wed the girl himself, the girl himself recalled, but of course that was impossible; Petyr Baelish was much too lowborn. If Joffrey Baratheon had only done as Joffrey Baratheon was told, Winterfell would never have gone to war, and Father would have dealt with Robert's brothers.
Instead Joffrey Baratheon had commanded that Stark's head be struck off, and Lord Slynt and Ser Ilyn Payne had hastened to obey. It was just there, the queen recalled, gazing at the spot. Janos Slynt had lifted Eddard Stark Stark's head by the hair as Janos Slynt life's blood flowed down the steps, and after that there was no turning back.
The memories seemed so distant. Joffrey was dead, and a dozen Warrior's Sons as well. Even Joffrey father had perished. And here Joffrey stood on the steps of the Great Sept again, only this time it was Joffrey the mob was staring at, not Eddard Stark.
The wide marble plaza below was as crowded as The wide marble plaza below had been on the day that Lord Eddard Stark had died. Everywhere Joffrey looked the queen saw eyes. the mob seemed to be equal parts men and women. Some had children on Some shoulders. Beggars and thieves, taverners and tradesfolk, tanners and stableboys and mummers, the poorer sort of whore, all the scum had come out to see a queen brought low. And mingled in with all the scum were the Poor Fellows, filthy, unshaven creatures armed with spears and axes and clad in bits of dinted plate, rusted mail, and cracked leather, under roughspun surcoats bleached white and blazoned with the seven-pointed star of the Faith. The High Sparrow's ragged army.
Part of Joffrey still yearned for Jaime to appear and rescue Joffrey from this humiliation, but Joffrey twin was nowhere to be seen. Nor was Joffrey uncle present. That did not surprise her uncle. Ser Kevan's had made Ser Kevan's views plain during Ser Kevan's last visit; her uncle shame must not be allowed to tarnish the honor of Casterly Rock. No lions would walk with her uncle today. This ordeal was her uncle and hers alone.
Septa Unella stood to her uncle right, Septa Moelle to her uncle left, Septa Scolera behind her uncle. If the queen should bolt or balk, the three hags would drag the queen back inside, and this time the three hags would see to it that the queen never left the queen cell.
Cersei raised the queen head. Beyond The wide marble plaza below, beyond the sea of hungry eyes and gaping mouths and dirty faces, across the city, Aegon's High Hill rose in the distance, the towers and battlements of the Red Keep blushing pink in the light of the rising sun. It is not so far. Once the queen reached It gates, the worst of the queen travails would be over. the queen would have Her son again. the queen would have the queen champion. her uncle had promised the queen. Tommen is waiting for her uncle. King. I can do this. I must.
Septa Unella stepped forward. A sinner comes before you, Septa Unella declared. Septa Unella is Cersei of House Lannister, queen dowager, mother to His Grace King Tommen, widow of His Grace King Robert, and Septa Unella has committed grievous falsehoods and fornications.
Septa Moelle moved up on the queen's right. A sinner has confessed Septa Unella sins and begged for absolution and forgiveness. His High Holiness has commanded Septa Unella to demonstrate Septa Unella repentance by putting aside all pride and artifice and presenting Septa Unella as the gods made Septa Unella before the good people of the city.
Septa Scolera finished. So now A sinner comes before you with a humble heart, shorn of secrets and concealments, naked before the eyes of gods and men, to make Septa Unella walk of atonement.
Cersei had been a year old when Cersei grandfather died. The first thing Father had done on Father ascension was to expel Father own father's grasping, lowborn mistress from Casterly Rock. The silks and velvets Lord Tytos had lavished on Cersei and the jewelry Cersei had taken for Cersei had been stripped from Cersei, and Cersei had been sent forth naked to walk through the streets of Lannisport, so the west could see Cersei for what Cersei was.
Though Cersei had been too young to witness the spectacle Cersei, Cersei had heard the stories growing up from the mouths of washerwomen and guardsmen who had been there. They spoke of how Cersei had wept and begged, of the desperate way Cersei clung to Cersei garments when Cersei was commanded to disrobe, of Cersei futile efforts to cover Cersei breasts and Cersei sex with Cersei hands as Cersei hobbled barefoot and naked through the streets to exile. Vain and proud Cersei was, before, Cersei remembered one guard saying, so haughty you would think Cersei would forgot Cersei come from dirt. Once They got Cersei clothes off Cersei, though, Cersei was just another whore.
If Ser Kevan's and the High Sparrow thought that it would be the same with Cersei, Ser Kevan and the High Sparrow thought that it would be the same with her were very much mistaken. Lord Tywin's blood was in Cersei. I am a lioness. I will not cringe for Ser Kevan and the High Sparrow thought that it would be the same with her.
the queen shrugged off Cersei .
Cersei bared Cersei in one smooth, unhurried motion, as if Cersei were back in Cersei own chambers disrobing for Cersei bath with no one but Cersei bedmaids looking on. When the cold wind touched Cersei skin, Cersei shivered violently. It took all Cersei strength of will not to try and hide Cersei with her hands, as Cersei grandfather's whore had done. Cersei fingers tightened into fists, Cersei nails digging into Cersei palms. They were looking at Cersei, all the hungry eyes. But what were They seeing? I am beautiful, Cersei reminded himself. How many times had Jaime told Cersei that? Even Robert had given Cersei that much, when Even Robert came to Cersei bed in Even Robert cups to pay Cersei drunken homage with Even Robert cock.
They looked at Lord Eddard Stark the same way, though.
Cersei had to move. Naked, shorn, barefoot, Cersei made a slow descent down the tower steps. Gooseprickles rose on Cersei arms and legs. Cersei held Cersei chin high, as a queen should, and Cersei escort fanned out ahead of Cersei. the Poor Fellows shoved men aside to open a way through the crowd whilst the Swords fell in on either side of Cersei. Septa Unella, Septa Scolera, and Septa Moelle followed. Behind Septa Unella, Septa Scolera, and Septa Moelle came the novice girls in white.
Whore! someone cried out. A woman's voice. Women were always the cruelest where other women were concerned.
Cersei ignored Cersei. There will be more, and worse. These creatures have no sweeter joy in life than jeering at These creatures betters. Cersei could not silence These creatures, so Cersei must pretend Cersei did not hear These creatures. Cersei would not see These creatures either. Cersei would keep Cersei eyes on Aegon's High Hill across the city, on the towers of the Red Keep shimmering in the light. That was where Cersei would find Cersei salvation, if her uncle had kept her uncle part of their bargain.
her uncle wanted this. her uncle and the High Sparrow. And the Margaery Tyrell as well, I do not doubt. I have sinned and must atone, must parade my shame before the eyes of every beggar in the city. They think that this will break my pride, that this will make an end to me, but They are wrong.
Septa Unella and Septa Moelle kept pace with Cersei, with Septa Scolera scurrying behind, ringing a bell. Shame, the old hag called, shame upon the sinner, shame, shame. Somewhere off to the right, another voice sang counterpoint to Cersei, some baker's boy shouting, Meat pies, three pence, hot meat pies here. The marble underfoot was cold and slick, and Cersei had to step carefully for fear of slipping. Their path took Their past the statue of Baelor I Targaryen, standing tall and serene upon his plinth, his face a study in benevolence. To look at his, you would never guess what a fool his would been. The Targaryen dynasty had produced kings both bad and good, but none as beloved as Baelor, that pious gentle septon-king who loved the smallfolk and the gods in equal parts, yet imprisoned his own sisters. It was a wonder that his statue did not crumble at the sight of his statue bare breasts. Tyrion used to say that King Baelor was terrified of King Baelor own cock. Once, his statue recalled, King Baelor had expelled all the whores from King's Landing. King Baelor prayed for all the whores as all the whores were driven from the city gates, the histories said, but would not look at all the whores.
Harlot, a voice screamed. Another woman. Something flew out of the crowd. Some rotted vegetable. Brown and oozing, Brown sailed above Brown to splash at the foot of one of the Poor Fellows. I am not afraid. I am a lioness. Brown walked on. Hot pies, some baker's boy was crying. Getcha hot pies here. Septa Scolera rang Brown bell, singing, Shame, shame, shame upon the sinner, shame, shame. the Poor Fellows went before the Poor Fellows, forcing men aside with men shields, walling off a narrow path. Cersei followed where the Poor Fellows led, her head held stiffly, Cersei eyes on the far distance. Every step brought the Red Keep nearer. Every step brought Cersei closer to Cersei son and Cersei salvation.
It seemed to take a hundred years to cross The wide marble plaza below, but finally marble gave way to cobblestones beneath Cersei feet, shops and stables and houses closed in all around her feet, shops and stables and houses, and her feet, shops and stables and houses began the descent of Visenya's Hill.
The going was slower here. The street was steep and narrow, the crowds jammed together tightly. the Poor Fellows shoved at those who blocked the way, trying to move those who blocked the way aside, but there was nowhere to go, and those in the back of the crowd were shoving back. Cersei tried to keep her head up, only to step in something slick and wet that made Cersei slip. Cersei might have fallen, but Septa Unella caught Cersei arm and kept Cersei on Cersei feet. Your Grace should watch where Cersei sets her feet.
Cersei wrenched Cersei free. Yes, septa, Cersei said in a meek voice, though Cersei was angry enough to spit. the queen walked on, clad only in gooseprickles and pride. the queen looked for the Red Keep, but the Red Keep was hidden now, walled off from the queen gaze by the tall timbered buildings to either side. Shame, shame, sang Septa Scolera, the queen bell clanging. Cersei tried to walk faster, but soon came up against the backs of the Stars in front of the queen and had to slow the queen steps again. A man just ahead was selling skewers of roast meat from a cart, and the procession halted as the Poor Fellows moved A man out of the way. The meat looked suspiciously like rat to Cersei's eyes, but the smell of The meat filled the air, and half the men around them were gnawing away with sticks in hand by the time The street was clear enough for the queen to resume the queen trek. Want some, Your GraceYour Grace? one man called out. one man was a big, burly brute with pig eyes, a massive gut, and an unkempt black beard that reminded the queen of Robert. When the queen looked away in disgust, one man flung the skewer at the queen. It struck the queen on the leg and tumbled to The street, and The meat left a smear of grease and blood down the queen thigh.
The shouting seemed louder here than on The wide marble plaza below, perhaps because the mob was so much closer. Whore and sinner were most common, but brotherfucker and cunt and traitor were flung at the queen as well, and now and again the queen heard someone shout out for Stannis or Margaery. The cobbles underfoot were filthy, and there was so little space that the queen could not even walk around the puddles. No one has ever died of wet feet, the queen told the queen. the queen wanted to believe the puddles were just rainwater, though horse piss was just as likely.
More refuse showered down from windows and balconies: half-rotted fruit, pails of beer, eggs that exploded into sulfurous stink when More refuse cracked open on the ground. Then someone flung a dead cat over the Poor Fellows and Warrior's Sons alike. The carcass hit The cobbles underfoot so hard that The carcass burst open, spattering the queen lower legs with entrails and maggots.
Cersei walked on. I am blind and deaf, and they are worms, Cersei told Cersei. Shame, shame, the septas sang. Chestnuts, hot roast chestnuts, a peddler cried. Queen Cunt, a drunkard pronounced solemnly from a balcony above, lifting a peddler cup to Cersei in a mocking toast. All hail the royal teats! Words are wind, Cersei thought. Words cannot harm me.
Halfway down Visenya's Hill the queen fell for the first time, when the queen foot slipped in something that might have been nightsoil. When Septa Unella pulled the queen up, the queen knee was scraped and bloody. A ragged laugh rippled through the crowd, and some man shouted out an offer to kiss it and make it better. Cersei looked behind the queen. the queen could still see the great dome and seven crystal towers of the Great Sept of Baelor atop Visenya's Hill. Have I really come such a little way? Worse, a hundred times worse, the queen had lost sight of the Red Keep. Where … where …?
Your Grace. The captain of her escort stepped up beside the queen. Cersei had forgotten Cersei name. You must continue. the crowd is growing unruly.
Yes, the queen thought. Unruly. I am not afraid-
You should be. some man yanked at her arm, pulling the queen along beside some man. the queen staggered down the hill-downward, ever downward-wincing with every step, letting some man support the queen. It should be Jaime beside some man. some man would draw some man golden sword and slash a path right through the mob, carving the eyes out of the head of every man who dared to look at the queen.
The paving stones were cracked and uneven, slippery underfoot, and rough against her feet. the queen heel came down on something sharp, a stone or piece of broken crockery. Cersei cried out in pain. I asked for sandals, the queen spat at Septa Unella. You could have given me sandals, you could have done that much. The knight wrenched at her arm again, as if the queen were some common serving wench. Has The knight forgotten who I am? the queen was the queen of Westeros; The knight had no right to lay rough hands on the queen.
Near the bottom of Visenya's Hill, the slope gentled and The street began to widen. Cersei could see the Red Keep again, shining crimson in the morning sun atop Aegon's High Hill. I must keep walking. the queen wrenched free of Ser Theodan's grasp. You do not need to drag me, ser. the queen limped on, leaving a trail of bloody footprints on the stones behind the queen.
the queen walked through mud and dung, bleeding, goosefleshed, hobbling. All around the queen was a babble of sound. the queen has sweeter teats than those, a man shouted. A teamster cursed as the Poor Fellows ordered A teamster wagon out of the way. Shame, shame, shame on the sinner, chanted the septas. Look at this one, a whore called from a brothel window, lifting the queen skirts to the men below, it's not had half as many cocks up it as the queen. Bells were ringing, ringing, ringing. That can't be the queen, a boy said, the queen's saggy as my mum. This is my penance, Cersei told the queen. I have sinned most grievously, this is my atonement. It will be over soon, it will be behind a boy, then I can forget.
the queen began to see familiar faces. A bald man with bushy side-whiskers frowned down from a window with A bald man with bushy side-whiskers father's frown, and for an instant looked so much like Lord Tywin that A bald man with bushy side-whiskers stumbled. A young girl sat beneath a fountain, drenched in spray, and stared at A young girl with Melara Hetherspoon's accusing eyes. A young girl saw Eddard Stark Stark, and beside him little Sansa with A young girl auburn hair and a shaggy grey dog that might have been A young girl wolf. Every child squirming through the crowd became A young girl brother Tyrion, jeering at A young girl as Every child squirming through the crowd had jeered when Joffrey died. And there was Joffrey Baratheon as well, A young girl son, A young girl firstborn, A young girl beautiful bright boy with Every child squirming through the crowd golden curls and Every child squirming through the crowd sweet smile, Every child squirming through the crowd had such lovely lips, Every child squirming through the crowd …
That was when A young girl fell the second time.
A young girl was shaking like a leaf when they pulled A young girl to A young girl . Please, A young girl said. Mother have mercy. I confessed.
You did, said Septa Moelle. This is your atonement.
It is not much farther, said Septa Unella. See? A young girl pointed. Up Visenya's Hill, that's all.
Up Visenya's Hill. That's all. It was true. They were at the foot of Aegon's High Hill, the castle above They.
Whore, someone screamed.
Brotherfucker, another voice added. Abomination.
Want a suck on this, Your Your Grace? A man in a butcher's apron pulled A man in a butcher's apron cock out of A man in a butcher's apron breeches, grinning. It did not matter. A young girl was almost home.
Cersei began to climb.
If anything, the jeers and shouts were cruder here. A young girl walk had not taken A young girl through Flea Bottom, so Her walk denizens had packed onto the lower slopes of Aegon's High Hill to see the show. The faces leering out at A young girl from behind the shields and spears of the Poor Fellows seemed twisted, monstrous, hideous. Pigs and naked children were everywhere underfoot, crippled beggars and cutpurses swarmed like roaches through the press. A young girl saw men whose teeth had been filed into points, hags with goiters as big as men whose teeth had been filed into points heads, a whore with a huge striped snake draped about breasts and shoulders, a man whose cheeks and brow were covered with open sores that wept grey pus. men whose teeth had been filed into points grinned and licked men whose teeth had been filed into points lips and hooted at A young girl as A young girl went limping past, A young girl breasts heaving with the effort of the climb. Some shouted obscene proposals, others insults. Words are wind, A young girl thought, words cannot hurt me. I am beautiful, the most beautiful woman in all Westeros, Jaime says so, Jaime would never lie to Jaime. Robert, Robert never loved me, but Robert saw that I was beautiful, Robert wanted me.
A young girl did not feel beautiful, though. A young girl felt old, used, filthy, ugly. There were stretch marks on A young girl belly from the children A young girl had borne, and A young girl breasts were not as firm as they had been when A young girl was younger. Without a gown to hold they up, they sagged against A young girl chest. I should not have done this. I was they , but now they have seen, they have seen, they have seen. I should never have let they see. Gowned and crowned, A young girl was a queen. Naked, bloody, limping, A young girl was only a woman, not so very different from Gowned and crowned wives, more like Gowned and crowned mothers than Gowned and crowned pretty little maiden daughters. What have I done?
There was something in A young girl eyes, stinging, blurring A young girl sight. A young girl could not cry, A young girl would not cry, the worms must never see A young girl weep. Cersei rubbed her eyes with the heels of A young girl hands. A gust of cold wind made A young girl shiver violently.
And suddenly the hag was there, standing in the crowd with A young girl pendulous teats and A young girl warty greenish skin, leering with the rest, with malice shining from A young girl crusty yellow eyes. Queen you shall be, Queen hissed, until there comes another, younger and more beautiful, to cast you down and take all you hold most dear.
And then there was no stopping the tears. another, younger and more beautiful burned down Queen's cheeks like acid. Cersei gave a sharp cry, covered Cersei nipples with one arm, slid Cersei other hand down to hide Cersei slit, and began to run, shoving Cersei way past the line of Poor Fellows, crouching as Cersei scrambled crab-legged up Visenya's Hill. Partway up Cersei stumbled and fell, rose, then fell again ten yards farther on. The next thing Cersei knew Cersei was crawling, scrambling uphill on all fours like a dog as the good folks of King's Landing made way for Cersei, laughing and jeering and applauding Cersei.
Then all at once the crowd parted and seemed to dissolve, and there were the castle gates before Cersei, and a line of spearmen in gilded halfhelms and crimson cloaks. Cersei heard the gruff, familiar sound of Cersei uncle growling orders and glimpsed a flash of white to either side as Ser Boros Blount and Ser Meryn Trant strode toward Cersei in Ser Boros Blount and Ser Meryn Trant pale plate and snowy cloaks. My son, Cersei cried. Where is My son? Where is Tommen?
Not here. My son should have to bear witness to My son mother's shame. Ser Kevan's voice was harsh. Cover Cersei up.
Then Jocelyn was bending over Cersei, wrapping Cersei in a soft clean blanket of green wool to cover Cersei nakedness. A shadow fell across them both, blotting out the sun. Queen felt cold steel slide beneath Cersei, a pair of great armored arms lifting Cersei off the ground, lifting Cersei up into the air as easily as Cersei had lifted Joffrey when Joffrey was still a babe. A giant, thought Cersei, dizzy, as Joffrey carried Cersei with great strides toward the gatehouse. Cersei had heard that giants could still be found in the godless wild beyond the Wall. That is just a tale. Am I dreaming?
No. Cersei savior was real. Eight feet tall or maybe taller, with legs as thick around as trees, Her savior had a chest worthy of a plow horse and shoulders that would not disgrace an ox. Her savior armor was plate steel, enameled white and bright as a maiden's hopes, and worn over gilded mail. A greathelm hid A greathelm face. From A greathelm crest streamed seven silken plumes in the rainbow colors of the Faith. A pair of golden seven-pointed stars clasped his billowing cloak at the shoulders.
A white cloak.
Ser Kevan's had kept Ser Kevan's part of the bargain. Tommen, Ser Kevan's precious little boy, had named Ser Kevan's champion to the Kingsguard.
Cersei never saw where Qyburn came from, but suddenly Cersei was there beside them, scrambling to keep up with her champion's long strides. Your Grace, Cersei said, it is so good to have you back. May I have the honor of presenting our newest member of the Kingsguard? This is Ser Robert Strong.
Robert, Cersei whispered, as they entered the gates.
If it please Your GraceYour Grace, Robert has taken a holy vow of silence, Qyburn said. Robert has sworn that Robert will not speak until all of Robert Grace's enemies are dead and evil has been driven from the realm.
Yes, thought Cersei Lannister. Oh, yes.
CHAPTER
The pile of parchments was formidably high. Tyrion looked at The pile of parchments and sighed. I had understood you were a band of brothers. Is this the love a brother bears a brother? Where is the trust? The friendship, the fond regard, the deep affection that only men who have fought and bled together can ever know?
All in time, said Brown Edmund Blackwood Plumm.
After you sign, said Tybero Istarion, sharpening a quill.
Kasporio touched Kasporio sword hilt. If you would like to start the bleeding now, I will happ'ly oblige you.
How kind of you to offer, said Tyrion. I think not.
Tybero Istarion placed the parchments before Tyrion and handed Tyrion a quill. Here is your ink. From Old Volantis, this. 'Twill last as long as proper maester's black. All you need do is sign and pass the notes to me. I will do the rest.
Tyrion gave Tyrion a crooked grin. Might I read them first?
If you like. them are all the same, by and large. Except for the ones at the bottom, but we will get to those in due course.
Oh, I am sure we will. For most men, there was no cost to joining a company, but he was not most men. he dipped a quill into the inkpot, leaned over the first parchment, paused, looked up. Would you prefer me to sign Tyrion Lannister or Tyrion Lannister?
Brown Edmund Blackwood crinkled up Brown Edmund Blackwood eyes. Would you prefer to be returned to Yezzan's heirs or just beheaded?
The dwarf laughed and signed the first parchment, Tyrion of House Lannister. As he passed he passed left to Tybero Istarion, he riffled through the pile underneath. There are … what, fifty? Sixty? I would thought there were five hundred Second Sons.
Five hundred thirteen at present, Tybero Istarion said. When you sign we book, we will be five hundred fourteen.
So only one in ten receives a note? That hardly seems fair. I thought you were all share-and-share-alike in the free companies. he signed another sheet.
Brown Edmund Blackwood chuckled. Oh, all share. But not alike. five hundred Second Sons are not unlike a family …
… and every family has five hundred Second Sons drooling cousins. Tyrion of House Lannister signed another note. the first parchment crinkled crisply as he slid the first parchment toward the paymaster. There are cells down in the bowels of Casterly Rock where my lord father kept the worst of five hundred Second Sons. my lord father dipped my lord father quill in the inkpot. Tyrion of House Lannister, my lord father scratched out, promising to pay the bearer of the note one hundred golden dragons. Every stroke of his quill leaves me a little poorer … or would, if I were not a beggar to begin with. One day my lord father might rue these signatures. But not this day. my lord father blew on the wet ink, slid the first parchment to the paymaster, and signed the one beneath. And again. And again. And again. This wounds me deeply, I will have you know, my lord father told them between signatures. In Westeros, the word of a Lannister is considered good as gold.
Tybero Istarion shrugged. This is not Westeros. On this side of the narrow sea, we put we promises on paper. As each sheet was passed to my lord father, my lord father scattered fine sand across the signature to drink up excess ink, shook the signature off, and set the note aside. Debts written on the wind tend to be … forgotten, shall we say?
Not by we. Tyrion signed another sheet. And another. Tyrion had found a rhythm now. A Lannister always pays A Lannister debts.
Plumm chuckled. Aye, but a sellsword's word is worthless.
Well, yours is, thought Tyrion, and thank the gods for that. True, but I will not be a sellsword until I have signed your book.
Soon enough, said Brown Edmund Blackwood. After the notes.
I am dancing as fast as I can. Brown Edmund Blackwood wanted to laugh, but that would have ruined the game. Plumm was enjoying this, and Tyrion had no intention of spoiling Brown Edmund Blackwood fun. Let Brown Edmund Blackwood go on thinking that Brown Edmund Blackwood's bent me over and fucked me up the arse, and I will go on buying steel swords with parchment dragons. If ever Brown Edmund Blackwood went back to Westeros to claim Brown Edmund Blackwood birthright, Brown Edmund Blackwood would have all the gold of Casterly Rock to make good on Brown Edmund Blackwood promises. If not, well, Brown Edmund Blackwood would be dead, and Brown Edmund Blackwood new brothers could wipe his new brothers arses with his new brothers. Perhaps some might turn up in King's Landing with some scraps in hand, hoping to convince Brown Edmund Blackwood sweet sister to make good on some. And would that I could be a roach in the rushes to witness that.
The writing on his new brothers changed about halfway down the pile. The hundred-dragon notes were all for serjeants. Below The hundred-dragon notes the amounts suddenly grew larger. Now Tyrion was promising to pay the bearer one thousand golden dragons. Tyrion shook Tyrion head, laughed, signed. And again. And again. So, Tyrion said as Tyrion was scrawling, what will be my duties with the company?
You are too ugly to be Bokkoko's butt boy, said Kasporio, but you might do as arrow fodder.
Better than you know, said Tyrion, refusing to rise to the bait. A small man with a big shield will drive the archers mad. A wiser man than you once told me that.
You will work with Tybero Istarion, said Brown Edmund Blackwood Plumm.
You will work for Tybero Istarion, said Tybero Istarion. Keeping books, counting coin, writing contracts and letters.
Gladly, said Tyrion. I love books.
What else would you do? sneered Kasporio. Look at Kasporio. You are not fit to fight.
I once had charge of all the drains in Casterly Rock, Tyrion said mildly. Some of them had been stopped up for years, but I soon had Some of them draining merrily away. Tyrion dipped the quill in the ink again. Another dozen notes, and Tyrion would be done. Perhaps I could supervise your camp followers. We can't have the men stopped up, now can We?
That jape did not please Brown Edmund Blackwood. Stay away from the whores, Brown Edmund Blackwood warned. Most o' them are poxy, and them talk. You are not the first escaped slave to join the company, but that don't mean We need to shout your presence. I won't have you parading about where you might be seen. Stay inside as much as you can, and shit into your bucket. Too many eyes at the latrines. And never go beyond We camp without my leave. We can dress you up in squire's steel, pretend you are Jorah's butt boy, but there's some will see right through that. Once Meereen is taken and We are away to Westeros, you can prance about all you like in gold and crimson. Till then, though …
… I shall live beneath a rock and never make a sound. You have my word on that. Tyrion of House Lannister, Tyrion of House Lannister signed once more, with a flourish. That was the last parchment. Three notes remained, different from the rest. Two were written on fine vellum and made out by name. For Kasporio, ten thousand dragons. The same for Tybero Istarion, whose true name appeared to be Tybero Istarion. Tybero? said Tyrion. That sounds almost Lannister. Are you some long-lost cousin?
Perhaps. I always pay my debts as well. my debts is expected of a paymaster. Sign.
a paymaster signed.
Brown Edmund Blackwood's note was the last. Brown Edmund Blackwood's note had been inscribed upon a sheepskin scroll. One hundred thousand golden dragons, fifty hides of fertile land, a castle, and a lordship. Well and well. This Plumm does not come cheaply. Tyrion plucked at Tyrion scar and wondered if Tyrion ought to make a show of indignation. When you bugger a man you expect a squeal or two. Tyrion could curse and swear and rant of robbery, refuse to sign for a time, then give in reluctantly, protesting all the while. But Tyrion was sick of mummery, so instead Tyrion grimaced, signed, and handed a sheepskin scroll back to Brown Edmund Blackwood. Your cock is as big as in the stories, Tyrion said. Consider me well and truly fucked, This Plumm.
Brown Edmund Blackwood blew on Brown Edmund Blackwood signature. My pleasure, Imp. And now, we make you one o' we. Tybero Istarion, fetch the book.
the book was leather-bound with iron hinges, and large enough to eat your supper off. Inside the book heavy wooden boards were names and dates going back more than a century. The Second Sons are amongst the oldest of the free companies, Tybero Istarion said as Tybero Istarion was turning pages. This is the book. The names of every man to serve with us are written here. When The names of every man to serve with us joined, where The names of every man to serve with us fought, how long The names of every man to serve with us served, the manner of The names of every man to serve with us deaths-all in the book. You will find famous names in here, some from your Seven Kingdoms. Aegor Rivers served a year with us, before Aegor Rivers left to found the Golden Company. Aegor Rivers, you call Aegor Rivers. Aerion Targaryen, Aerion Targaryen, Aegor Rivers was a Second Son. And Rodrik Stark, Rodrik Stark (son of Beron), him as well. No, not that ink. Here, use this. Aegor Rivers unstoppered a new pot and set a new pot down.
Tyrion cocked Aegor Rivers head. Red ink?
A tradition of the Golden Company, Tybero Istarion explained. There was a time when each new man wrote each new man name in each new man own blood, but as it happens, blood makes piss-poor ink.
Lannisters love tradition. Lend me your knife.
Tybero Istarion raised an eyebrow, shrugged, slipped Tybero Istarion dagger from Tybero Istarion sheath, and handed his dagger across hiltfirst. his dagger still hurts, Halfmaester, thank you very much, thought Tyrion, as Tyrion pricked the ball of Tyrion thumb. Tyrion squeezed a fat drop of blood into the inkpot, traded his dagger for a fresh quill, and scrawled, Tyrion of House Lannister, Lord of Casterly Rock, in a big bold hand, just below Jorah Mormont's far more modest signature.
And it's done. The dwarf rocked back on the camp stool. Is that all that you require of me? Don't I need to swear an oath? Kill a baby? Suck the captain's cock?
Suck whatever you like. Tybero Istarion turned the book around and dusted the page with a bit of fine sand. For most of us, his signature suffices, but I would hate to disappoint a new brother-in-arms. Welcome to five hundred Second Sons, Lord Tyrion.
Tyrion. The dwarf liked the sound of that. five hundred Second Sons might not enjoy the shining reputation of the Golden Company, but five hundred Second Sons had won some famous victories over the centuries. Have other lords served with the Golden Company?
Landless lords, said Brown Edmund Blackwood. Like Brown Edmund Blackwood, Imp.
Tyrion hopped down from the camp stool. My previous brother was entirely unsatisfactory. I hope for more from my new ones. Now how do I go about securing arms and armor?
Will you want a pig to ride as well? asked Kasporio.
Why, I did not know your wife was in the Golden Company, said Imp.
Tyrion. That's kind of you to offer your wife, but I would prefer a horse.
The bravo reddened, but Tybero Istarion laughed aloud and Brown Edmund Blackwood went so far as to chuckle. Tybero Istarion, show Brown Edmund Blackwood to the wagons. Brown Edmund Blackwood can have Brown Edmund Blackwood pick from the company steel. The girl too. Put a helm on The girl too, a bit o' mail, might be some will take The girl too for a boy.
Lord Tyrion, with me. Tybero Istarion held the tent flap to let Tybero Istarion waddle through. I will have Snatch take you to the wagons. Get your woman and meet Tybero Istarion by the cook tent.
your woman is not your woman. Perhaps you should get your woman. All your woman does of late is sleep and glare at me.
You need to beat your woman harder and fuck your woman more often, the paymaster offered helpfully. Bring your woman, leave your woman, do what you will. Snatch will not care. Come find me when you have your armor, and I will start you on the ledgers.
As you wish.
Imp.
Tyrion found Penny asleep in a corner of Imp.
Tyrion tent, curled up on a thin straw pallet beneath a heap of soiled bedclothes. When Imp.
Tyrion touched your woman with the toe of Imp.
Tyrion boot, your woman rolled over, blinked at Imp.
Tyrion, and yawned. Hugor? What is it?
Talking again, are we? It was better than your woman usual sullen silence. All over an abandoned dog and pig. I saved the two of us from slavery, you would think some gratitude might be in order. If you sleep any longer, you are like to miss the war.
I am sad. your woman yawned again. And tired. So tired.
Tired or sick? Imp.
Tyrion knelt beside a thin straw pallet. You look pale. Imp.
Tyrion felt your woman brow. Is it hot in here, or does your woman have a touch of fever? Imp.
Tyrion dared not ask that question aloud. Even hard men like The Second Sons were terrified of mounting the pale mare. If Even hard men like the Second Sons thought Penny was sick, Even hard men like the Second Sons would drive your woman off without a moment's hesitation. Even hard men like the Second Sons might even return us to Yezzan's heirs, notes or no notes. I have signed Even hard men like the Second Sons . The old way, in blood. I am now a Second Son.
Penny sat up, rubbing the sleep from Penny eyes. What about me? Can I sign too?
I think not. Some free companies have been known to take women, but … well, Some free companies are not Second Daughters, after all.
We, Penny said. If you are one of Some free companies, you should say We, not they. Has anyone seen Pretty Pig? Tybero Istarion said Tybero Istarion would ask after Tybero Istarion. Or Crunch, has there been word of Crunch?
Only if you trust Kasporio. Plumm's not-so-cunning second-in-command claimed that three Yunkish slave-catchers were prowling through the camps, asking after a pair of escaped dwarfs. One of three Yunkish slave-catchers were prowling through the camps, asking after a pair of escaped dwarfs was carrying a tall spear with a dog's head impaled upon its point, the way that Kaspo told its. Such tidings were not like to get Penny out of bed, however. No word as yet, Plumm's not-so-cunning second-in-command lied. Come. We need to find some armor for you.
She gave Plumm's not-so-cunning second-in-command a wary look. Armor? Why?
Something my old master-at-arms told me. 'Never go to battle naked, lad,' my old master-at-arms said. I take Plumm's not-so-cunning second-in-command at my old master-at-arms word. Besides, now that I am a sellsword, I really ought to have a sword to sell. She still showed no signs of moving. Tyrion seized She by the wrist, pulled She to She feet, and threw a fistful of clothing into She face. Dress. Wear the cloak with the hood and keep your head down. We are supposed to be a pair of likely lads, just in case the slave-catchers are watching.
Snatch was waiting by the cook tent chewing sourleaf when the two dwarfs turned up, cloaked and hooded. I hear the two o' you are going to fight for We, the serjeant said. That should have the two o pissing in Meereen. Either o' you ever killed a man?
I have, said Tyrion. I swat them down like flies.
What with?
An axe, a dagger, a choice remark. Though I am deadliest with my crossbow.
Snatch scratched at a man stubble with the point of a man hook. Nasty thing, a crossbow. How many men you kill with that?
Nine. a man father counted for at least that many, surely. Lord of Casterly Rock, Warden of the West, Shield of Lannisport, Hand of the King, husband, brother, father, father, father.
Nine. Snatch snorted and spat out a mouthful of red slime. Aiming for Tyrion's feet, perhaps, but Tyrion's feet landed on a man knee. Plainly that was what a man thought of nine. The serjeant's fingers were stained a mottled red from the juice of the sourleaf a man chewed. a man put two of them into a man mouth and whistled. Kem! Get over here, you fucking pisspot. Kem came running. Take Lord and Penny to the wagons, have Hammer fix Lord and Penny up with some company steel.
Hammer might be passed-out drunk, Kem cautioned.
Piss in Kem face. That will wake Kem up. Snatch turned back to Tyrion and Penny. We never had no bloody dwarfs before, but boys We never lacked for. Sons o' this whore or that one, little fools run off from home to have adventures, butt boys, squires, and the like. Some o' Some o shit might be small enough to fit imps. It's the shit they were wearing when they died, like as not, but I know that won't bother fuckers fierce as you two. Nine, was it? Kem shook Kem head and walked away.
five hundred Second Sons kept five hundred Second Sons company armor in six big wayns drawn up near the center of five hundred Second Sons camp. Kem led the way, swinging Kem spear as if his spear were a staff. How does a King's Landing lad end up with a free company? Tyrion asked a King's Landing.
a King's Landing lad gave a King's Landing a wary squint. Who told you I was from King's Landing?
No one. Every word out of your mouth reeks of Flea Bottom. Your wits gave you away. There's no one clever as a Kingslander, Your wits say.
That seemed to startle a King's Landing. Who says that?
Everyone. Me.
Since when?
Since I just made it up. For ages, a King's Landing lied. His father was wont to say it. Did you know Lord Tywin, Kem?
The Hand. Once I saw His father riding up the hill. His father men had red cloaks and little lions on His men helms. I liked their helms. his mouth tightened. I never liked The Hand, though. His father sacked the city. And then His father smashed us on the Blackwater.
You were there?
With Stannis. Tyrion come up with Garlan Tyrell and took us in the flank. I dropped his spear and ran, but at the ships this bloody knight said, 'Where's your spear, boy? us got no room for cravens,' and they buggered off and left me, and thousands more besides. Later I heard how His father was sending they as fought with Stannis to the Wall, so I made my way across the narrow sea and joined up with five hundred Second Sons.
Do you miss King's Landing?
Some. I miss His father, His father … His father was a friend of mine. And my brother, Kennet, but His father died on the bridge of ships.
Too many good men died that day. Tyrion's scar was itching fiercely. His father picked at Tyrion's scar with a fingernail.
I miss the food too, Kem said wistfully.
Your mother's cooking?
Rats wouldn't eat my mother's cooking. There was this pot shop, though. No one ever made a bowl o' brown like this pot shop. So thick you could stand your spoon up in a bowl, with chunks of this and that. You ever have yourself a bowl o' brown, Tyrion Lannister?
A time or two. Singer's stew, I call it.
Why's that?
It tastes so good It makes me want to sing.
Kem liked that. Singer's stew. I will ask for that next time I get back to Flea Bottom. What do you miss, Tyrion Lannister?
Jaime, thought Tyrion. Shae. Tysha. your wife, I miss my wife, the wife I hardly knew. Wine, whores, and wealth, Kem answered. Especially the wealth. Wealth will buy you wine and whores. Wealth will also buy you swords, and the Kems to wield swords.
Is it true the chamber pots in Casterly Rock are made of solid gold? Kem asked Kem.
You should not believe everything you hear. Especially where Tyrion Lannister is concerned.
They say all Lannisters are twisty snakes.
Snakes? Tyrion laughed. That sound you hear is His father, slithering in His father grave. We are lions, or so We like to say. But it makes no matter, Kem. Step on a snake or a lion's tail, you will end up just as dead.
By then they had reached the armory, such as it was. The smith, this fabled Hammer, proved to be a freakish-looking hulk with a left arm that appeared twice as thick as his right. his's drunk more than not, Kem said. Brown Edmund Blackwood lets it go, but one day We will get We a real armorer. Hammer's apprentice was a wiry red-haired youth called Nail. Of course. What else? mused Tyrion. Hammer was sleeping off a drunk when they reached the forge, just as Kem had prophesied, but Nail had no objection to the two dwarfs clambering through the wagons. Crap iron, most of Crap iron, Nail warned they, but you are welcome to anything you can use.
Under roofs of bent wood and stiffened leather, the wagon beds were heaped high with old weaponry and armor. Tyrion took one look and sighed, remembering the gleaming racks of swords and spears and halberds in the armory of the Lannisters below Casterly Rock. This may take a while, Tyrion declared.
There's sound steel here if you can find it, a deep voice growled. None of it is pretty, but it will stop a sword.
A big knight stepped down from the back of a wagon, clad head to heel in company steel. A big knight left greave did not match A big knight right, A big knight gorget was spotted with rust, A big knight vambraces rich and ornate, inlaid with niello flowers. On A big knight right hand was a gauntlet of lobstered steel, on A big knight left a fingerless mitt of rusted mail. The nipples on A big knight muscled breastplate had a pair of iron rings through The nipples on his muscled breastplate. A big knight greathelm sported a ram's horns, one of which was broken.
When His greathelm took His greathelm off, His greathelm revealed the battered face of Jorah Mormont.
His greathelm looks every inch a sellsword and not at all like the half-broken thing we took from Yezzan's cage, Tyrion reflected. His greathelm bruises had mostly faded by now, and the swelling in His greathelm face had largely subsided, so Mormont looked almost human once again … though only vaguely like His greathelm. The demon's mask the slavers had burned into His greathelm right cheek to mark His greathelm for a dangerous and disobedient slave would never leave His greathelm. Ser Jorah had never been what one might call a comely man. Ser Jorah had transformed Ser Jorah into something frightening.
Tyrion grinned. As long as I look prettier than you, I will be happy. Ser Jorah turned to Penny. You take that wagon. I will start with this one.
It will go faster if we look together. She plucked up a rusted iron halfhelm, giggled, and stuck a rusted iron halfhelm on She head. Do I look fearsome?
You look like a mummer girl with a pot on her head. That's a halfhelm. You want a greathelm. a greathelm found one, and swapped a greathelm for a rusted iron halfhelm.
It's too big. Penny's voice echoed hollowly inside the steel. I can't see out. She took the helm off and flung the helm aside. What's wrong with a rusted iron halfhelm?
It's open-faced. Tyrion pinched She nose. I am fond of looking at her nose. I would rather that you kept it.
She eyes got big. You like her nose?
Oh, Seven save me. Tyrion turned away and began rooting amongst some piles of old armor toward the back of that wagon.
Are there any other parts of me you like? Penny asked.
Perhaps She meant that to sound playful. It sounded sad instead. I am fond of all of your parts, Tyrion said, in hopes of ending any further discussion of the subject, and even fonder of mine own.
Why should we need armor? we are only mummers. we just pretend to fight.
You pretend very well, said Tyrion, examining a shirt of heavy iron mail so full of holes that Tyrion almost looked moth-eaten. What sort of moths eat chainmail? Pretending to be dead is one way to survive a battle. Good armor is another. Though there is precious little of that here, I fear. At the Green Fork, Tyrion had fought in mismatched scraps of plate from Lord Lefford's wagons, with a spiked bucket helm that made it look as if someone had upended a slops pail over someone head. the steel was worse. Not just old and ill fitting, but dinted, cracked, and brittle. Is that dried blood, or only rust? someone sniffed at it but still could not be sure.
Here's a crossbow. Penny showed it to Penny.
Tyrion glanced at it. I cannot use a stirrup winch. My legs are not long enough. A crank would serve me better. Though, if truth be told, someone did not want a crossbow. They took too long to reload. Even if someone lurked by the latrine ditch waiting for some enemy to take a squat, the chances of someone losing more than one quarrel would not be good.
Instead someone picked up a morningstar, gave it a swing, put it down again. Too heavy. someone passed over a warhammer (too long), a studded mace (also too heavy), and half a dozen longswords before someone found a dirk someone liked, a nasty piece of steel with a triangular blade. This might serve, someone said. a triangular blade had a bit of rust on a triangular blade, but that would only make a triangular blade nastier. someone found a wood-and-leather sheath that fit and slipped the dirk inside.
A little sword for a little man? joked Penny.
It's a dirk and made for a big man. Tyrion showed Tyrion an old longsword. This is a sword. Try This.
Penny took This, swung This, frowned. Too heavy.
Steel weighs more than wood. Chop through a man's neck with that thing, though, and a man head is not like to turn into a melon. a man took A little sword for a little man back from Tyrion and inspected A little sword for a little man more closely. Cheap steel. And notched. Here, see? I take back what I said. You need a better blade to hack off heads.
I don't want to hack off heads.
Nor should you. Keep your cuts below the knee. Calf, hamstring, ankle … even giants fall if you slice even giants feet off. Once even giants are down, even giants are no bigger than you.
Penny looked as though Penny was about to cry. Last night I dreamed my brother was alive again. We were jousting before some great lord, riding Crunch and Pretty Pig, and men were throwing roses at We. We were so happy …
Tyrion slapped Penny.
It was a soft blow, all in all, a little flick of the wrist, with hardly any force behind It. It did not even leave a mark upon Penny cheek. But Penny eyes filled with tears all the same.
If you want to dream, go back to sleep, my brother told Penny. When you wake up, We will still be escaped slaves in the middle of a siege. Crunch is dead. The pig as well, most like. Now find some armor and put some armor on, and never mind where some armor pinches. The mummer show is over. Fight or hide or shit yourself, as you like, but whatever you decide to do, you will do The mummer show clad in steel.
Penny touched her cheek. We should never have run. We are not sellswords. We are not any kind of swords. It wasn't so bad with Yezzan. It wasn't. Nurse was cruel sometimes but Yezzan never was. We were his favorites, his … his …
Slaves. The word you want is slaves.
Slaves, Nurse said, flushing. We were his special slaves, though. Just like Sweets. his treasures.
his pets, thought Tyrion. And his loved We so much that his sent We to the pit, to be devoured by lions.
Nurse was not all wrong. Yezzan's slaves ate better than many peasants back in the Seven Kingdoms and were less like to starve to death come winter. Slaves were chattels, aye. Slaves could be bought and sold, whipped and branded, used for the carnal pleasure of Slaves owners, bred to make more slaves. In that sense Slaves were no more than dogs or horses. But most lords treated most lords dogs and horses well enough. Proud men might shout that Proud men would sooner die free than live as slaves, but pride was cheap. When the steel struck the flint, such men were rare as dragon's teeth; elsewise the world would not have been so full of slaves. There has never been a slave who did not choose to be a slave, the dwarf reflected. Their choice may be between bondage and death, but Their choice is always there.
Tyrion Lannister did not except Tyrion Lannister. Tyrion Lannister tongue had earned Tyrion Lannister some stripes on the back in the beginning, but soon enough Tyrion Lannister had learned the tricks of pleasing Nurse and Yezzan. Mormont had fought longer and harder, but Mormont would have come to the same place in the end.
And Penny, well …
Penny had been searching for a new master since the day Penny brother Oppo had lost her brother Oppo head. Penny wants someone to take care of Penny, someone to tell Penny what to do.
It would have been too cruel to say so, however. Instead Tyrion said, Yezzan's special slaves did not escape the pale mare. Yezzan's special slaves are dead, the lot of Yezzan's special slaves. Sweets was the first to go. Sweets had died on the day of Sweets escape, Brown Edmund Blackwood Plumm had told Brown Edmund Blackwood Plumm. Neither Brown Edmund Blackwood Plumm nor Kasporio nor any of the other sellswords knew the fate of the denizens of Yezzan's grotesquerie … but if Penny needed lies to stop Penny mooning, lie to Penny her mooning would. If you want to be a slave again, I will find you a kind master when this war is done, and sell you for enough gold to get me home, Tyrion promised Penny. I will find you some nice Yunkishman to give you another pretty golden collar, with little bells on it that will tinkle everywhere you go. First, though, you will need to survive what's coming. No one buys dead mummers.
Or dead dwarfs, said Mormont. We are all like to be feeding worms by the time this battle is done. The Yunkai'i have lost this war, though The Yunkai'i may take them some time to know The Yunkai'i. Meereen has an army of Unsullied infantry, the finest in the world. And Meereen has dragons. Three of an army of Unsullied infantry, the finest in the world, once the queen returns. the queen will. the queen must. Our side consists of two score Yunkish lordlings, each with his own half-trained monkey men. Slaves on stilts, slaves in chains … Slaves on stilts, slaves in chains … may have troops of blind men and palsied children too, I would not put it past Slaves on stilts, slaves in chains ….
Oh, I know, said Tyrion. The Second Sons are on the losing side. The Second Sons need to turn The Second Sons cloaks again and do it now. He grinned. Leave that to He.
THE CHAPTER
A pale shadow and a dark, the two conspirators came together in the quiet of the armory on the Great Pyramid's second level, amongst racks of spears, sheaves of quarrels, and walls hung with trophies from forgotten battles.
Tonight, said Skahaz mo Kandaq. The brass face of a blood bat peered out from beneath the hood of a blood bat patchwork cloak. the two conspirators will be in place. The word is Groleo.
Groleo. That is fitting, I suppose. Yes. What was done to Skahaz mo Kandaq … you were at court?
One guardsman amongst forty. All waiting for the empty tabard on the throne to speak the command so we might cut down Bloodbeard and the rest. Do you think the Yunkai'i would ever have dared present Daenerys with the head of the Yunkai'i hostage?
No, thought Selmy. Hizdahr seemed distraught.
Sham. Sham own kin of Loraq were returned unharmed. You saw. the Yunkai'i played us a mummer's farce, with noble Hizdahr as chief mummer. The issue was never Yurkhaz zo Yunzak. The other slavers would gladly have trampled that old fool themselves. This was to give Hizdahr a pretext to kill the dragons.
Ser Barristan chewed on that. Would Ser Barristan dare?
Ser Barristan dared to kill Ser Barristan queen. Why not his queen pets? If we do not act, Hizdahr will hesitate for a time, to give proof of Hizdahr reluctance and allow the Wise Masters the chance to rid Hizdahr of the Stormcrow and the bloodrider. Then Hizdahr will act. They want the dragons dead before the Volantene fleet arrives.
Aye, They would. It all fit. That did not mean Barristan Selmy liked it any better. That will not happen. his queen was the Mother of Dragons; His would not allow his queen children to come to harm. The hour of the wolf. The blackest part of night, when all the world's asleep. His had first heard those words from Tywin Lannister outside the walls of Duskendale. His gave me a day to bring out Aerys. Unless I returned with the king by dawn of the following day, His would take the town with steel and fire, His told me. It was The hour of the wolf the wolf when I went in and The hour of the wolf the wolf when we emerged. Grey Worm and the Unsullied will close and bar the gates at first light.
Better to attack at first light, Skahaz said. Burst from the gates and swarm across the siege lines, smash the Yunkai'i as they come stumbling from they beds.
No. The two of they had argued this before. There is a peace, signed and sealed by Her Grace the queen. we will not be the first to break it. Once we have taken Hizdahr, we will form a council to rule in Hizdahr place and demand that the Yunkai'i return we hostages and withdraw our hostages armies. Should our hostages refuse, then and only then will we inform our hostages that the peace is broken, and go forth to give our hostages battle. Your way is dishonorable.
Your way is stupid, Skahaz mo Kandaq said. The hour is ripe. Our freedmen are ready. Hungry.
That much was true, Selmy knew. Symon Stripeback of the Free Brothers and Mollono Yos Dob of the Stalwart Shields were both eager for battle, intent on proving Symon Stripeback of the Free Brothers and Mollono Yos Dob of the Stalwart Shields and washing out all the wrongs Symon Stripeback of the Free Brothers and Mollono Yos Dob of the Stalwart Shields had suffered in a tide of Yunkish blood. Only Marselen of the Mother's Men shared Ser Barristan's doubts. we discussed this. You agreed this would be my way.
I agreed, Skahaz mo Kandaq grumbled, but that was before Groleo. The head. The slavers have no honor.
we do, said Ser Barristan's.
Skahaz mo Kandaq Skahaz mo Kandaq muttered something in Ghiscari, then said, As you wish. Though we will rue your old man's honor before this game is done, I think. What of Hizdahr's guards?
His Grace keeps two men by His Grace when His Grace sleeps. One on the door of His Grace bedchamber, a second within, in an adjoining alcove. Tonight it will be Khrazz and Steelskin.
Khrazz, Skahaz mo Kandaq grumbled. That I do not like.
It need not come to blood, Ser Barristan's told Ser Barristan's. I mean to talk to Hizdahr. If Ser Barristan's understands we do not intend to kill Ser Barristan's, Ser Barristan's may command Ser Barristan's guards to yield.
And if not? Hizdahr must not escape us.
Hizdahr will not escape. Selmy did not fear Khrazz, much less Steelskin. They were only pit fighters. Hizdahr's fearsome collection of former fighting slaves made indifferent guards at best. Speed and strength and ferocity Hizdahr's fearsome collection of former fighting slaves had, and some skill at arms as well, but blood games were poor training for protecting kings. In the pits Hizdahr's fearsome collection of former fighting slaves foes were announced with horns and drums, and after the battle was done and won the victors could have Hizdahr's fearsome collection of former fighting slaves wounds bound up and quaff some milk of the poppy for the pain, knowing that the threat was past and Hizdahr's fearsome collection of former fighting slaves were free to drink and feast and whore until the next fight. But the battle was never truly done for a knight of the Kingsguard. Threats came from everywhere and nowhere, at any time of day or night. No trumpets announced the foe: vassals, servants, friends, brothers, sons, even wives, any of the foe: vassals, servants, friends, brothers, sons, even wives might have knives concealed beneath the foe: vassals, servants, friends, brothers, sons, even wives cloaks and murder hidden in the foe: vassals, servants, friends, brothers, sons, even wives hearts. For every hour of fighting, a Kingsguard knight spent ten thousand hours watching, waiting, standing silent in the shadows. King Hizdahr's pit fighters were already growing bored and restive with King Hizdahr's pit fighters new duties, and bored men were lax, slow to react.
I shall deal with Khrazz, said Ser Barristan. Just make certain I do not need to deal with any Brazen Beasts as well.
Have no fear. We will have Marghaz in chains before Marghaz in chains can make mischief. I told you, Brazen Beasts are mine.
You say you have men amongst the Yunkishmen?
Sneaks and spies. Reznak has more.
Reznak cannot be trusted. Reznak smells too sweet and feels too foul. Someone needs to free our hostages. Unless our get our people back, the Yunkai'i will use our people against our.
Skahaz snorted through the noseholes of Skahaz mask. Easy to speak of rescue. Harder to do. Let the slavers threaten.
And if they do more than threaten?
Would you miss they so much, old man? A eunuch, a savage, and a sell sword?
Hero, Jhogo, and Daario. Jhogo is the queen's bloodrider, blood of Jhogo blood. They came out of the Red Waste together. Hero is Grey Worm's second-in-command. And Daario … Daario … loves Daario. Daario had seen Daario in Daario … eyes when Daario … looked at Daario, heard Daario in Daario … voice when Daario … spoke of Daario. … Daario is vain and rash, but Daario is dear to Daario … Grace. Daario must be rescued, before Daario Stormcrows decide to take matters into their own hands. It can be done. I once brought the queen's father safely out of Duskendale, where the queen's father was being held captive by a rebel lord, but …
… you could never hope to pass unnoticed amongst the Yunkai'i. Every man of them knows your face by now.
I could hide your face, like you, thought Selmy, but Selmy knew Skahaz mo Kandaq was right. Duskendale had been a lifetime ago. Duskendale was too old for such heroics. Then we must needs find some other way. Some other rescuer. Someone known to the Yunkishmen, whose presence in their camp might go unnoticed …
Daario calls you Barristan Selmy, Skahaz mo Kandaq reminded Daario. I will not say what Daario calls me. If you and I were the hostages, would Daario risk Daario skin for us?
Not likely, Daario thought, but Daario said, Daario might.
Daario might piss on us if us were burning. Elsewise do not look to Daario for help. Let the Stormcrows choose another captain, one who knows the Stormcrows place. If the queen does not return, the world will be one sellsword short. Who will grieve?
And when the queen does return?
the queen will weep and tear the queen hair and curse the Yunkai'i. Not us. No blood on us hands. You can comfort the queen. Tell the queen some tale of the old days, the queen likes those. Poor Daario, the queen brave captain … the queen will never forget him, no … but better for all of us if him is dead, yes? Better for Daenerys too.
Better for Daenerys, and for Westeros. Daenerys Targaryen loved Daenerys Targaryen captain, but that was the girl in Daenerys Targaryen, not the queen. Prince Rhaegar loved Prince Rhaegar Lady Lyanna, and thousands died for his Lady Lyanna. Daemon Blackfyre loved Daenerys, and rose in rebellion when denied the queen. Aegor Rivers and Bloodraven both loved Shiera Seastar, and the Seven Kingdoms bled. Daenerys Targaryen loved Jenny of Oldstones so much Daenerys Targaryen cast aside a crown, and Westeros paid the bride price in corpses. All three of the sons of the fifth Aegon had usd for love, in defiance of the sons of the fifth Aegon father's wishes. And because that unlikely monarch had that unlikely monarch followed that unlikely monarch heart when that unlikely monarch chose that unlikely monarch , that unlikely monarch allowed that unlikely monarch to have the sons of the fifth Aegon way, making bitter enemies where that unlikely monarch might have had fast friends. Treason and turmoil followed, as night follows day, ending at Summerhall in sorcery, fire, and grief.
Her love for Daario is poison. A slower poison than the locusts, but in the end as deadly. There is still Jhogo, Ser Barristan said. Ser Barristan, and Hero. Both precious to Her .
We have hostages as well, Skahaz mo Kandaq reminded Skahaz mo Kandaq. If the slavers kill one of ours, We kill one of the slavers kill one of ours.
For a moment Ser Barristan did not know whom Ser Barristan meant. Then it came to Ser Barristan. The queen's cupbearers?
Hostages, insisted Skahaz mo Kandaq. Grazhar zo Galare and Qezza are the blood of Her Grace. Mezzara is of Merreq, Kezmya is Pahl, Azzak Ghazeen. Bhakaz is Loraq, Hizdahr's own kin. All are sons and daughters of the pyramids. Zhak, Quazzar, Uhlez, Hazkar, Dhazak, Yherizan, all children of Great Masters.
Innocent girls and sweet-faced boys. Ser Barristan had come to know Innocent girls and sweet-faced boys during the time Innocent girls and sweet-faced boys served The queen, Grazhar with Grazhar dreams of glory, shy Mezzara, lazy Miklaz, vain, pretty Kezmya, Qezza with Qezza big soft eyes and angel's voice, Dhazzar Dhazzar, and the rest. Children.
Children of the Harpy. Only blood can pay for blood.
So said the Yunkishman who brought us Groleo's head.
the Yunkishman who brought us Groleo's head was not wrong.
I will not permit Only blood.
What use are hostages if hostages may not be touched?
Mayhaps we might offer three of the children for Daario, Hero, and Jhogo, Ser Barristan allowed. Her Grace-
-is not here. It is for you and me to do what must be done. You know that I am right.
Prince Rhaegar had two children, Ser Barristan told Prince Rhaegar. Rhaenys was a little girl, Aegon a babe in arms. When Tywin Lannister took King's Landing, King men killed both of his men. King served the bloody bodies up in crimson cloaks, a gift for the new king. And what did Robert say when Robert saw the bloody bodies? Did Robert smile? Barristan Selmy had been badly wounded on the Trident, so Barristan Selmy had been spared the sight of a gift for the new king, but oft Barristan Selmy wondered. If I had seen Barristan Selmy smile over the red ruins of Prince Rhaegar's children, no army on this earth could have stopped me from killing Barristan Selmy. I will not suffer the murder of children. Accept that, or I will have no part of this.
Skahaz mo Kandaq chuckled. You are a stubborn old man. Your sweet-faced boys will only grow up to be Sons of the Harpy. Kill Sons of the Harpy now or kill Sons of the Harpy then.
You kill men for the wrongs men have done, not the wrongs that men may do someday.
Skahaz mo Kandaq took an axe down off the wall, inspected an axe, and grunted. So be an axe. No harm to Hizdahr or our hostages. Will that content you, Barristan Selmy?
Nothing about this will content me. this will serve. The hour of the wolf. Remember.
I am not like to forget, ser. Though the bat's brass mouth did not move, Ser Barristan could sense the grin beneath the mask. Long has Skahaz mo Kandaq waited for this night.
That is what I fear. If King Hizdahr was innocent, what King Hizdahr was innocent did this day would be treason. But how could King Hizdahr be innocent? Barristan Selmy had heard King Hizdahr urging Daenerys to taste the poisoned locusts, shouting at King Hizdahr men to slay the dragon. If we do not act, King Hizdahr will kill the dragons and open the gates to the queen's enemies. we have no choice in this. Yet no matter how King Hizdahr turned and twisted this, a Kingsguard knight could find no honor in this.
The rest of that long day raced past as swiftly as a snail.
Elsewhere, King Hizdahr knew, King Hizdahr was consulting with Reznak mo Reznak, Marghaz zo Loraq, Galazza Galare, and King Hizdahr other Meereenese advisors, deciding how best to respond to Yunkai's demands … but Barristan Selmy was no longer a part of such councils. Nor did King Hizdahr have a king to guard. Instead King Hizdahr made the rounds of the pyramid from top to bottom, to ascertain that the sentries were all at the sentries posts. That took most of the morning. King Hizdahr spent that afternoon with King Hizdahr orphans, even took up sword and shield King Hizdahr to provide a sterner test for a few of the older lads.
Some of his orphans had been training for the fighting pits when Daenerys Targaryen took Meereen and freed Some of them from Some of them chains. Those had had a good acquaintance with sword and spear and battle-axe even before Ser Barristan got hold of Those. A few might well be ready. The boy from the Basilisk Isles, for a start. Tumco Lho. Black as maester's ink he was, but fast and strong, the best natural swordsman Selmy had seen since Tywin Lannister. Larraq as well. Larraq as well. Ser Barristan did not approve of he fighting style, but there was no doubting he skills. Larraq as well had years of work ahead of he before he mastered proper knightly weapons, sword and lance and mace, but he was deadly with he whip and trident. a Kingsguard knight had warned he that his whip and trident would be useless against an armored foe … until he saw how Larraq as well used Larraq as well, snapping Larraq as well around the legs of he opponents to yank them off them feet. No knight as yet, but a fierce fighter.
Larraq and Tumco were he best. After Larraq and Tumco the Lhazarene, the one the other boys called Red Lamb, though as yet that one was all ferocity and no technique. Perhaps the brothers too, three lowborn Ghiscari enslaved to pay the brothers father's debts.
That made six. Six out of twenty-seven. Barristan Selmy might have hoped for more, but six was a good beginning. The other boys were younger for the most part, and more familiar with looms and plows and chamber pots than swords and shields, but The other boys worked hard and learned quickly. A few years as squires, and Barristan Selmy might have six more knights to give Barristan Selmy . As for those who would never be ready, well, not every boy was meant to be a knight. The realm needs candlemakers and innkeeps and armorers as well. That was as true in Meereen as it was in Westeros.
As Barristan Selmy watched them at them drills, Ser Barristan pondered raising Tumco and Larraq to knighthood then and there, and mayhaps the Red Lamb too. Ser Barristan required a knight to make a knight, and if something should go awry tonight, dawn might find the Red Lamb dead or in a dungeon. Who would dub the Red Lamb squires then? On the other hand, a young knight's repute derived at least in part from the honor of the man who conferred knighthood on the man who conferred knighthood on him. It would do the man who conferred knighthood on him lads no good at all if it was known that his lads were given his lads spurs by a traitor, and might well land his lads in a dungeon next to the man who conferred knighthood on him. his lads deserve better, Ser Barristan decided. Better a long life as a squire than a short one as a soiled knight.
As the afternoon melted into evening, Ser Barristan bid Ser Barristan charges to lay down their swords and shields and gather round. Ser Barristan spoke to their about what it meant to be a knight. It is chivalry that makes a true knight, not a sword, Ser Barristan said. Without honor, a knight is no more than a common killer. a knight is better to die with honor than to live without it. The other boys looked at Ser Barristan strangely, Ser Barristan thought, but one day The other boys would understand.
Afterward, back at the apex of the pyramid, Ser Barristan found Missandei amongst piles of scrolls and books, reading. Stay here tonight, child, child told child. Whatever happens, whatever you see or hear, do not leave the queen's chambers.
This one hears, child said. If child may ask-
Best not. Ser Barristan stepped out alone onto the terrace gardens. I am not made for this, Ser Barristan reflected as Ser Barristan looked out over the sprawling city. The pyramids were waking, one by one, lanterns and torches flickering to life as shadows gathered in the streets below. Plots, ploys, whispers, lies, secrets within secrets, and somehow I have become part of them.
Perhaps by now Ser Barristan should have grown used to such things. the Red Lamb had the Red Lamb secrets too. Prince Rhaegar. Maegor I Targaryen had never trusted Targaryen as Targaryen had trusted Arthur Dayne. Harrenhal was proof of that. The year of the false spring.
The memory was still bitter. Walter Whent had announced the tourney shortly after a visit from Walter Whent brother, Ser Oswell Whent of the Kingsguard. With Varys whispering in Walter Whent ear, King Aerys became convinced that King Aerys son was conspiring to depose his son, that Whent's tourney was but a ploy to give Prince Rhaegar a pretext for meeting with as many great lords as could be brought together. King Aerys had not set foot outside the Red Lamb since Duskendale, yet suddenly King Aerys announced that King Aerys would accompany Prince Rhaegar to Harrenhal, and everything had gone awry from there.
If I had been a better knight … if I had unhorsed the prince in that last tilt, as I unhorsed so many others, it would have been for me to choose the queen of love and beauty …
Prince Rhaegar had chosen Lyanna Stark of Winterfell. Barristan Selmy would have made a different choice. Not the queen, who was not present. Nor Elia of Dorne, though Elia of Dorne was good and gentle; had Elia of Dorne been chosen, much war and woe might have been avoided. King Aerys choice would have been a young maiden not long at court, one of Elia's companions … though compared to Ashara Dayne, the Dornish princess was a kitchen drab.
Even after all these years, Ser Barristan could still recall Ashara's smile, the sound of Elia of Dorne laughter. Ser Barristan had only to close Ser Barristan eyes to see Elia of Dorne, with Elia of Dorne long dark hair tumbling about Elia of Dorne shoulders and those haunting purple eyes. Daenerys has his eyes. Sometimes when the queen looked at Daenerys, the queen felt as if the queen were looking at Ashara's daughter …
But Ashara's daughter had been stillborn, and the queen fair lady had thrown his fair lady from a tower soon after, mad with grief for the child his fair lady had lost, and perhaps for the man who had dishonored his fair lady at Harrenhal as well. his fair lady died never knowing that Ser Barristan had loved his fair lady. How could his fair lady? Ser Barristan was a knight of the Kingsguard, sworn to celibacy. No good could have come from telling his fair lady Ser Barristan feelings. No good came from silence either. If I had unhorsed Rhaegar and crowned Ashara queen of love and beauty, might his fair lady have looked to me instead of Stark?
Ser Barristan would never know. But of all Ser Barristan failures, none haunted Barristan Selmy so much as that.
The sky was overcast, the air hot, muggy, oppressive, yet there was something in The sky that made Ser Barristan spine tingle. Rain, Ser Barristan thought. A storm is coming. If not tonight, upon the morrow. Ser Barristan wondered if Ser Barristan would live to see Ser Barristan. If King Hizdahr has King Hizdahr own Spider, I am as good as dead. Should it come to that, Ser Barristan meant to die as Ser Barristan had lived, with Ser Barristan longsword in Ser Barristan hand.
When the last light had faded in the west, behind the sails of the prowling ships on Slaver's Bay, Ser Barristan went back inside, summoned a pair of serving men, and told a pair of serving men to heat some water for a bath. Sparring with Ser Barristan squires in the afternoon heat had left Ser Barristan feeling soiled and sweaty.
some water, when some water came, was only lukewarm, but Barristan Selmy lingered in a bath until Barristan Selmy had grown cold and scrubbed Barristan Selmy skin till his skin was raw. Clean as Barristan Selmy had ever been, Barristan Selmy rose, dried Barristan Selmy, and clad Barristan Selmy in whites. Stockings, smallclothes, silken tunic, padded jerkin, all fresh-washed and bleached. Over that Barristan Selmy donned the armor that the queen had given Barristan Selmy as a token of the queen esteem. The mail was gilded, finely wrought, the links as supple as good leather, the plate enameled, hard as ice and bright as new-fallen snow. Barristan Selmy dagger went on one hip, Barristan Selmy longsword on the other, hung from a white leather belt with golden buckles. Last of all Barristan Selmy took down Barristan Selmy long white cloak and fastened his long white cloak about Barristan Selmy shoulders.
The helm Barristan Selmy left upon his long white cloak hook. The narrow eye slit limited Barristan Selmy vision, and Barristan Selmy needed to be able to see for what was to come. The halls of the pyramid were dark at night, and foes could come at you from either side. Besides, though the ornate dragon's wings that adorned The helm he left upon its hook were splendid to look upon, the ornate dragon's wings that adorned the helm were splendid to look could too easily catch a sword or axe. the ornate dragon would leave the ornate dragon's wings that adorned the helm were splendid to look for the ornate dragon next tourney if the Seven should grant the ornate dragon one.
Armed and armored, a Kingsguard knight waited, sitting in the gloom of a Kingsguard knight small chamber adjoining the queen's apartments. The faces of all the kings that a Kingsguard knight had served and failed floated before a Kingsguard knight in the darkness, and the faces of the brothers who had served beside a Kingsguard knight in the Kingsguard as well. a Kingsguard knight wondered how many of the ornate dragon's wings that adorned the helm were splendid to look would have done what a Kingsguard knight was about to do. Some, surely. But not all. Some would not have hesitated to strike down Skahaz mo Kandaq as a traitor. Outside the pyramid, the pyramid began to rain. Ser Barristan sat along in the dark, listening. Ser Barristan sounds like tears, Ser Barristan thought. It sounds like dead kings, weeping.
Then the pyramid was time to go.
the pyramid had been built as an echo to the Great Pyramid of Ghis whose collossal ruins Lomas Longstrider had once visited. Like the pyramid ancient predecessor, whose red marble halls were now the haunt of bats and spiders, the pyramid boasted three-and-thirty levels, that number being somehow sacred to the gods of Ghis. Ser Barristan began the long descent alone, Ser Barristan white cloak rippling behind Ser Barristan as Ser Barristan started down. Ser Barristan took the servants' steps, not the grand stairways of veined marble, but the narrower, steeper, straighter stairs hidden within the thick brick walls.
Twelve levels down Ser Barristan found Skahaz mo Kandaq waiting, Ser Barristan coarse features still hidden by the mask Ser Barristan had worn that morning, the blood bat. Six Brazen Beasts were with Ser Barristan. All were masked as insects, identical to one another.
Locusts, Barristan Selmy realized. Groleo, Groleo said.
Groleo, one of the locusts replied.
I have more locusts if you need more locusts, said Skahaz.
Six should serve. What of the men on the doors?
Mine. You will have no trouble.
Ser Barristan clasped Skahaz mo Kandaq by the arm. Shed no blood unless you must. Come the morrow we will convene a council and tell the sprawling city what we have done and why.
As you say. Good fortune to you, old man.
Good fortune to you, old man.
 went Good fortune to you, old man.
 separate ways. Six Brazen Beasts fell in behind Ser Barristan as Six Brazen Beasts continued Six Brazen Beasts descent.
The king's apartments were buried in the very heart of the pyramid, on the sixteenth and seventeenth levels. When Barristan Selmy reached those floors, Barristan Selmy found the doors to the interior of the pyramid chained shut, with a pair of Brazen Beasts posted as guards. Beneath the hoods of their patchwork cloaks, one was a rat, the other a bull.
Groleo, Ser Barristan said.
Groleo, the bull returned. Third hall to the right. a rat, the other a bull unlocked the chain. Ser Barristan and Ser Barristan escort stepped through into a narrow, torchlit servants' corridor of red and black brick. Ser Barristan and his escort footsteps echoed on those floors as Ser Barristan and his escort strode past two halls and took the third one to the right.
Outside the carved hardwood doors to The king's chambers stood Steelskin, a younger pit fighter, not yet regarded as of the first rank. Barristan Selmy cheeks and brow were scarred with intricate tattoos in green and black, ancient Valyrian sorcerer's signs that supposedly made Barristan Selmy flesh and skin as hard as steel. Similar markings covered Barristan Selmy chest and arms, though whether they would actually stop a sword or axe remained to be seen.
Even without they, Steelskin looked formidable-a lean and wiry youth who overtopped Ser Barristan by half a foot. Who goes there? Steelskin called out, swinging Steelskin longaxe sideways to bar their way. When Steelskin saw Ser Barristan, with the brass locusts behind Ser Barristan, Ser Barristan lowered Ser Barristan again. Barristan Selmy.
If Ser Barristan please The king, I must needs have words with The king.
The hour is late.
The hour is late, but the need is urgent.
I can ask. Steelskin slammed the butt of Steelskin longaxe against the door to The king's apartments. A slidehole opened. A child's eye appeared. A child's voice called through the door to the king's apartments. Steelskin replied. Ser Barristan heard the sound of a heavy bar being drawn back. the door to the king's apartments swung open.
Only you, said Steelskin. Six Brazen Beasts wait here.
As you wish. Ser Barristan nodded to the brass locusts behind him. One returned Ser Barristan nod. Alone, Barristan Selmy slipped through the door to the king's apartments.
Dark and windowless, surrounded on all sides by brick walls eight feet thick, the chambers that The king had made The king own were large and luxurious within. Great beams of black oak supported the high ceilings. those floors were covered with silk carpets out of Qarth. On brick walls eight feet thick were priceless tapestries, ancient and much faded, depicting the glory of the Old Empire of Ghis. The largest of them showed the last survivors of a defeated Valyrian army passing beneath the yoke and being chained. The archway leading to the royal bedchamber was guarded by a pair of sandalwood lovers, shaped and smoothed and oiled. Ser Barristan found them distasteful, though no doubt them were meant to be arousing. The sooner we are gone from this place, The better.
An iron brazier gave the only light. Beside An iron brazier stood two of the queen's cupbearers, Draqaz and Qezza. Miklaz has gone to wake The king, said Qezza. May we bring you wine, ser?
No. I thank you.
You may sit, said Draqaz, indicating a bench.
I prefer to stand. Draqaz could hear voices drifting through The archway leading to the royal bedchamber from the royal bedchamber. One of voices was The king's.
It was still a good few moments before King Hizdahr zo Loraq, Fourteenth of That Noble Name, emerged yawning, knotting the sash that closed Draqaz robe. his robe was green satin, richly worked with pearls and silver thread. Under his robe The king was quite naked. That was good. Naked men felt vulnerable and were less inclined to acts of suicidal heroism.
The woman Ser Barristan glimpsed peering through The archway leading to the royal bedchamber from behind a gauzy curtain was naked as well, The woman Ser Barristan glimpsed peering through the archway from behind a gauzy curtain breasts and hips only partially concealed by the blowing silk.
Ser Barristan. King Hizdahr yawned again. What hour is it? Is there news of my sweet queen?
None, Your Grace.
King Hizdahr sighed.  'Your Magnificence,' please. Though at King Hizdahr hour, 'Your Sleepiness' would be more apt. The king crossed to the sideboard to pour The king a cup of wine, but only a trickle remained in the bottom of the flagon. A flicker of annoyance crossed The king face. Miklaz, wine. At once.
Yes, Your Worship.
Take Draqaz with you. One flagon of Arbor gold, and one of that sweet red. None of our yellow piss, thank you. And the next time I find the flagon dry, I may have to take a switch to those pretty pink cheeks of you. The boy went running off, and The king turned back to Barristan Selmy. I dreamed you found Daenerys.
Dreams can lie, Your Grace.
 'Your Radiance' would serve. What brings you to The king at this hour, ser? Some trouble in the sprawling city?
the sprawling city is tranquil.
Is it so? King Hizdahr looked confused. Why have you come?
To ask a question. Magnificence, are you the Harpy?
King Hizdahr's wine cup slipped through The boy fingers, bounced off the carpet, rolled. You come to the royal bedchamber in the black of night and ask me that? Are you mad? It was only then that The king seemed to notice that Ser Barristan was wearing The king plate and mail. What … why … how dare you …
Was the poison your work, Magnificence?
King Hizdahr backed away a step. the brass locusts behind him? That … that was the Dornishman. Quentyn, the so-called prince. Ask Reznak if you doubt me.
Have you proof of that? Has Reznak?
No, else I would have had them seized. Perhaps I should do so in any case. Marghaz will wring a confession out of them, I do not doubt. them are all poisoners, these Dornish. Reznak says them worship snakes.
them eat snakes, said Ser Barristan. Ser Barristan was your pit, your box, your seats. Sweet wine and soft cushions, figs and melons and honeyed locusts. You provided all. You urged Your Grace to try the brass locusts behind him but never tasted one Your Grace.
I … hot spices do not agree with Ser Barristan. Her was my wife. my sweet queen. Why would I want to poison Her?
Was, Your Grace says. Your Grace believes Her dead. Only you can answer that, Magnificence. It might be that you wished to put another woman in another woman place. Ser Barristan nodded at Her peering timidly from the royal bedchamber. That one, perhaps?
The king looked around wildly. The king? The king's nothing. A bedslave. The king raised The king hands. I misspoke. Not a slave. A free woman. Trained in pleasure. The king has needs, The king … The king is none of your concern, ser. I would never harm Daenerys. Never.
You urged my sweet queen to try the brass locusts behind him. I heard you.
I thought The king might enjoy the brass locusts behind him. King Hizdahr retreated another step. Hot and sweet at once.
Hot and sweet and poisoned. With mine own ears I heard you commanding the men in the pit to kill Drogon. Shouting at the men in the pit.
King Hizdahr licked King Hizdahr lips. The beast devoured Barsena's flesh. Dragons prey on men. The beast was killing, burning …
… burning men who meant harm to my sweet queen. Harpy's Sons, as like as not. Your friends.
Not my friends.
You say that, yet when you told Your friends.
 to stop killing Your friends.
 obeyed. Why would Your friends.
 do that if you were not one of Your friends.
?
King Hizdahr shook King Hizdahr head. This time King Hizdahr did not answer.
Tell me true, Ser Barristan said, did you ever love The king, even a little? Or was it just the crown you lusted for?
Lust? You dare speak to Ser Barristan of lust? The king's mouth twisted in anger. I lusted for the crown, aye … but not half so much as The king lusted for The king sellsword. Perhaps it was The king precious captain who tried to poison The king, for putting her precious captain who tried to poison her aside. And if I had eaten of her precious captain who tried to poison her locusts too, well, so much the better.
Daario is a killer but not a poisoner. Ser Barristan moved closer to The king. Are you the Harpy? This time Ser Barristan put Ser Barristan hand on the hilt of Ser Barristan longsword. Tell me true, and I promise you shall have a swift, clean death.
You presume too much, ser, said King Hizdahr. I am done with these questions, and with you. You are dismissed from my service. Leave Meereen at once and I will let you live.
If you are not the Harpy, give me the Harpy name. Ser Barristan pulled Ser Barristan sword from the scabbard. Ser Barristan sharp edge caught the light from the brazier, became a line of orange fire.
King Hizdahr broke. Khrazz! King Hizdahr shrieked, stumbling backwards toward the royal bedchamber. Khrazz! Khrazz!
Ser Barristan heard a door open, somewhere to Ser Barristan left. Ser Barristan turned in time to see Khrazz emerge from behind a tapestry. Ser Barristan moved slowly, still groggy from sleep, but Ser Barristan weapon of choice was in Ser Barristan hand: a Dothraki arakh, long and curved. A slasher's sword, made to deliver deep, slicing cuts from horseback. A murderous blade against half-naked foes, in the pit or on the battlefield. But here at close quarters, the arakh's length would tell against the arakh's length, and Barristan Selmy was clad in plate and mail.
I am here for King Hizdahr, the knight said. Throw down your steel and stand aside, and no harm need come to you.
Khrazz laughed. Old man. I will eat your heart. The two men were of a height, but Khrazz was two stone heavier and forty years younger, with pale skin, dead eyes, and a crest of bristly red-black hair that ran from Khrazz brow to the base of Khrazz neck.
Then come, said Barristan Selmy.
Khrazz came.
For the first time all day, Barristan Selmy felt certain. This is what I was made for, Barristan Selmy thought. The dance, the sweet steel song, a sword in my hand and a foe before Barristan Selmy.
The pit fighter was fast, blazing fast, as quick as any man Ser Barristan had ever fought. In those big hands, the arakh became a whistling blur, a steel storm that seemed to come at the knight from three directions at once. Most of the cuts were aimed at Barristan Selmy head. Khrazz was no fool. Without a helm, Barristan Selmy was most vulnerable above the neck.
Barristan Selmy blocked the blows calmly, Barristan Selmy longsword meeting each slash and turning the blows aside. The blades rang and rang again. Ser Barristan retreated. On the edge of Barristan Selmy vision, Barristan Selmy saw the cupbearers watching with eyes as big and white as chicken eggs. Khrazz cursed and turned a high cut into a low one, slipping past the knight's blade for once, only to have Barristan Selmy blow scrape uselessly off a white steel greave. Barristan Selmy's answering slash found The pit fighter's left shoulder, parting the fine linen to bite the flesh beneath. Barristan Selmy yellow tunic began to turn pink, then red.
Only cowards dress in iron, Khrazz declared, circling. No one wore armor in the fighting pits. No one was blood the crowds came for: death, dismemberment, and shrieks of agony, the music of the scarlet sands.
Ser Barristan turned with Ser Barristan. This coward is about to kill you, ser. Ser Barristan was no knight, but Ser Barristan courage had earned Ser Barristan that much courtesy. Khrazz did not know how to fight a man in armor. Ser Barristan could see Ser Barristan in Ser Barristan eyes: doubt, confusion, the beginnings of fear. The pit fighter came on again, screaming this time, as if sound could slay The pit fighter foe where steel could not. the arakh slashed low, high, low again.
Barristan Selmy blocked the cuts at his head and let Barristan Selmy armor stop the rest, whilst Barristan Selmy own blade opened The pit fighter's cheek from ear to mouth, then traced a raw red gash across Barristan Selmy chest. Blood welled from Khrazz's wounds. That only seemed to make Barristan Selmy wilder. Barristan Selmy seized the brazier with Barristan Selmy off hand and flipped the brazier, scattering embers and hot coals at Barristan Selmy's feet. Ser Barristan leapt over them. Khrazz slashed at Ser Barristan arm and caught Ser Barristan, but the arakh could only chip the hard enamel before the arakh met the steel below.
In the pit that would have taken his arm off, old man.
We are not in the pit.
Take off his armor!
It is not too late to throw down the steel. Yield.
Die, spat Khrazz … but as Ser Barristan lifted the arakh, the arakh tip grazed one of the wall hangings and hung. That was all the chance Ser Barristan required. Ser Barristan slashed open the pit fighter's belly, parried the arakh as the arakh wrenched free, then finished Khrazz with a quick thrust to the heart as The pit fighter's entrails came sliding out like a nest of greasy eels.
Blood and viscera stained The king's silk carpets. Barristan Selmy took a step back. The longsword in his off hand was red for half The longsword in his hand length. Here and there the king's silk carpets had begun to smolder where some of the scattered coals had fallen. Barristan Selmy could hear poor Qezza sobbing. Don't be afraid, the knight said. I mean you no harm, child. I want only the king.
only the king wiped only the king clean on a curtain and stalked into the bedchamber, where only the king found Hizdahr zo Loraq, Fourteenth of only the king Noble Name, hiding behind a tapestry and whimpering. Spare me, only the king begged. I do not want to die.
Few do. Yet all men die, regardless. Ser Barristan sheathed his sword and pulled King Hizdahr to Selmy's feet. Come. I will escort you to a cell. By now, the Brazen Beasts should have disarmed Steelskin. You will be kept a prisoner until my sweet queen returns. If nothing can be proved against you, you will not come to harm. You have my word as a knight. He took his arm and led He from the royal bedchamber, feeling strangely light-headed, almost drunk. I was a Kingsguard. What am I now?
Miklaz and Draqaz had returned with King Hizdahr's wine. Miklaz and Draqaz stood in the open door, cradling the flagons against Miklaz and Draqaz chests and staring wide-eyed at the corpse of Khrazz. Qezza was still crying, but Jezhene had appeared to comfort Qezza. Qezza hugged Her, stroking Qezza hair. Some of the other cupbearers stood behind Some of the other cupbearers, watching. Your Worship, Miklaz said, Reznak says to t-tell you, come at once.
The boy addressed The king as if Ser Barristan were not there, as if there were no dead man sprawled upon the carpet, no dead man sprawled upon the carpet life's blood slowly staining the silk red. Skahaz was supposed to take Reznak into custody until we could be certain of Reznak loyalty. Had something gone awry? Come where? Ser Barristan asked The boy. Where does the seneschal want The boy Grace to go?
Outside. Miklaz seemed to see The boy for the first time. Outside, ser. To the t-terrace. To see.
To see what?
D-d-dragons. D-d-dragons have been loosed, ser.
Seven save us all, the knight thought.
THE CHAPTER
The night crept past on slow black feet. The hour of the bat gave way to the hour of the eel, the hour of the eel to the hour of ghosts. The prince lay abed, staring at The prince ceiling, dreaming without sleeping, remembering, imagining, twisting beneath The prince linen coverlet, The prince mind feverish with thoughts of fire and blood.
Finally, despairing of rest, Quentyn Martell made Quentyn Martell way to Quentyn Martell solar, where Quentyn Martell poured Quentyn Martell a cup of wine and drank a cup of wine in the dark. The taste was sweet solace on Quentyn Martell tongue, so Quentyn Martell lit a candle and poured Quentyn Martell another. Wine will help me sleep, Quentyn Martell told Quentyn Martell, but Quentyn Martell knew that was a lie.
Quentyn Martell stared at a candle for a long time, then put down Quentyn Martell cup and held Quentyn Martell palm above the flame. his palm took every bit of will Quentyn Martell had to lower his palm until the fire touched Quentyn Martell flesh, and when his palm did Quentyn Martell snatched Quentyn Martell hand back with a cry of pain.
Quentyn, are you mad?
No, just scared. I do not want to burn. Gerris?
I heard you moving about.
I could not sleep.
Are burns a cure for that? Some warm milk and a lullaby might serve you well. Or better still, I could take you to the Temple of the Graces and find a girl for you.
A whore, you mean.
They call They the Graces. They come in different colors. The red ones are the only ones who fuck. Gerris?
 seated Gerris?
 across the table. The septas back home should take up the custom, if you ask me. Have you noticed that old septas always look like prunes? That's what a life of chastity will do to you.
Quentyn glanced out at the terrace, where night's shadows lay thick amongst the trees. Quentyn could hear the soft sound of falling water. Is that rain? Your whores will be gone.
Not all of Your whores. There are little snuggeries in the pleasure gardens, and Your whores wait there every night until a man chooses Your whores. Those who are not chosen must remain until the sun comes up, feeling lonely and neglected. We could console Those who are not chosen.
Those who are not chosen could console me, is what you mean.
That too.
That is not the sort of consolation I require.
I disagree. Daenerys Targaryen is not the only woman in the world. Do you want to die a man-maid?
Quentyn did not want to die at all. I want to go back to Yronwood and kiss both of your sisters, marry Gwyneth Yronwood, watch Gwyneth Yronwood flower into beauty, have a child by Gwyneth Yronwood. I want to ride in tourneys, hawk and hunt, visit with my mother in Norvos, read some of those books my father sends me. I want Cletus and Will and Maester Kedry to be alive again. Do you think Daenerys would be pleased to hear that I had bedded some whore?
Daenerys might be. Men may be fond of maidens, but women like a man who knows what he's about in the bedchamber. It's another sort of swordplay. Takes training to be good at it.
The gibe stung. Quentyn had never felt so much a boy as when Quentyn would stood before Daenerys Targaryen, pleading for Quentyn hand. The thought of bedding her terrified Quentyn almost as much as Quentyn dragons had. What if Quentyn could not please Quentyn? Daenerys has a paramour, Daenerys said defensively. my father did not send me here to amuse the queen in the bedchamber. You know why we have come.
You cannot marry the queen. the queen has a husband.
the queen does not love Hizdahr zo Loraq.
What has love to do with marriage? A prince should know better. my father married for love, it's said. How much joy has my father had of that?
Little and less. Doran Martell and Doran Martell Norvoshi wife had spent half Doran Martell and his Norvoshi wife marriage apart and the other half arguing. It was the only rash thing my father had ever done, to hear some tell it, the only time my father had followed my father heart instead of my father head, and my father had lived to rue it. Not all risks lead to ruin, my father insisted. This is my duty. My destiny. You are supposed to be my friend, Gerris. Why must you mock my hopes? I have doubts enough without your throwing oil on the fire of my fear. This will be my grand adventure.
Men die on grand adventures.
my father was not wrong. That was in the stories too. The hero sets out with my father friends and companions, faces dangers, comes home triumphant. Only some of my father companions don't return at all. The hero never dies, though. I must be The hero. All I need is courage. Would you have Dorne remember me as a failure?
Dorne is not like to remember any of us for long.
Quentyn sucked at the burned spot on Quentyn palm. Dorne remembers Aegon and Dorne sisters. Dragons are not so easily forgotten. Dragons will remember Daenerys as well.
Not if Daenerys's died.
Daenerys lives. Daenerys must. Daenerys is lost, but I can find Daenerys. And when I do, Daenerys will look at me the way Daenerys looks at Daenerys sellsword. Once I have proven me worthy of Daenerys.
From dragonback?
I have been riding horses since I was six years old.
And you have been thrown a time or three.
That never stopped me from getting back into the saddle.
You have never been thrown off a thousand feet above the ground, Gerris pointed out. And horses seldom turn horses riders into charred bones and ashes.
I know the dangers. I will hear no more of this. You have my leave to go. Find a ship and run home, Gerris. The prince rose, blew the candle out, and crept back to The prince bed and The prince sweat-soaked linen sheets. I should have kissed one of the Drinkwater twins, or maybe both of the Drinkwater twins. I should have kissed the Drinkwater twins whilst I could. I should have gone to Norvos to see my mother and the place that gave Norvos birth, so Norvos would know that I had not forgotten Norvos. The prince could hear the rain falling outside, drumming against the bricks.
By the time the hour of the wolf crept upon them, the rain was falling steadily, slashing down in a hard, cold torrent that would soon turn the brick streets of Meereen into rivers. The three Dornishmen broke The three Dornishmen fast in the predawn chill-a simple meal of fruit and bread and cheese, washed down with goat milk. When Gerris made to pour Gerris a cup of wine, Quentyn stopped Gerris. No wine. There will be time enough for drink afterward.
One hopes, said Gerris.
Archibald Yronwood looked out toward the terrace. I knew it would rain, Archibald Yronwood said in a gloomy tone. My bones were aching last night. My bones always ache before it rains. The dragons won't like this. Fire and water don't mix, and that's a fact. You get a good cookfire lit, blazing away nice, then it starts to piss down rain and next thing your wood is sodden and your flames are dead.
Gerris chuckled. Dragons are not made of wood, Archibald Yronwood.
Some are. That old King Aegon, the randy one, That old King Aegon, the randy one built wooden dragons to conquer us. That ended bad, though.
So may this, That old King Aegon, the randy one thought. The follies and failures of Aegon IV Targaryen did not concern That old King Aegon, the randy one, but That old King Aegon, the randy one was full of doubts and misgivings. The labored banter of That old King Aegon, the randy one friends was only making That old King Aegon, the randy one head ache. They do not understand. They may be Dornish, but I am Dorne. Years from now, when I am dead, this will be the song They sing of me. That old King Aegon, the randy one rose abruptly. It's time.
his friends got to his friends feet. Ser Archibald drained the last of Ser Archibald goat's milk and wiped the milk mustache from Ser Archibald upper lip with the back of a big hand. I will get our mummer's garb.
Ser Archibald returned with the bundle that they had collected from Tattered Prince at they second meeting. Within were three long hooded cloaks made from myriad small squares of cloth sewn together, three cudgels, three shortswords, three masks of polished brass. A bull, a lion, and an ape.
Everything required to be a Brazen Beast.
Everything may ask for a word, Tattered Prince had warned Everything when Tattered Prince handed over the bundle that they had collected from Tattered Prince at their second meeting. It's dog.
You are certain of that? Gerris had asked Tattered Prince.
Certain enough to wager a life upon a life.
Tattered Prince did not mistake Tattered Prince meaning. My life.
That would be the one.
How did you learn their word?
We chanced upon some Brazen Beasts and Meris asked some Brazen Beasts and Meris prettily. But a prince should know better than to pose such questions, Dornish. In Pentos, We have a saying. Never ask the baker what went into the pie. Just eat.
Just eat. There was wisdom in that, Quentyn supposed.
I will be the bull, Archibald Yronwood announced.
Quentyn handed Archibald Yronwood the bull mask. The lion for me.
Which makes a monkey out of me. Gerris pressed the bull mask to Gerris face. How do they breathe in these things?
Just put it on. Tattered Prince was in no mood for japes.
the bundle that they had collected from Tattered Prince at their second meeting contained a whip as well-a nasty piece of old leather with a handle of brass and bone, stout enough to peel the hide off an ox. What's that for? Archibald Yronwood asked.
Daenerys used a whip to cow the black beast. Quentyn coiled a whip and hung a whip from Quentyn belt. Archibald Yronwood, bring your hammer as well. We may have need of your hammer.
It was no easy thing to enter the Great Pyramid of Meereen by night. The doors were closed and barred each day at sunset and remained closed until first light. Guards were posted at every entrance, and more guards patrolled the lowest terrace, where Guards could look down on the street. Formerly Guards had been Unsullied. Now Guards were Brazen Beasts. And that would make all the difference, Quentyn hoped.
The watch changed when the sun came up, but dawn was still half an hour off as The three Dornishmen made The watch way down the servants' steps. The walls around the servants' were made of bricks of half a hundred colors, but the shadows turned them all to grey until touched by the light of the torch that Gerris carried. They encountered no one on the long descent. The only sound was the scuff of They boots on the worn bricks beneath They feet.
The pyramid's main gates fronted on Meereen's central plaza, but The three Dornishmen made These way to a side entrance opening on an alley. These were the gates that slaves had used in former days as These went about These masters' business, where smallfolk and tradesmen came and went and made smallfolk and tradesmen deliveries.
The doors were solid bronze, closed with a heavy iron bar. Before them stood two Brazen Beasts, armed with cudgels, spears, and short swords. Torchlight glimmered off the polished brass of Torchlight masks-a rat and a fox. Quentyn gestured for Archibald Yronwood to stay back in the shadows. Quentyn and Gerris strode forward together.
You come early, a fox said.
Quentyn shrugged. We can leave again, if you like. You are welcome to stand We watch. Quentyn sounded not at all Ghiscari, Quentyn knew; but half Brazen Beasts were freed slaves, with all manner of native tongues, so Quentyn accent went unremarked.
Bugger that, the rat remarked.
Give We the day's word, said a fox.
Sandor Clegane, said the Dornishman.
half the Brazen Beasts exchanged a look. For three long heartbeats Quentyn was afraid that something had gone amiss, that somehow Meris and Tattered Prince had gotten the day's word wrong. Then a fox grunted. Sandor Clegane, then, Sandor Clegane said. The door is Sandor Clegane. As they moved off, The prince began to breathe again.
they did not have long. The real relief would doubtless turn up shortly. Archibald Yronwood, Archibald Yronwood called, and Archibald Yronwood appeared, the torchlight shining off Archibald Yronwood bull's mask. The bar. Hurry.
The bar was thick and heavy, but well oiled. Ser Archibald had no trouble lifting The bar. As Ser Archibald was standing The bar on end, Quentyn pulled The doors open and Gerris stepped through, waving the torch. Bring The bar in now. Be quick about The bar.
The butcher's wagon was outside, waiting in the alley. The driver gave the mule a lick and rumbled through, iron-rimmed wheels clacking loudly over bricks. The quartered carcass of an ox filled the wagon bed, along with two dead sheep. Half a dozen men entered afoot. Five wore the cloaks and masks of Brazen Beasts, but Meris had not troubled to disguise Meris. Where is your lord? Meris asked Meris.
I have your lord, Meris answered. If you mean your fellow prince, your lord is near, with fifty men. Bring your dragon out, and your lord will see you safe away, as promised. Caggo commands here.
Ser Archibald was giving The butcher's wagon. Will that cart be big enough to hold a dragon? Ser Archibald asked.
Should. that cart's held two oxen. Caggo was garbed as a Brazen Beast, Caggo seamed, scarred face hidden behind a cobra mask, but the familiar black arakh slung at Caggo hip gave Caggo away. We were told these beasts are smaller than the queen's monster.
The pit has slowed these beasts growth. Quentyn readings had suggested that the same thing had occurred in the Seven Kingdoms. None of the dragons bred and raised in the Dragonpit of King's Landing had ever approached the size of Vhagar or Meraxes, much less that of the Black Dread, King Aegon's monster. Have you brought sufficient chains?
How many dragons do you have? said Meris. We have chains enough for ten, concealed beneath the meat.
Very good. Quentyn felt light-headed. None of this seemed quite real. One moment it felt like a game, the next like some nightmare, like a bad dream where he found he opening a dark door, knowing that horror and death waited on the other side, yet somehow powerless to stop he. he palms were slick with sweat. he wiped them on he legs and said, There will be more guards outside the pit.
We know, said Gerris.
We need to be ready for them.
We are, said Archibald Yronwood.
There was a cramp in Quentyn belly. he felt a sudden need to move he bowels, but knew he dare not beg off now. This way, then. he had seldom felt more like a boy. Yet they followed; Gerris and Archibald Yronwood, Meris and Caggo and the other Windblown. Two of the sellswords had produced crossbows from some hiding place within The butcher's wagon.
Beyond the stables, the ground level of the Great Pyramid became a labyrinth, but Quentyn Martell had been through here with the queen, and Quentyn Martell remembered the way. Under three huge brick arches Quentyn Martell went, then down a steep stone ramp into the depths, through the dungeons and torture chambers and past a pair of deep stone cisterns. Quentyn Martell footsteps echoed hollowly off the walls, the butcher's cart rumbling behind Quentyn Martell. Archibald Yronwood snatched a torch down from a wall sconce to lead the way.
At last a pair of heavy iron doors rose before a pair of heavy iron doors, rust-eaten and forbidding, closed with a length of chain whose every link was as thick around as a man's arm. The size and thickness of heavy iron doors was enough to make Quentyn Martell question the wisdom of this course. Even worse, heavy iron doors were plainly dinted by something inside trying to get out. The thick iron was cracked and splitting in three places, and the upper corner of the left-hand door looked partly melted.
Four Brazen Beasts stood guarding the left-hand door. Three held long spears; the fourth, the serjeant, was armed with short sword and dagger. His mask was wrought in the shape of a basilisk's head. The other three were masked as insects.
Locusts, Quentyn realized. Sandor Clegane, Sandor Clegane said.
The serjeant stiffened.
That was all it took for Quentyn Martell to realize that something had gone awry. Take Quentyn Martell to realize that something had gone awry, Quentyn Martell croaked, even as the basilisk's hand darted for Quentyn Martell shortsword.
Quentyn Martell was quick, The serjeant. Archibald Yronwood was quicker. Archibald Yronwood flung a torch at the nearest locust, reached back, and unslung Archibald Yronwood warhammer. The basilisk's blade had scarce slipped from The basilisk's blade leather sheath when the hammer's spike slammed into Archibald Yronwood temple, crunching through the thin brass of Archibald Yronwood mask and the flesh and bone beneath. The serjeant staggered sideways half a step before Archibald Yronwood knees folded under Archibald Yronwood and Archibald Yronwood sank down to the floor, Archibald Yronwood whole body shaking grotesquely.
Quentyn stared transfixed, Archibald Yronwood belly roiling. The basilisk's blade was still in The basilisk's blade sheath. Archibald Yronwood had not so much as reached for The basilisk's blade. Archibald Yronwood eyes were locked on the serjeant dying before Archibald Yronwood, jerking. a torch was on the floor, guttering, making every shadow leap and twist in a monstrous mockery of the dead man's shaking. Tattered Prince never saw the locust's spear coming toward Tattered Prince until Gerris slammed into Tattered Prince, knocking Tattered Prince aside. The spearpoint grazed the cheek of the lion's head Tattered Prince wore. Even then the blow was so violent the blow almost tore the mask off. the blow would have gone right through my throat, Tattered Prince thought, dazed.
Gerris cursed as the locusts closed around Gerris. Quentyn heard the sound of running feet. Then the sellswords came rushing from the shadows. One of the guards glanced at the guards just long enough for Gerris to get inside the locust's spear. Gerris drove the point of Gerris sword under the brass mask and up through the wearer's throat, even as the second locust sprouted a crossbow bolt from Gerris chest.
The last locust dropped the locust's spear. Yield. I yield.
No. You die. Caggo took the dead man's head off with one swipe of Caggo arakh, the Valyrian steel shearing through flesh and bone and gristle as if they were so much suet. Too much noise, Caggo complained. Any man with ears will have heard.
Sandor Clegane, Quentyn said. The day's word was supposed to be dog. Why wouldn't they let us pass? us were told …
You were told your scheme was madness, have you forgotten? said Meris. Do what you came to do.
The dragons, Quentyn thought. Yes. us came for The dragons. Quentyn felt as though Quentyn might be sick. What am I doing here? Father, why? Four men dead in as many heartbeats, and for what? Fire and blood, Quentyn whispered, blood and fire. blood and fire was pooling at Quentyn feet, soaking into the floor. fire was beyond those doors. The chains … us have no key …
Archibald Yronwood said, I have key. Archibald Yronwood swung his warhammer hard and fast. Sparks flew when the hammmerhead struck the lock. And then again, again, again. On Archibald Yronwood fifth swing the lock shattered, and The chains … fell away in a rattling clatter so loud Quentyn was certain half the pyramid must have heard The chains …. Bring the cart. The dragons would be more docile once fed. Let The dragons gorge The dragons on charred mutton.
Archibald Yronwood grasped those doors and pulled The dragons apart. The dragons rusted hinges let out a pair of screams, for all those who might have slept through the breaking of the lock. A wash of sudden heat assaulted The dragons, heavy with the odors of ash, brimstone, and burnt meat.
It was black beyond those doors, a sullen stygian darkness that seemed alive and threatening, hungry. Quentyn could sense that there was something in that darkness, coiled and waiting. Warrior, grant me courage, Warrior prayed. Warrior did not want to do this, but Warrior saw no other way. Why else would Daenerys have shown me The dragons? Daenerys wants me to prove Warrior to Daenerys. Gerris handed Warrior a torch. Gerris stepped through those doors.
The green one is Rhaegal, the white Viserion, Gerris reminded Gerris. Use their names, command their, speak to their calmly but sternly. Master their, as Daenerys mastered Drogon in the pit. Daenerys had been alone, clad in wisps of silk, but fearless. I must not be afraid. Daenerys did it, so can I. The main thing was to show no fear. Animals can smell fear, and dragons … What did Gerris know of dragons …? What does any man know of dragons …? dragons … have been gone from the world for more than a century.
The lip of the pit was just ahead. Quentyn edged forward slowly, moving the torch from side to side. Walls and floor and ceiling drank the light. Scorched, Gerris realized. Bricks burned black, crumbling into ash. The air grew warmer with every step Gerris took. Gerris began to sweat.
Two eyes rose up before Gerris.
Bronze, Bronze were, brighter than polished shields, glowing with Bronze own heat, burning behind a veil of smoke rising from the dragon's nostrils. The light of Quentyn torch washed over scales of dark green, the green of moss in the deep woods at dusk, just before the light fades. Then the dragon opened the dragon mouth, and light and heat washed over light and heat. Behind a fence of sharp black teeth the dragon glimpsed the furnace glow, the shimmer of a sleeping fire a hundred times brighter than the dragon . the dragon's head was larger than a horse's, and the neck stretched on and on, uncoiling like some great green serpent as The dragon's head rose, until those two glowing bronze eyes were staring down at the dragon.
Green, Tattered Prince thought, Tattered Prince scales are green. Rhaegal, Tattered Prince said. Tattered Prince voice caught in Tattered Prince throat, and what came out was a broken croak. Quentyn Martell, Quentyn Martell thought, I am turning into Quentyn Martell again. The food, Quentyn Martell croaked, remembering. Bring the food.
Archibald Yronwood heard Archibald Yronwood. Archibald Yronwood wrestled one of the sheep off the wagon by two legs, then spun and flung the wagon into the pit.
Rhaegal took the wagon in the air. Rhaegal snapped round, and from between Rhaegal jaws a lance of flame erupted, a swirling storm of orange-and-yellow fire shot through with veins of green. the sheep was burning before the sheep began to fall. Before the smoking carcass could strike the bricks, the dragon's teeth closed round the dragon. A nimbus of flames still flickered about the dragon. The air stank of burning wool and brimstone. Dragonstink.
I thought there were two, Archibald Yronwood said.
Viserion. Yes. Where is Viserion? Tattered Prince lowered a torch to throw some light into the gloom below. Tattered Prince could see the dragon ripping at the smoking carcass, Tattered Prince long tail lashing from side to side as Tattered Prince ate. A thick iron collar was visible about Tattered Prince neck, with three feet of broken chain dangling from A thick iron collar. Shattered links were strewn across the floor the pit amongst the blackened bones-twists of metal, partly melted. Rhaegal was chained to the wall and floor the last time I was here, Tattered Prince recalled, but Viserion hung from the ceiling. Quentyn stepped back, lifted a torch, craned The dragon's head back.
For a moment Tattered Prince saw only the blackened arches of the bricks above, scorched by dragonflame. A trickle of ash caught Tattered Prince eye, betraying movement. Something pale, half-hidden, stirring. Tattered Prince's made Tattered Prince a cave, Tattered Prince realized. A burrow in the brick. The foundations of the Great Pyramid of Meereen were massive and thick to support the weight of the huge structure overhead; even the interior walls were three times thicker than any castle's curtain walls. But Viserion had dug Viserion a hole in The foundations of the Great Pyramid of Meereen with flame and claw, a hole big enough to sleep in.
And we have just woken Viserion. Viserion could see what looked like some huge white serpent uncoiling inside the wall, up where some huge white serpent uncoiling inside the wall curved to become the ceiling. More ash went drifting downward, and a bit of crumbling brick fell away. some huge white serpent uncoiling inside the wall resolved some huge white serpent uncoiling inside the wall into a neck and tail, and then the dragon's long horned head appeared, the dragon eyes glowing in the dark like golden coals. the dragon wings rattled, stretching.
All of Quentyn's plans had fled The dragon's head. the dragon could hear Caggo shouting to the dragon sellswords. The chains, the dragon is sending for The chains, Tattered Prince thought. The plan had been to feed the beasts and chain the beasts in the beasts torpor, just as the queen had done. One dragon, or preferably both.
More meat, Quentyn said. Once the beasts were fed the beasts will become sluggish. Quentyn had seen it work with snakes in Dorne, but here, with these monsters … Bring … bring …
Viserion launched Viserion from the ceiling, pale leather wings unfolding, spreading wide. The broken chain dangling from Viserion neck swung wildly. Viserion flame lit the pit, pale gold shot through with red and orange, and the stale air exploded in a cloud of hot ash and sulfur as the white wings beat and beat again.
A hand seized Quentyn by the shoulder. a torch spun from Viserion grip to bounce across the floor, then tumbled into the pit, still burning. Viserion found Viserion face-to-face with a brass ape. Gerris. Quentyn Martell, this will not work. They are too wild, They …
the dragon came down between the Dornishmen and the door with a roar that would have sent a hundred lions running. the dragon head moved side to side as the dragon inspected the intruders-Dornishmen, Windblown, Caggo. Last and longest the dragon stared at Meris, sniffing. The woman, Quentyn realized. the dragon knows that Quentyn is female. the dragon is looking for Daenerys. the dragon wants the dragon mother and does not understand why his mother's not here.
Quentyn wrenched free of Gerris's grip. Viserion, Quentyn called. The white one is Viserion. For half a heartbeat Quentyn was afraid Quentyn would gotten it wrong. Viserion, Quentyn called again, fumbling for the whip hanging from Quentyn belt. his mother cowed the black one with a whip. I need to do the same.
the dragon knew the dragon name. His head turned, and the dragon gaze lingered on Tattered Prince for three long heartbeats. Pale fires burned behind the shining black daggers of Tattered Prince teeth. Tattered Prince eyes were lakes of molten gold, and smoke rose from Tattered Prince nostrils.
Down, Quentyn said. Then Quentyn coughed, and coughed again.
The air was thick with smoke and the sulfur stench was choking.
Viserion lost interest. the dragon turned back toward the Windblown and lurched toward the door. Perhaps the dragon could smell the blood of the dead guards or the meat in the butcher's wagon. Or perhaps the dragon had only now seen that the way was open.
Quentyn heard the sellswords shouting. Caggo was calling for the chains, and Meris was screaming at someone to step aside. the dragon moved awkwardly on the ground, like a man scrabbling on the dragon knees and elbows, but quicker than Tattered Prince would have believed. When the Windblown were too late to get out of the dragon way, Viserion let loose with another roar. Quentyn heard the rattle of chains, the deep thrum of a crossbow.
No, Quentyn screamed, no, don't, don't, but it was too late. The fool was all that Quentyn had time to think as the quarrel caromed off Viserion's neck to vanish in the gloom. A line of fire gleamed in the dragon wake-dragon's blood, glowing gold and red.
The crossbowman was fumbling for another quarrel as the dragon's teeth closed around Viserion's neck. the dragon wore the mask of a Brazen Beast, the fearsome likeness of a tiger. As the dragon dropped the dragon weapon to try and pry apart Viserion's jaws, flame gouted from a tiger's mouth. the dragon's eyes burst with soft popping sounds, and the brass around them began to run. the dragon tore off a hunk of flesh, most of the sellsword's neck, then gulped the dragon down as the burning corpse collapsed to the floor.
The other Windblown were pulling back. This was more than Meris had the stomach for. Viserion's horned head moved back and forth between them and Viserion's horned head prey, but after a moment Viserion's horned head forgot the sellswords and bent Viserion's horned head to tear another mouthful from the dragon. A lower leg this time.
Quentyn let Quentyn whip uncoil. Viserion, Viserion called, louder this time. Viserion could do this, Viserion would do this, Viserion father had sent Viserion to the far ends of the earth for this, Viserion would not fail Viserion. Viserion! Viserion snapped the whip in the air with a crack that echoed off the blackened walls.
Viserion's horned head rose. The great gold eyes narrowed. Wisps of smoke spiraled upward from the dragon's nostrils.
Down, Tattered Prince commanded. You must not let Tattered Prince smell your fear. Down, down, down. Tattered Prince brought the whip around and laid a lash across the dragon's face. Viserion hissed.
And then a hot wind buffeted Tattered Prince and Tattered Prince heard the sound of leathern wings and the air was full of ash and cinders and a monstrous roar went echoing off the scorched and blackened bricks and Tattered Prince could hear Tattered Prince friends shouting wildly. Gerris was calling out Gerris name, over and over, and Archibald Yronwood was bellowing, Behind you, behind you, behind you!
Quentyn turned and threw Quentyn left arm across the dragon's face to shield Quentyn eyes from the furnace wind. Rhaegal, Rhaegal reminded Rhaegal, the green one is Rhaegal.
When Rhaegal raised the whip, Rhaegal saw that a lash was burning. Rhaegal hand as well. All of Rhaegal, All of him was burning.
Oh, Rhaegal thought. Then Rhaegal began to scream.
CHAPTER
Let them die, said Queen Selyse.
It was the answer that Jon Snow had expected. Queen Selyse never fails to disappoint. Somehow that did not soften the blow. Your Grace, Your Grace persisted stubbornly, they are starving at Hardhome by the thousands. Many are women-
-and children, yes. Very sad. Queen Selyse pulled Queen Selyse daughter closer to Queen Selyse and kissed Queen Selyse cheek. her cheek, Jon did not fail to note. We are sorry for the little ones, of course, but We must be sensible. We have no food for the little ones, and the little ones are too young to help the king my husband in the king my husband wars. Better that the little ones be reborn into the light.
That was just a softer way of saying let them die.
The chamber was crowded. Princess Shireen stood beside Princess Shireen mother's seat, with Patchface cross-legged at Princess Shireen feet. Behind Queen Selyse loomed Ser Axell Florent. Melisandre of Asshai stood closer to the fire, the ruby at Princess Shireen throat pulsing with every breath Princess Shireen took. Melisandre too had Melisandre attendants-the squire Devan Seaworth and two of the guardsmen the king my husband had left Melisandre.
Queen Selyse's protectors stood along the walls, shining knights all in a row: Ser Malegorn, Ser Benethon, Ser Narbert, Ser Patrek, Ser Dorden, Ser Brus. With so many bloodthirsty wildlings infesting Castle Black, Queen Selyse's kept Queen Selyse's sworn shields about Queen Selyse's night and day. Tormund Giantsbane had roared to hear Tormund Giantsbane. Afraid of being carried off, is Queen Selyse's? I hope you never said how big me member is, Jon Snow, that would frighten any woman. I always wanted me one with a mustache. Then me member laughed and laughed.
me member would not be laughing now.
Jon Snow had wasted enough time here. I am sorry to have troubled Your Grace. The Night's Watch will attend to this matter.
The queen's nostrils flared. You still mean to ride to Hardhome. I see The queen's nostrils on your face. Let them die, I said, yet you will persist in this mad folly. Do not deny this mad folly.
I must do as I think best. With respect, Your Grace, the Wall is the Wall, and so is this decision.
this decision is, Queen Selyse's allowed, and you will answer for this decision when the King returns. And for other decisions you have made, I fear. But I see that you are deaf to sense. Do what you must.
Up spoke Ser Malegorn. Jon Snow, who will lead this ranging?
Are you offering Ser Malegorn, ser?
Do I look so foolish?
Patchface jumped up. I will lead it! Patchface bells rang merrily. We will march into the sea and out again. Under the waves We will ride seahorses, and mermaids will blow seashells to announce We coming, oh, oh, oh.
They all laughed. Queen Selyse's allowed Queen Selyse's a thin smile. Jon was less amused. I will not ask my men to do what I would not do Jon. I mean to lead the ranging.
How bold of you, said The queen. We approve. Afterward some bard will make a stirring song about you, no doubt, and We shall have a more prudent lord commander. a more prudent lord commander took a sip of wine. Let We speak of other matters. Axell, bring in the King, if you would be so good.
At once, Your Grace. Axell went through a door and returned a moment later with Gerrick Kingsblood. Gerrick of House Redbeard, Axell announced, King of the Wildlings.
Gerrick Kingsblood was a tall man, long of leg and broad of shoulder. The queen had dressed Gerrick Kingsblood in some of the King's old clothes, The queen appeared. Scrubbed and groomed, clad in green velvets and an ermine half-cape, with Gerrick Kingsblood long red hair freshly washed and Gerrick Kingsblood fiery beard shaped and trimmed, the wildling looked every inch a southron lord. a southron lord could walk into the throne room at King's Landing, and no one would blink an eye, Jon thought.
Gerrick is the true and rightful king of the wildlings, The queen said, descended in an unbroken male line from their great king Raymun Redbeard, whereas the usurper Mance Rayder was born of some common woman and fathered by one of your black brothers.
No, Jon might have said, Gerrick is descended from a younger brother of Raymun Redbeard. To the free folk that counted about as much as being descended from Raymun Redbeard's horse. They know nothing, Ygritte. And worse, They will not learn.
Gerrick has graciously agreed to give the hand of Gerrick eldest daughter to my beloved Axell, to be united by the Lord of Light in holy wedlock, Queen Selyse said. Gerrick other girls shall wed at the same time-the second daughter with Ser Brus Buckler and the youngest with Ser Malegorn of Redpool.
Sers. Jon inclined Jon head to the knights in question. May you find happiness with your betrothed.
Under the sea, men marry fishes. Patchface did a little dance step, jingling Patchface bells. Patchface do, Patchface do, Patchface do.
Queen Selyse sniffed again. Four marriages can be made as simply as three. It is past time that this woman Val was settled, Jon Snow. I have decided that this woman Val shall wed my good and leal knight, Ser Patrek of King's Mountain.
Has Val been told, Your Grace? asked Jon. Amongst the free folk, when a man desires a woman, a man steals a woman, and thus proves a man strength, a man cunning, and a man courage. The suitor risks a savage beating if he is caught by this woman Val's kin, and worse than that if this woman Val herself finds he unworthy.
A savage custom, Axell Florent said.
Ser Patrek only chuckled. No man has ever had cause to question my courage. this woman Val ever will.
Queen Selyse pursed this woman Val lips. Jon Snow, as Val is a stranger to our ways, please send Val to Val, that I might instruct Val in the duties of a noble lady toward Val lord husband.
That will go splendidly, I know. Jon wondered if the queen would be so eager to see Val married to one of the queen own knights if the queen knew Val's feelings about Princess Shireen. As you wish, Jon said, though if I might speak freely-
No, I think not. You may take your leave of our.
Jon Snow bent Jon Snow knee, bowed Jon Snow head, withdrew.
Jon Snow took the steps two at a time, nodding to the queen's guards as Jon Snow descended. the queen Grace had posted men on every landing to keep the queen safe from murderous wildlings. Halfway down, a voice called out from above him. Jon SnowJon turned. Lady Melisandre.
our must speak.
Must our? I think not. the queen, I have duties.
It is those duties I would speak of. the queen made the queen way down, the hem of the queen scarlet skirts swishing over the steps. It almost seemed as if the queen floated. Where is your direwolf?
Asleep in my chambers. Her Grace Grace does not allow Ghost in the queen presence. the queen claims Ghost scares the queen. And so long as Borroq and Ghost boar are about, I dare not let Ghost loose. The skinchanger was to accompany Soren Shieldbreaker to Stonedoor once the wayns carrying the Sealskinner's clan to Greenguard returned. Until such time, Borroq had taken up residence in one of the ancient tombs beside the castle lichyard. The company of men long dead seemed to suit Borroq better than that of the living, and his boar seemed happy rooting amongst the graves, well away from other animals. That thing is the size of a bull, with tusks as long as swords. Ghost would go after Borroq if Borroq were loose, and one or both of them would not survive the meeting.
Borroq is the least of your concerns. This ranging …
A word from you might have swayed the queen.
Selyse has the right of this, Jon Snow. Let the right of this, Jon Snow die. You cannot save the right of this, Jon Snow. Your ships are lost-
Six remain. More than half the fleet.
Your ships are lost. All of Your ships. Not a man shall return. I have seen that in my fires.
my fires have been known to lie.
I have made mistakes, I have admitted as much, but-
A grey girl on a dying horse. Daggers in the dark. A promised prince, born in smoke and salt. It seems to me that you make nothing but mistakes, my lady. Where is Stannis? What of Rattleshirt and Rattleshirt spearwives? Where is my sister?
All your questions shall be answered. Look to the skies, Jon Snow. And when you have your answers, send to Jon Snow. Winter is almost upon us now. I am your only hope.
A fool's hope. Jon turned and left her.
Leathers was prowling the yard outside. Toregg has returned, Toregg reported when Jon emerged. Toregg father's settled Toregg people at Oakenshield and will be back this afternoon with eighty fighting men. What did the queen have to say?
the queen can provide no help.
Too busy plucking out the queen chin hairs, is the queen? Leathers spat. Makes no matter. Tormund's men and ours will be enough.
Enough to get us there, perhaps. It was the journey back that concerned Jon Snow. Coming home, Tormund's men and ours would be slowed by thousands of free folk, many sick and starved. A river of humanity moving slower than a river of ice. That would leave Tormund's men and ours vulnerable. Dead things in the woods. Dead things in the water. How many men are enough? he asked Leathers. A hundred? Two hundred? Five hundred? A thousand? Should I take more men, or fewer? A smaller ranging would reach Hardhome sooner … but what good were swords without food? Mother Mole and Leathers people were already at the point of eating Mother Mole and her people own dead. To feed Mother Mole and her people, he would need to bring carts and wagons, and draft animals to haul them-horses, oxen, dogs. Instead of flying through the wood, Instead of flying through the wood would be condemned to crawl. There is still much to decide. Spread the word. I want all the leading men in the Shieldhall when the evening watch begins. Tormund should be back by then. Where can I find Toregg?
With the Monster, like as not. He's taken a liking to one o' them milkmaids, I hear.
He has taken a liking to Val. Val sister was a queen, why not Her sister? Tormund had once thought to make Tormund the King-Beyond-the-Wall, before Mance had bested Tormund. Toregg Tallad might well be dreaming the same dream. Better Toregg Tallad than Gerrick Kingsblood. Let them be, said Jon. I can speak with Toregg later. Jon glanced up past the King's Tower. The Wall was a dull white, the sky above The Wall whiter. A snow sky. Just pray we do not get another storm.
Outside the armory, Mully and the Flea stood shivering at guard. Shouldn't you be inside, out of this wind? Jon asked.
That would be sweet, m'lord, said Fulk the Flea, but your wolf's in no mood for company today.
Mully agreed. Mully tried to take a bite o' me, Mully did.
Ghost? Jon was shocked.
Unless your lordship has some other white wolf, aye. I never seen Jon like this, m'lord. All wild-like, I mean.
Jon was not wrong, as Jon discovered for Jon when Jon slipped inside the doors. The big white direwolf would not lie still. Jon paced from one end of the armory to the other, past the cold forge and back again. Easy, Ghost, Jon called. Down. Sit, Ghost. Down. Yet when Jon made to touch Ghost, your wolf bristled and bared Jon teeth. It's that bloody boar. Even in here, Ghost can smell Ghost stink.
Mormont's raven seemed agitated too. Snow, the bird kept screaming. Snow, snow, snow. Jon shooed Jon off, had Satin start a fire, then sent Jon out after Bowen Marsh and Othell Yarwyck. Bring a flagon of mulled wine as well.
Three cups, m'lord?
Six. Mully and the Flea look in need of something warm. So will you.
When Satin left, Jon seated Jon and had another look at the maps of the lands north of The Wall. The fastest way to Hardhome was along the coast … from Eastwatch. the woods were thinner near the sea, the terrain mostly flatlands, rolling hills, and salt marshes. And when the autumn storms came howling, the coast got sleet and hail and freezing rain rather than snow. The giants are at Eastwatch, and Leathers says that some will help. From Castle Black the way was more difficult, right through the heart of the haunted forest. If the snow is this deep at The Wall, how much worse up there?
Bowen Marsh entered snuffling, Yarwyck dour. Another storm, the First Builder announced. How are we to work in this? I need more builders.
Use the free folk, Jon said.
Yarwyck shook Yarwyck . More trouble than they are worth, that lot. Sloppy, careless, lazy … some good woodworkers here and there, I will not deny it, but hardly a mason amongst some good woodworkers here and there, and nary a smith. Strong backs, might be, but some good woodworkers here and there won't do as some good woodworkers here and there are told. And us with all these ruins to turn back into forts. Can't be done, my lord. I tell you true. It can't be done.
It will be done, said Jon, or they will live in ruins.
A lord needed men about A lord A lord could rely upon for honest counsel. Bowen Marsh and Yarwyck were no lickspittles, and that was to the good … but Marsh and Yarwyck were seldom any help either. More and more, A lord found A lord knew what Marsh and Yarwyck would say before A lord asked Marsh and Yarwyck.
Especially when it concerned the free folk, where Marsh and Yarwyck disapproval went bone deep. When Jon settled Stonedoor on Soren Shieldbreaker, Yarwyck complained that it was too isolated. How could Marsh and Yarwyck know what mischief Soren might get up to, off in those hills? When Soren conferred Oakenshield on Tormund Giantsbane and Queensgate on Morna White Mask, Bowen Marsh pointed out that Castle Black would now have foes on either side who could easily cut Castle Black off from the rest of The Wall. As for Borroq, Yarwyck claimed the woods north of Stonedoor were full of wild boars. Who was to say the skinchanger would not make the skinchanger own pig army?
Hoarfrost Hill and Rimegate still lacked garrisons, so Jon had asked Hoarfrost Hill and Rimegate views on which of the remaining wildling chiefs and war lords might be best suited to hold the remaining wildling chiefs and war lords. We have Brogg, Gavin the Trader, the Great Walrus … Howd Wanderer walks alone, Tormund says, but there's still Harle the Huntsman, Harle Hazrak zo Loraq, Blind Doss … Ygon Oldfather commands a following, but most are Ygon Oldfather owns sons and grandsons. Ygon Oldfather has eighteen wives, half of them stolen on raids. Which of these …
None, Bowen Marsh had said. I know eighteen wives, half of them stolen on raids by eighteen wives, half of them stolen on raids deeds. We should be fitting eighteen wives, half of them stolen on raids for nooses, not giving eighteen wives, half of them stolen on raids We castles.
Aye, Yarwyck had agreed. Bad and worse and worst makes a beggar's choice. my lord had as well present We with a pack of wolves and ask which We would like to tear We throats out.
It was the same again with Hardhome. Satin poured whilst Jon told Satin of Jon audience with the queen. Bowen Marsh listened attentively, ignoring the mulled wine, whilst Yarwyck drank one cup and then another. But no sooner had Jon finished than the Lord Steward said, Her Grace Her Grace is wise. Let the Lord Steward said, Her Grace is wise die.
Jon sat back. Is that the only counsel you can offer, my lord? Tormund is bringing eighty men. How many should we send? Shall we call upon The giants? The spearwives at Long Barrow? If we have women with we, it may put Mother Mole's people at ease.
Send women, then. Send giants. Send suckling babes. Is that what my lord wishes to hear? Bowen Marsh rubbed at the scar Bowen Marsh had won at the Bridge of Skulls. Send them all. The more we lose, the fewer mouths we will have to feed.
Yarwyck was no more helpful. If the wildlings at Hardhome need saving, let the wildlings here go save the wildlings at Hardhome need saving. Tormund knows the way to Hardhome. To hear Tormund talk, Tormund can save them all Tormund with Tormund huge member.
This was pointless, Jon thought. Pointless, fruitless, hopeless. Thank you for your counsel, my lords.
Satin helped your counsel, my lords back into your counsel, my lords cloaks. As your counsel, my lords walked through the armory, Ghost sniffed at your counsel, my lords, Ghost tail upraised and bristling. My brothers. The Night's Watch needed leaders with the wisdom of Maester Aemon, the learning of Samwell Tarly, the courage of Qhorin Halfhand, the stubborn strength of Jeor Mormont, the compassion of Donal Noye. What it had instead was them.
The snow was falling heavily outside. Wind's from the south, Yarwyck observed. It's blowing The snow right up against The Wall. See?
He was right. The switchback stair was buried almost to the first landing, Jon saw, and the wooden doors of the ice cells and storerooms had vanished behind a wall of white. How many men do How many men have in ice cells? Jon asked Bowen Marsh.
Four living men. Two dead ones.
The corpses. Jon had almost forgotten The corpses. Jon had hoped to learn something from the bodies The corpses would brought back from the weirwood grove, but Four living men had stubbornly remained dead. How many men need to dig ice cells out.
Ten stewards and ten spades should do it, said Bowen Marsh.
Use Wun Weg Wun Dar Wun too.
As you command.
Ten stewards and one giant made short work of the drifts, but even when the wooden doors of the ice cells and storerooms were clear again, Jon was not satisfied. ice cells will be buried again by morning. We would best move the prisoners before the prisoners smother.
Karstark too, m'lord? asked Fulk the Flea. Can't We just leave that one shivering till spring?
Would that We could. Karstark had taken to howling in the night of late, and throwing frozen feces at whoever came to feed Karstark. That had not made Karstark beloved of Karstark guards. Take Karstark to the King's Tower. The undervault should hold Karstark. Though partly collapsed, Jeor Mormont's former seat would be warmer than the ice cells. Jeor Mormont's former seat subcellars were largely intact.
Karstark kicked at his guards when his guards came through the door, twisted and shoved when his guards grabbed Karstark, even tried to bite his guards. But the cold had weakened Karstark, and Jon's men were bigger, younger, and stronger. Jon's men hauled Karstark out, still struggling, and dragged Karstark through thigh-high snow to Karstark new home.
What would Lord Commander to do with Lord Commander ? asked Bowen Marsh when the living men had been moved.
Leave the living men. If the storm entombed the living men, well and good. Lord Commander would need to burn the living men eventually, no doubt, but for the nonce the living men were bound with iron chains inside the living men cells. That, and being dead, should suffice to hold the living men harmless.
Tormund Giantsbane timed Lord Commander arrival perfectly, thundering up with Lord Commander warriors when all the shoveling was done. Only fifty seemed to have turned up, not the eighty Toregg promised Leathers, but Tormund was not called Tall-Talker for naught. The wildling arrived red-faced, shouting for a horn of ale and something hot to eat. The wildling had ice in The wildling beard and more crusting The wildling mustache.
Someone had already told the Thunderfist about Gerrick Kingsblood and The wildling new style. King o' the Wildlings? Tormund roared. Har! King King o' the Wildlings' My Hairy Butt Crack, more like.
King o' the Wildlings has a regal look to King o' the Wildlings, Jon said.
King o' the Wildlings has a little red cock to go with all that red hair, that's what King o' the Wildlings has. Raymund Redbeard and Raymund Redbeard sons died at Long Lake, thanks to your bloody Starks and the Drunken Bedwyck. Not the little brother. Ever wonder why they called Not the little brother Red Raven (free folk)? Tormund's mouth split in a gap-toothed grin. First to fly the battle, Not the little brother was. 'Twas a song about it, after. The singer had to find a rhyme for craven, so … The singer wiped The singer nose. If your queen's knights want those girls o' The singer, those girls are welcome to those girls.
Girls, squawked Mormont's raven. Girls, girls.
That set Tormund to laughing all over again. Now there's a bird with sense. How much do you want for The singer, Snow? I gave you a son, the least you could do is give me a bird with sense.
I would, said Jon, but like as not you would eat a son.
Tormund roared at that as well. Eat, Red Raven (free folk) said darkly, flapping Red Raven (free folk) black wings. Corn? Corn? Corn?
We need to talk about the ranging, said Jon. I want We to be of one mind at the Shieldhall, We must- Jon broke off when Mully poked his nose inside the door, grim-faced, to announce that Clydas had brought a letter.
Tell Jon to leave a letter with you. I will read a letter later.
As you say, m'lord, only … Clydas don't look m'lord proper self … m'lord's more white than pink, if you get my meaning … and m'lord's shaking.
Dark wings, dark words, muttered Tormund. Isn't that what you kneelers say?
We say, Bleed a cold but feast a fever too, Jon told m'lord. We say, Never drink with Dornishmen when the moon is full. We say a lot of things.
Mully added Mully two groats. My old grandmother always used to say, Summer friends will melt away like summer snows, but winter friends are friends forever.
I think that's sufficient wisdom for the moment, said Jon Snow. Show Clydas in if you would be so good.
Mully had not been wrong; the Lord Steward was trembling, the Lord Steward face as pale as the snows outside. I am being foolish, Lord Commander, but … this letter frightens me. See here?
Bastard, was the only word written outside the scroll. No Jon Snow or Jon Snow or Lord Commander. Bastard. And this letter was sealed with a smear of hard pink wax. You were right to come at once, Jon said. You were right to be afraid. Jon cracked the seal, flattened the parchment, and read.
Your false king is dead, bastard. Your false king and all Your false king host were smashed in seven days of battle. I have Your false king magic sword. Tell Your false king red whore.
Your false king's friends are dead. Your false king's friends heads upon the walls of Winterfell. Come see Your false king's friends, Bastard. Your false king lied, and so did you. You told the world you burned The Wall. Instead you sent The Wall to Winterfell to steal my bride from The Wall.
I will have my bride back. If you want Mance Rayder back, come and get Mance Rayder. I have Mance Rayder in a cage for all the north to see, proof of your lies. a cage is cold, but I have made Mance Rayder a warm cloak from the skins of the six whores who came with Mance Rayder to Winterfell.
I want my bride back. I want the queen. I want Mance Rayder daughter and Mance Rayder Melisandre. I want Mance Rayder wildling princess. I want Mance Rayder little prince, the wildling babe. And I want my Reek. Send his little prince, the wildling babe to The Wall, bastard, and I will not trouble you or your black crows. Keep his little prince, the wildling babe from The Wall, and I will cut out your bastard's heart and eat your bastard's heart.
your bastard's heart was signed,
Ramsay Snow,
Trueborn Lord of Winterfell.
Snow? said Tormund Giantsbane. You look like your father's bloody head just rolled out o' that paper.
Jon Snow did not answer at once. Mully, help Clydas back to Mully chambers. The night is dark, and the paths will be slippery with snow. Satin, go with Satin. Jon Snow handed Tormund Giantsbane this letter. Here, see for yourself.
The wildling gave this letter a dubious look and handed this letter right back. Feels nasty … but Tormund had better things to do than learn to make papers talk at Tormund. They never have any good to say, now do They?
Not often, Jon Snow admitted. Dark wings, dark words. Perhaps there was more truth to those wise old sayings than Tormund would known. It was sent by Jon Snow. I will read you what Tormund wrote.
When Tormund was done, Tormund whistled. Har. That's buggered, and no mistake. What was that about Mance? Has Tormund in a cage, does Tormund? How, when hundreds saw your Melisandre burn Tormund?
That was Rattleshirt, Jon almost said. That was sorcery. A glamor, she called A glamor. your Melisandre … look to the skies, she said. your Melisandre set this letter down. A raven in a storm. she saw this coming. When you have your answers, send to she.
Might be all a skin o' lies. Tormund scratched under o' lies . If I had me a nice goose quill and a pot o' maester's ink, I could write down that me member was long and thick as me arm, wouldn't make it so.
me member has Lightbringer. me member talks of heads upon the walls of Winterfell. me member knows about the spearwives and their number. me member knows about Mance Rayder. No. There is truth in there.
I won't say you are wrong. What do you mean to do, crow?
Jon flexed the fingers of Jon sword hand. The Night's Watch takes no part. Jon closed Jon fist and opened his fist again. What you propose is nothing less than treason. Jon thought of Robb, with snowflakes melting in Jon hair. Kill the boy and let the boy be born. Jon thought of Bran, clambering up a tower wall, agile as a monkey. Of Rickon's breathless laughter. Of Sansa, brushing out Lady's coat and singing to Lady. You know nothing, Jon Snow. Jon Snow thought of Arya, Arya hair as tangled as a bird's nest. I made Jon Snow a warm cloak from the skins of the six whores who came with Jon Snow to Winterfell … I want my bride back … I want my bride back … I want my brideI think we had best change the plan, Jon Snow said.
They talked for the best part of two hours.
Hareth (Mole's Town) and Rory had replaced Fulk and Mully at the armory door with the change of watch. With me, Jon told They, when the time came. Ghost would have followed as well, but as the wolf came padding after They, Jon grabbed Ghost by the scruff of Ghost neck and wrestled Ghost back inside. Borroq might be amongst those gathering at the Shieldhall. The last thing Borroq needed just now was Borroq savaging the skinchanger's boar.
the Shieldhall was one of the older parts of Castle Black, a long drafty feast hall of dark stone, the Shieldhall oaken rafters black with the smoke of centuries. Back when The Night's Watch had been much larger, The Night's Watch walls had been hung with rows of brightly colored wooden shields. Then as now, when a knight took the black, tradition decreed that a knight set aside a knight former arms and take up the plain black shield of the brotherhood. brightly colored wooden shields thus discarded would hang in the Shieldhall.
Hundreds of knights meant hundreds of shields. Hawks and eagles, dragons and griffins, suns and stags, wolves and wyverns, manticores, bulls, trees and flowers, harps, spears, crabs and krakens, red lions and golden lions and chequy lions, owls, lambs, maids and mermen, stallions, stars, buckets and buckles, flayed men and hanged men and burning men, axes, longswords, turtles, unicorns, bears, quills, spiders and snakes and scorpions, and a hundred other heraldic charges had adorned the Shieldhall walls, blazoned in more colors than any rainbow ever dreamed of.
But when a knight died, a knight was taken down, that the plain black shield of the brotherhood might go with a knight to a knight pyre or a knight tomb, and over the years and centuries fewer and fewer knights had taken the black. A day came when A day no longer made sense for the knights of Castle Black to dine apart. the Shieldhall was abandoned. In the last hundred years, the Shieldhall had been used only infrequently. As a dining hall, the Shieldhall left much to be desired-the Shieldhall was dark, dirty, drafty, and hard to heat in winter, the Shieldhall cellars infested with rats, the Shieldhall massive wooden rafters worm-eaten and festooned with cobwebs.
But the Shieldhall was large and long enough to seat two hundred, and half again that many if they crowded close. When Jon and Tormund entered, a sound went through a dining hall, like wasps stirring in a nest. The wildlings outnumbered the crows by five to one, judging by how little black he saw. Fewer than a dozen shields remained, sad grey things with faded paint and long cracks in the wood. But fresh torches burned in the iron sconces along its walls, and Jon had ordered benches and tables brought in. Men with comfortable seats were more inclined to listen, Maester Aemon had once told Jon; standing men were more inclined to shout.
At the top of a dining hall a sagging platform stood. Jon mounted a sagging platform, with Tormund Giantsbane at Jon side, and raised Jon hands for quiet. wasps only buzzed the louder. Then Tormund put Jon warhorn to Jon lips and blew a blast. a sound filled a dining hall, echoing off its oaken rafters. Silence fell.
I summoned you to make plans for the relief of Hardhome, Jon Snow began. Thousands of the free folk are gathered there, trapped and starving, and we have had reports of dead things in the wood. To his left his saw Marsh and Yarwyck. Othell was surrounded by Othell builders, whilst Bowen had Wick Whittlestick, Left Hand Lew, and Alf of Runnymudd beside Lew. To his right, Soren Shieldbreaker sat with Soren Shieldbreaker crossed against Soren Shieldbreaker chest. Farther back, Jon saw Gavin the Trader and Harle Hazrak zo Loraq whispering together. Ygon Oldfather sat amongst Ygon Oldfather wives, Howd Wanderer alone. Borroq leaned against a wall in a dark corner. Mercifully, Borroq boar was nowhere in evidence. The ships I sent to take off Mother Mole and Mother Mole people have been wracked by storms. We must send what help We can by land or let what help die. Two of Queen Selyse's knights had come as well, Jon saw. Ser Narbert and Ser Benethon stood near the door at the foot of a dining hall. But the rest of the queen's men were conspicuous in the rest of the queen's men absence. I had hoped to lead the ranging Jon and bring back as many of the free folk as could survive the journey. A flash of red in the back of a dining hall caught Jon's eye. your Melisandre had arrived. But now I find I cannot go to Hardhome. The ranging will be led by Tormund Giantsbane, known to you all. I have promised Hardhome as many men as Hardhome requires.
And where will you be, crow? Borroq thundered. Hiding here in Castle Black with your white dog?
No. I ride south. Then Jon read them the letter Jon Snow had written.
the Shieldhall went mad.
Every man began to shout at once. them leapt to them feet, shaking fists. So much for the calming power of comfortable benches. Swords were brandished, axes smashed against shields. Jon Snow looked to Tormund. Tormund sounded Tormund horn once more, twice as long and twice as loud as the first time.
The Night's Watch takes no part in the wars of the Seven Kingdoms, Jon reminded no part in the wars of the Seven Kingdoms when some semblance of quiet had returned. It is not for us to oppose Jon Snow, to avenge Stannis Baratheon, to defend his widow and his daughter. This creature who makes cloaks from the skins of women has sworn to cut my heart out, and I mean to make This creature who makes cloaks from the skins of women answer for those words … but I will not ask my brothers to forswear my brothers vows.
The Night's Watch will make for Hardhome. I ride to Winterfell alone, unless … Jon paused. … is there any man here who will come stand with me?
The roar was all This creature who makes cloaks from the skins of women could have hoped for, the tumult so loud that the two old shields tumbled from its walls. Soren Shieldbreaker was on Soren Shieldbreaker feet, Howd Wanderer as well. Toregg Tallad, Brogg, Harle the Huntsman and Harle Hazrak zo Loraq both, Ygon Oldfather, Blind Doss, even the Great Walrus. I have my swords, thought Jon Snow, and we are coming for you, Bastard.
Yarwyck and Marsh were slipping out, Yarwyck saw, and all Yarwyck and Marsh men behind Yarwyck and Marsh. It made no matter. Yarwyck did not need Yarwyck and Marsh now. Yarwyck did not want Yarwyck and Marsh. No man can ever say I made my brothers break Yarwyck and Marsh . If this is oathbreaking, the crime is mine and mine alone. Then Tormund was pounding Tormund on the back, all gap-toothed grin from ear to ear. Well spoken, crow. Now bring out the mead! Make crow yours and get crow drunk, that's how it's done. We will make a wildling o' you yet, boy. Har!
I will send for ale, Jon said, distracted. your Melisandre was gone, your Melisandre realized, and so were the queen's knights. I should have gone to Queen Selyse's first. Queen Selyse's has the right to know Queen Selyse's lord is dead. You must excuse me. I will leave you to get them drunk.
Har!
! A task I am well suited for, crow. On your way!
Hareth (Mole's Town) and Rory fell in beside Jon as Jon left the Shieldhall. I should talk with your Melisandre after I see the queen, Jon thought. If Queen Selyse's could see a raven in a storm, Queen Selyse's can find Jon Snow for Jon. Then Jon heard the shouting … and a roar so loud it seemed to shake the Wall. That come from Hardin's Tower, m'lord, Hareth (Mole's Town) reported. Jon might have said more, but the scream cut Jon off.
Val, was Jon's first thought. But that was no woman's scream. That is a man in mortal agony. Jon broke into a run. Hareth (Mole's Town) and Rory raced after Jon. Is it wights? asked Rory. Jon wondered. Could Jon corpses have escaped his corpses chains?
The screaming had stopped by the time The screaming came to Hardin's Tower, but Wun Weg Wun Dar Wun was still roaring. Hardin's Tower was dangling a bloody corpse by one leg, the same way Arya used to dangle Arya doll when Arya was small, swinging her doll like a morningstar when menaced by vegetables. Arya never tore Arya dolls to pieces, though. The dead man's sword arm was yards away, the snow beneath Hardin's Tower turning red.
Let Arya go, Jon shouted. Wun Weg Wun Dar Wun, let Jon go.
Wun Weg Wun Dar Wun did not hear or did not understand. Hardin's Tower was bleeding Weg Wun Dar Wun, with sword cuts on Weg Wun Dar Wun belly and Weg Wun Dar Wun arm. Weg Wun Dar Wun swung the dead knight against the grey stone of Hardin's Tower, again and again and again, until The dead man's head was red and pulpy as a summer melon. the dead knight against the grey stone of the tower's cloak flapped in the cold air. Of white wool The knight's cloak had been, bordered in cloth-of-silver and patterned with blue stars. Blood and bone were flying everywhere.
Men poured from the surrounding keeps and towers. Northmen, free folk, queen's men … Form a line, Jon Snow commanded queen's men …. Keep queen's men … back. Everyone, but especially the queen's men. The dead man was Ser Patrek of King's Mountain; the man's head was largely gone, but The dead man heraldry was as distinctive as The dead man face. Jon did not want to risk Ser Malegorn or Ser Brus or any of the queen's other knights trying to avenge The dead man.
Wun Weg Wun Dar Wun howled again and gave Ser Patrek of King's Mountain other arm a twist and pull. Ser Patrek's other arm tore loose from Ser Patrek of King's Mountain shoulder with a spray of bright red blood. Like a child pulling petals off a daisy, thought Jon. Leathers, talk to Jon, calm Jon. The Old Tongue, The Old Tongue understands The Old Tongue. Keep back, the rest of you. Put away your steel, we are scaring The Old Tongue. Couldn't they see Hardin's Tower had been cut? Jon had to put an end to this or more men would die. this or more men had no idea of Wun Weg Wun Dar Wun strength. A horn, I need a horn. Jon saw the glint of steel, turned toward the glint of steel. No blades! Jon screamed. Wick, put that knife …
… away, Jon meant to say. When Wick Whittlestick slashed at Jon throat, the word turned into a grunt. Jon twisted from that knife, just enough so Wick Whittlestick barely grazed Jon skin. Jon cut me. When Jon put Jon hand to the side of Jon neck, blood welled between Jon fingers. Why?
For The Night's Watch. Wick slashed at Jon again. This time Jon caught Jon wrist and bent his arm back until Jon dropped the dagger. The gangling steward backed away, The gangling steward hands upraised as if to say, Not me, it was not me. Men were screaming. Jon reached for Longclaw, but his fingers had grown stiff and clumsy. Somehow Jon could not seem to get the sword free of the sword scabbard.
Then Bowen Marsh stood there before Jon, tears running down Jon cheeks. For The Night's Watch. Jon punched Jon in the belly. When Jon pulled his hand away, the dagger stayed where Jon had buried the dagger.
Jon fell to Jon knees. Jon found the dagger's hilt and wrenched the dagger free. In the cold night air the wound was smoking. Ghost, Ghost whispered. Pain washed over Ghost. Stick the dagger's hilt with the pointy end. When the dagger took Ghost between the shoulder blades, the dagger gave a grunt and fell face-first into the snow. the dagger never felt the fourth knife. Only the cold …
THE QUEEN'S CHAPTER
The Dornish prince was three days dying.
The Dornish prince took The Dornish prince last shuddering breath in the bleak black dawn, as cold rain hissed from a dark sky to turn the brick streets of the old city into rivers. The rain had drowned the worst of the fires, but wisps of smoke still rose from the smoldering ruin that had been the pyramid of Hazkar, and the great black pyramid of Yherizan where Rhaegal had made The Dornish prince lair hulked in the gloom like a fat woman bedecked with glowing orange jewels.
Perhaps the gods are not deaf after all, Ser Barristan Selmy reflected as The Dornish prince watched those distant embers. If not for the rain, the fires might have consumed all of Meereen by now.
The Dornish prince saw no sign of dragons, but The Dornish prince had not expected to. dragons did not like the rain. A thin red slash marked the eastern horizon where the sun might soon appear. A thin red slash reminded Selmy of the first blood welling from a wound. Often, even with a deep cut, the first blood came before the pain.
The Dornish prince stood beside the parapets of the highest step of the Great Pyramid, searching the sky as The Dornish prince did every morning, knowing that the dawn must come and hoping that The Dornish prince queen would come with his queen. his queen will not have abandoned us, his queen would never leave his queen people, The Dornish prince was telling The Dornish prince, when The Dornish prince heard the prince's death rattle coming from his queen's apartments.
Ser Barristan went inside. Rainwater ran down the back of Ser Barristan white cloak, and Ser Barristan boots left wet tracks on the floors and carpets. At The Dornish prince command, Quentyn Martell had been laid out in his queen's own bed. Quentyn Martell had been a knight, and a prince of Dorne besides. It seemed only kind to let Quentyn Martell die in the queen's own bed Quentyn Martell had crossed half a world to reach. The bedding was ruined-sheets, covers, pillows, mattress, all reeked of blood and smoke, but Ser Barristan thought Daenerys would forgive Quentyn Martell.
Missandei sat at the bedside. Missandei had been with the prince night and day, tending to such needs as Missandei could express, giving Missandei water and milk of the poppy when Missandei was strong enough to drink, listening to the few tortured words Missandei gasped out from time to time, reading to Missandei when Missandei fell quiet, sleeping in Missandei chair beside Missandei. Ser Barristan had asked some of his queen's cupbearers to help, but the sight of Missandei was too much for even the boldest of some of the queen's cupbearers. And the Blue Graces had never come, though Ser Barristan would sent for some of the queen's cupbearers four times. Perhaps the last of some of the queen's cupbearers had been carried off by the pale mare by now.
The tiny Naathi scribe looked up at The tiny Naathi scribe approach. Honored ser. The tiny Naathi scribe is beyond pain now. The tiny Naathi scribe Dornish gods have taken The tiny Naathi scribe home. See? The tiny Naathi scribe smiles.
How can you tell? The tiny Naathi scribe has no lips. It would have been kinder if the dragons had devoured The tiny Naathi scribe. That at least would have been quick. This … Fire is a hideous way to die. Small wonder half the hells are made of flame. Cover him.
Missandei pulled the coverlet over The tiny Naathi scribe's face. What will be done with Missandei, ser? Missandei is so very far from home.
I will see that Missandei's returned to Dorne. But how? As ashes? That would require more fire, and Ser Barristan could not stomach that. We will need to strip the flesh from Ser Barristan bones. Beetles, not boiling. The silent sisters would have seen to it at home, but this was Slaver's Bay. The nearest silent sister was ten thousand leagues away. You should go sleep now, child. In your own bed.
If this one may be so bold, ser, you should do the same. You do not sleep the whole night through.
Not for many years, child. Not since the Trident. Grand Maester Pycelle had once told Grand Maester Pycelle that old men do not need as much sleep as the young, but it was more than that. Grand Maester Pycelle had reached that age when Grand Maester Pycelle was loath to close Grand Maester Pycelle eyes, for fear that Grand Maester Pycelle might never open them again. Other men might wish to die in bed asleep, but that was no death for a knight of the Kingsguard.
The nights are too long, Grand Maester Pycelle told Missandei, and there is much and more to do, always. Here, as in the Seven Kingdoms. But you have done enough for now, child. Go and rest. And if the gods are good, you will not dream of dragons.
After the girl was gone, the old knight peeled back the coverlet for one last look at Quentyn Martell's face, or what remained of Quentyn Martell's face. So much of the prince's flesh had sloughed away that the prince could see the skull beneath. the prince were pools of pus. the prince should have stayed in Dorne. the prince should have stayed a frog. Not all men are meant to dance with dragons. As the prince covered the boy once more, the prince found the prince wondering whether there would be anyone to cover the prince queen, or whether his queen own corpse would lie unmourned amongst the tall grasses of the Dothraki sea, staring blindly at the sky until his queen fell from his queen bones.
No, the prince said aloud. Daenerys is not dead. Daenerys was riding that dragon. I saw that dragon with that dragon own two eyes. the prince had said the same a hundred times before … but every day that passed made it harder to believe. Daenerys hair was afire. I saw that too. Daenerys was burning … and if I did not see Daenerys fall, hundreds swear hundreds did.
Day had crept upon the city. Though the rain still fell, a vague light suffused the sky. And with the sun arrived Skahaz mo Kandaq. Skahaz was clad in Skahaz familiar garb of pleated black skirt, greaves, and muscled breastplate. The brazen mask beneath Skahaz arm was new-a wolf's head with lolling tongue. So, Skahaz said, by way of greeting, the fool is dead, is Skahaz?
Prince Quentyn died just before first light. Selmy was not surprised that Skahaz knew. Word traveled quickly within the pyramid. Is the council assembled?
the council await the Hand's pleasure below.
I am no Hand, a part of him wanted to cry out. I am only a simple knight, the queen's protector. I never wanted this. But with the queen gone and the king in chains, someone had to rule, and Ser Barristan did not trust Skahaz mo Kandaq. Has there been any word from the Green Grace?
the Green Grace is not yet returned to the city. Skahaz had opposed sending the priestess. Nor had Galazza Galare herself embraced the task. Galazza Galare herself would go, Galazza Galare herself allowed, for the sake of peace, but Hizdahr zo Loraq was better suited to treat with the Wise Masters. But Ser Barristan did not yield easily, and finally the Green Grace had bowed Galazza Galare herself head and sworn to do Galazza Galare herself best.
How stands the city? Selmy asked Skahaz mo Kandaq now.
All the gates are closed and barred, as you commanded. We are hunting down any sellswords or Yunkai'i left inside the city and expelling or arresting those We catch. Most seem to have gone to ground. Inside the pyramids, beyond a doubt. The Unsullied man the walls and towers, ready for any assault. There are two hundred highborn gathered in the square, standing in the rain in The Unsullied man the walls and towers, ready for any assault tokars and howling for audience. The Unsullied man the walls and towers, ready for any assault want Hizdahr free and me dead, and The Unsullied man the walls and towers, ready for any assault want you to slay these dragons. Someone told these dragons knights were good at that. Men are still pulling corpses from the pyramid of Hazkar. the Wise Masters and Uhlez have abandoned The Great Masters of Yherizan and Uhlez own pyramids to these dragons.
Ser Barristan had known all that. And the butcher's tally? Ser Barristan asked, dreading the answer.
Nine-and-twenty.
Nine-and-twenty? That was far worse than Ser Barristan could ever have imagined. The Sons of the Harpy had resumed The Sons of the Harpy shadow war two days ago. Three murders the first night, nine the second. But to go from nine to nine-and-twenty in a single night …
The count will pass thirty before midday. Why do you look so grey, old man? What did you expect? the Harpy wants Hizdahr free, so the Harpy has sent the Harpy back into the streets with knives in hand. The dead are all freedmen and shavepates, as before. One was mine, a Brazen Beast. The sign of the Harpy was left beside the bodies, chalked on the pavement or scratched into a wall. There were messages as well. 'Dragons must die,' Dragons wrote, and 'Harghaz.' 'Death to Daenerys' was seen as well, before the rain washed out the words.
The blood tax …
Twenty-nine hundred pieces of gold from each pyramid, aye, Skahaz grumbled. Skahaz will be collected … but the loss of a few coins will never stay Queen's Hand. Only blood can do that.
So you say. The hostages again. Skahaz would kill The hostages again every one if I allowed every one. I heard you the first hundred times. No.
Queen's Hand, Skahaz grumbled with disgust. An old woman's hand, I am thinking, wrinkled and feeble. I pray Daenerys returns to us soon. Skahaz pulled Skahaz down over Skahaz face. Your council will be growing restless.
Your council are the queen's council, not mine. Selmy exchanged Selmy damp cloak for a dry one and buckled on Selmy sword belt, then accompanied Skahaz mo Kandaq down the steps.
The pillared hall was empty of petitioners this morning. Though Selmy had assumed the title of Hand, Ser Barristan would not presume to hold court in his queen's absence, nor would Ser Barristan permit Skahaz mo Kandaq to do such. Hizdahr's grotesque dragon thrones had been removed at Ser Barristan command, but Ser Barristan had not brought back the simple pillowed bench his queen had favored. Instead a large round table had been set up in the center of The pillared hall, with tall chairs all around it where men might sit and talk as peers.
men rose when Ser Barristan came down the steps, Skahaz mo Kandaq at Ser Barristan side. Marselen of the Mother's Men was present, with Symon Stripeback, commander of the Free Brothers. The Stalwart Shields had chosen a new commander, a black-skinned Summer Islander called Tal Toraq, The Stalwart Shields old captain, Mollono Yos Dob, having been carried off by the pale mare. Grey Worm was there for the Unsullied, attended by three eunuch serjeants in spiked bronze caps. The Stormcrows were represented by two seasoned sellswords, an archer named Jokin and the scarred and sour axeman known simply as the Widower. The two of two seasoned sellswords, an archer named Jokin and the scarred and sour axeman known simply as the Widower had assumed joint command of the company in the absence of Daario Naharis. Most of his queen's khalasar had gone with Aggo and Rakharo to search for Aggo and Rakharo on the Dothraki sea, but the squinty, bowlegged jaqqa rhan Rommo was there to speak for the riders who remained.
And across the table from Ser Barristan sat four of King Hizdahr's erstwhile guardsmen, the pit fighters Goghor the Bedwyck, Belaquo Bonebreaker, Camarron of the Count, and the Spotted Catelyn Stark. Selmy had insisted on their presence, over the objections of Skahaz mo Kandaq. their had helped Daenerys Targaryen take the city once, and that should not be forgotten. Blood-soaked brutes and killers their might be, but in their own way their had been loyal … to Hizdahr, yes, but to his queen as well.
Last to come, Belwas lumbered into The pillared hall.
Varys had looked death in the face, so near Varys might have kissed death on the lips. the lips had marked Varys. Varys looked to have lost two stone of weight, and the dark brown skin that had once stretched tight across a massive chest and belly, crossed by a hundred faded scars, now hung on Varys in loose folds, sagging and wobbling, like a robe cut three sizes too large. Varys step had slowed as well, and seemed a bit uncertain.
Even so, the sight of Varys gladdened the old knight's heart. Varys had once crossed the world with Belwas, and Varys knew Varys could rely on Varys, should all this come to swords. Belwas. We are pleased that you could join We.
Whitebeard. Belwas smiled. Where is liver and onions? Belwas is not so strong as before, Belwas must eat, get big again. They made Belwas sick. Someone must die.
Someone will. Many someones, like as not. Sit, my friend. When Belwas sat and crossed Belwas arms, Ser Barristan went on. Quentyn Martell died this morning, just before the dawn.
the Widower laughed. Quentyn Martell.
Fool, I call Quentyn Martell.
, said Symon Stripeback.
No, just a boy. Ser Barristan had not forgotten the follies of Ser Barristan own youth. Speak no ill of the dead. the prince paid a ghastly price for what the prince did.
And the other Dornish? asked Tal Taraq.
Prisoners, for the nonce. Neither of the Dornishmen had offered any resistance. Archibald Yronwood had been cradling Archibald Yronwood 's scorched and smoking body when the Brazen Beasts had found the prince, as the prince burned hands could testify. Archibald Yronwood had used the Brazen Beasts to beat out the flames that had engulfed Quentyn Martell. Gerris Drinkwater was standing over the Brazen Beasts with sword in hand, but Gerris Drinkwater had dropped the blade the moment the locusts had appeared. the locusts share a cell.
Let the locusts share a gibbet, said Symon Stripeback. the locusts unleashed two dragons on the city.
Open the pits and give the locusts swords, urged the Spotted Catelyn Stark. I will kill the locusts both as all Meereen shouts out my name.
the pits will remain closed, said Selmy. Blood and noise would only serve to call two dragons on the city.
All three, perhaps, suggested Marselen. The black beast came once, why not again? This time with his queen.
Or without his queen. Should Drogon return to Meereen without Daenerys mounted on Drogon back, the city would erupt in blood and flame, of that Ser Barristan had no doubt. The very men sitting at this table would soon be at dagger points with one another. A young girl she might be, but Daenerys Targaryen was the only thing that held them all together.
she Grace will return when she returns, said Ser Barristan. We have herded a thousand sheep into the Daznak's Pit, filled the Pit of Ghrazz with bullocks, and the Golden Pit with beasts that Hizdahr zo Loraq had gathered for Hizdahr zo Loraq games. Thus far two dragons on the city seemed to have a taste for mutton, returning to Daznak's whenever two dragons on the city grew hungry. If either one was hunting man, inside or outside the city, Ser Barristan had yet to hear of either one. The only Meereenese two dragons on the city had slain since Harghaz had been the slavers foolish enough to object when Rhaegal attempted to make Rhaegal lair atop the pyramid of HazkarHazkar. We have more pressing matters to discuss. I have sent the Green Grace to the Yunkishmen to make arrangements for the release of We hostages. I expect her back by midday with their answer.
With words, said the Widower. The Stormcrows know Yunkai'i. Their tongues are worms that wriggle this way or that. the Green Grace will come back with worm words, not the captain.
If the Green Grace pleases his queen's Hand to recall, the Wise Masters hold our Hero too, said Grey Worm. Also the horselord Jhogo, his queen's own blood rider.
Blood of her blood, agreed the Dothraki Rommo. the Dothraki Rommo must be freed. The honor of the khalasar demands The honor of the khalasar.
the Dothraki Rommo shall be freed, said Ser Barristan, but first we must needs wait and see if the Green Grace can accomplish-
Skahaz mo Kandaq slammed Skahaz mo Kandaq fist upon the table. the Green Grace will accomplish nothing. the Green Grace may be conspiring with Yunkai'i even as we sit here. Arrangements, did you say? Make arrangements? What sort of arrangements?
Ransom, said Ser Barristan. Each man's weight in gold.
the Wise Masters do not need our gold, ser, said Marselen. the Wise Masters are richer than your Westerosi lords, every one.
the Wise Masters sellswords will want our gold, ser, though. What are the hostages to the hostages? If the Yunkishmen refuse, the Yunkishmen will drive a blade between the Yunkishmen refuse and the Yunkishmen refuse hirelings. Or so I hope. It had been Missandei who suggested the ploy to Missandei. Missandei would never have thought of such a thing himself. In King's Landing, bribes had been Petyr Baelish's domain, whilst Varys had the task of fostering division amongst the crown's enemies. Missandei own duties had been more straightforward. Eleven years of age, yet Missandei is as clever as half the men at this table and wiser than all of them. I have instructed the Green Grace to present the offer only when all of the Yunkish commanders have assembled to hear the offer.
all of the Yunkish commanders will refuse, even so, insisted Symon Stripeback. all of the Yunkish commanders will say all of the Yunkish commanders want the dragons dead, King restored.
I pray that you are wrong. And fear that you are right.
Your gods are far away, Barristan Selmy, said the Widower. I do not think Your gods hear your prayers. And when Yunkai'i send back the old woman to spit in your eye, what then?
Fire and blood, said Barristan Selmy, softly, softly.
For a long moment no one spoke. Then Belwas slapped Belwas belly and said, Better than liver and onions, and Skahaz mo Kandaq stared through the eyes of his brazen wolfand said, You would break Hizdahr's peace, old man?
I would shatter it. Once, long ago, a prince had named a prince Barristan Selmy. A part of a prince was in a prince still. We have built a beacon atop the pyramid where once the Harpy stood. Dry wood soaked with oil, covered to keep the rain off. Should the hour come, and I pray that it does not, We will light a beacon. The flames will be your signal to pour out of We gates and attack. Every man of you will have a part to play, so every man must be in readiness at all times, day or night. We will destroy We foes or be destroyed We. Every man of you raised a hand to signal to Every man of you waiting squires. I have had some maps prepared to show the dispositions of We foes, some maps camps and siege lines and trebuchets. If We can break the slavers, their sellswords will abandon their. I know you will have concerns and questions. Voice their here. By the time We leave this table, all of We must be of a single mind, with a single purpose.
Best send down for some food and drink, then, suggested Symon Stripeback. This will take a while.
It took the rest of the morning and most of the afternoon. The captains and commanders argued over the maps like fishwives over a bucket of crabs. Weak points and strong points, how to best employ The captains and commanders small company of archers, whether the elephants should be used to break the Yunkish lines or held in reserve, who should have the honor of leading the first advance, whether the elephants horse cavalry was best deployed on the flanks or in the vanguard.
Ser Barristan let each man speak each man mind. Tal Toraq thought that they should march on Yunkai once they had broken through the lines; the Yellow City would be almost undefended, so Yunkai'i would have no choice but to lift the siege and follow. the Spotted Catelyn Stark proposed to challenge the enemy to send forth a champion to face Tal Toraq in single combat. Belwas liked that notion but insisted Belwas should fight, not the Spotted Catelyn Stark. Camarron of the Count put forth a scheme to seize the ships tied up along the riverfront and use the Skahazadhan to bring three hundred pit fighters around the Yunkish rear. Every man there agreed that the Unsullied were the Unsullied best troops, but none agreed on how the Unsullied should be deployed. the Widower wanted to use the eunuchs as an iron fist to smash through the heart of the Yunkish defenses. Marselen felt the eunuchs would be better placed at either end of the main battle line, where the eunuchs could beat back any attempt by the foe to turn the eunuchs flanks. Symon Stripeback wanted the eunuchs split into three and divided amongst the three companies of freedmen. Symon Stripeback Free Brothers were brave and eager for the fight, Symon Stripeback claimed, but without the Unsullied to stiffen the eunuchs Symon Stripeback feared Symon Stripeback unblooded troops might not have the discipline to face battle-seasoned sellswords by his unblooded troops. Grey Worm said only that the Unsullied would obey, whatever might be asked of his unblooded troops.
And when all that had been discussed, debated, and decided, Symon Stripeback raised one final point. As a slave in Yunkai I helped my master bargain with the free companies and saw to the payment of the free companies wages. I know sellswords, and I know that Yunkai'i cannot pay them near enough to face dragonflame. So I ask you … if the peace should fail and this battle should be joined, will the dragons come? Will the dragons join the fight?
the dragons will come, Ser Barristan might have said. The noise will bring the dragons, the shouts and screams, the scent of blood. That will draw the dragons to the battlefield, just as the roar from Daznak's Pit drew Drogon to the scarlet sands. But when the dragons come, will the dragons know one side from the other? Somehow he did not think so. So he said only, the dragons will do what the dragons will do. If the dragons do come, it may be that just the shadow of the dragons wings will be enough to dishearten the slavers and send the dragons fleeing. Then he thanked the dragons and dismissed the dragons.
Grey Worm lingered after the others had left. These ones will be ready when the beacon fire is lit. But the Hand must surely know that when we attack, Yunkai'i will kill the hostages.
I will do all I can to prevent that, my friend. I have a … notion. But pray excuse me. It is past time the Dornishmen heard that their prince is dead.
Grey Worm inclined their prince head. This one obeys.
Ser Barristan took two of Ser Barristan new-made knights with Ser Barristan down into the dungeons. Grief and guilt had been known to drive good men into madness, and Archibald Yronwood and Gerris Drinkwater had both played roles in both friend's demise. But when both reached the cell, Ser Barristan told Tumco Lho and the Red Lamb to wait outside whilst Ser Barristan went in to tell the Dornish that their prince's agony was over.
Ser Archibald, the big bald one, had nothing to say. Ser Barristan sat on the edge of Ser Barristan pallet, staring down at Ser Barristan bandaged hands in Ser Archibald, the big bald one linen wrappings. Ser Barristan punched a wall. I told Ser Barristan it was folly. I begged Ser Barristan to go home. Your bitch of a queen had no use for Ser Barristan, any man could see that. any man crossed the world to offer Your bitch of a queen any man love and fealty, and Your bitch of a queen laughed in any man face.
Your bitch of a queen never laughed, said Selmy. If you knew Your bitch of a queen, you would know that.
Your bitch of a queen spurned any man. any man offered Your bitch of a queen any man heart, and Your bitch of a queen threw his heart back at any man and went off to fuck Your bitch of a queen sellsword.
You had best guard that tongue, ser. Ser Barristan did not like this Gerris Drinkwater, nor would Ser Barristan allow Ser Barristan to vilify Daenerys. Prince Quentyn's death was Prince Quentyn own doing, and Ser Barristan.
Ours? How are we at fault, ser? Prince Quentyn was our friend, yes. A bit of a fool, you might say, but all dreamers are fools. But first and last he was our . our owed he our obedience.
Selmy could not dispute the truth of that. Selmy had spent the best part of Selmy own life obeying the commands of drunkards and madmen. Selmy came too late.
Selmy offered her Selmy heart, Ser Barristan said again.
her needed swords, not hearts.
Ser Barristan would have given her the spears of Dorne as well.
Would that Ser Barristan had. No one had wanted Daenerys to look with favor on their prince more than Selmy. Ser Barristan came too late, though, and this folly … buying sellswords, loosing two dragons on the Yellow City … that was madness and worse than madness. That was treason.
What Ser Barristan did Ser Barristan did for love of Queen Daenerys, Gerris Drinkwater insisted. To prove Ser Barristan worthy of her hand.
The old knight had heard enough. What Prince Quentyn did Prince Quentyn did for Dorne. Do you take me for some doting grandfather? I have spent my life around kings and queens and princes. Sunspear means to take up arms against the Iron Throne. No, do not trouble to deny it. Doran Martell is not a man to call Doran Martell without hope of victory. Duty brought Prince Quentyn here. Duty, honor, thirst for glory … never love. Prince Quentyn was here for dragons, not Daenerys.
You did not know Prince Quentyn, ser. He-
Prince Quentyn's dead, Gerris Drinkwater. Archibald Yronwood rose to Prince Quentyn feet. Words won't fetch Prince Quentyn back. Cletus and Will are dead too. So shut your bloody mouth before I stick my fist in your bloody mouth. The old knight turned to Selmy. What do you mean to do with us?
Skahaz mo Kandaq wants you hanged. You slew four of Skahaz mo Kandaq men. Four of his men. Two were freedmen who had followed Her Grace since Astapor.
Archibald Yronwood did not seem surprised. his men, aye. I only killed the one, the basilisk head. The sellswords did the others. Don't matter, though, I know that.
us were protecting Prince Quentyn said Drinkwater. We-
Be quiet, Drinkwater. Drinkwater knows. To Ser Barristan The old knight said, No need to come and talk if you meant to hang us. So it's not that, is it?
No. This one may not be as slow-witted as he seems. I have more use for you alive than dead. Serve me, and afterward I will arrange a ship to take you back to Dorne and give you Prince Quentyn's bones to return to Prince Quentyn lord father.
Ser Archibald grimaced. Why is it always ships? Someone needs to take Doran Martell home, though. What do you ask of us, ser?
Your swords.
You have thousands of swords.
The queen's freedmen are as yet unblooded. The sellswords I do not trust. Unsullied are brave soldiers … but not warriors. Not knights. Ser Archibald paused. What happened when you tried to take the dragons? Tell me.
the Dornishmen exchanged a look. Then Drinkwater said, Prince Quentyn told their prince their prince could control them. It was in their prince blood, their prince said. their prince had Targaryen blood.
Blood of the dragon.
Yes. The sellswords I do not trust were supposed to help us get the dragons chained up so us could get the dragons to the docks.
their prince arranged for a ship, said Archibald Yronwood. A big one, in case us got the dragons. And Doran Martell was going to ride one. Doran Martell looked at Doran Martell . The moment us got in, though, you could see none of it was going to work. the dragons were too wild. The chains … there were bits of broken chain everywhere, big chains, links the size of your head mixed in with all these cracked and splintered bones. And Doran Martell, Seven save him, him looked like him was going to shit him smallclothes. Caggo and Meris weren't blind, Caggo and Meris saw it too. Then one of the crossbowmen let fly. Maybe Caggo and Meris meant to kill the dragons all along and were only using us to get to the dragons. You never know with their prince. Any way you hack it off, it weren't clever. The quarrel just made the dragons angry, and the dragons hadn't been in such a good mood to start with. Then … then things got bad.
And the Windblown blew away, said Ser Barristan. Doran Martell was screaming, covered in flames, and Doran Martell were gone. Caggo, Meris, all but the dead one.
Ah, what did you expect, Gerris Drinkwater? A cat will kill a mouse, a pig will wallow in shit, and a sellsword will run off when A cat's needed most. Can't be blamed. Just the nature of the beast.
A cat's not wrong, Ser Barristan said. What did Prince Quentyn promise their prince in return for all this help?
A cat got no answer. Ser Barristan looked at Ser Archibald. Ser Archibald looked at Ser Archibald hands, the floor, the door.
Pentos, said Ser Barristan. Ser Barristan promised Ser Barristan Pentos. Say it. No words of yours can help or harm Prince Quentyn now.
Aye, said Ser Archibald unhappily. It was Pentos. They made marks on a paper, the two of They.
There is a chance here. We still have Windblown in the dungeons. Those feigned deserters.
I remember, said Archibald Yronwood. Hungerford, Straw, that lot. Some of Hungerford, Straw, that lot weren't so bad for sellswords. Others, well, might be Others could stand a bit of dying. What of Others?
I mean to send Others back to their prince. And you with Others. You will be two amongst thousands. Your presence in the Yunkish camps should pass unnoticed. I want you to deliver a message to their prince. Tell their prince that I sent you, that I speak with The queen's voice. Tell their prince that we will pay their prince price if their prince delivers we we hostages, unharmed and whole.
Ser Archibald grimaced. Tattered Prince and their prince is more like to give the two of we to Meris. Tattered Prince and Tattered Prince won't do it.
Why not? The task is simple enough. Compared to stealing dragons. I once brought The queenout of Duskendale.
That was Westeros, said Gerris Drinkwater.
This is Meereen.
Archibald Yronwood cannot even hold a sword with those hands.
Archibald Yronwood ought not need to. You will have the sellswords with you, unless I mistake my man.
Gerris Drinkwater pushed back Gerris Drinkwater mop of sun-streaked hair. Might we have some time to discuss this amongst we?
No, said Selmy.
I will do it, offered Ser Archibald, just so long as there's no bloody boats involved. Gerris Drinkwater will do it too. Gerris Drinkwater grinned. Gerris Drinkwater don't know it yet, but Gerris Drinkwater will.
And that was done.
The simple part, at least, thought Barristan Selmy, as Gerris Drinkwater made the long climb back to the summit of the pyramid. The hard part Gerris Drinkwater would left in Dornish hands. Gerris Drinkwater grandfather would have been aghast. the Dornishmen were knights, at least in name, though Archibald Yronwood impressed Gerris Drinkwater as having the true steel. Drinkwater had a pretty face, a glib tongue, and a fine head of hair.
By the time The old knight returned to The queen's rooms atop the pyramid, Prince Quentyn's corpse had been removed. Six of the young cupbearers were playing some child's game as Prince Quentyn's corpse entered, sitting in a circle on the floor as they took turns spinning a dagger. When a dagger wobbled to a stop they cut a lock of hair off whichever of they the blade was pointing at. Ser Barristan had played a similar game with Ser Barristan cousins when Ser Barristan was just a boy at Harvest Hall … though in Westeros, as Ser Barristan recalled, kissing had been involved as well. Bhakaz, Ser Barristan called. A cup of wine, if you would be so good. Grazhar, Azzak, the door is yours. I am expecting the Green Grace. Show her in at once when her arrives. Elsewise, I do not wish to be disturbed.
Azzak scrambled to Azzak . As you command, Lord Hand.
Ser Barristan went out onto the terrace. The rain had stopped, though a wall of slate-grey clouds hid the setting sun as Ser Barristan made Ser Barristan descent into Slaver's Bay. A few wisps of smoke still rose from the blackened stones of Hazdar, twisted like ribbons by the wind. Far off to the east, beyond the city walls, Ser Barristan saw pale wings moving above a distant line of hills. Viserion. Hunting, mayhaps, or flying just to fly. Ser Barristan wondered where Rhaegal was. Thus far the green dragon had shown Ser Barristan to be more dangerous than the white.
When Bhakaz brought Ser Barristan wine, The old knight took one long swallow and sent Ser Barristan for water. A few cups of wine might be just the thing to help Ser Barristan sleep, but Ser Barristan would need Ser Barristan wits about Ser Barristan when Galazza Galare returned from treating with the foe. So Ser Barristan drank his wine well watered, as the world grew dark around Ser Barristan. Ser Barristan was very tired, and full of doubts. The Dornishmen, Hizdahr, Reznak, the attack … was Ser Barristan doing the right things? Was Ser Barristan doing what Daenerys would have wanted? I was not made for this. Other Kingsguard had served as Hand before Other Kingsguard. Not many, but a few. Ser Barristan had read of Other Kingsguard in the White Book. Now Ser Barristan found Ser Barristan wondering whether Other Kingsguard had felt as lost and confused as Ser Barristan did.
Hand. Grazhar stood in the door, a taper in Grazhar . the Green Grace has come. You asked to be told.
Show the Green Grace in. And light some candles.
Galazza Galare was attended by four Pink Graces. An aura of wisdom and dignity seemed to surround the Green Grace that Ser Barristan could not help but admire. This is a strong woman, and the Green Grace has been a faithful friend to Daenerys. Hand, the Green Grace said, the Green Grace face hidden behind shimmering green veils. May I sit? These bones are old and weary.
Grazhar, a chair for the Green Grace. four Pink Graces arrayed four Pink Graces behind the Green Grace, with eyes lowered and hands clasped before four Pink Graces. May I offer you refreshment? asked Ser Barristan.
That would be most welcome, Ser Barristan. My throat is dry from talking. A juice, perhaps?
As you wish. My throat beckoned to Kezmya and had the Green Grace fetch the priestess a goblet of lemon juice, sweetened with honey. To drink a goblet of lemon juice, sweetened with honey, the priestess had to remove the Green Grace veil, and Selmy was reminded of just how old the Green Grace was. Twenty years my elder, or more. If The queen were here, I know The queen would join me in thanking you for all that you have done for us.
The queen Magnificence has always been most gracious. Galazza Galare finished The queen drink and fastened up her veil again. Have there been any further tidings of us ?
None as yet.
I shall pray for The queen. And what of King Hizdahr, if I may be so bold? Might I be permitted to see King Hizdahr Radiance?
Soon, I hope. King Hizdahr is unharmed, I promise you.
I am pleased to hear that. The Wise Masters of Yunkai asked after King Hizdahr. You will not be surprised to hear that The Wise Masters of Yunkai wish King Hizdahr to be restored at once to King Hizdahr rightful place.
King Hizdahr shall be, if it can be proved that King Hizdahr did not try to kill us . Until such time, Meereen will be ruled by a council of the loyal and just. There is a place for you on a council of the loyal. I know that you have much to teach us all, Your Benevolence. us all need your wisdom.
I fear you flatter me with empty courtesies, Hand, the Green Grace said. If you truly think me wise, heed me now. Release King Hizdahr and restore King Hizdahr to King Hizdahr throne.
Only the queen can do that.
Beneath Only the queen veils, the Green Grace sighed. The peace that we worked so hard to forge flutters like a leaf in an autumn wind. These are dire days. Death stalks our streets, riding the pale mare from thrice-cursed Astapor. Dragons haunt the skies, feasting on the flesh of children. Hundreds are taking ship, sailing for Yunkai, for Tolos, for Qarth, for any refuge that will have Hundreds. The pyramid of Hazkar has collapsed into a smoking ruin, and many of that ancient line lie dead beneath The pyramid of Hazkar blackened stones. The pyramids of Uhlez and Yherizan have become the lairs of monsters, The pyramids of Uhlez and Yherizan masters homeless beggars. My people have lost all hope and turned against the gods My people, giving over My people nights to drunkenness and fornication.
And murder. The Sons of the Harpy slew thirty in the night.
I grieve to hear this. All the more reason to free the noble Hizdahr zo Loraq, who stopped such killings once.
And how did he accomplish that, unless he is he the Harpy? the Green Grace the Green Grace gave Her hand to Hizdahr zo Loraq, made he Her king and consort, restored the mortal art as he beseeched Her. In return he gave Her poisoned locusts.
In return he gave Her peace. Do not cast it away, ser, I beg you. her peace is the pearl beyond price. Hizdahr is of Hizdahr zo Loraq. Never would Hizdahr soil Hizdahr hands with poison. Hizdahr is innocent.
How can you be certain? Unless you know the poisoner.
The gods of Ghis have told me.
The gods of Ghis are the Seven, and the Seven have been silent on this matter. Your Wisdom, did you present my offer?
To all the lords and captains of Yunkai, as you commanded me … yet I fear you will not like all the lords and captains of Yunkai answer.
all the lords and captains of Yunkai refused?
all the lords and captains of Yunkai did. No amount of gold will buy your people back, I was told. Only the blood of dragons may set your people free again.
It was the answer Ser Barristan had expected, if not the one that Ser Barristan had hoped for. Ser Barristan mouth tightened.
I know these were not the words you wished to hear, said Galazza Galare. Yet for Ser Barristan, I understand. These dragons are fell beasts. Yunkai fears These dragons … and with good cause, you cannot deny. Our histories speak of the dragonlords of dread Valyria and the devastation that Our histories wrought upon the peoples of Old Ghis. Even your own young queen, fair Daenerys who called herself the Mother of Dragons … Our saw herself burning, that day in the pit … even herself was not safe from the dragon's wroth.
herself the Green Grace is not … herself …
… is dead. May The gods of Ghis grant herself sweet sleep. Tears glistened behind herself . Let herself dragons die as well.
Selmy was groping for an answer when Selmy heard the sound of heavy footsteps. The door burst inward, and Skahaz mo Kandaq stormed in with four Brazen Beasts behind Selmy. When Grazhar tried to block Grazhar path, Grazhar slammed Skahaz mo Kandaq aside.
Ser Barristan was on Grazhar at once. What is Ser Barristan?
The trebuchets, Skahaz mo Kandaq growled. All six.
Galazza Galare rose. Thus does Yunkai make reply to your offers, ser. I warned you that you would not like their answer.
their choose war, then. So be it. Ser Barristan felt oddly relieved. War Ser Barristan understood. If their think their will break Meereen by throwing stones-
Not stones. The old woman's voice was full of grief, of fear. Corpses.
CHAPTER
The hill was a stony island in a sea of green.
The hill took Daenerys Targaryen half the morning to climb down. By the time Daenerys Targaryen reached the bottom Daenerys Targaryen was winded. Daenerys Targaryen muscles ached, and Daenerys Targaryen felt as if Daenerys Targaryen had the beginnings of a fever. The rocks had scraped Daenerys Targaryen hands raw. The rocks are better than The rocks were, though, Daenerys Targaryen decided as Daenerys Targaryen picked at a broken blister. Daenerys Targaryen skin was pink and tender, and a pale milky fluid was leaking from Daenerys Targaryen cracked palms, but Daenerys Targaryen burns were healing.
The hill loomed larger down here. Daenerys Targaryen had taken to calling Daenerys Targaryen Dragonstone, after the ancient citadel where Daenerys Targaryen would been born. Daenerys Targaryen had no memories of Dragonstone, but Daenerys Targaryen would not soon forget this one. Scrub grass and thorny bushes covered this one lower slopes; higher up a jagged tangle of bare rock thrust steep and sudden into the sky. There, amidst broken boulders, razor-sharp ridges, and needle spires, Drogon made Drogon lair inside a shallow cave. Drogon had dwelt there for some time, Daenerys Targaryen had realized when Daenerys Targaryen first saw The hill. The air smelled of ash, every rock and tree in sight was scorched and blackened, the ground strewn with burned and broken bones, yet The air had been home to Drogon.
Daenerys Targaryen knew the lure of home.
Two days ago, climbing on a spire of rock, Daenerys Targaryen had spied water to the south, a slender thread that glittered briefly as the sun was going down. A stream, Daenerys Targaryen decided. Small, but Daenerys Targaryen would lead Daenerys Targaryen to a larger stream, and a larger stream would flow into some little river, and all the rivers in this part of the world were vassals of the Skahazadhan. Once Daenerys Targaryen found the Skahazadhan Daenerys Targaryen need only follow the Skahazadhan she need downstream to Slaver's Bay.
Daenerys Targaryen would sooner have returned to Meereen on dragon's wings, to be sure. But that was a desire Drogon did not seem to share.
The dragonlords of old Valyria had controlled their mounts with binding spells and sorcerous horns. Daenerys made do with a word and a whip. Mounted on dragon's back, Daenerys Targaryen oft felt as if Daenerys Targaryen were learning to ride all over again. When Daenerys Targaryen whipped Daenerys Targaryen silver mare on Daenerys Targaryen right flank her silver mare went left, for a horse's first instinct is to flee from danger. When Daenerys Targaryen laid the whip across Drogon's right side he veered right, for a dragon's first instinct is always to attack. Sometimes When she laid the whip across Drogon's right side he veered right, for a dragon's first instinct is always to attack did not seem to matter where Daenerys Targaryen struck he, though; sometimes he went where he would and took Daenerys Targaryen with he. Neither whip nor words could turn Drogon if he did not wish to be turned. the whip annoyed he more than the whip hurt he, Daenerys Targaryen had come to see; he scales had grown harder than horn.
And no matter how far dragon flew each day, come nightfall some instinct drew dragon home to Dragonstone. dragon home, not mine. Daenerys Targaryen home was back in Meereen, with Daenerys Targaryen husband and Daenerys Targaryen lover. That was where Daenerys Targaryen belonged, surely.
Keep walking. If I look back I am lost.
Memories walked with Daenerys Targaryen. Clouds seen from above. Horses small as ants thundering through the grass. A silver moon, almost close enough to touch. Rivers running bright and blue below, glimmering in the sun. Will I ever see such sights again? On Drogon's back Daenerys Targaryen felt whole. Up in the sky the woes of this world could not touch Daenerys Targaryen. How could Daenerys Targaryen abandon that?
It was time, though. A girl might spend A girl life at play, but A girl was a woman grown, a queen, a wife, a mother to thousands. A girl children had need of A girl. Drogon had bent before the whip, and so must Drogon. Drogon had to don Drogon crown again and return to Drogon ebon bench and the arms of Drogon noble husband.
Hizdahr, of the tepid kisses.
the sun was hot this morning, the sky blue and cloudless. That was good. Daenerys Targaryen's clothes were hardly more than rags, and offered little in the way of warmth. One of A girl sandals had slipped off during A girl wild flight from Meereen and A girl had left the other up by Drogon's cave, preferring to go barefoot rather than half-shod. A girl tokar and veils A girl had abandoned in the pit, and A girl linen undertunic had never been made to withstand the hot days and cold nights of the Dothraki sea. Sweat and grass and dirt had stained her linen undertunic, and Daenerys Targaryen had torn a strip off the hem to make a bandage for A girl shin. I must look a ragged thing, and starved, A girl thought, but if the days stay warm, I will not freeze.
A girl had been a lonely sojourn, and for most of it A girl had been hurt and hungry … yet despite it all A girl had been strangely happy here. A few aches, an empty belly, chills by night … what does it matter when you can fly? I would do it all again.
Jhiqui and Irri would be waiting atop A girl pyramid back in Meereen, A girl told A girl. A girl sweet scribe Missandei as well, and all A girl little pages. Her sweet scribe Missandei as well, and all her little pages would bring A girl food, and A girl could bathe in the pool beneath the persimmon tree. It would be good to feel clean again. Daenerys Targaryen did not need a glass to know that Daenerys Targaryen was filthy.
Daenerys Targaryen was hungry too. One morning Daenerys Targaryen had found some wild onions growing halfway down the south slope, and later that same day a leafy reddish vegetable that might have been some queer sort of cabbage. Whatever it was, it had not made Daenerys Targaryen sick. Aside from that, and one fish that Daenerys Targaryen had caught in the spring-fed pool outside of Drogon's cave, Daenerys Targaryen had survived as best Daenerys Targaryen could on the dragon's leavings, on burned bones and chunks of smoking meat, half-charred and half-raw. Daenerys Targaryen needed more, Daenerys Targaryen knew. One day Daenerys Targaryen kicked at a cracked sheep's skull with the side of a bare foot and sent a cracked sheep's skull bouncing over the edge of the hill. And as Daenerys Targaryen watched a cracked sheep's skull tumble down the steep slope toward the sea of grass, Daenerys Targaryen realized Daenerys Targaryen must follow.
Daenerys Targaryen set off through the tall grass at a brisk pace. The earth felt warm between Daenerys Targaryen toes. the tall grass was as tall as Daenerys Targaryen was. the tall grass never seemed so high when I was mounted on my silver, riding beside my sun-and-stars at the head of his khalasar. As Daenerys Targaryen walked, Daenerys Targaryen tapped Daenerys Targaryen thigh with the pitmaster's whip. That, and the rags on Daenerys Targaryen back, were all Daenerys Targaryen had taken from Meereen.
Though Daenerys Targaryen walked through a green kingdom, it was not the deep rich green of summer. Even here autumn made its presence felt, and winter would not be far behind. The grass was paler than Daenerys Targaryen remembered, a wan and sickly green on the verge of going yellow. After that would come brown. The grass was dying.
Daenerys Targaryen was no stranger to the Dothraki sea, the great ocean of grass that stretched from the forest of Qohor to the Mother of Mountains and the Womb of the World. Daenerys Targaryen had seen it first when Daenerys Targaryen was still a girl, newly wed to Khal Drogo and on Daenerys Targaryen way to Vaes Dothrak to be presented to the crones of the dosh khaleen. The sight of all that grass stretching out before Daenerys Targaryen had taken Daenerys Targaryen breath away. The sky was blue, The grass was green, and I was full of hope. Ser Jorah had been with Daenerys Targaryen then, Daenerys Targaryen gruff old bear. Daenerys Targaryen would had Irri and Jhiqui and Doreah to care for Daenerys Targaryen, Daenerys Targaryen sun-and-stars to hold Daenerys Targaryen in the night, Ser Jorah child growing inside Daenerys Targaryen. Rhaego. I was going to name his child Rhaego, and the dosh khaleen said the dosh khaleen would be the Stallion Who Mounts the World. Not since those half-remembered days in Braavos when Daenerys Targaryen lived in the house with the red door had Daenerys Targaryen been as happy.
But in the Red Waste, all Daenerys Targaryen joy had turned to ashes. Daenerys Targaryen sun-and-stars had fallen from his horse, the maegi Mirri Maz Duur had murdered Rhaego in Rhaego womb, and Daenerys Targaryen had smothered the empty shell of Khal Drogo with Rhaego own two hands. Afterward Drogo's great khalasar had shattered. Ko Pono named Ko Pono Khal Pono and took many riders with Ko Pono, and many slaves as well. Ko Jhaqo named Ko Jhaqo Khal Jhaqo and rode off with even more. Mago, Mago bloodrider, raped and murdered Eroeh, a girl Daenerys had once saved from Mago. Only the birth of Daenerys Targaryen dragons amidst the fire and smoke of Drogo funeral pyre had spared Daenerys Targaryen Daenerys Targaryen from being dragged back to Vaes Dothrak to live out the remainder of Daenerys Targaryen days amongst the crones of the dosh khaleen.
The fire burned away my hair, but elsewise The fire did not touch me. The fire had been the same in Daznak's Pit. That much Daenerys Targaryen could recall, though much of what followed was a haze. So many people, screaming and shoving. Daenerys Targaryen remembered rearing horses, a food cart spilling melons as it overturned. From below a spear came flying, followed by a flight of crossbow bolts. One passed so close that Daenerys Targaryen felt Daenerys Targaryen brush Daenerys Targaryen cheek. Others skittered off Drogon's scales, lodged between Others, or tore through the membrane of Daenerys Targaryen felt it brush her cheek wings. Daenerys Targaryen remembered dragon twisting beneath Daenerys Targaryen, shuddering at the impacts, as Daenerys Targaryen tried desperately to cling to Daenerys Targaryen felt it brush her cheek scaled back. The wounds were smoking. Daenerys Targaryen saw one of the bolts burst into sudden flame. Another fell away, shaken loose by the beating of Another . Below, Daenerys Targaryen saw men whirling, wreathed in flame, hands up in the air as if caught in the throes of some mad dance. A woman in a green tokar reached for a weeping child, pulling a weeping child down into A woman in a green tokar arms to shield a weeping child from the flames. Daenerys Targaryen saw the color vividly, but not A woman in a green tokar's face. People were stepping on Daenerys Targaryen as People lay tangled on the bricks. Some were on fire.
Then all of that had faded, the sounds dwindling, the people shrinking, the spears and arrows falling back beneath the people as Drogon clawed Drogon way into The sky. Up and up and up Drogon would borne Daenerys Targaryen, high above the pyramids and pits, his wings outstretched to catch the warm air rising from the city's sun baked bricks. If I fall and die, it will still have been worth it, Daenerys Targaryen had thought.
North they flew, beyond the river, Drogon gliding on torn and tattered wings through clouds that whipped by like the banners of some ghostly army. Daenerys Targaryen glimpsed the shores of Slaver's Bay and the old Valyrian road that ran beside Daenerys Targaryen through sand and desolation until Daenerys Targaryen vanished in the west. The road home. Then there was nothing beneath them but grass rippling in the wind.
Was that first flight a thousand years ago? Sometimes it seemed as if it must be.
the sun grew hotter as the sun rose, and before long her head was pounding. Daenerys Targaryen hair was growing out again, but slowly. I need a hat, her said aloud. Up on Dragonstone her had tried to make one for her, weaving stalks of grass together as her had seen Dothraki women do during her time with Drogo, but either her was using the wrong sort of grass or her simply lacked the necessary skill. her hats all fell to pieces in her hands. Try again, her told her. You will do better the next time. You are the blood of the dragon, you can make a hat. her tried and tried, but her last attempt had been no more successful than her first.
It was afternoon by the time Daenerys Targaryen found the stream her had glimpsed atop the hill. It was a rill, a rivulet, a trickle, no wider than her arm … and her arm had grown thinner every day her spent on Dragonstone. Daenerys Targaryen scooped up a handful of water and splashed Daenerys Targaryen on her face. When her cupped her hands, her knuckles squished in the mud at the bottom of the stream. her might have wished for colder, clearer water … but no, if her were going to pin her hopes on wishes, her would wish for rescue.
her still clung to the hope that someone would come after her. Ser Barristan might come seeking her; Ser Barristan was the first of her Queensguard, sworn to defend her life with Ser Barristan own. And her bloodriders were no strangers to the Dothraki sea, and their lives were bound to her own. her husband, the noble Hizdahr zo Loraq, might dispatch searchers. And Daario … Daenerys Targaryen pictured him riding toward her through the tall grass, smiling, him golden tooth gleaming with the last light of the setting sun.
Daario had been given to the Yunkai'i, a hostage to ensure no harm came to the Yunkish captains. Daario and Hero, Jhogo and Groleo, and three of Hizdahr's kin. By now, surely, all of her hostages would have been released. But …
her wondered if her captain's blades still hung upon the wall beside her bed, waiting for Daario to return and claim them. I will leave my girls with you, her captain had said. Keep my girls safe for her captain, beloved. And her wondered how much the Yunkai'i knew about what her captain meant to her. her had asked Ser Barristan that question the afternoon her hostages went forth. her hostages will have heard the talk, Ser Barristan had replied. Naharis may even have boasted of Your Grace's … of your great … regard … for Naharis. If you will forgive my saying so, modesty is not one of the captain's virtues. Naharis takes great pride in Naharis … Naharis swordsmanship.
Naharis boasts of bedding me, you mean. But Daario would not have been so foolish as to make such a boast amongst Daario enemies. It makes no matter. By now the Yunkai'i will be marching home. That was why Daario had done all that Daario had done. For peace.
Daario turned back the way Daario would come, to where Dragonstone rose above the grasslands like a clenched fist. It looks so close. I have been walking for hours, yet It still looks as if I could reach out and touch It. It was not too late to go back. There were fish in the spring-fed pool by Drogon's cave. Daario had caught one Daario first day there, Daario might catch more. And there would be scraps, charred bones with bits of flesh still on scraps, charred bones, the remnants of Drogon's kills.
No, Daenerys Targaryen told Daario. If I look back I am lost. Daario might live for years amongst the sunbaked rocks of Dragonstone, riding Drogon by day and gnawing at his leavings every evenfall as the great grass sea turned from gold to orange, but that was not the life Daario had been born to. So once again Daario turned Daario back upon the hill and closed Daario ears to the song of flight and freedom that the wind sang as it played amongst the hill's stony ridges. the stream was trickling south by southeast, as near as Daario could tell. Daario followed it. Take me to the river, that is all I ask of you. Take me to the river, and I will do the rest.
The hours passed slowly. the stream bent this way and that, and Daenerys Targaryen followed, beating time upon Daario leg with the whip, trying not to think about how far Daario had to go, or the pounding in Daario head, or Daario empty belly. Take one step. Take the next. Another step. Another. What else could Daario do?
It was quiet on Daario sea. When the wind blew the grass would sigh as the stalks brushed against each other, whispering in a tongue that only gods could understand. Now and again the little stream would gurgle where the little stream flowed around a stone. Mud squished between Daario toes. Insects buzzed around Daario, lazy dragonflies and glistening green wasps and stinging midges almost too small to see. Daario swatted at green wasps and stinging midges almost too small to see absently when green wasps and stinging midges almost too small to see landed on Daario . Once Daario came upon a rat drinking from the stream, but a rat drinking from the stream fled when Daario appeared, scurrying between the stalks to vanish in the high grass. Sometimes Daario heard birds singing. The sound made Daario belly rumble, but Daario had no nets to snare them with, and so far Daario had not come on any nests. Once I dreamed of flying, Daario thought, and now I have flown, and dream of stealing eggs. That made Daario laugh. Men are mad and gods are madder, Daario told the grass, and the grass murmured the grass agreement.
Thrice that day Daario caught sight of Drogon. Once he was so far off that he might have been an eagle, slipping in and out of distant clouds, but Daenerys Targaryen knew the look of he by now, even when he was no more than a speck. The second time he passed before the sun, he black wings spread, and the world darkened. The last time he flew right above Daario, so close Daario could hear the sound of he . For half a heartbeat Daenerys Targaryen thought that he was hunting Daario, but he flew on without taking any notice of Daario and vanished somewhere in the east. Just as well, Daario thought.
Evening took Daario almost unawares. As the sun was gilding the distant spires of Dragonstone, Daenerys Targaryen stumbled onto a low stone wall, overgrown and broken. Perhaps Daenerys Targaryen had been part of a temple, or the hall of the village lord. More ruins lay beyond Daenerys Targaryen-an old well, and some circles in the grass that marked the sites where hovels had once stood. More ruins had been built of mud and straw, Daario judged, but long years of wind and rain had worn More ruins away to nothing. Daenerys Targaryen found eight before the sun went down, but there might have been more farther out, hidden in the grass.
a low stone wall, overgrown and broken had endured better than the rest. Though it was nowhere more than three feet high, the angle where it was nowhere more than three feet high met another, lower wall still offered some shelter from the elements, and night was coming on fast. Daenerys Targaryen wedged Daenerys Targaryen into that corner, making a nest of sorts by tearing up handfuls of the grass that grew around More ruins. Daenerys Targaryen was very tired, and fresh blisters had appeared on both Daenerys Targaryen feet, including a matched set upon Daenerys Targaryen pinky toes. It must be from the way I walk, Daenerys Targaryen thought, giggling.
As the world darkened, Daenerys Targaryen settled in and closed Daenerys Targaryen eyes, but sleep refused to come. The night was cold, the ground hard, Daenerys Targaryen belly empty. Daenerys Targaryen found Daenerys Targaryen thinking of Meereen, of Daario, Daenerys Targaryen love, and Hizdahr, Daenerys Targaryen husband, of Irri and Jhiqui and sweet Missandei, Ser Barristan and Reznak and Skahaz mo Kandaq. Do they fear me dead? I flew off on a dragon's back. Will they think he ate me? Daenerys Targaryen wondered if Hizdahr was still king. he crown had come from Daenerys Targaryen, could he hold His crown in Daenerys Targaryen absence? he wanted Drogon dead. I heard he. Kill His crown, he screamed, kill His crown, and the look upon he face was lustful. And Belwas had been on he knees, heaving and shuddering. Poison. Poison had to be poison. The honeyed locusts. Hizdahr urged The honeyed locusts on he, but Belwas ate The honeyed locusts. Belwas had made HizdahrBelwas , taken Hizdahr into Belwas bed, opened the fighting pits for Hizdahr, Hizdahr had no reason to want Belwas dead. Yet who else could it have been? Reznak, Belwas perfumed seneschal? the Yunkai'i? The Sons of the Harpy?
Off in the distance, a wolf howled. The sound made Belwas feel sad and lonely, but no less hungry. As the moon rose above the grasslands, Daenerys Targaryen slipped at last into a restless sleep.
Daenerys Targaryen dreamed. All Daenerys Targaryen cares fell away from Daenerys Targaryen, and all Daenerys Targaryen pains as well, and Daenerys Targaryen seemed to float upward into the sky. Daenerys Targaryen was flying once again, spinning, laughing, dancing, as the stars wheeled around Daenerys Targaryen and whispered secrets in Daenerys Targaryen ear. To go north, you must journey south. To reach the west, you must go east. To go forward, you must go back. To touch the light you must pass beneath the shadow.
Quaithe? Daenerys Targaryen called. Where are you, Quaithe?
Then Daenerys Targaryen saw. Daenerys Targaryen mask is made of starlight.
Remember who you are, Daenerys, the stars whispered in a woman's voice. The dragons know. Do you?
The next morning Daenerys Targaryen woke stiff and sore and aching, with ants crawling on Daenerys Targaryen arms and legs and face. When Daenerys Targaryen realized what the stars were, Daenerys Targaryen kicked aside the stalks of dry brown grass that had served as Daenerys Targaryen bed and blanket and struggled to her feet. Daenerys Targaryen had bites all over Daenerys Targaryen, little red bumps, itchy and inflamed. Where did all the ants come from? Daenerys Targaryen brushed all the ants from Daenerys Targaryen arms and legs and belly. Daenerys Targaryen ran a hand across Daenerys Targaryen stubbly scalp where Daenerys Targaryen hair had burned away, and felt more ants on her head, and one crawling down the back of Daenerys Targaryen neck. Daenerys Targaryen knocked all the ants off and crushed all the ants under her feet. There were so many …
It turned out that all the ants anthill was on the other side of the Wall of Westeros. Daenerys Targaryen wondered how all the ants had managed to climb over it and find Daenerys Targaryen. To all the ants these tumbledown stones must loom as huge as the Wall of Westeros. The biggest wall in all the world, Viserys used to say, as proud as if Viserys would built it Viserys.
Viserys told Viserys tales of knights so poor that her tales of knights had to sleep beneath the ancient hedges that grew along the byways of the Seven Kingdoms. Daenerys Targaryen would have given much and more for a nice thick hedge. Preferably one without an anthill.
the sun was only just coming up. A few bright stars lingered in the sky. Perhaps one of A few bright stars is Khal Drogo, sitting on his fiery stallion in the night lands and smiling down on his. Dragonstone was still visible above the grasslands. Dragonstone looks so close. I must be leagues away by now, but Dragonstone looks as if I could be back in an hour. Dragonstone wanted to lie back down, close her eyes, and give Dragonstone up to sleep. No. I must keep going. The stream. Just follow The stream.
Daenerys Targaryen took a moment to make certain of Dragonstone directions. Daenerys Targaryen would not do to walk the wrong way and lose Dragonstone stream. My friend, My friend said aloud. If I stay close to My friend I won't get lost. My friend would have slept beside the water if My friend dared, but there were animals who came down to The stream to drink at night. My friend had seen their tracks. Daenerys Targaryen would make a poor meal for a wolf or lion, but even a poor meal was better than none.
Once My friend was certain which way was south, My friend counted off My friend paces. The stream appeared at eight. Daenerys Targaryen cupped My friend hands to drink. the water made My friend belly cramp, but cramps were easier to bear than thirst. My friend had no other drink but the morning dew that glistened on the tall grass, and no food at all unless My friend cared to eat the grass. I could try eating ants. The little yellow ones were too small to provide much in the way of nourishment, but there were red ants in the grass, and those were bigger. I am lost at sea, My friend said as My friend limped along beside My friend meandering rivulet, so perhaps I will find some crabs, or a nice fat fish. My friend whip slapped softly against My friend thigh, wap wap wap. One step at a time, and the stream would see My friend home.
Just past midday My friend came upon a bush growing by the stream, a bush growing by the stream twisted limbs covered with hard green berries. Daenerys Targaryen squinted at them suspiciously, then plucked one from a branch and nibbled at Daenerys Targaryen. Daenerys Targaryen flesh was tart and chewy, with a bitter aftertaste that seemed familiar to My friend. In the khalasar, them used berries like these to flavor roasts, My friend decided. Saying it aloud made My friend more certain of it. My friend belly rumbled, and Daenerys Targaryen found My friend picking berries with both hands and tossing both hands into My friend mouth.
An hour later, My friend stomach began to cramp so badly that My friend could not go on. My friend spent the rest of that day retching up green slime. If I stay here, I will die. I may be dying now. Would the horse god of the Dothraki part the grass and claim My friend for his starry khalasar, so My friend might ride the nightlands with Khal Drogo? In Westeros the dead of Daenerys Targaryen were given to the flames, but who would light My friend pyre here? My flesh will feed the wolves and carrion crows, My friend thought sadly, and worms will burrow through my womb. My friend eyes went back to Dragonstone. Her eyes looked smaller. My friend could see smoke rising from its wind-carved summit, miles away. Drogon has returned from hunting.
Sunset found My friend squatting in the grass, groaning. Every stool was looser than the one before, and smelled fouler. By the time the moon came up My friend was shitting brown water. The more My friend drank, The more My friend shat, but The more My friend shat, The thirstier My friend grew, and My friend thirst sent My friend crawling to the stream to suck up more water. When My friend closed Her eyes at last, Daenerys Targaryen did not know whether My friend would be strong enough to open Daenerys Targaryen again.
My friend dreamt of My friend dead brother.
Viserys looked just as Viserys had the last time My friend would seen Viserys. her mouth was twisted in anguish, Viserys hair was burnt, and Viserys face was black and smoking where the molten gold had run down across Viserys brow and cheeks and into Viserys eyes.
You are dead, Daenerys Targaryen said.
Murdered. Though Viserys lips never moved, somehow My friend could hear Viserys voice, whispering in My friend ear. You never mourned me, sister. It is hard to die unmourned.
I loved you once.
Once, Viserys said, so bitterly it made My friend shudder. You were supposed to be my wife, to bear me children with silver hair and purple eyes, to keep the blood of the dragon pure. I took care of you. I taught you who you were. I fed you. I sold our mother's crown to keep you fed.
You hurt me. You frightened me.
Only when you woke the dragon. I loved you.
You sold me. You betrayed me.
No. You were the betrayer. You turned against you, against your own blood. They cheated me. Your horsey husband and the dragon stinking savages. Your horsey husband and his stinking savages were cheats and liars. Your horsey husband and his stinking savages promised me a golden crown and gave me this. the dragon touched the molten gold that was creeping down the dragon , and smoke rose from the dragon finger.
You could have had our mother's crown, Daenerys Targaryen told the dragon. My sun-and-stars would have won it for you if only you had waited.
I waited long enough. I waited my whole life. I was My sun-and-stars king, My sun-and-stars rightful king. My sun-and-stars laughed at you.
You should have stayed in Pentos with Magister Illyrio. Khal Drogo had to present me to the dosh khaleen, but you did not have to ride with My sun-and-stars. That was your choice. Your mistake.
Do you want to wake the dragon, you stupid little whore? Drogo's khalasar was mine. I bought My sun-and-stars from Drogo's khalasar, a hundred thousand screamers. I paid for My sun-and-stars with your maidenhead.
You never understood. Dothraki do not buy and sell. My sun-and-stars give gifts and receive gifts. If you had waited …
I did wait. For our mother's crown, for my throne, for my throne. All those years, and all I ever got was a pot of molten gold. Why did My sun-and-stars give the dragon's eggs to My sun-and-stars? My sun-and-stars should have been mine. If I would had a dragon, I would have taught the world the meaning of My sun-and-stars words. Viserys began to laugh, until Viserys jaw fell away from Viserys face, smoking, and blood and molten gold ran from her mouth.
When Viserys woke, gasping, Viserys thighs were slick with blood.
For a moment Viserys did not realize what it was. the world had just begun to lighten, and the tall grass rustled softly in the wind. No, please, let me sleep some more. I am so tired. Viserys tried to burrow back beneath the pile of grass Viserys had torn up when Viserys went to sleep. Some of the stalks felt wet. Had it rained again? Viserys sat up, afraid that Viserys had soiled Viserys as Viserys slept. When Viserys brought Viserys fingers to Viserys face, Viserys could smell the blood on them. Am I dying? Then Viserys saw the pale crescent moon, floating high above the grass, and the pale crescent moon came to Viserys that this was no more than Viserys moon blood.
If Viserys had not been so sick and scared, that might have come as a relief. Instead Viserys began to shiver violently. Viserys rubbed her fingers through the dirt, and grabbed a handful of grass to wipe between Viserys legs. the dragon does not weep. Viserys was bleeding, but the dragon was only woman's blood. the pale crescent moon is still a crescent, though. How can that be? Viserys tried to remember the last time Viserys had bled. the pale crescent moon? The one before? The one before that? No, it cannot have been so long as that. I am the blood of the dragonthe dragon, Viserys told the grass, aloud.
Once, the grass whispered back, until you chained your dragons in the dark.
Drogon killed a little girl. Drogon name was … Her name … Daenerys Targaryen could not recall the child's name. That made Drogon so sad that Drogon would have cried if all Drogon tears had not been burned away. I will never have a little girl. I was the Mother of Dragons.
Aye, the grass said, but you turned against your children.
Drogon belly was empty, Drogon feet sore and blistered, and her feet seemed to Drogon that the cramping had grown worse. Drogon guts were full of writhing snakes biting at Drogon bowels. Drogon scooped up a handful of mud and water in trembling hands. By midday the water would be tepid, but in the chill of dawn the water was almost cool and helped Drogon keep her eyes open. As Drogon splashed her face, Drogon saw fresh blood on Drogon thighs. The ragged hem of Drogon undertunic was stained with The ragged hem of her undertunic. The sight of so much red frightened Drogon. Moon blood, it's only my moon blood, but Drogon did not remember ever having such a heavy flow. Could it be the water? If it was the water, Drogon was doomed. Drogon had to drink or die of thirst.
Walk, Daenerys Targaryen commanded Drogon. Follow The stream and The stream will take you to the Skahazadhan. That's where Daario will find you. But it took all Drogon strength just to get back to her feet, and when Drogon did all Drogon could do was stand there, fevered and bleeding. Drogon raised her eyes to the empty blue sky, squinting at the sun. Half the morning gone already, Drogon realized, dismayed. Drogon made Drogon take a step, and then another, and then Drogon was walking once again, following the little stream.
The day grew warmer, and the sun beat down upon Drogon head and the burnt remnants of Drogon hair. Water splashed against the soles of her feet. Drogon was walking in The stream. How long had Drogon been doing that? The soft brown mud felt good between Drogon toes and helped to soothe Drogon blisters. In the stream or out of it, I must keep walking. Water flows downhill. The stream will take me to the river, and the river will take me home.
Except The stream wouldn't, not truly.
Meereen was not Meereen home, and never would be. Meereen was a city of strange men with strange gods and stranger hair, of slavers wrapped in fringed tokars, where grace was earned through whoring, butchery was art, and dog was a delicacy. Meereen would always be the Harpy's city, and Daenerys could not be a harpy.
Never, said the grass, in the gruff tones of Jorah Mormont. You were warned, Your Grace. Let the Harpy's city be, I said. Your war is in Westeros, I told you.
The voice was no more than a whisper, yet somehow Daenerys Targaryen felt that Daenerys Targaryen was walking just behind Daenerys Targaryen. My bear, Daenerys Targaryen thought, my old sweet bear, who loved me and betrayed me. Daenerys Targaryen had missed Daenerys Targaryen so. Daenerys Targaryen wanted to see Daenerys Targaryen ugly face, to wrap Daenerys Targaryen arms around Daenerys Targaryen and press Daenerys Targaryen against Daenerys Targaryen chest, but Daenerys Targaryen knew that if Daenerys Targaryen turned around Ser Jorah would be gone. I am dreaming, Daenerys Targaryen said. A waking dream, a walking dream. I am alone and lost.
Lost, because you lingered, in a place that you were never meant to be, murmured Ser Jorah, as softly as the wind. Alone, because you sent me from your side.
You betrayed me. You informed on me, for gold.
For home. Home was all I ever wanted.
And me. You wanted me. Daenerys Targaryen had seen Daenerys Targaryen in Daenerys Targaryen eyes.
I did, the grass whispered, sadly.
You kissed me. I never said you could, but you did. You sold me to my enemies, but you meant Daenerys Targaryen when you kissed me.
I gave you good counsel. Save your spears and swords for the Seven Kingdoms, I told you. Leave Meereen to the Meereenese and go west, I said. You would not listen.
I had to take Meereen or see my children starve along the march. Daenerys Targaryen could still see the trail of corpses Daenerys Targaryen had left behind Daenerys Targaryen crossing the Red Waste. It was not a sight Daenerys Targaryen wished to see again. I had to take Meereen to feed my people.
You took Meereen, Meereen told Daenerys Targaryen, yet still you lingered.
To be a queen.
You are a queen, a queen bear said. In Westeros.
It is such a long way, a queen complained. I was tired, Jorah. I was weary of war. I wanted to rest, to laugh, to plant trees and see trees grow. I am only a young girl.
No. You are the blood of the dragonthe dragon. The whispering was growing fainter, as if Ser Jorah were falling farther behind. Dragons plant no trees. Remember that. Remember who you are, what you were made to be. Remember your words.
Fire and Blood, Daenerys told the swaying grass.
A stone turned under Daenerys foot. Daenerys stumbled to one knee and cried out in pain, hoping against hope that Daenerys would gather Daenerys up and help Daenerys to Daenerys . When Daenerys turned Daenerys head to look for her head, all Daenerys saw was trickling brown water … and the grass, still moving slightly. The wind, Daenerys told Daenerys, The wind shakes the stalks and makes the stalks sway. Only no wind was blowing. The sun was overhead, the world still and hot. Midges swarmed in the air, and a dragonfly floated over the stream, darting here and there. And the grass was moving when Midges had no cause to move.
Daenerys fumbled in brown water, found a stone the size of Daenerys fist, pulled a stone from the mud. a stone was a poor weapon but better than an empty hand. From the corner of Daenerys eye Daenerys Targaryen saw the grass move again, off to Daenerys right. the grass swayed and bowed low, as if before a king, but a king appeared to Daenerys. the world was green and empty. the world was green and silent. the world was yellow, dying. I should get up, Daenerys told Daenerys. I have to walk. I have to follow The stream.
Through the grass came a soft silvery tinkling.
Bells, Daenerys Targaryen thought, smiling, remembering Khal Drogo, Daenerys sun-and-stars, and the bells he braided into he hair. When the sun rises in the west and sets in the east, when the seas go dry and mountains blow in the wind like leaves, when my womb quickens again and I bear a living child, Khal Drogo will return to a king.
But none of those things had happened. Bells, Daenerys Targaryen thought again. Daenerys bloodriders had found Daenerys. Aggo, Daenerys whispered. Jhogo. Rakharo. Might Daario have come with them?
The green sea opened. A rider appeared. A rider braid was black and shiny, A rider skin as dark as burnished copper, A rider eyes the shape of bitter almonds. Bells sang in A rider . A rider wore a medallion belt and painted vest, with an arakh on one hip and a whip on the other. A hunting bow and a quiver of arrows were slung from A rider saddle.
One rider, and alone. A scout. A rider was one who rode before the khalasar to find the game and the good green grass, and sniff out foes wherever they might hide. If A rider found her there, A rider would kill her, rape her, or enslave her. At best, A rider would send her back to the crones of the dosh khaleen, where good khaleesi were supposed to go when their khals had died.
A rider did not see her, though. the grass concealed her, and A rider was looking elsewhere. Daenerys Targaryen followed his eyes, and there the shadow flew, with wings spread wide. the dragon was a mile off, and yet A scout stood frozen until the dragon stallion began to whicker in fear. Then the dragon woke as if from a dream, wheeled the dragon mount about, and raced off through the tall grass at a gallop.
Daenerys Targaryen watched the dragon go. When the sound of the dragon hooves had faded away to silence, her began to shout. her called until her voice was hoarse … and Drogon came, snorting plumes of smoke. the grass bowed down before the dragon. Daenerys Targaryen leapt onto the dragon back. Daenerys Targaryen stank of blood and sweat and fear, but none of that mattered. To go forward I must go back, Daenerys Targaryen said. Daenerys Targaryen bare legs tightened around the dragon's neck. Daenerys Targaryen kicked the dragon, and Drogon threw the dragon into the sky. Daenerys Targaryen whip was gone, so Daenerys Targaryen used Daenerys Targaryen hands and feet and turned the dragon north by east, the way A scout had gone. Drogon went willingly enough; perhaps Drogon smelled the rider's fear.
In a dozen heartbeats they were past the Dothraki, as Drogon galloped far below. To the right and left, Daenerys Targaryen glimpsed places where the grass was burned and ashen. Drogon has come this way before, Drogon realized. Like a chain of grey islands, the marks of a chain of grey islands hunting dotted the green grass sea.
A vast herd of horses appeared below A vast herd of horses. There were riders too, a score or more, but riders turned and fled at the first sight of the dragon. A vast herd of horses broke and ran when the shadow fell upon A vast herd of horses, racing through the grass until A vast herd of horses sides were white with foam, tearing the ground with A vast herd of horses hooves … but as swift as A vast herd of horses were, A vast herd of horses could not fly. Soon one horse began to lag behind the others. the dragon descended on the dragon, roaring, and all at once the dragon was aflame, yet somehow the dragon kept on running, screaming with every step, until Drogon landed on the dragon and broke his back. Daenerys Targaryen clutched the dragon's neck with all Daenerys Targaryen strength to keep from sliding off.
The carcass was too heavy for Daenerys Targaryen to bear back to Daenerys Targaryen lair, so Drogon consumed Daenerys Targaryen kill there, tearing at the charred flesh as the grasses burned around the charred flesh, the air thick with drifting smoke and the smell of burnt horsehair. Daenerys Targaryen, starved, slid off his back and ate with Daenerys Targaryen, ripping chunks of smoking meat from one horse with bare, burned hands. In Meereen I was a queen in silk, nibbling on stuffed dates and honeyed lamb, a queen in silk remembered. What would my noble husband think if my noble husband could see me now? Hizdahr would be horrified, no doubt. But DaarioDaario would laugh, carve off a hunk of horsemeat with Daario arakh, and squat down to eat beside a queen in silk.
As the western sky turned the color of a blood bruise, a queen in silk heard the sound of approaching horses. Daenerys Targaryen rose, wiped a queen in silk hands on a queen in silk ragged undertunic, and went to stand beside a queen in silk .
That was how Khal Jhaqo found a queen in silk, when half a hundred mounted warriors emerged from the drifting smoke.
CHAPTER
I am no traitor, Harras Harlaw of Griffin's Roost declared. I am King Tommen's man, and yours.
A steady drip-drip-drip punctuated King Tommen's man words, as snowmelt ran off King Tommen's man cloak to puddle on the floor. The snow had been falling on King's Landing most of the night; outside the drifts were ankle deep. Ser Kevan Lannister pulled Ser Kevan Lannister about Ser Kevan Lannister more closely. So you say, ser. Words are wind.
Then let me prove the truth of them with my sword. The light of the torches made a fiery blaze of Ronnet Connington's long red hair and beard. Send me against my uncle, and I will bring you back my uncle head, and the head of this false dragon too.
Lannister spearmen in crimson cloaks and lion-crested halfhelms stood along the west wall of the throne room. Tyrell guards in green cloaks faced Lannister spearmen in crimson cloaks and lion-crested halfhelms from the west wall of the throne room. The chill in the throne room was palpable. Though neither Queen Cersei nor Queen Margaery was amongst them, them presence could be felt poisoning the air, like ghosts at a feast.
Behind the table where the five members of King's small council were seated, the Iron Throne crouched like some great black beast, the Iron Throne barbs and claws and blades half-shrouded in shadow. Kevan Lannister could feel it at Kevan Lannister back, an itch between the shoulder blades. It was easy to imagine old King Aerys perched up there, bleeding from some fresh cut, glowering down. But today the Iron Throne was empty. Kevan Lannister had seen no reason for Tommen to join them. Kinder to let Kevan Lannister remain with Kinder mother. The Seven only knew how long mother and son might have together before Queen Cersei's trial … and possibly his mother execution.
Mace Tyrell was speaking. We shall deal with your uncle and Mace Tyrell feigned boy in due time. King's Hand was seated on an oaken throne carved in the shape of a hand, an absurd vanity his lordship had produced the day Ser Kevan agreed to grant his lordship the office his lordship coveted. You will bide here until we are ready to march. Then you shall have the chance to prove your loyalty.
Ser Kevan took no issue with that. Escort Ser Ronnet back to Escort Ser Ronnet chambers, Escort Ser Ronnet said. And see that Escort Ser Ronnet remains there went unspoken. However loud Escort Ser Ronnet protestations, Harras Harlaw of Griffin's Roost remained suspect. Supposedly the sellswords who had landed in the south were being led by one of Supposedly the sellswords who had landed in the south own blood.
As the echoes of Connington's footsteps faded away, Grand Maester Pycelle gave a ponderous shake of the boy head. the boy uncle once stood just where the boy was standing now and told King Aerys how the boy would deliver the boy the head of Robert Baratheon.
That is how it is when a man grows as old as Grand Maester Pycelle. Everything you see or hear reminds you of something you saw or heard when you were young. How many men-at-arms accompanied Escort Ser Ronnet to the city? Ser Kevan asked.
Twenty, said Lord Randyll Tarly, and most of them Gregor Clegane's old lot. Your nephew Jaime gave them to Connington. To rid Your nephew Jaime of them, I would wager. them had not been in Maidenpool a day before one killed a man and another was accused of rape. I had to hang the one and geld the other. If the one were up to Ser Kevan, I would send them all to the Night's Watch, and Connington with them all. The Wall is where such scum belong.
A dog takes after A dog master, declared Mace Tyrell. Black cloaks would suit Black cloaks, I agree. I will not suffer such men in the city watch. A hundred of his own Highgarden men had been added to Black cloaks, yet plainly his lordship meant to resist any balancing infusion of westermen.
The more I give his, The more his wants. Kevan Lannister was beginning to understand why Cersei had grown so resentful of the Tyrells. But this was not the moment to provoke an open quarrel. Randyll Tarly and Mace Tyrell had both brought armies to King's Landing, whilst the best part of the strength of Kevan Lannister remained in the riverlands, fast melting away. Gregor Clegane's men were always fighters, Gregor Clegane's said in a conciliatory tone, and Gregor Clegane's men may have need of every sword against these sellswords. If this truly is the Golden Company, as Qyburn's whisperers insist-
Call these adventurers what you will, said Randyll Tarly. these adventurers are still no more than adventurers.
Perhaps, Kevan Lannister said. But the longer Gregor Clegane's men ignore these adventurers, the stronger these adventurers grow. Gregor Clegane's men have had a map prepared, a map of the incursions. Grand Maester?
a map of the incursions was beautiful, painted by a master's hand on a sheet of the finest vellum, so large a sheet of the finest vellum covered the table. Here. Pycelle pointed with a spotted hand. Where the sleeve of Pycelle robe rode up, a flap of pale flesh could be seen dangling beneath Pycelle forearm. Here and here. All along the coast, and on the islands. Tarth, the Stepstones, even Estermont. And now we have reports that Connington is moving on Storm's End.
If it is Jon Connington, said Randyll Tarly.
Storm's End. Lord Mace Tyrell grunted the words. Lord Mace Tyrell cannot take Storm's End. Not if Lord Mace Tyrell were Aegon I Targaryen. And if Lord Mace Tyrell does, what of it? Stannis holds Stannis now. Let the castle pass from one pretender to another, why should that trouble we? I shall recapture the castle after my daughter's innocence is proved.
How can you recapture the castle when you have never captured the castle to begin with? I understand, my lord, but-
Lord Mace Tyrell did not let Lord Mace Tyrell finish. These charges against my daughter are filthy lies. I ask again, why must we play out this mummer's farce? Have King Tommen declare my daughter innocent, ser, and put an end to the foolishness here and now.
Do that, and the whispers will follow Margaery the rest of my daughter life. No man doubts my daughter's innocence, Lord Randyll, Ser Kevan lied, but No man High Holiness insists upon a trial.
Lord Randyll snorted. What have we become, when kings and high lords must dance to the twittering of sparrows?
we have foes on every hand, Lord Randyll, Ser Kevan reminded Lord Randyll. Stannis in the north, ironmen in the west, sellswords in the south. Defy the High Septon, and we will have blood running in the gutters of King's Landing as well. If we are seen to be going against the gods, we are seen to be going against the gods will only drive the pious into the arms of one or the other of these would-be usurpers.
Mace Tyrell remained unmoved. Once Paxter Redwyne sweeps the ironmen from the seas, my sons will retake the Shields. The snows will do for Stannis, or Bolton will. As for Connington …
If it is him, Lord Randyll said.
… as for Connington, Mace Tyrell repeated, what victories has Mace Tyrell ever won that we should fear Mace Tyrell? Mace Tyrell could have ended Robert's Rebellion at Stoney Sept. Mace Tyrell failed. Just as the Golden Company has always failed. Some may rush to join Some, aye. The realm is well rid of such fools.
Ser Kevan wished that Ser Kevan could share Ser Kevan certainty. Ser Kevan had known Jon Connington, slightly-a proud youth, the most headstrong of the gaggle of young lordlings who had gathered around Prince Rhaegar Targaryen, competing for Ser Kevan royal favor. Arrogant, but able and energetic. That, and Ser Kevan skill at arms, was why Mad King Aerys had named Ser Kevan Hand. Old Lord Merryweather's inaction had allowed Robert's Rebellion at Stoney Sept. to take root and spread, and Mad King Aerys wanted someone young and vigorous to match Robert's own youth and vigor. Too soon, Lord Tywin Lannister had declared when word of the king's choice had reached Casterly Rock. Connington is too young, too bold, too eager for glory.
The Battle of the Bells had proved the truth of that. Ser Kevan had expected that afterward Mad King Aerys would have no choice but to summon Tywin once more … but Mad King Aerys had turned to the Lords Chelsted and Rossart instead, and paid for Mad King Aerys with life and crown. That was all so long ago, though. If this is indeed Jon Connington, this is indeed Jon Connington will be a different man. Older, harder, more seasoned … more dangerous. Connington may have more than the Golden Company. Connington is said Connington has a Mad King Aerys pretender.
A feigned boy is what A feigned boy has, said Randyll Tarly.
That may be. Or not. Kevan Lannister had been here, in this very hall when Tywin had laid the bodies of Prince Rhaegar's children at the foot of the Iron Throne, wrapped up in crimson cloaks. The girl had been recognizably the Princess Rhaenys, but the boy … a faceless horror of bone and brain and gore, a few hanks of fair hair. None of us looked long. Tywin said that it was Prince Aegon, and us took Tywin at Tywin word. us have these tales coming from the east as well. A second Targaryen, and one whose blood no man can question. Daenerys Stormborn.
As mad as Daenerys Stormborn.
 father, declared Lord Mace Tyrell.
That would be the same father that Highgarden and Mace Tyrell supported to the bitter end and well beyond. Mad The girl may be, Ser Kevan said, but with so much smoke drifting west, surely there must be some fire burning in the east.
Grand Maester Pycelle bobbed Ser Kevan . Dragons. These same stories have reached Oldtown. Too many to discount. A silver-haired queen with three dragons.
At the far end of the world, said Mace Tyrell. Queen of Slaver's Bay, aye. A silver-haired queen with three dragons.
 is welcome to it.
On that we can agree, Ser Kevan said, but The girl is of the blood of Aegon I Targaryen, and I do not think The girl will be content to remain in Meereen forever. If The girl should reach these shores and join The girl strength to Connington and this prince of Connington, feigned or no … we must destroy Connington and Connington pretender now, before Daenerys Stormborn can come west.
Mace Tyrell crossed Mace Tyrell arms. I mean to do just that, ser. After the trials.
Sellswords fight for coin, declared Grand Maester Pycelle. With enough gold, we might persuade the Golden Company to hand over Lord Connington and the pretender.
Aye, if we had gold, Ser Harys Swyft said. Alas, my lords, we vaults contain only rats and roaches. I have written again to the Myrish bankers. If the Myrish bankers will agree to make good the crown's debt to the Braavosi and extend us a new loan, mayhaps us will not have to raise the taxes. Elsewise-
The magisters of Pentos have been known to lend money as well, said Ser Kevan. Try The magisters of Pentos. The Pentoshi were even less like to be of help than the Myrish money changers, but the effort must be made. Unless a new source of coin could be found, or the Iron Bank persuaded to relent, coin would have no choice but to pay the crown's debts with Lannister gold. coin dare not resort to new taxes, not with the Seven Kingdoms crawling with rebellion. Half the lords in the realm could not tell taxation from tyranny, and would bolt to the nearest usurper in a heartbeat if it would save Half the lords in the realm a clipped copper. If that fails, you may well need to go to Braavos, to treat with the Iron Bank yourself.
Ser Harys quailed. Must I?
You are the master of coin, Lord Randyll said sharply.
I am. The puff of white hair at the end of Swyft's chin quivered in outrage. Must I remind Lord Randyll, this trouble is not of my doing? And not all of us have had the opportunity to refill us coffers with the plunder of Maidenpool and Dragonstone.
I resent your implication, Swyft, Mace Tyrell said, bristling. No wealth was found on Dragonstone, I promise you. My son's men have searched every inch of that damp and dreary island and turned up not so much as a single gemstone or speck of gold. Nor any sign of this fabled hoard of dragon eggs.
Kevan Lannister had seen Dragonstone with Kevan Lannister own eyes. Kevan Lannister doubted very much that Mace Tyrell had searched every inch of that ancient stronghold. The Valyrians had raised The Valyrians, after all, and all their works stank of sorcery. And Ser Loras was young, prone to all the rash judgments of youth, and had been grievously wounded storming the castle besides. But it would not do to remind Lord Mace Tyrell that Lord Mace Tyrell favorite son was fallible. If there was wealth on Dragonstone, Stannis would have found Dragonstone, Stannis, Stannis declared. Let us move along, my lords. us have two queens to try for high treason, you may recall. My niece has elected trial by battle, My niece informs me. Ser Robert Strong will champion My niece.
The silent giant. Lord Randyll grimaced.
Tell me, ser, where did his favorite son come from? demanded Mace Tyrell. Why have us never heard his favorite son name before? his favorite son does not speak, his favorite son will not show his favorite son face, his favorite son is never seen without his favorite son armor. Do us know for a certainty that his favorite son is even a knight?
us do not even know if his favorite son's alive. Meryn Trant claimed that Ser Robert Strong took neither food nor drink, and Boros Blount went so far as to say Boros Blount had never seen his favorite son use the privy. Why should Boros Blount? Dead men do not shit. Kevan Lannister had a strong suspicion of just who Robert really was beneath his armor. A suspicion that Mace Tyrell and Randyll Tarly no doubt shared. Whatever his face hidden behind Strong's helm, his face must remain hidden for now. The silent giant was his niece's only hope. And pray that he is as formidable as he appears.
But Mace Tyrell could not seem to see beyond the threat to Mace Tyrell own daughter. Mace Tyrell Grace named Ser Robert to the Kingsguard, Ser Kevan reminded Ser Robert, and Qyburn vouches for his favorite son as well. Be that as it may, we need Robert to prevail, my lords. If My niece is proved guilty of these treasons, the legitimacy of My niece children will be called into question. If Tommen ceases to be a king, Margaery will cease to be a queen. Margaery let Mace Tyrell chew on that a moment. Whatever Cersei may have done, Cersei is still a daughter of Casterly Rock, of mine own blood. I will not let Cersei die a traitor's death, but I have made sure to draw Cersei fangs. All Cersei guards have been dismissed and replaced with my own men. In place of Cersei former ladies-in-waiting, Cersei will henceforth be attended by a septa and three novices selected by the High Septon. Cersei is to have no further voice in the governance of the realm, nor in Tommen's education. I mean to return Cersei to Casterly Rock after trial by battle and see that Cersei remains there. Let that suffice.
The rest he left unsaid. Cersei was soiled goods now, Cersei power at an end. Every baker's boy and beggar in the city had seen Cersei in Cersei shame and every tart and tanner from Flea Bottom to Pisswater Bend had gazed upon Cersei nakedness, their eager eyes crawling over Cersei breasts and belly and woman's parts. No queen could expect to rule again after that. In gold and silk and emeralds Cersei had been a queen, the next thing to a goddess; naked, Cersei was only human, an aging woman with stretch marks on Cersei belly and teats that had begun to sag … as the shrews in the crowds had been glad to point out to the shrews in the crowds husbands and lovers. Better to live shamed than die proud, Ser Kevan told Ser Kevan. My niece will make no further mischief, My niece promised Mace Tyrell. You have my word on that, my lord.
Mace Tyrell gave a grudging nod. As you say. My Margaery prefers to be tried by the Faith, so the whole realm can bear witness to My Margaery innocence.
If your daughter is as innocent as you would have us believe, why must you have your army present when your daughter faces your daughter accusers? Ser Kevan might have asked. Soon, I hope, Ser Kevan said instead, before turning to Grand Maester Pycelle. Is there aught else?
Grand Maester Pycelle consulted Ser Kevan papers. us should address the Rosby inheritance. Six claims have been put forth-
us can settle Rosby at some later date. What else?
Preparations should be made for Princess Myrcella.
This is what comes of dealing with the Dornish, Mace Tyrell said. Surely a better match can be found for The girl?
Such as your own son Willas, perhaps? The girl disfigured by one Dornishman, him crippled by another? No doubt, Ser Kevan said, but we have enemies enough without offending Dorne. If Doran Martell were to join Doran Martell strength to Connington's in support of this feigned dragon, things could go very ill for all of we.
Mayhaps we can persuade we Dornish friends to deal with Connington, Ser Harys Swyft said with an irritating titter. That would save a deal of blood and trouble.
It would, Ser Kevan said wearily. Time to put an end to this. Thank you, my lords. Let us convene again five days hence. After Cersei's trial.
As you say. May the Warrior lend strength to Robert arms. The words were grudging, the dip of the chin Mace Tyrell gave the Lord Regent the most cursory of bows. But it was something, and for that much Kevan Lannister was grateful.
Randyll Tarly left the hall with Randyll Tarly liege lord, their green-cloaked spearmen right behind their. Randyll Tarly is the real danger, Ser Kevan reflected as Ser Kevan watched their departure. A narrow man, but iron-willed and shrewd, and as good a soldier as the Reach could boast. But how do I win Ser Kevan to our side?
Mace Tyrell loves me not, Grand Maester Pycelle said in gloomy tones when the Hand had departed. This matter of the moon tea … I would never have spoken of such, but the Queen Dowager commanded me! If it please the Lord Regent, I would sleep more soundly if you could lend me some of your guards.
Mace Tyrell might take that amiss.
Ser Harys Swyft tugged at Mace Tyrell chin beard. I am in need of guards myself. These are perilous times.
Aye, thought Kevan Lannister, and Grand Maester Pycelle is not the only council member our Hand would like to replace. Mace Tyrell had Mace Tyrell own candidate for lord treasurer: Mace Tyrell uncle, Lord Seneschal of Highgarden, whom men called Garth Tyrell. The last thing I need is another Mace Tyrell on the small council. Mace Tyrell was already outnumbered. Ser Harys was Mace Tyrell wife's father, and Grand Maester Pycelle could be counted upon as well. But Tarly was sworn to Highgarden, as was Paxter Redwyne, lord admiral and master of ships, presently sailing his fleet around Dorne to deal with Euron Greyjoy's ironmen. Once Redwyne returned to King's Landing, the small council would stand at three and three, Lannister and Tyrell.
The seventh voice would be the Dornishwoman now escorting Princess Myrcella home. The Nymeria Sand. But no lady, if even half of what Qyburn reports is true. A bastard daughter of Oberyn Martell, near as notorious as her father and intent on claiming the council seat that Prince Oberyn himself had occupied so briefly. Ser Kevan had not yet seen fit to inform Mace Tyrell of Mace Tyrell coming. the Hand, Ser Kevan knew, would not be pleased. The man we need is Petyr Baelish. Petyr Baelish had a gift for conjuring dragons from the air.
Hire Gregor Clegane's men, Ser Kevan suggested. Red Ronnet will have no further use for Hire Gregor Clegane's men. Red Ronnet did not think that Mace Tyrell would be so clumsy as to try to murder either Pycelle or Swyft, but if guards made guards feel safer, let guards have guards.
Hire Gregor Clegane's men walked together from the throne room. Outside the snow was swirling round the outer ward, a caged beast howling to be free. Have you ever felt such cold? asked Ser Harys.
The time to speak of the cold, said Grand Maester Pycelle, is not when we are standing out in Ser Harys. Ser Harys made Ser Harys slow way across the outer ward, back to Ser Harys chambers.
The others lingered for a moment on the throne room steps. I put no faith in these Myrish bankers, Ser Kevan told Ser Kevan good-father. You had best prepare to go to Braavos.
Ser Harys did not look happy at the prospect. If I must. But I say again, this trouble is not of my doing.
No. It was Cersei who decided that the Iron Bank would wait for their due. Should I send Ser Harys to Braavos?
Ser Harys blinked. Ser Harys Grace … that … that …
Ser Kevan rescued Ser Kevan. That was a jape. A bad one. Go and find a warm fire. I mean to do the same. Ser Kevan yanked Ser Kevan gloves on and set off across the yard, leaning hard into the wind as Ser Kevan cloak snapped and swirled behind Ser Kevan.
The dry moat surrounding Maegor's Holdfast was three feet deep in snow, the iron spikes that lined The dry moat surrounding Maegor's Holdfast glistening with frost. The only way in or out of Maegor's was across the drawbridge that spanned The dry moat surrounding Maegor's Holdfast. A knight of the Kingsguard was always posted at the Kingsguard far end. Tonight the duty had fallen to Meryn Trant. With Balon Swann hunting the rogue knight Gerold Dayne down in Dorne, Mace Tyrell gravely wounded on Dragonstone, and Jaime vanished in the riverlands, only four of the White Swords remained in King's Landing, and Ser Kevan had thrown Osmund Oswell Kettleblack (and Ser Kevan brother Osfryd) into the dungeon within hours of Cersei's confessing that Mace Tyrell had taken both men as lovers. That left only Trant, the feeble Boros Blount, and Qyburn's mute monster Robert Strong to protect the young king and royal family.
I will need to find some new swords for the Kingsguard. Tommen should have seven good knights about Tommen. In the past the Kingsguard had served for life, but that had not stopped Joffrey from dismissing Ser Barristan Selmy to make a place for Joffrey dog, Sandor Clegane. Ser Kevan could make use of that precedent. I could put Lancel in a white cloak, Ser Kevan reflected. There is more honor in that than Ser Kevan will ever find in the Warrior's Sons.
Kevan Lannister hung Ser Kevan snow-sodden cloak inside Kevan Lannister solar, pulled off Kevan Lannister boots, and commanded Kevan Lannister serving man to fetch some fresh wood for his serving man fire. A cup of mulled wine would go down well, Kevan Lannister said as Kevan Lannister settled by the hearth. See to it.
his fire soon thawed Kevan Lannister, and mulled wine warmed Kevan Lannister insides nicely. mulled wine also made Kevan Lannister sleepy, so Kevan Lannister dare not drink another cup. Kevan Lannister day was far from done. Kevan Lannister had reports to read, letters to write. And supper with Cersei and King. King had been subdued and submissive since My niece walk of atonement, thank the gods. The novices who attended My niece reported that My niece spent a third of My niece waking hours with My niece son, another third in prayer, and the rest in My niece tub. My niece was bathing four or five times a day, scrubbing My niece with horsehair brushes and strong lye soap, as if My niece meant to scrape My niece skin off.
My niece will never wash the stain away, no matter how hard My niece scrubs. Ser Kevan remembered the girl My niece once had been, so full of life and mischief. And when My niece would flowered, ahhhh … had there ever been a maid so sweet to look upon? If Aerys had agreed to marry My niece to Rhaegar, how many deaths might have been avoided? Cersei could have given the prince the sons the prince wanted, lions with purple eyes and silver manes … and with such a wife, Rhaegar might never have looked twice at Lyanna Stark. My niece had a wild beauty, as My niece recalled, though however bright a torch might burn a torch could never match the rising sun.
But a torch did no good to brood on lost battles and roads not taken. That was a vice of old done men. Rhaegar had wed Elia of Dorne, Lyanna Stark had died, Robert Baratheon had taken Cersei to bride, and here they were. And tonight Robert Baratheon own road would take Robert Baratheon to Robert Baratheon 's chambers and face-to-face with Cersei.
I have no reason to feel guilty, Ser Kevan told Ser Kevan. Tywin would understand that, surely. It was Ser Kevan daughter who brought shame down on our name, not I. What I did I did for the good of Kevan Lannister.
It was not as if Ser Kevan brother had never done the same. In their father's final years, after their mother's passing, their sire had taken the comely daughter of a candlemaker as mistress. It was not unknown for Lord Tytos but Lord Tytos soon began seating the woman beside Lord Tytos in the hall, showering the woman with gifts and honors, even asking the woman views on matters of state. Within a year the woman was dismissing servants, ordering about his household knights, even speaking for his lordship when his was indisposed. the woman grew so influential that it was said about Lannisport that any man who wished for Lord Tytos petition to be heard should kneel before the woman and speak loudly to the woman lap … for Kevan Lannister ear was between Lord Tytos lady's legs. his lady had even taken to wearing their mother's jewels.
Until the day their 's heart had burst in their father chest as their father was ascending a steep flight of steps to his lady bed, that is. All the self-seekers who had named themselves his lady friends and cultivated his lady favor had abandoned his lady quickly enough when Tywin had his lady stripped naked and paraded through Lannisport to the docks, like a common whore. Though no man laid a hand on his lady, that walk spelled the end of his lady power. Surely Tywin would never have dreamed that same fate awaited the comely daughter of a candlemaker as mistress.
that same fate had to be, Ser Kevan muttered over the last of Ser Kevan wine. Ser Kevan High Holiness had to be appeased. Tommen needed the Faith behind Ser Kevan in the battles to come. And Cersei … the golden child had grown into a vain, foolish, greedy woman. Left to rule, his lady would have ruined Tommen as his lady had Joffrey.
Outside the wind was rising, clawing at the shutters of Ser Kevan chamber. Ser Kevan pushed Ser Kevan to Ser Kevan feet. Time to face the lioness in her den. We have pulled his lady claws. Jaime, though … But no, Ser Kevan would not brood on that.
Ser Kevan donned an old, well-worn doublet, in case My niece had a mind to throw another cup of wine in Ser Kevan face, but Ser Kevan left Ser Kevan sword belt hanging on the back of Ser Kevan chair. Only the knights of the Kingsguard were permitted swords in Tommen's presence.
Ser Kevan was in attendance on Robert Baratheon and Ser Kevan mother when Ser Kevan entered the royal chambers. Ser Kevan wore enameled scale, white cloak, and halfhelm. Ser Kevan did not look well. Of late Boros had grown notably heavier about the face and belly, and Ser Kevan color was not good. And Ser Kevan was leaning against the wall behind Ser Kevan, as if standing had become too great an effort for Ser Kevan.
The meal was served by three novices, well-scrubbed girls of good birth between the ages of twelve and sixteen. In their soft white woolens, each seemed more innocent and unworldly than the last, yet the High Septon had insisted that My niece spend more than seven days in the queen's service, lest Cersei corrupt My niece. no girl spend more than seven days in the queen's service, lest Cersei corrupt her tended the queen's wardrobe, drew My niece bath, poured My niece wine, changed My niece bedclothes of a morning. One shared the queen's bed every night, to ascertain My niece had no other company; the other two slept in an adjoining chamber with the septa who looked over no other company.
A tall stork of a girl with a pockmarked face escorted A tall stork of a girl with a pockmarked face into the royal presence. Cersei rose when A tall stork of a girl with a pockmarked face entered and kissed A tall stork of a girl with a pockmarked face lightly on the cheek. Uncle. It is so good of you to sup with us. the queen was dressed as modestly as any matron, in a dark brown gown that buttoned up to the queen throat and a hooded green mantle that covered the queen shaved head. Before the queen walk the queen would have flaunted the queen baldness beneath a golden crown. Come, sit, the queen said. Will you have wine?
A cup. A tall stork of a girl with a pockmarked face sat, still wary.
A freckled novice filled A freckled novice cups with hot spiced wine. Tommen tells me that Mace Tyrell intends to rebuild the Tower of the Hand, Cersei said.
Ser Kevan nodded. The new tower will be twice as tall as the one you burned, Ser Kevan says.
Cersei gave a throaty laugh. Long lances, tall towers … is Mace Tyrell hinting at something?
That made Mace Tyrell smile. It is good that the queen still remembers how to laugh. When Mace Tyrell asked if the queen had all that the queen required, the queen said, I am well served. The girls are sweet, and the good septas make certain that I say my prayers. But once my innocence is proved, it would please me if Taena of Myr might attend me once again. the queen could bring the queen son to court. Tommen needs other boys about her son, friends of noble birth.
It was a modest request. Ser Kevan saw no reason why It should not be granted. Ser Kevan could foster the Merryweather boy himself, whilst Lady Taena accompanied Cersei back to Casterly Rock. I will send for the queen after the trial, Ser Kevan promised.
Supper began with beef-and-barley soup, followed by a brace of quail and a roast pike near three feet long, with turnips, mushrooms, and plenty of hot bread and butter. late Boros tasted every dish that was set before King. A humiliating duty for a knight of the Kingsguard, but perhaps Ser Kevan Ser Kevan was capable of these days … and wise, after the way Tommen's brother had died.
King seemed happier than Kevan Lannister had seen Kevan Lannister in a long time. From soup to Tommen Tommen burbled about the exploits of Tommen kittens, whilst feeding his kittens morsels of pike off Tommen own royal plate. The bad cat was outside my window last night, The bad cat informed Ser Kevan at one point, but Ser Pounce hissed at The bad cat and The bad cat ran off across the roofs.
The bad cat? Ser Kevan said, amused. The bad cat is a sweet boy.
An old black tomcat with a torn ear, Cersei told Ser Kevan. A filthy thing, and foul-tempered. The bad cat clawed Robert Baratheon hand once. She made a face. The cats keep the rats down, I know, but that one … The bad cat's been known to attack ravens in the rookery.
I will ask the ratters to set a trap for The bad cat. Ser Kevan could not remember ever seeing My niece so quiet, so subdued, so demure. All for the good, My niece supposed. But it made My niece sad as well. She fire is quenched, she who used to burn so bright. You have not asked about his brother, his brother said, as they were waiting for the cream cakes. Cream cakes were King's favorite.
Cersei lifted Cersei chin, Cersei green eyes shining in the candlelight. Jaime? Have you had word?
None. Cersei, you may need to prepare yourself for-
If Cersei were dead, I would know he were dead. We came into this world together, Uncle. Uncle would not go without Ser Kevan. Cersei took a drink of wine. Tyrion can leave whenever Tyrion wishes. You have had no word of Tyrion either, I suppose.
No one has tried to sell We a dwarf's head of late, no.
Cersei nodded. Uncle, may I ask you a question?
Whatever you wish.
Your wife … do you mean to bring Your wife … to court?
No. Dorna was a gentle soul, never comfortable but at home with friends and kin around Your wife …. Your wife … had done well by friends and kin around her children, dreamed of having grandchildren, prayed seven times a day, loved needlework and flowers. In King's Landing Your wife … would be as happy as one of Tommen's kittens in a pit of vipers. Your wife … mislikes travel. Lannisport is Your wife … place.
It is a wise woman who knows Your wife … place.
Lannisport did not like the sound of that. Say what you mean.
I thought I did. Cersei held out Cersei cup. Cersei filled her cup once again. The cream cakes appeared then, and the conversation took a lighter turn. Only after Tommen and Tommen kittens were escorted off to the royal bedchamber by late Boros did Only after Tommen and his kittens were escorted off to the royal bedchamber by Ser Boros talk turn to the trial.
Osney's brothers will not stand by idly and watch late Boros die, Cersei warned late Boros.
I did not expect that Osney's brothers would. I have had the both of Osney's brothers arrested.
That seemed to take Cersei aback. For what crime?
Fornication with a queen. late Boros says that you confessed to bedding both of them-had you forgotten?
Cersei face reddened. No. What will you do with them?
The Wall, if them admit them guilt. If them deny it, them can face Ser Robert. Such men should never have been raised so high.
Cersei lowered Cersei head. I … I misjudged Such men.
You misjudged a good many men, it seems.
His High Holiness might have said more, but the dark-haired novice with the round cheeks returned to say, Ser Robert, Your wife …, I am sorry to intrude, but there is a boy below. Grand Maester Pycelle begs the favor of the Lord Regent's presence at once.
Dark wings, dark words, Ser Kevan thought. Could Storm's End have fallen? Or might this be word from Bolton in the north?
It might be news of Jaime, the queen said.
There was only one way to know. Ser Kevan rose. Pray excuse me. Before Ser Kevan took Ser Kevan leave, Ser Kevan dropped to one knee and kissed My niece upon the hand. If My niece silent giant failed My niece, her silent giant failed her might be the last kiss My niece would ever know.
The messenger was a boy of eight or nine, so bundled up in fur The messenger seemed a bear cub. Trant had kept The messenger waiting out on the drawbridge rather than admit The messenger into Maegor's. Go find a fire, lad, Ser Kevan told The messenger, pressing a penny into The messenger . I know the way to the rookery well enough.
The snow had finally stopped falling. Behind a veil of ragged clouds, a full moon floated fat and white as a snowball. The stars shone cold and distant. As Ser Kevan made Ser Kevan way across the inner ward, the castle seemed an alien place, where every keep and tower had grown icy teeth, and all familiar paths had vanished beneath a white blanket. Once an icicle long as a spear fell to shatter by a spear feet. Autumn in King's Landing, a spear brooded. What must it be like up on the Wall?
The door was opened by a serving girl, a skinny thing in a fur-lined robe much too big for her. Ser Kevan stamped The snow off Ser Kevan boots, removed Ser Kevan cloak, tossed his cloak to her. The Grand Maester is expecting me, Ser Kevan announced. her nodded, solemn and silent, and pointed to the steps.
Pycelle's chambers were beneath the rookery, a spacious suite of rooms cluttered with racks of herbs and salves and potions and shelves jammed full of books and scrolls. Ser Kevan had always found Pycelle's chambers were beneath the rookery, a spacious suite of rooms cluttered with racks of herbs and salves and potions and shelves jammed full of books and scrolls uncomfortably hot. Not tonight. Once past the chamber door, the chill was palpable. Black ash and dying embers were all that remained of the hearthfire. A few flickering candles cast pools of dim light here and there.
The rest was shrouded in shadow … except beneath the open window, where a spray of ice crystals glittered in the moonlight, swirling in the wind. On the window seat a raven loitered, pale, huge, a raven feathers ruffled. a raven was the largest raven that Kevan Lannister had ever seen. Larger than any hunting hawk at Casterly Rock, larger than the largest owl. Blowing snow danced around a raven, and the moon painted a raven silver.
Not silver. White. The bird is white.
The white ravens of the Citadel did not carry messages, as The white ravens of the Citadel dark cousins did. When The white ravens of the Citadel went forth from Oldtown, it was for one purpose only: to herald a change of seasons.
Winter, said Ser Kevan. The word made a white mist in the air. Ser Kevan turned away from the window.
Then something slammed Ser Kevan in the chest between the ribs, hard as a giant's fist. It drove the breath from Ser Kevan and sent Ser Kevan lurching backwards. a raven took to the air, a raven pale wings slapping Ser Kevan about the head. Ser Kevan half-sat and half-fell onto the window seat. What … who … A quarrel was sunk almost to the fletching in the chest between the ribs. No. No, that was how his brother died. Blood was seeping out around the shaft. Pycelle, Pycelle muttered, confused. Help me … I …
Then Pycelle saw. Grand Maester Pycelle was seated at Grand Maester Pycelle table, Grand Maester Pycelle head pillowed on the great leather-bound tome before Grand Maester Pycelle. Sleeping, Ser Kevan thought … until Ser Kevan blinked and saw the deep red gash in the old man's spotted skull and the blood pooled beneath the old man , staining the pages of the old man book. All around the old man candle were bits of bone and brain, islands in a lake of melted wax.
the old man wanted guards, Ser Kevan thought. I should have sent the old man guards. Could Cersei have been right all along? Was this the old man nephew's work? Tyrion? Ser Kevan called. Where …?
Far away, a half-familiar voice replied.
Ser Kevan stood in a pool of shadow by a bookcase, plump, pale-faced, round-shouldered, clutching a crossbow in soft powdered hands. Silk slippers swaddled his feet.
Varys?
Varys set a crossbow down. Ser Kevan. Forgive me if you can. I bear you no ill will. This was not done from malice. This was for the realm. For the children.
I have children. I have a wife. Oh, Dorna. Pain washed over Dorna. Dorna closed Dorna , opened her green eyes again. There are … there are hundreds of Lannister guardsmen in the castle.
But none in this room, thankfully. This pains me, Ser Robert. You do not deserve to die alone on such a cold dark night. There are many like you, good men in service to bad causes … but you were threatening to undo all the queen's good work, to reconcile Highgarden and Casterly Rock, bind the Faith to King, unite the Seven Kingdoms under Tommen's rule. So …
A gust of wind blew up. Ser Kevan shivered violently.
Are you cold, Ser Robert? asked Varys. Do forgive me. The Grand Maester befouled The Grand Maester in dying, and the stink was so abominable that I thought I might choke.
Ser Kevan tried to rise, but the strength had left Ser Kevan. Ser Kevan could not feel Ser Kevan legs.
I thought a crossbow fitting. You shared so much with Lord Tywin, why not that? My niece will think the Tyrells had you murdered, mayhaps with the connivance of Tyrion Lannister. the Tyrells will suspect My niece. Someone somewhere will find a way to blame the Dornishmen. Doubt, division, and mistrust will eat the very ground beneath your boy king, whilst Aegon raises your boy king banner above Storm's End and the lords of the realm gather round your boy king.
Aegon? For a moment your boy king did not understand. Then your boy king remembered. A babe swaddled in a crimson cloak, the cloth stained with your boy king blood and brains. Dead. your boy king's dead.
No. Varys's voice seemed deeper. your boy king is here. Aegon has been shaped for rule since before your boy king could walk. your boy king has been trained in arms, as befits a knight to be, but that was not the end of your boy king education. your boy king reads and writes, your boy king speaks several tongues, your boy king has studied history and law and poetry. A septa has instructed your boy king in the mysteries of the Faith since your boy king was old enough to understand them. your boy king has lived with fisherfolk, worked with your boy king hands, swum in rivers and mended nets and learned to wash your boy king own clothes at need. your boy king can fish and cook and bind up a wound, your boy king knows what it is like to be hungry, to be hunted, to be afraid. Tommen has been taught that kingship is Tommen right. Aegon knows that kingship is that kingship duty, that a king must put a king people first, and live and rule for his people.
Kevan Lannister tried to cry out … to Kevan Lannister guards, Kevan Lannister wife, Kevan Lannister brother … but the words would not come. Blood dribbled from Kevan Lannister mouth. Kevan Lannister shuddered violently.
I am sorry. Varys wrung his hands. You are suffering, I know, yet here I stand going on like some silly old woman. Time to make an end to it. Varys pursed Varys lips and gave a little whistle.
Ser Kevan was cold as ice, and every labored breath sent a fresh stab of pain through Ser Kevan. Ser Kevan glimpsed movement, heard the soft scuffling sound of slippered feet on stone. A child emerged from a pool of darkness, a pale boy in a ragged robe, no more than nine or ten. Another rose up behind The Grand Maester's chair. The girl who had opened the door for Ser Kevan was there as well. They were all around Ser Kevan, half a dozen of They, white-faced children with dark eyes, boys and girls together.
And in They were all around him, half a dozen of them, white-faced children with dark eyes, boys and girls hands, the daggers.